56 Directors report Other disclosures Directors report and Business review The Directors submit their report together with the audited consolidated financial statements of the MITIE group of companies for the year ended 31 March 2013.
This Directors report includes the Chairmans statement, the Business review, the Governance section, the Directors responsibility statement, and those documents that are referred to within the Directors report and which are available at www.
The Company is required to set out a fair review of the business of the group, including an analysis of the development and performance of the group during the reporting period, the position of the group at the end of the reporting period and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group.
This review is set out in the Business review on pages 19 to 23, the Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5 and the review of risks on pages 38 to 40.
The Directors report has been prepared, and is published, in accordance with, and in reliance upon, applicable English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in relation to that report are subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Principal group activities MITIE Group PLC is the holding company of the group.
The principal activity of the Company is to provide management services to the group.
The groups activities are focused on the provision of strategic outsourcing services.
Further details of the subsidiary undertakings of the Company principally affecting the profits or net assets of the group in the reporting period are listed in Note 37 to the financial statements.
The group operates registered branch offices in the Isle of Man, Guernsey and Jersey.
Share capital and powers of shareholders The group is financed through both equity share capital and debt instruments.
Details of the Companys share capital are given in Note 29 to the financial statements and the detail of debt instruments are set out in Note 24.
The Company has a single class of shares 2.5p Ordinary shares with no right to any fixed income and with each share carrying the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to participate in any dividends pro-rata to their holding.
The Board may propose and pay interim dividends and recommend a final dividend for approval by the shareholders at the AGM.
A final dividend may be declared by the shareholders in a general meeting by ordinary resolution, but such dividend cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
Powers for the Company issuing or buying back its own shares At the 2012 AGM shareholders authorised: the Directors to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,359,945, representing one third of the issued share capital plus 13,766,073 shares representing the outstanding commitment in respect of options granted under MITIEs share schemes such total equating to 37.1% of the issued share capital as at 31 March 2012. the dis-application of pre-emption rights over allotted shares up to an aggregate nominal value equal to 452,369 or a maximum 18,094,762 shares representing 5% of the issued share capital as at 31 March 2012. the Company to make market purchases of its own shares up to a total of 36,189,525 shares representing 10% of the issued share capital as at 31 March 2012.
During the reporting period, the Directors utilised these authorities and the preceding authority to allot 8,184,919 shares to an aggregate nominal amount of 204,623 to employees participating in MITIEs share schemes and to minority shareholders in consideration for shares purchased in connection with MITIE Model investments.
It is not MITIEs current intention to operate a formal share purchase programme: however market purchases may be made to offset share scheme exercise activity, subject to the prior approval of the Board.
Further details of these authorisations are available in the notes to the 2012 Notice of AGM and shareholders are referred to the 2013 Notice both are available at www.
com investors which contains similar provisions in respect of the Companys share capital.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Marketplace Strategy and and sustainable Overview performance operations Finance Governance Accounts 57 Restrictions on the trading of shares Certain shares that are issued as consideration upon acquisition by the Company of the shares of minority shareholders in subsidiaries of the group that participate in the MITIE Model as explained in more detail on page 58 have contractual restrictions placed upon them that both prevent the transfer of such shares and or attach specific clawback provisions for periods of up to two years following allotment.
Recipients of MITIE Group PLC shares received are contractually restricted from selling the shares issued as consideration generally for a maximum of two years.
The Board believes that this is a unique business model that has driven MITIEs past performance and continues to ensure a close alignment of interest between MITIE shareholders and the management and employees of the group.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of any shareholding or on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company available at www.
com investors shareholderservices corporate-governance and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between Company shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital.
Details of employee share schemes are set out below and in Note 34 to the Accounts.
The group operates a Share Trading and Insider Dealing Policy which provides a framework to identify persons who may have access to inside information relating to MITIE and explains the rules applicable to them for dealing in MITIE Group PLC Shares.
Individuals who may have access to such information are informed individually and asked to read, understand and follow the procedures detailed in the policy.
Significant interests in MITIEs share capital As at 18 May 2013 the Company has been notified of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Number of Percentage Ordinary shares of share of 2.5p each capital The Capital Group 35,411,000 9.75% FMR LLC 18,000,006 5.05% Massachusetts Financial Services Company 18,549,276 5.02% Majedie Asset Management Limited 18,493,852 5.00% Norges Bank 11,649,904 3.15% Details of the Directors interests in the share capital of the Company are detailed within the report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 53 to 55.
Significant agreements change of control There are a number of agreements with provisions that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as bank facility agreements, employee share scheme rules and articles of association for certain MITIE Model companies.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the normal course of the business for the group.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs solely because of a takeover bid.
Board of Directors The membership of the Board as at 31 March 2013 and biographical details of the Directors including details of committee chairmanships and other positions held are given on pages 33 and 34.
To comply with relevant provision of the Code, all Directors will submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM and details are provided in the Notice of AGM which is available at www.
During the year, Non-Executive Director independence was considered by the Board.
The Board determined that all Non-Executive Directors as at 31 March 2013 were independent in mind and judgement, and free from any material relationship that could interfere with their ability to discharge their duties effectively.
Directors interests With regards to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association and the Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Director conflicts The Board has a formal policy on the declaration and management of Director conflicts in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company which has operated effectively during the reporting period.
Any potential situation or transactional conflict must be reported as soon as possible to the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Where a potential conflict is authorised under the statutory powers and powers granted under the Articles of Association to the Board, such conflict is kept under on-going review.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 58 Directors report Director indemnities The Company maintains Directors and officers liability insurance, providing appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its Directors and or officers.
The Articles of Association of the Company extend the protection provided to Directors in respect of any litigation against Directors relating to their position as a Director of the Company, and specifically provide that the Company may indemnify Directors against any liability incurred in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the Company and that the Company may fund defence costs.
Individual Directors would still be liable to pay damages awarded to the Company in any action against them by the Company and to repay their defence costs to the extent funded by the Company if their defence was unsuccessful.
Director commitments Executive Directors are permitted to accept appointments outside the group provided permission is sought from the Chairman and the Chief Executive and that the additional appointments do not interfere with the Directors ability to discharge their duties effectively.
The commitments outside the group of the Executive Directors are detailed in the report of the Remuneration Committee on page 49.
Executive Directors are entitled to retain any fees earned from these external appointments.
Employee involvement The Board remains committed to fostering and developing a culture of employee involvement in the business through communication with employees and equity involvement whereby employees are enabled to build a stake in the Company through the Companys various equity-based incentive schemes.
The Board believes that the groups culture of employee equity involvement is a significant driver in the groups growth performance and that this assists in attracting and retaining skilled and committed employees.
During the year the group has continued to operate the MITIE Long Term Incentive Plan to incentivise and reward senior members of the MITIE management team, the Executive Share Option Scheme for certain other employees and the Savings Related Share Option Scheme and Share Incentive Plan which are open to all eligible employees of the group.
The group has historically grown by giving entrepreneurial managers the opportunity to create wealth by participating in the investment risk of starting a new business, taking equity stakes at fair value in those new businesses in conjunction with MITIE and then, dependent on a pre-agreed pricing structure, offering to sell but cannot require MITIE to buy that stake to MITIE predominantly in exchange for MITIE shares.
Under the terms of certain shareholder agreements and articles of association relating to MITIE Model companies, minority shareholders in such companies may provide an option for the purchase by the Company of their minority shares.
The mechanism for calculating the price to be paid in respect of such transfer is transparent, on an arms-length basis, and in accordance with the pricing structure generally applicable for other transfers under the MITIE Model.
In consideration for these purchases, the Company generally has the option to settle payment in cash or in MITIE shares.
In 2011, the group launched a 10m Entrepreneurial Fund to back management teams with innovative ideas for starting mutually owned businesses.
The Board remains committed to supporting growing businesses through the Fund which builds on a long history of partnering with management teams to start up new business ventures.
On 19 October 2012, the Company approved investment into two new MITIE Model companies: MITIE Catering Services Limited, being MITIEs existing catering business and MITIE Work Wise Limited being a new start-up business providing document services to professional services organisations.
In total during the year, the Company has invested over 1.4m from the Entrepreneurial Fund, in the form of MITIE Model start-ups, second generation equity schemes and other equity incentive based businesses.
On 28 August 2012, the Company announced the purchase of certain minority shareholdings in three of its subsidiary companies: MITIE Client Services Limited, MITIE Pest Control London Limited and MITIE Security Holdings Limited in accordance with the respective articles of association and shareholders agreements of those companies.
The total maximum consideration for all three transactions amounted to 14.7m, being satisfied as to 1.4m in cash and as to the remaining 11.9m by the issue of 4,448,114 new ordinary shares of 2.5p each valued at 267.58p per share, being the closing market price per MITIE share on 26 July 2012.
The balance of 1.4m of consideration is deferred and will be paid in new ordinary shares subject to specified conditions.
The selling shareholders gave certain warranties and representations relating to past and future performance of the relevant subsidiary companies.
The shares issued in consideration are held in safe custody for a maximum period of two years and may be sold to meet any claims that the Company may have in the future in relation to those warranties and representations.
Details of these structures are generally available to the extent incorporated into the articles of association for individual MITIE Model companies from Companies House at www.
Communication with employees Communication with MITIEs employees remains a high priority.
The group communicates with employees through the use of group-wide mailings, employee magazines and updates, employee-focused initiatives, media networks and the provision of access to broadcasts of periodic financial presentations.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Marketplace Strategy and and sustainable Overview performance operations Finance Governance Accounts 59 We are also committed to developing our use of social media tools as an effective way of communicating with our people because we recognise that these methods can provide great ways of allowing our people to give us feedback, share ideas and engage with the wider MITIE community.
Our social media tools are supported by a group-wide intranet system which improved communications and information sharing across the business and includes blog updates by the Executive Board members and functional teams.
Through the use of their own communication processes each of the groups businesses is encouraged to ensure that employees are kept informed on group and individual business developments and social networking sites continue to play an important part of engagement and communication with employees.
The group continues to operate its group-wide MITIE Stars programme to recognise and reward exceptional performance by its people.
The MITIEs Got Talent, group-wide talent contest continues to be supported and encourages employee engagement and recognition.
The group Sustainability Report contains further details of these initiatives and is available from www.
Employees remain actively involved in the groups activities via an employee forum.
This year the forum held two meetings and included presentations by senior management or functional heads as requested by the employee representatives.
The Executive Board will continue to seek increasing involvement and activity of the employee representatives.
Employee diversity and inclusion The Board remains committed to developing further a culture that encourages the inclusion and diversity of all of the groups employees through respecting and appreciating their differences and promoting the continuous development of employees through skills enhancement and training programmes.
The groups employment policies are designed to attract, retain, train and motivate the very best people, recognising that this can be achieved only through offering equal opportunities regardless of gender, race, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation or any other aspect of diversity.
Applications from disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
It is the policy of the group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons including those who become disabled whilst employees of the group should, as far as reasonably possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Further information can be found within the groups dedicated Sustainability Report which can be found at www.
Financial results and dividends A detailed commentary on the financial results of the group for the year is contained within the Financial review on pages 29 to 31 of this report.
The profit before taxation for the financial year is 58.8m 2012: 94.5m.
The Directors declared an interim dividend of 4.6p per Ordinary share with a total value of 16.6m 2012: 15.5m which was paid to shareholders on 4 February 2013.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.7p per Ordinary share with a total value of 20.6m based upon the number of shares issued as at 20 May 2013 2012: 18.4m.
The final dividend for the year will be paid on 13 August 2013, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, to ordinary shareholders on the register on 28 June 2013.
The total dividend per Ordinary share for the year ended 31 March 2013 is 10.3p 2012: 9.6p.
The Company operates a Dividend Re-investment Plan DRIP which allows shareholders to build their holding by using the cash dividend to purchase additional shares in MITIE.
Further details on the operation of the DRIP are included at the back of this report and are available from MITIEs Registrar.
During the reporting period, the trustees of the Companys Employee Benefit Trusts waived dividends on shares held.
Financial instruments The groups financial instruments include bank loans, finance leases, overdrafts, US private placement loan notes and performance guarantees.
Various derivatives are used to manage interest, currency and other risks when necessary or material.
The principal objective of these instruments is to raise funds for general corporate purposes and to manage financial risk.
Further details of these instruments are given in Note 25 to the financial statements.
Events after the balance sheet date There have not been any significant events post the balance sheet date.
Payment of creditors The group manages its procurement and supply chain with increasing consideration of its impact on the Companys profitability, reputation and sustainability objectives and is committed to proactively developing mutually beneficial and sustainable trading relationships with all of our stakeholders, based on a foundation of trust and co-operation.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 60 Directors report The groups Ethical Business Practices Policy provides a framework and demonstrates our values and commitment to developing and implementing ethical business practices throughout the organisation.
The groups policy is to comply with the terms of payment agreed with suppliers on the groups standard purchasing terms as notified to suppliers.
Notification of these terms is issued with each generated purchase order and a copy of the groups standard purchasing terms can be found at www.
At 31 March 2013, the group had 32 days purchases outstanding 2012: 35 days.
Future developments The operating review sets out the Boards view on the future developments of the group.
Research and development Given the nature of the groups activities it does not carry out any material research and development work.
Donations Donations to charity and community projects made during the year amounted to 153,573 2012: 160,648.
The total value of community investment was 728,773 2012: 541,401.
The Directors of MITIE Group PLC confirm that they do not and will not make political donations.
Going concern The Directors acknowledge the Financial Reporting Councils Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies issued in October 2009 and An update for Directors of Listed Companies: Responding to increased country and currency risk in financial reports.
The groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business review as referred to on pages 19 to 23.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on pages 29 to 31.
In addition, Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements includes details of the groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The group benefits from a large number of long-term contracts with a broad range of public and private customers which provide a strong forward order book of 9.2bn and high visibility of secured work 85% of budgeted revenue for the financial year ending 31 March 2014.
These support the Directors belief that the group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The groups financial forecasts, taking into account possible sensitivities in trading performance, indicate that the group will be able to operate within the level of its committed borrowing facilities.
The groups committed borrowing facilities comprise 251.7m of US Private Placement Loan Notes expiring in December 2017, December 2019, December 2022 and December 2024 and its committed banking facilities of 250m which is available for use until September 2015.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Disclosure of information to the auditors Each of the Directors in office as of the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts confirms that: so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information being information required by the auditors in the preparation of their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and he she has each taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of such information.
This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, in accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
AGM MITIEs AGM will be held on 9 July 2013 at 2.30pm at UBS, 1 Finsbury Avenue, London, EC2M 2PP.
By order of the Board Richard Allan Company Secretary 20 May 2013 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
