02 Our business Our new shape Everything we do is driven by our clients and one of our real strengthsis how we adapt ourselves in order to respond to their needs.
Clients increasingly see facilities management as a group of related services, sowe have put all our facilities management capabilities under one umbrella and offer them as single services, bundles or integrated services, depending on client needs.
Property Management will remain a separate division, focusing on long-term contracts in the social housing market, and providing nicheproperty services for commercial clients.
These two divisions will be complemented by two new areas Healthcare and EnergySolutions.
Healthcare will focus on homecare services, whileEnergySolutions will develop energy strategies for clients, manage implementation and deliver real improvements in energyperformance.
Services provided: No other business offers so many services under one roof, delivered individually and together, to such a wide range of public and private sector organisations.
Our specialist services include: Facilities Management Property Management k Catering k Planned and responsive maintenance k Cleaning k Commercial painting k Creative services k Commercial roofing k Custodial services k Insurance claims and repairs k Data centre services k Interior fit-out k Document process outsourcing k Passive fire protection k Electrical inspection and testing k Building refurbishment k Fire and security systems k Front of house services k Landscaping Healthcare k Lighting We offer a range of homecare services: k Lone worker protection k Help with personal hygiene and dressing needs k Mechanical and electrical engineering k Morning and night time help to get in and out maintenance of bed k Mobile maintenance services k Administration and assistance with medications k Office services k Liaison with clients GPs k Pest control k Respite care for relatives and carers k Printing k Escorted outings and holidays k Total security management k Emergency assistance k Waste management k Live in care k Water treatment k Winter services Energy Solutions k Procurement buy energy better and smarter k Consumption use less energy k Generation create your own energy and secure long-term supply MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Marketplace Strategy and and sustainable Overview performance operations Finance Governance Accounts 03 Healthcare We provide high quality Facilities homecare in the UK, delivering a wide range Management of services to people We provide a wide range of FM services who require help and across the UK, Ireland and Europe.
support due to illness, These are delivered as integrated FM disability or infirmity.
contracts, in bundles or as single services, depending on client requirements.
Energy Property Solutions Management We provide specialist energy We provide a full suite and carbon advice and work ofproperty maintenance with our clients to develop and services for commercial implement their energy clients and the social strategies, and deliver housingmarket.
Organising people Our core skill is efficiently  a large anddiverse, skilledworkforce.
our consistent Technology Client strategy We integrate, analyse business model.
andthenact upon our We listen to our clients to ownandourclients findoutwhat is really In simple terms what we do is to find out what our datatomakesurewe importanttotheir provide thebestservice, organisationsand clients want and use our people and technology to attheappropriate time, helpthemachieve it.
helpthem achieve it as efficiently as possible.
Whether thatis lower occupancy costs, energy performance improvements orinternational outsourcing solutions.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Revenue of 349m Revenue of 1,543m Revenue of 46m Revenue of 43m 04 1 Headline results for the year Chairmans statement 8.4% Revenue 5.0% organic growth 1,980.6m 2012: 1,826.3m 8.3% Operating profit 122.0m 2012: 112.6m Overview MITIE has made excellent progress in transitioning to markets that offer organic 6.2% growth, long-term contracts and Operating profit margin improved margins, which significantly 2012: 6.2% enhance the growth prospects of our business.
We have also reported a positive set of financial results for the year delivering growth in headline revenue 3.9% and profit despite the lack of growth in the UK economy.
Basic earnings per share 23.7p 2012: 22.8p Our core facilities management business performed exceptionally well, as we mobilised our largest ever contract with Lloyds Banking Group and continued tobe awarded and retain work across 7.3% both the private and public sectors.
Ourenergy proposition has provided us Dividend per share with a strong market position in the fast 10.3p 2012: 9.6p growing energy market, and our energy consulting capabilities have been particularly enhanced by our prior year acquisition of Utilyx, which is performing very well.
85% During the year, we made an important 2014 budgeted revenue secured strategic acquisition in the 8bn Prior year: 83% homecare market by acquiring Enara.
Enara is one of the UKs leading homecare businesses and provides anexcellent platform for future growth inthe broader health and social caresector.
9.2bn We are focused on markets where Order book 7.0% wesee potential for growth and which 2012: 8.6bn meetour margin targets.
To this end, wehave taken the decision to further reduce our exposure to cyclical markets, in particular our mechanical and electrical engineering contracting 8.7bn businesses, which we are exiting.
Sales pipeline 2012: 11.2bn MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Marketplace Strategy and and sustainable Overview performance operations Finance Governance Accounts 05 Chairmans statement Strong results and opportunities for growth.
These developments further strengthen In December 2012 wecompleted an On 12 July 2012, Crawford Gillies was our position in the facilities management issue of US Private Placement loan notes appointed as a Non-Executive Director outsourcing market as well as the with institutional investors for a sterling ofthe Board.
He brings significant fastgrowing healthcare and energy equivalent value of151.5m.
Both of expertise, having spent 25 years markets, and leave us in a strong position thesefacilities leave us in a strongposition withBain& Company where he as we enter the new financial year.
to take advantage of value-creating wasManaging Director Europe.
acquisition opportunities as they arise.
This progress and our achievements On 1 June 2013, Jack Boyer will be during the year would not be possible We have seen strong growth in our order appointed as a Non-Executive without the exceptional efforts of all of book, which increased by 7.0% during the Directorofthe Board.
He has extensive ourpeople and we would like to extend year and now stands at a record 9.2bn experience of building and growing ahuge thank you to each of them, 2012: 8.6bn.
Our sales pipeline currently businesses globally and his early career andwelcome those who joined us, stands at 8.7bn 2012: 11.2bn and our was spent in consultancy and banking.
including those from the businesses forward revenue visibility is excellent, with Graeme Potts will retire as a wehave acquired.
contracted revenue for the year ending Non-Executive Director of the Board 31 March 2014 at 85% ofbudgeted on9July2013.
We thank him for his revenue prior year: 83%.
Results contribution tothe Board and wish 1 During the year, headline revenue grew himwell for thefuture.
1 Headline operating profit increased by The Boards policy is to grow the dividend Outlook 8.3% to 122.0m 2012: 112.6m, reflecting broadly in line with the underlying We have made significant progress as 1 a margin of 6.2% 2012: 6.2%.
Headline earnings of the group.
The final dividend aresult of the key strategic steps taken profit before tax increased by 5.4% to proposed by the Board has increased during the year, and are in a strong 1 111.1m 2012: 105.4m and headline by9.6% to 5.7p per share 2012: 5.2p per position to grow in our chosen earnings per share increased by 3.9% share, bringing the full year dividend outsourcing markets.
The exit from our to10.3p per share 2012: 9.6p per share, on achieving organic growth in our cyclical mechanical and electrical an increase of 7.3%.
Subject to primary outsourcing markets in the UK, engineering contracting businesses shareholder approval at the Annual supplemented by selective acquisitions resulted in business closure costs of General Meeting, the final dividend will and the development of our integrated 22.1m 2012: nil, whichare included be paid on 7 August 2013 to shareholders business model overseas.
Financially robust, we have a clear Cash generation remained strong, with strategy for the development of our Board and corporate governance cash inflows from operations of 131.0m business and are confident that we will Corporate governance remains an 2012: 110.2m, representing excellent continue to build on our strong track important and committed area of focus conversion of EBITDA to cash of 125.7% record of sustainable, profitable growth.
The balance sheet remains the continued execution of our growth Roger Matthews robust with net debt at the year end of Chairman strategy, the ongoing review of 192.2m or 1.8x EBITDA 2012: 106.9m.
performance and risk and the We have committed bank facilities composition of the Board.
This strong of250m until September 2015 along 1 Headline results exclude restructuring and acquisition culture of governance is explained further with252m equivalent of US Private related items and the results of businesses being in our Corporate Governance Statement.
exited termed other items see Note 5.
headline results have been re-presented to exclude the results of businesses being exited which are now included within other items.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
