Marketplace Strategy and and sustainable Overview performance operations Finance Governance Accounts 33 Board of Directors Bill Robson Executive Director Roger Matthews Bill joined MITIE Group PLC in January 1992 following the Non-Executive Chairman acquisition of Trident Maintenance Services Limited and was Chairman of the Nomination Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee appointed as an Executive Director in August 2001.
Bill has a Roger was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of MITIE wealth of experience in the support services and property Group PLC in December 2006 and was later appointed maintenance sector.
Bill is the Managing Director of the as Non-Executive Chairman in July 2008.
Roger previously groups Property Management division.
held the roles of Group Finance Director of J Sainsbury plc Larry Hirst CBE and Group Managing Director and Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director of Compass Group PLC.
Roger is a Non-Executive Chairman Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on the board of LSL Property Services PLC and Pertemps Independent Network Group Limited.
He is also a Trustee of Cancer Larry was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on Research UK.
Until his retirement from IBM in 2010, Larry Ruby McGregor-Smith CBE was Chairman of IBM EMEA where he held a number of Chief Executive senior positions during his 33 year career with IBM.
Larry is a Chair of the Results Committee Non-Executive Director of ARM Holdings plc and is also the Chair of the Investment Committee Chairman of the Imperial College Digital Cities Exchange Ruby joined MITIE in 2002 and was appointed as Chief Board.
His community interests include acting as an Executive in 2007.
Ruby has extensive experience within the Ambassador to Everywoman, International Advisor to British support services sector where, prior to joining MITIE, she held Airways and a Global Ambassador to Monitise plc.
a range of senior roles, primarily at Serco Group plc.
Ruby is David Jenkins an Independent Non-Executive Director of Michael Page Senior Independent Director International PLC, appointed to the Board in May 2007.
She Chairman of the Audit Committee is their Senior Independent Director and a member of their Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
She is a NonIndependent Executive Director of the Department of Culture, Media and David was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in March Sport.
Rubys charitable and community interests include 2006 and is currently the Senior Independent Director.
David membership of the Board of Trustee Directors for Business in was previously a senior partner with Deloitte LLP in London the Community BitC a membership of the Confederation having spent over 20 years in Assurance and Advisory of British Industrys CBI Presidents Committee and Public Services.
David is Chairman of Development Securities PLC Services Strategy Board, and being the Chair of the Womens and a Non-Executive Director of Renewable Energy Systems Business Council.
Suzanne Baxter CBE Terry Morgan Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Suzanne was appointed as Group Finance Director of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee MITIE Group PLC in April 2006.
Suzanne is a Chartered Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees Accountant with a wealth of experience in the support Independent services sector.
Prior to joining MITIE, Suzanne specialised Terry was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July 2009. in mergers and acquisitions related transaction support Terry was previously Chief Executive of Tube Lines Limited and and held a number of commercial and operational roles has held positions with BAE Systems, Rover Group plc and with Serco Group plc.
During the year, Suzanne was Lucas Girling Limited.
He is Chairman of Crossrail and is a past appointed as a Non-Executive Director of WH Smith PLC, President of the Chartered Management Institute.
Terry also where she is also Chair of the Audit Committee and holds positions as Non-Executive Chairman of the member of the Nomination and Remuneration Manufacturing Technology Centre and the National Skills Committees.
She is a member of the Counsel of the Academy for Railway Engineering.
He is also a Non-Executive Business Services Association, a policy and research Director of Boxwood Ltd, the Department for Energy and centre of excellence for the support services industry.
Climate Change and a Trustee of the London Transport Deputy Chairman of Opportunity Now, a part of the Museum.
BitC organisation with a focus on gender diversity in the workplace, she has also acted as a mentor on the ICAEWs Women in Leadership Programme during the year.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 34 Directors report Graeme Potts Board of Directors Non-Executive Director Crawford Gillies Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees Non-Executive Director Independent Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees Graeme was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July Independent 2006.
Graeme was formerly Chief Executive of Reg Vardy plc, Crawford was appointed as a Non-Executive Director to the a divisional Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director of Board in July 2012.
Crawford spent 25 years with Bain & Inchcape plc and Chief Executive of RAC Motoring Services.
Company Inc. the international management consultants, He is a Non-Executive Director of BEN, the automotive industry where he was Managing Director Europe.
He is also a Noncharity, and is Chief Executive Officer of Eden Motor Group.
Executive Director of Standard Life plc, Chairman of Scottish Enterprise, Chairman of Control Risks Group Holdings Limited and a Member of the Advisory Board of the School for CEOs.
Jack Boyer Non-Executive Director Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees Independent Jack will be appointed as a Non-Executive Director to the Board with effect from 1 June 2013.
He is Chairman of Ilika plc, iQur Ltd and Southampton Asset Management Ltd and a Non-Executive Director of Laird PLC.
He also sits on the board of the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council.
A serial entrepreneur, he previously founded and was CEO of companies in engineering, telecommunications and biotechnology.
He has been an investment banker at Goldman Sachs and strategy consultant at Bain & Co.
He is Deputy Chairman of Godolphin & Latymer School.
Educated at Stanford University BA, the London School of Economics M. Sc and Insead MBA.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
