DLC executive committee and company secretaries 1 2 3 4 Has also held senior operational positions with Fletcher 1 John Lindahl, 54 Group technical director Challenge and with Tullis Russell, the UKs largest independent Appointed: August 2011 paper mill.
Committees: executive Joined Mondi in 2003 as managing director of the tet i pulp Qualifications: graduated in pulp and paper engineering from and paper mill in the Czech Republic, also assuming the Technical University of Helsinki in 1985 and an MBA from responsibility for the Mondi packaging paper business in Jyvaskyla University in 1996 Ruomberok, Slovakia.
He then relocated to South Africa, Experience: between 1985 and 2000 had an extensive being appointed chief executive officer of the South Africa career in the forest industry working in different operational Division on 1 January 2008. managerial positions in Finland, United States and France in External appointments: none companies including M-real, Myllykoski and UPM.
At UPM 3 Philip Laubscher, 58 Company secretary Mondi Limited he then moved on to tasks within corporate technology and investment co-ordination.
Philip Laubscher, who holds BProc and LLB degrees and is an attorney of the High Court of South Africa, was in-house counsel From the industry he moved on to consulting and engineering with national power utility Eskom for 15 years before joining company Pyry where he held different executive positions in Mondi in 1999 as head of legal services.
He was appointed the forest industry business group being involved in advisory company secretary of Mondi Limited in January 2001. services, pre-engineering studies and major implementation projects for the global Pulp and Paper Industry until 2011.
4 Carol Hunt, 52 Company secretary Mondi plc External appointments: none Carol Hunt, a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries & Administrators, spent 15 years with The BOC Group plc, 2 Ron Traill, 59 Chief executive officer: South Africa Division holding various roles in the company secretariat, the last Appointed: January 2008 six years as deputy company secretary.
She joined Mondi Committees: executive in November 2006 and was formally appointed company Qualifications: graduated in mechanical engineering and secretary of Mondi plc in May 2007. management from Dundee Colleges in Scotland in 1980 Philip and Carol work together on the co-ordination of Mondis Experience: began his career as an industrial engineer with DLC structure.
DRG Packaging Group, working in its Scottish paper mill.
Went on to hold a succession of posts within the company, leading ultimately to his appointment as general manager.
Following DRGs acquisition by Sappi in 1990, he worked for 10 years in a number of general management roles.
