Our products Mondi is a full-range supplier of pulp, packaging and paper products to multiple industries.
Our customer focus, experience and ongoing research deliver proactive, high-quality and cost-competitive solutions to meet our customers requirements.
Our products touch the lives of millions of people, worldwide, everyday.
Group revenue contribution Packaging paper products 23% Our packaging paper products comprise a wide range of virgin and recycled containerboard for conversion into corrugated board, boxes, trays and displays as well as E1,482 million kraft paper for conversion into industrial bags, consumer packaging and other paper-based products.
IN FOCUS FIBROMER FIBROMER is a polymer reinforced with cellulose fibre, meaning it is strong, lightweight and stable.
FIBROMER is a sustainable alternative to talcum or glass fibre reinforced plastic for injection moulding applications, and was developed in response to our customers changing needs.
Group revenue contribution Fibre packaging products Our paper-based downstream operations manufacture and sell a range of corrugated packaging products, industrial 29% bags, extrusion coatings and siliconised release liners for a E1,891 million variety of consumers and industrial applications.
IN FOCUS Product security Globally, product piracy rates are increasing and it has become a significant issue facing the building products industry one of our most important customer markets.
The need for an innovative anti-piracy solution for these customers was clear, and we developed three products that provide these customers with the security they seek: SmartID Bag: Security Label Bag: and Multi-Feature Bag.
The industries we serve Food and Building and Home and Paper and packaging Medical and beverage construction personal care converting pharmaceutical 18 Integrated report and financial statements 2013 7230 13 Mondi report 297ES.
indd 18 2014 03 10 3:00 PM For more details of our products certifications, as well as additional product information please visit www.
Our Sustainable development report 2013 provides greater detail on the IN FOCUS products showcased on these pages.
Group revenue contribution Consumer packaging products We are a global leading innovative solutions provider 18% of hygiene components, speciality films and consumer flexible packaging.
E1,148 million IN FOCUS PerfoamPack PerfoamPack is a unique co-extruded polyethylene film with a micro-cellular expanded middle layer, which lowers weight without reducing thickness.
Its advanced manufacturing technology achieves a superb yield in packaging.
It significantly reduces the use of raw materials, by up to 20%, which translates into a lighter film with a direct cost reduction and a much improved carbon footprint.
Group revenue contribution Uncoated fine paper products 20% Our uncoated fine paper products consist of a wide range of quality papers for use in offices and professional printing.
All uncoated fine paper brands are part of the E1,284 million Green Range, developed in response to customer demand for environmentally responsible products.
IN FOCUS DNS high-speed inkjet This range of papers is tailor made for professional high-speed inkjet printing.
Combined with our colour management expertise and ink formulations, we optimise our customers printing performance.
Automotive Pet care Chemicals and Office and professional Graphic and dangerous goods printing paper photographic Mondi Group 19 7230 13 Mondi report 297ES.
