Values Culture Mondi Diamond Strategy Purpose Our business model We use the Mondi Way to visualise how our purpose, strategy and operational framework fit together, underpinned by our shared culture and values.
This framework guides the way in which we work, facilitating an understanding of how each and every Mondi employee contributes to our sustainable value creation.
The Mondi Way To create solutions for our customers success, delivering exceptional value in a sustainable way.
Risk management Our risk management framework helps us to identify risks and ensure that mitigation plans are in place for risks with a high likelihood of occurrence and or potential impact.
Further details are set out in the following pages and in the DLC audit committee report on pages 66 to 68.
10 Integrated report and financial statements 2013 7230 13 Mondi report 297ES.
indd 10 2014 03 10 3:00 PM  Entrepreneurial  Empowered  Transparent  Dynamic  Respectful  Responsible  Passion for performance  Caring  Acting with integrity O O O u u y r r g o o e p p t e e a r r r t a a s t t t ii i r o o a l n n Strategy We aim to exceed our 13% hurdle rate of return on capital employed through the business cycle, Maintain our Grow through thus creating value for our shareholders.
Our high-quality, customer focused low-cost asset development clear and consistent strategy demonstrates the base required combination of focus and flexibility to deliver results.
For more information on our Achieve leading Continuous market focus on strategic framework, see pages 14 17. positions performance Sustainable value creation Operational Customer excellence focus People Cutting edge development products Sustainable The Mondi Diamond development Our operational framework, the Mondi Diamond, focuses on five elements that drive our performance across all areas of our business.
Operational People Sustainable Cutting edge Customer excellence development development products focus Our benchmarking, For us to succeed as Sound principles Our Research and We are reliable and processes and a globally competitive governing safety: Development centres we keep the promises monitoring systems organisation, we need business conduct: and are focused on we make.
We are are designed to skilled, trained and social, environmental developing innovative the trusted partner continuously improve committed people, who and economic practices processes and solutions.
of a host of leading productivity, quality, are able to undertake are integral to our Working with customers, brands, as well as reliability and cost jobs safely and business.
We comply strategic partners, small and medium competitiveness across productively as they fulfil with or exceed local suppliers and research sized companies.
regulatory standards institutes, we constantly Our customers value wherever we operate.
anticipate new our quality, cost technologies and offer competitiveness and cutting edge products.
Focus areas Focus areas Focus areas Focus areas Focus areas Maximising Inspiring and Achieving zero Listening to our Understanding equipment and developing people harm and providing customers to deliver market and customer process efficiencies a healthy work exceptional value needs Promoting excellence environment Delivering on quality in leadership Creating competitive Striving for flawless and productivity Minimising advantages with service and on-time Shaping our culture expectations environmental leading, high-quality delivery as we embrace impacts and products and brands Improving cost diversity Facilitating engaging in competitiveness Leveraging our sustainable sustainable forestry expertise as we partnerships and Putting social create tailor-made measuring success responsibility into solutions practice Mondi Group 11 7230 13 Mondi report 297ES.
