Board of directors 1 2 3 External appointments: senior independent director of 1 Fred Phaswana, 69 Joint chairman Meggitt plc and non-executive director of Dubai-based Appointed: June 2013 DP World Limited.
He also chairs the audit committees of Committees: nominations both companies.
Formerly a non-executive director of the Qualifications: MA Unisa, BCom Hons RAU, Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Company, Dewhirst BA Philosophy, Politics and Economics Unisa Group plc, Medeva plc, George Wimpey plc, Taylor Wimpey Experience: previously regional president of BP Africa, a nonplc and Tullow Oil plc.
executive director of Anglo American plc and chairman of Anglo 3 David Hathorn, 51 Chief executive officer American South Africa, Anglo Platinum, Transnet, Ethos Private Equity, the South African Energy Association and the Advisory Appointed: May 2007 Board of the Cape Town Graduate School of Business.
He is Committees: executive chairman, sustainable development, former honorary president of the Cape Town Press Club.
social and ethics External appointments: chairman of Standard Bank Group and Qualifications: graduated in commerce from the University of The Standard Bank of South Africa.
He is also chairman of the Natal, chartered accountant South Africa South African Institute of International Affairs and a non-executive Experience: completed articles with Deloitte & Touche in director of Naspers.
Joined Anglo American plc in 1989 2 David Williams, 68 Joint chairman as a divisional finance manager, moved to Mondi in 1991 and Appointed: May 2007 and as joint chairman in August 2009 went on to serve as finance director and then general manager of Mondi Europe until 2000, when he was appointed chief Committees: nominations chairman, remuneration executive officer of the Mondi Group.
Qualifications: graduated in economics from Manchester At Anglo American plc, David was a member of the executive University, chartered accountant UK committee from 2003 and an executive director from 2005 and Experience: retired as finance director of Bunzl plc in served on the boards of a number of companies, including fide January 2006, having served on the board for 14 years, Beers, Anglo Platinum and Anglo Coal.
and previously a member of the Tootal management board and finance director of Tootal plc.
External appointments: none 50 Integrated report and financial statements 2013 7230 13 Mondi report 297ES.
indd 50 2014 03 10 3:02 PM 4 5 6 After serving as chief executive of the bag and flexibles business 4 Andrew King, 44 Chief financial officer from 1995 to 2001, overseeing its recovery and expansion, was Appointed: October 2008 appointed chief executive of Mondi Packaging Europe in 2002, Committees: executive leading its subsequent integration with Frantschach into the Qualifications: graduated in commerce from the University of new Mondi packaging division.
Cape Town, chartered accountant South Africa External appointments: non-executive director of Telekom Experience: completed articles with Deloitte & Touche in Austria AG.
In 1995 joined Minorco, the international 6 arm of Anglo American, as a financial analyst, before assuming Anne Quinn CBE, 62 Senior independent director responsibility for the groups investment management activities, Appointed: May 2007 and as senior independent director in and transferring to their corporate finance department in 1998.
August 2009 He worked on a number of group M&A activities before being Committees: audit, nominations, remuneration chairman, appointed a vice president of Anglo American Corporate sustainable development Finance in 1999.
Qualifications: bachelor of commerce from Auckland University Appointed Mondis vice president of business development in and masters degree in management science from the 2002 and corporate development director in 2004.
He served as Massachusetts Institute of Technology MIT.
Awarded a CBE chief financial officer of Mondi from June 2005 to May 2006, for services to the natural gas industry.
before being appointed as Group strategy and business development director.
Experience: early career with NZ Forest Products Limited External appointments: none and the US management consulting company Resource Planning Associates.
Joined Standard Oil of Ohio, which was 5 Peter Oswald, 51 Chief executive officer: Europe & subsequently acquired by BP plc.
Went on to work for BP in International Division the US, Belgium, Colombia and the UK and held a number of Appointed: January 2008 executive positions, including group vice president.
Previously Committees: executive a managing director of Riverstone Holdings Europe, a private equity investment firm specialising in the renewable and Qualifications: graduated in law from the University of Vienna conventional energy and power industries.
and in business administration from WU-Vienna Business School External appointments: non-executive director of Smiths Experience: began his career with Deutsche Bank and automotive Group plc and former non-executive director of The BOC company KTM.
He joined the Frantschach Group in 1992 as the head of internal audit, later becoming corporate controller.
indd 51 2014 03 10 3:02 PM DIRECTORS REPORT Board of directors continued 7 8 9 Imogen was recognised by the World Economic Forum as a 7 Stephen Harris, 55 Non-executive director Global Leader for Tomorrow.
Appointed: March 2011 External appointments: a director of Sasol Limited and of the Committees: audit, nominations, remuneration, sustainable Ethics Institute of South Africa.
A member of Accenture South development chairman, social and ethics Africa Advisory Board.
A member of Rhodes University Board of Qualifications: chartered engineer, graduated in engineering from Governors and chairman of Rhodes Business School.
Cambridge University, masters degree in business administration Formerly chairman of Richards Bay Coal Terminal, a former from the University of Chicago, Booth School of Business director of Murray & Roberts Holdings Limited and of Mobile Experience: spent his early career in engineering with Telephone Networks Proprietary Limited and emeritus member Courtaulds plc and then moved to the USA to join APV Inc from of the Harvard Business School Global Alumni Board.
1984 until 1995, where he held several senior management 9 John Nicholas, 57 Non-executive director positions.
He was appointed to the board of Powell Duffryn as an executive director in 1995 and then went on to join Spectris Appointed: October 2009 plc as an executive director from 2003 until 2008.
He was also Committees: audit chairman, nominations a non-executive director of Brixton plc between 2006 and 2009.
Qualifications: masters degree in business administration from External appointments: chief executive officer of Bodycote plc.
Kingston University, chartered accountant UK Experience: early career was spent in technology-focused 8 Imogen Mkhize, 50 Non-executive director international manufacturing and service companies involved in Appointed: May 2007 analytical instruments, fire protection and food processing.
He Committees: nominations, remuneration, social and ethics became group finance director of Kidde plc on its demerger chairman from Williams Holdings and was group finance director at Tate & Lyle plc from 2006 to 2008.
Qualifications: graduated in information systems from Rhodes University in 1984, an MBA from Harvard Business School in He is currently a member of the UK Financial Reporting Review 1995.
Completed a Diploma in Company Direction with the Panel, which seeks to ensure that the provision of financial Institute of Directors GIMT in 2000 information by public and large private companies complies with relevant reporting requirements.
Experience: has been involved in corporate governance for over two decades.
She spent her early career with Anglo American, External appointments: non-executive director of Hunting PLC Andersen Consulting and the financial services group Nedcor, and Rotork p. l. c. chairing the audit committees of both, and before becoming managing director of telecommunications group senior independent director of Diploma PLC where he chairs Lucent Technologies South Africa.
Between 2003 and July 2006, the remuneration committee.
He was a non-executive of Ceres she held the position of chief executive officer of the 18th World Power Holdings plc until December 2012, also chairing the Petroleum Congress, an international oil and gas event.
52 Integrated report and financial statements 2013 7230 13 Mondi report 297ES.
