GOVERNANCE Directors Report Darren Drabble Company Secretary Major shareholders Directors Report As at the date of this report, the Company had been notified of the The Directors present their report and the Group and Company following significant holdings of voting rights in its ordinary shares Financial Statements of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC the in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Company and its subsidiaries together the Group for the Transparency Rules: financial year ended 31 December 2013.
Number of Percentage of Principal activities ordinary ordinary share The Company is a public limited company incorporated in England, shares voting capital voting Shareholder rights notified rights notified registered number 6160943, with its registered office at Moneysupermarket House, St Davids Park, Ewloe, Chester, Simon Nixon 159,795,130 29.50 CH5 3UZ.
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 38,332,245 7.10 Aviva plc 33,232,531 6.10 The principal activity of the Group is the introduction of business to Kames Capital 27,311,228 5.00 financial, insurance, travel, home services and other product or Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group 27,072,418 5.00 service providers through its websites.
The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding company.
BlackRock Inc 25,454,379 4.70 FIL Limited 24,758,460 4.60 Strategic report State Street Nominees Limited 20,581,165 3.80 Pursuant to sections 414A-D Companies Act 2006, the business Martin Steven Lewis 17,378,424 3.20 review has been replaced with a strategic report, which can be found on pages 6 to 21.
This report sets out the development and Share capital and control performance of the Groups business during the financial year, the The issued share capital of the Company comprises a single class position of the Group at the end of the year and a description of the of shares referred to as ordinary shares of 0.02p each.
As at principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
31 December 2013, the issued share capital of the Company was 108,403 comprising 542,014,578 ordinary shares of 0.02p each.
UK Corporate Governance Code Full details of the share capital of the Company and changes to the The Companys statement on corporate governance can be share capital during the year are set out in note 16 to the Group found in the Corporate Governance Report, the Audit Committee Financial Statements on page 70.
All the information detailed in Report, the Nomination Committee Report and the Directors note 16 on page 70 forms part of this Directors Report and is Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 48.
The Corporate incorporated into it by reference.
Governance Report, the Audit Committee Report, the Nomination Committee Report and the Directors Remuneration Report form At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on part of this Directors Report and are incorporated into it 17 April 2013, shareholders authorised the Directors to allot by reference.
up to 357,835,000 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company.
Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the forthcoming Results and dividends Annual General Meeting to allot up to 360,985,412 ordinary shares.
The Groups and Companys audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2013 are set out on pages 51 On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every to 80. holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy, and entitled to vote, shall have one vote and, on a poll, every holder of A special dividend of 12.92p per ordinary share was paid to ordinary shares present in person or by proxy, and entitled to vote, shareholders on 26 July 2013 and an interim dividend of 2.16p shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
There are no 2012: 1.8p per ordinary share was paid to shareholders on issued shares in the Company with special rights with regard to 13 September 2013. control of the Company.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.12p 2012: 3.94p The notice of the Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines for per ordinary share.
If approved by shareholders at the forthcoming exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in Annual General Meeting, this will be paid on 2 May 2014 to relation to resolutions to be passed at the Annual General Meeting.
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 21 March 2014.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the The final dividend, together with the special dividend paid on Annual General Meeting and published on the Companys website 26 July 2013 and the interim dividend paid on 13 September 2013, after the meeting.
gives a total dividend for the year of 20.20p 2012: 5.74p per ordinary share.
Post balance sheet events There have been no balance sheet events that either require adjustment to the Financial Statements or are important in the understanding of the Companys current position.
com Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 24 GOVERNANCE There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the forthcoming Company other than: Annual General Meeting for the Company to purchase, in the Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws market, up to 54,202,014 of its own ordinary shares either to be and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
cancelled or retained as treasury shares.
The Directors will only use Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority this power after careful consideration, taking into account the whereby certain Directors, officers and employees of the Group financial resources of the Company, the Companys share price and require the approval of the Company to deal in ordinary shares future funding opportunities.
The Directors will only purchase such of the Company.
shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per share and the interests of shareholders generally.
Under the rules of the Company Share Incentive Plan Plan, eligible employees were provided with the opportunity to receive Research and development free shares on the listing of the Company Listing with a value Innovation is important to the future success of the Group as at the date of Listing of 3,000, and all employees are entitled and to the delivery of long-term value to shareholders.
The to purchase ordinary shares in the Company using money Groups research and development expenditure is predominantly deducted from their pre-tax salary.
Plan shares are held in trust associated with computer and internet software systems.
for participants by Capita IRG Trustees Limited Trustees.
Successfully developed software is used to develop new products Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of and to improve and extend the functionality and scope of the participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an Groups operations.
instruction to the Trustees, no vote is registered.
In addition, the Trustees do not vote on any unawarded or forfeit shares held under Going concern the Plan as surplus assets.
As at the date of this report, the Trustees After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a held 0.1% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
reasonable expectation that the Company, and the Group as a whole, have adequate resources to continue in operational The Company is not aware of any agreements between existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Financial shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
securities and or voting rights.
Directors The Company and Simon Nixon entered into a relationship The following persons were Directors of the Company during agreement on 11 July 2007 to regulate the ongoing relationship the financial year ended 31 December 2013: Gerald Corbett, between them Relationship Agreement.
The Company and Simon Nixon, Peter Plumb, Paul Doughty, Graham Donoghue, Simon Nixon have agreed in the Relationship Agreement that Michael Wemms, Rob Rowley, Bruce Carnegie-Brown, Sally James Simon Nixon is entitled to appoint such number including himself appointed 11 April 2013 and Robin Klein appointed 21 June 2013. one Non-Executive Director for as long as he holds the beneficial Their biographical details are set out on pages 22 and 23. interest in at least 15% of the ordinary shares of the Company, two Non-Executive Directors for as long as he holds the beneficial Subject to law and the Companys Articles of Association, the interest in at least 30% of the ordinary shares of the Company and Directors may exercise all of the powers of the Company and three Non-Executive Directors for as long as he holds the beneficial may delegate their power and discretion to committees.
interest in at least 50% of the ordinary shares of the Company.
The Relationship Agreement will terminate if Simon Nixon holds The Companys Articles of Association give the Directors power to less than 15% of the ordinary shares of the Company.
As at the date appoint and replace Directors.
Under the terms of reference of the of this report, Simon Nixon had not appointed any Non-Executive Nomination Committee, any appointment to the Board of the Directors pursuant to his rights in the Relationship Agreement.
Company must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the Board.
The Articles of Association also require Save in respect of provisions of the Companys share schemes Directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first which may cause options and awards granted to employees under Annual General Meeting following their appointment and to stand such schemes to vest on a takeover, there are no agreements for re-election at least every three years following their election or between the Company and its Directors or employees providing last re-election.
for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the occurs because of a takeover bid.
UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, with the exception of Save in respect of the Companys share schemes, there are no Gerald Corbett and Paul Doughty who will be stepping down as significant agreements to which the Company is a party that take Directors, will offer themselves for election or re-election.
effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
Directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, has adopted The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended a policy that aims to attract and retain the Directors needed to run by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Details of the Directors remuneration is set No amendments are proposed to be made to the existing Articles out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 48. of Association at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors interests Authority to purchase own shares Details of the Directors and their connected persons interests in At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the Directors 17 April 2013, shareholders authorised the Company to purchase, Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 48.
No Director has any other in the market, up to 53,728,838 of its own ordinary shares either interest in any shares or loan stock of any Group company.
to be cancelled or retained as treasury shares.
As at the date of this Directors Report, the Company had not purchased any of its The details of transactions with Directors of the Company and own ordinary shares in the market.
related party transactions in the financial year ended 31 December 2013 are set out in note 22 to the Group Financial Statements on pages 73 and 74.
During the year, no Director had any material interest in any contract of significance to the Groups business.
com Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25 GOVERNANCE Directors Report continued Directors and officers insurance and indemnities The Board considers that the Annual Report and Financial During the financial year ended 31 December 2013 and up to the Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and date of this Directors Report, the Company has maintained liability understandable and provide the information necessary for insurance for its Directors and officers.
shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The Company has granted indemnities to each of its Directors and the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law and its Directors responsibilities statement pursuant to Disclosure Articles of Association.
These indemnities were in force throughout and Transparency Rules 4.1.
12R the year ended 31 December 2013 and remain in force as at the Each of the Directors whose names and functions are set out on date of this report in relation to certain losses and liabilities which pages 22 and 23 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: the Directors or Company Secretary may incur in the course of The Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the acting as Directors, Company Secretary or employees of the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view Company or of any associated company.
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Directors responsibilities statement in respect of the Annual taken as a whole.
Report and the Financial Statements The management report, which comprises the Directors Report The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and and the Strategic Report, includes a fair review of the the Group and Company Financial Statements in accordance with development and performance of the business and the position applicable law and regulations.
of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Company Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements Management report in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law The Directors Report and Strategic Report comprises the and have elected to prepare the Company Financial Statements in management report for the purposes of the Financial Conduct accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
Internal control Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial The Corporate Governance Report and Audit Committee Report Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair on pages 28 to 34 includes the Boards assessment of the Groups view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their system of internal controls and consideration of the guidance profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and issued by the Turnbull Committee of the Institute of Chartered Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: Accountants of England and Wales.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Employees Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its prudent.
employees and uses a number of ways to engage with employees For the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have on matters that impact them and the performance of the Group.
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
These include formal half yearly business performance updates by For the Company Financial Statements, state whether applicable members of the executive management team for all employees, UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any regular update briefings for all employees, regular team meetings, material departures disclosed and explained in the Company the Groups intranet site which enables easy access to the latest Financial Statements.
Group information as well as Group policies, and the circulation to Prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis employees of results announcements and other corporate unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the announcements.
This also helps to achieve a common awareness Company will continue in business.
amongst employees of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys The Group has an established employee forum through which transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time nominated representatives ensure that employees views are taken the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure into account regarding issues that are likely to affect them.
A robust that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. employee engagement survey process is also in place to ensure They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are that employees are given a voice in the organisation and that the reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and Group can take action based on employee feedback.
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
All employees are able to participate in the Companys Share Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also Incentive Plan and Save As You Earn Scheme which gives responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, employees the opportunity to purchase ordinary shares in the Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Report Company.
This helps to encourage employee interest in the that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
com Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 26 GOVERNANCE Equal opportunities Annual General Meeting The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all The forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company will be employees without discrimination and applies fair and equitable held at The Chester Grosvenor Hotel, Eastgate, Chester, CH1 1LT employment policies which seek to promote entry into and on Wednesday 23 April 2014 at 11.00am.
Appointments are determined solely by application of job criteria, personal ability, behaviour The notice convening the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of and competency.
the Company, with details of the business to be transacted at the meeting and explanatory notes, is set out in a separate circular Disabled persons which has been sent to all shareholders at the same time as this Disabled persons have equal opportunities when applying for report.
vacancies, with due regard to their skills and abilities.
Procedures ensure that disabled employees are fairly treated in respect of By order of the Board: training and career development.
For those employees becoming disabled during the course of their employment, the Group is supportive so as to provide an opportunity for them to remain with the Group, wherever reasonably practicable.
Darren Drabble Company Secretary In the opinion of the Directors, all employee policies are deemed to 3 March 2014 be effective and in accordance with their intended aims.
Borrowings During the period, the Group increased the size of its available loan facility from 20m to 70m.
The Group drew down 60m of the available funds, prior to the payment of the special dividend on 26 July 2013, and to provide necessary working capital thereafter.
As at 31 December 2013, the Group had net debt of 21.1m.
Under the terms of the facility, the amount available will reduce to 60m on 31 May 2014, and to 50m on 31 May 2015.
Financial risk management It is the Groups objective to manage its financial risk so as to minimise the adverse fluctuations in the financial markets on the Groups profitability and cash flow.
The specific policies for managing each of the Groups main financial risk areas are set out in note 17 to the Group Financial Statements on pages 70 and 71.
Political donations During the financial year ended 31 December 2013, the Group did not make any political donations 2012: nil.
Environmental matters Information on the Groups greenhouse gas emissions is disclosed in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 20 and 21 and is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
Disclosure of information to auditor The Directors who held office at the date of this report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each such Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor Our auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has informed the Company that for administrative reasons they have instigated an orderly wind down of business, and wish to formally change the entity that conducts the audit from KPMG Audit Plc to KPMG LLP.
The Board has decided to recommend KPMG LLP be appointed as external auditor to the Company and a resolution concerning their appointment will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
com Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27
