STRATEGIC REPORT Introduction to Strategic Report Peter Plumb Chief Executive Officer We utilise our core strengths to help both our customers and our providers to make the most of their money.
Delivering sustained growth Since I became Chief Executive Officer in 2009, MoneySuperMarket.
com has helped over 20 million households save money on their household bills.
We are a free service, and we are very proud of having helped so many people.
Our vision of Helping every household make the most of their money sits at the heart of our business and will continue to provide us with focus and direction for the years ahead.
We are a Group made up of MoneySuperMarket.
All three businesses are united through the same ambition: to save more people, more money.
We are ambitious for growth, and will explore both organic and acquisition opportunities, as long as by doing so, we reach more people or offer new ways to save households money.
Groups work well when teams come together to leverage each others skills and experiences.
After the acquisition of MoneySavingExpert.
com in 2012, the teams worked together, and in early 2013, launched the innovative MoneySavingExpert.
To date, over 1 million users have signed up to the Club, making it easy for them to monitor energy prices and switch to the right tariff that meets their needs as and when their current tariffs end.
A great example of how a Group can work together to help more consumers.
Our free service to consumers is chiefly funded by a success-based marketing model.
com a fixed fee for each consumer who applies for, and successfully purchases, a product from them.
This gives our providers a very flexible, cost effective and targeted customer acquisition tool.
Our services are growing in popularity.
More and more consumers are using mobile devices to access our sites, an appetite being matched by increased technology investment to mobile optimise our services.
Our product providers are also becoming ever more demanding, particularly for data insights.
Looking ahead, our growth strategy is driven by three strategic pillars.
Internally we call this our House Model.
It is a tool that focuses our investments and organisation to deliver sustained growth and shareholder returns: Best site: be the easiest way for customers to find independent help and to shop Earn customer loyalty: be a destination brand for users and customers Preferred partner: be the best way for providers to acquire new customers and retain existing ones We will remain focused on our strategy throughout 2014 as we build on our successes to date and continue to leverage the benefits of our distinct brands and diversified business model.
Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like to pay tribute to Gerald Corbett who will be stepping down as Chairman of the Company at our AGM on 23 April.
I am very grateful for his wisdom and guidance since I have been Chief Executive Officer, during which time MoneySuperMarket.
Strategic report signed on behalf of the Board Peter Plumb Chief Executive Officer 3 March 2014 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 6
