OVERVIEW Market Review Economic uncertainty and the pressures on household finances have remained key themes in the UK in 2013.
The Bank of Englands Funding for Lending scheme, designed to improve lending from banks, had a positive impact on the ability to obtain credit but conversely it also impacted savings rates.
Energy price rises continued to affect consumers and became a battle ground for political debate.
Current Account Energy Switches Switches 2013 300,053 2013 57,261 2012 156,274 2012 47,274 2011 137,686 2011 36,635 Unfortunately the scheme detrimentally Regulation The rising cost of energy on impacted the savings rates available to We have continued to engage with all of the household finances consumers.
With banks and building regulators who are responsible for the Rising energy prices continued to be a key societies having access to cheap funding to product areas within our sector.
concern for consumers in 2013, with the lend with, their reliance on savings deposits most significant price rises being to supply capital has fallen, resulting in During the year, we engaged with the announced as we headed into the winter much lower rates available in the market.
Competition Commission in connection months when energy consumption tends with their investigation into the motor to increase.
It is now harder for savers to find a decent insurance market.
com, rate of return on their deposits, although we have helped many thousands of with the majority of savings in deposit We were pleased that the Competition households save money on their gas accounts paying little or no interest, many Commission issued its provisional findings and electricity.
savers will still benefit from switching to in December 2013 and we welcome its market leading deals.
proposals to prohibit the use of wide most Energy prices became part of the political favoured nation clauses in contracts agenda, with government and opposition between price comparison websites and both making energy costs a political Current account switching motor insurers which prevent an insurer priority as we head towards the general The introduction of the Current Account offering a lower premium through another election in 2015.
Switching Guarantee in September 2013 led price comparison website.
to an increase in the number of people who Funding for Lending scheme changed banks in 2013.
Banks and building We believe that such wide most favoured The Bank of Englands Funding for Lending societies will now switch bank accounts nation clauses stifle innovation, reduce scheme was launched in June 2012 to within seven days and ensure that competition and can result in higher motor encourage banks and building societies to consumers are protected should anything insurance premiums for consumers.
increase their lending to UK consumers go wrong.
The scheme has been a Towards the end of 2013, the Financial success in terms of boosting lending to UK Traditionally, switching numbers for main Conduct Authority commenced a thematic households, so much so, that the incentive bank accounts were relatively low but we review of the price comparison industry for consumer lending was removed from expect to see increased competition from with a particular focus on motor, home January 2014.
Funding for Lending will banks and building societies for new and travel insurance products.
now focus on business lending only.
customers and a rise in the number of people switching now that the scheme is The Financial Conduct Authority has The impact of the scheme has been clear in place.
indicated that it wants to gain a clearer for consumer borrowing.
Mortgage rates understanding of whether the way have dropped to all-time lows, with many The launch of new products from brands information is presented on price lenders offering attractive rates to such as Tesco Bank, Virgin Bank and The comparison websites gets consumers borrowers, especially those who have Post Office could also challenge the the fairest deal.
dominance of the big four banks and create greater competition in the market.
We welcome this review by the Financial Competition within the credit card market Conduct Authority and we will engage has continued apace with many lenders closely with them to understand how we now offering record deals for borrowers can improve our offering to consumers.
looking to transfer existing debts, purchase cards and rewards.
Personal loan rates are Given the growth of the price comparison also at all-time lows, albeit for consumers industry as a means of distributing looking to borrow higher amounts.
products, it is likely that we will have greater engagement with our regulators, such as the Financial Conduct Authority, in the years to come.
com Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 5
