16 StrAtegIC report group BuSIneSS MoDel MorgAn proVIDeS ADVAnCeD MAterIAl SolutIonS to A VArIety oF enD-MArKetS, worKIng CollABorAtIVely wItH CuStoMerS worlDwIDe to proVIDe engIneereD proDuCtS tHAt SAtISFy teCHnICAlly CHAllengIng requIreMentS In DeMAnDIng enVIronMentS.
Morgan Advanced Materials business model customers product life-cycle and through the research and development is based on taking the full depth and breadth ongoing refinement of products and solutions, research and development is at the heart of its advanced materials capabilities to selected positioning Morgan as the supplier of choice of what Morgan does.
the groups research markets across the globe.
the implementation for current and next-generation products.
and development r&D capabilities are led of the one Morgan structure in early 2013 by a Chief technology officer, supported by allows the group to fully leverage geographic the group focuses on higher growth, higher technical directors in each geography and in its infrastructure and end-market positions to margin, non-economically cyclical markets, principal product areas.
In turn these technical most effectively achieve this.
the group where customers demand product and service directors oversee a network of materials reports as three geographical regions, excellence.
these markets include energy scientists and applications and process north America, europe and Asia rest of generation, aerospace and healthcare.
engineers across the groups sites.
each serves its local markets with on constantly refreshing the innovation pipeline the full range of Morgans material capabilities.
the group enjoys a good spread of customers and the effective commercialisation of these where appropriate, cross-regional collaboration in terms of markets and geographies and while efforts.
the group works closely with its takes place to support, for example, key global the loss of certain of these could affect the customers to engineer solutions that address customer accounts, operational benchmarking operations of a particular local business, their needs and also undertakes research in or new product development.
none are considered financially essential to collaboration with world-leading universities the group as a whole.
notwithstanding this, and other organisations.
where appropriate the groups core values are based on a the group devotes significant resources to the groups intellectual property is protected commitment to act with integrity when dealing ensuring these relationships continue to with patents.
with customers, employees, shareholders, operate satisfactorily.
suppliers and the wider community, so that it one of the key elements to the groups r&D continues to maintain the trust and confidence Additional information on the markets served strategy is the establishment of global Materials of those with whom it deals with.
the group by the group and on its products are included Centres of excellence.
these provide critical aims to be vigilant and proactive in respect in what Morgan Does on pages 12 to 15. mass in terms of resource and capability of environmental, health and safety matters.
and focused expertise in Morgans core this common culture is critical to the Operations technologies.
the high-temperature fibre continued growth and development of As noted above, the group has a truly global Centre of excellence in Bromborough, uK, Morgan Advanced Materials.
footprint that allows it to effectively serve has been critical to the successful development its customer base.
utilising that footprint in and rollout of the market-leading Superwool the group is organised and managed to terms of providing the highest level of service range of low bio-persistent fibres.
ensure absolute clarity as to responsibility excellence to its customers and maximising and accountability with a focus on pushing operational excellence and cost-efficiency is role of centre as much decision-making down to regions a critical element of the business model.
the groups head office is based in windsor, and local businesses as possible, within a uK and is the location of the groups central well-understood strategic framework and the group continues to increase the effective functions comprising approximately 35 people.
use of its low-cost manufacturing footprint, the centre is responsible for external investor through sites in Hungary, Mexico, India and relations, funding and treasury management Customers and markets China.
these sites act as points of supply to and other areas where it is appropriate for At the core of what Morgan does is the their immediate geographic regions and also specialist expertise to be brought together development of long-term relationships with as global points of supply where appropriate.
in one place for the benefit of the group, customers, working collaboratively with them operational benchmarking across sites such as pensions, insurance, tax, legal and over time and on multiple initiatives to develop with similar products processes is also environmental, health and safety.
the centre materials, components and sub-assemblies utilised alongside a suite of operational also provides the strategic framework for the to address very specific customer needs.
group, clarity on core values and responsible parts that the group makes often play a critical business and the processes for appropriate role in its customers products, helping them to the quality and reliability of certain raw business monitoring through the business perform more efficiently, more reliably or for material inputs is critical, and just as the group planning and budget cycles.
the corporate longer, sometimes in the most demanding has developed excellent relationships with centre is small and the lines of communication environments.
relationships are built at customers, it has also long-term and effective with the businesses are short and responsive.
multiple levels between Morgan Advanced relationships with its critical raw material Materials and its customers, to ensure its suppliers.
wherever possible raw materials are materials science and its manufacturing dual-sourced, or there are actionable plans in know-how is utilised both at the start of its place for alternative sources should the supply chain be disrupted.
MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS AnnuAl report 2013 AnnuAl report 2013 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS
