DIrECTorS rEporT 81 oThEr DISCLoSurES The Directors report is required to be produced by law.
The uKLas The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend at the rate Disclosure and Transparency rules DTrs and Listing rules Lrs also of 6.7 pence per share on the ordinary share capital of the Company, require us to make certain disclosures.
payable on 30 May 2014 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 16 May 2014.
Together with the interim dividend of pages 46 to 84 inclusive together with the sections of the annual 3.8 pence per share paid on 29 november 2013, this final dividend, report incorporated by reference constitute a Directors report that if approved by shareholders, brings the total distribution for the year has been drawn up and presented in accordance with applicable law to 10.5 pence per share 2012: 10.0 pence.
and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report are subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by that law.
Directors all those who served as Directors at any time during the year under the Company review are listed on pages 46 to 47.
Legal form of the Company Morgan advanced Materials plc is a company incorporated in England Powers of the Directors and Wales with company number 286773.
Subject to the Companys articles, uK legislation and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Name change The Company changed its name to Morgan advanced Materials plc from The Morgan Crucible Company plc on 27 March 2013.
Directors interests Details of Directors interests and their connected persons beneficial interests in the share capital of the Company are listed on page 75.
Annual general meeting The Companys 2014 agM will be held on Friday 9 May 2014 at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2a 3ED.
Directors indemnities a Circular incorporating the notice of agM accompanies this The Company has entered into separate indemnity deeds with each annual report.
Director containing qualifying indemnity provisions, as defined at section 236 of the Companies act 2006, under which the Company has agreed to indemnify each Director in respect of certain liabilities which may Amendment of the articles of association attach to each of them as a Director or as a former Director of the The Companys constitution, known as the articles of association Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The indemnity deeds were in force articles, is essentially a contract between the Company and its during the financial year to which this Directors report relates and are shareholders, governing many aspects of the management of the in force as at the date of approval of the Directors report.
The articles may be amended by special resolution of the Companys shareholders and are available on the Companys website Human resources at www.
Details of the groups human resources policies and employee involvement are set out on pages 32 and 33.
Appointment and replacement of directors The articles give the Directors power to appoint and replace Directors.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or under the terms of reference of the nomination Committee, any employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment appointment must be recommended by the nomination Committee whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that for approval by the Board of Directors.
The articles also require occurs because of a takeover bid.
Directors to submit themselves for election at the first agM following appointment and all Directors are required to submit themselves for Research and development re-election if they have remained a Director without being appointed During the year the group invested 20.2 million 2012: 19.6 million or elected or re-elected as such at one of the two previous agMs.
The group did not capitalise any development costs in 2013 2012: nil.
notwithstanding the provisions of the articles, all of the Directors will stand for election or re-election on an annual basis in compliance with Details of the groups research and development during the year the provisions of the uK Corporate governance Code.
Details of their are set out on page 16 and in the review of operations for each career history and the Board Committees on which they serve can be region on page 36 north america, page 38 Europe and page 40 found on pages 46 and 47. asia rest of World.
Statutory disclosures Results and dividends The total profit for the year ended 31 December 2013 was 44.7 million 2012: 76.1 million.
profit before taxation for the same period was 64.0 million 2012: 76.7 million.
revenue was 957.8 million 2012: 1,007.5 million and operating profit was 89.6 million 2012: 99.4 million.
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations was 14.8 pence 2012: 18.7 pence.
Capital and reserves at the end of the year were 274.1 million 2012: 271.6 million.
The total profit of 44.7 million will be transferred to equity.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2013 annuaL rEporT 2013 Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS finAnCiAl direCtorS StrAtegiC overview StAteMentS report report 82 DIrECTorS rEporT oThEr DISCLoSurES continued Greenhouse gas emissions Donations under The Companies act 2006 Strategic report and Directors During the year, Morgan advanced Materials companies made charitable report regulations 2013 the regulations the group is required to donations of 125,370 2012: 178,060. report its annual greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent Co e in its Directors report.
no political donations have been made.
Morgan advanced Materials has 2 a policy of not making donations to any political party, representative or Morgan has published information on its emissions due to the candidate in any part of the world.
combustion of fossil fuels and the electricity purchased by the Company for its own use in its annual EhS report since 2004 and in its annual Financial instruments report since 2005.
Since 2011 the groups Co e emissions due to Details of the groups use of financial instruments, together with 2 energy consumption have been externally assured by pwC see pwCs information on policies and exposure to price, liquidity, cash flow, credit, 2013 assurance report on page 31.
The group has also participated interest rate and currency risks, can be found in note 20 on pages 115 in the Carbon Disclosure project since 2006 and in 2013 was one of to 122. all information detailed in this note is incorporated into the 11 FTSE 350 companies to feature in both the Carbon performance Directors report by reference and is deemed to form part of the Leadership Index and the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index.
The regulations require the group to disclose its emissions due to Share capital and related matters the combustion of biomass and due to process and fugitive emissions Share capital which are not included in the emissions reported on page 28 in the The Companys share capital as at 31 December 2013 is set out in Corporate responsibility section of this annual report.
The Companys ordinary shares represent 99.85% of the total issued share capital, with the 5.5% Cumulative 2013 2012 First preference shares representing 0.04% and the 5.0% Cumulative Tonnes CO e Tonnes Co e 2 2 Second preference shares representing 0.11%.
The rights and Emissions from combustion of fuels and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, and restrictions # operation of facilities on the transfer of shares in the Company, are set out in the articles.
Combustion of fossil fuels 148,300 152,200 operation of facilities, including process Shareholders rights emissions 31,600 36,300 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends, when Electricity, heat, steam and cooling declared: to receive the Companys reports and accounts: to attend and purchased for own consumption speak at general meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies: and to purchased electricity 238,800 243,000 exercise voting rights.
Intensity measurement Tonnes Co e due to fossil fuels and purchased 2 Details of the structure of the Companys preference share capital and electricity per m revenue 404 392 the rights attached to the Companys preference shares are set out in Tonnes ghgs per m revenue 437 428 note 18 on page 113.
Data is rounded to the nearest 100 tonnes of Co e. 2 no person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with # Excludes emissions from Company-owned and leased vehicles estimated at approx.
2,000 tonnes Co e in 2013. regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any 2 The 2013 and 2012 information regarding Co e due to energy use has been subject 2 agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions to assurance by pwC.
See the Independent assurance report on page 31 of this annual on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
report and on page 25 of the 2012 annual report for further details.
Electricity from renewable sources at zero tonnes Co per kWh.
Emissions increase 2 by 2,800 tonnes at grid-average rates 2012: 2,900 tonnes.
Share allotment and repurchase authorities Constant currency basis and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.
The Directors were granted authority at the 2013 agM to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any as required under the regulations, the above report includes the securities into shares in the Company up to a a nominal amount of material emission sources from the operations and activities covered 23,430,575 and b a nominal amount of 46,861,150 in connection by the groups Financial statements.
as noted, the reports exclude with a rights issue such amount to be reduced by any shares allotted emissions from Company-owned and leased vehicles and emissions under a.
This authority is due to lapse at the 2014 agM.
at the 2014 relating to steam supplied by third parties to two sites in China, which agM, shareholders will be asked to grant a similar allotment authority.
are in total estimated to account for less than 1% of total emissions.
The Directors consider that these sources of emissions are not material a special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors to the total of the emissions.
powers to make non pre-emptive issues for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount representing approximately 5% of the issued share The group uses the greenhouse gas protocol with emission factors capital as at the last practicable date before the publication of the notice for standard grid electricity by country and year from the International of agM 2014.
Energy agency together with other factors as published by the uK Department of Environment, Food and rural affairs in order to calculate the Co e emissions included in this report.
2 Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2013 annuaL rEporT 2013 Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS DIrECTorS rEporT 83 The Directors did not seek an authority at the 2013 agM to repurchase transactions, contractual arrangements and post-balance shares in the capital of the Company.
as at 31 December 2013, there sheet events was no such authority in place.
The Directors do not intend to seek an Significant agreements change of control authority to repurchase shares at the 2014 agM.
The group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various financial institutions.
These facility agreements generally include change Employee share and share option schemes of control provisions which, in the event of a change in ownership of the The Company operates a number of employee share and share Company, could result in renegotiation or withdrawal of these facilities.
one hundred and thirty employees hold awards under the Morgan advanced Materials plc Long-Term Incentive plan, The most significant of such agreements are the uK 150 million 26 employees hold awards under the Morgan advanced Materials Multicurrency revolving Facility agreement, which was signed on Bonus Deferral Share Matching plan, 13 employees have options 5 april 2011, and the privately placed note purchase and guarantee under the Companys Executive Share option Schemes and agreements signed on 15 December 2007 and 30 June 2010, 677 employees participate in the Companys uK Sharesave scheme.
for which the outstanding loan amounts are uSD 350 million and Details of outstanding share awards and share options are given in 60 million respectively.
There are a number of other agreements that take effect, alter or all of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a terminate upon a change of control of the Company following change of control.
outstanding options and awards would normally a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts and joint venture vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to being agreements.
no such individual contract is considered to be significant pro-rated for time and to the satisfaction of any performance conditions in terms of its potential impact on the business of the group as a whole.
Post-balance sheet events The Morgan general Employee Benefit Trust the Trust held 305,041 on 11 February 2014, Morgan advanced Materials merged its uK-based shares on 31 December 2013 in connection with awards granted under thermal fired shapes business with Magma Ceramics & Catalysts, a the Companys employee share schemes.
The trustees of the Trust uK-based fired shapes specialist, in return for a 35% minority stake in Trustees have agreed to waive their entitlement to the payment of the enlarged Magma business.
There have been no other significant dividends on the shares held by the Trust.
The Directors are not aware post-balance sheet events.
that any other shareholders waived or agreed to waive any dividends or future dividends during the period under review.
reporting, accountability and audit Statement of Directors responsibilities The Trustees have absolute and unfettered discretion in relation to The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the voting any shares held in the Trust at any general meeting.
Their policy group and parent Company Financial statements in accordance with is not to vote the shares.
If any offer is made to shareholders to acquire applicable law and regulations.
their shares, the Trustees will have absolute and unfettered discretion on whether to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares held Company law requires the Directors to prepare group and parent by them.
Company financial statements for each financial year.
under that law they are required to prepare the group Financial statements in Major shareholdings accordance with IFrSs as adopted by the Eu and applicable law and as at 31 December 2013, the Company had been notified of the have elected to prepare the parent Company Financial statements following, in accordance with Disclosure and Transparency rule DTr 5, in accordance with uK accounting Standards and applicable law from holders of notifiable interests representing 3% or more of the uK generally accepted accounting practice.
issued ordinary share capital of the Company: under Company law the Directors must not approve the Financial number of statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of ordinary shares % the state of affairs of the group and parent Company and of their profit prudential plc group of companies M&g 39,287,142 13.970 or loss for that period.
axa Investment Managers Sa 23,560,970 8.630 Schroders plc 15,119,209 5.307 percentages are shown as a percentage of the Companys issued share capital as at 28 november 2013. as at 3 March 2014, Schroders plc held 12,304,156 ordinary shares, 4.312%: there were no changes to the other substantial shareholdings shown in the above table.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2013 annuaL rEporT 2013 Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS finAnCiAl direCtorS StrAtegiC overview StAteMentS report report 84 DIrECTorS rEporT oThEr DISCLoSurES continued In preparing each of the group and parent Company Financial Scope of the reporting in this Annual Report statements, the Directors are required to: The Board has prepared a Strategic report which provides an overview Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
of the development and performance of the groups business in the Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
For the group Financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFrSs as adopted by the Eu.
8, this Directors report For the parent Company Financial statements, state whether and the Strategic report on pages 8 to 45 comprise the management applicable uK accounting Standards have been followed, subject report, including the sections of the annual report and Financial to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent statements incorporated by reference.
prepare the Financial statements on the going concern basis unless External auditor it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent Each Director holding office at the date of approval of this Directors Company will continue in business.
report confirms that, so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and that he has The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Companys aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies act 2006.
Following their intention to gradually wind down the activity in the They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably registered firm, KpMg audit plc have notified the Company that they open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and are not seeking reappointment as auditor.
a resolution to appoint detect fraud and other irregularities.
KpMg LLp, an intermediate parent of KpMg audit plc, will be proposed at the 2014 agM.
under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, remuneration report The Strategic report, the Directors report and the Directors remuneration and Corporate governance statement that comply with that law and report were approved by the Board on 13 February 2014. those regulations.
For and on behalf of the Board The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the uK governing the preparation and dissemination of paul boulton financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company Secretary & general Counsel 13 February 2014 The Directors as at the date of this report, whose names and functions are set out on pages 46 and 47, confirm that, to the best of their Morgan advanced Materials plc knowledge: Quadrant, 55-57 high Street, Windsor, Berkshire SL4 1Lp The groups Financial statements, which have been prepared in registered in England, no.
286773 accordance with IFrS as adopted by the Eu, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group: and The management report comprising the Directors report and the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2013 annuaL rEporT 2013 Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS
