12 StrAtegIC report wHAt MorgAn DoeS group ACtIVItIeS proDuCtS Morgan Advanced Materials is a world-leader Morgan manufactures a large range of Ceramic cores for investment casting in advanced materials, focused on specialist products, satisfying a variety of applications 5% of group revenue in 2013 ceramics, carbon and composites.
working at and for a number of end-markets.
consumable products used to create the forefront of materials science, the group intricate internal cooling cavities in aero supplies differentiated products to a range of the principal product ranges are: engine and industrial gas turbine blades.
attractive growth markets, satisfying technically Insulating fibre, brick and monolithics piezoelectric sensors and transducers demanding applications and enabling 35% of group revenue in 2013 4% of group revenue in 2013 products customers products to perform more an extensive range of high-temperature for measurement duties including level, efficiently, reliably and for longer in a wide insulation products used to reduce flow, vibration and pressure in aerospace, range of markets.
energy consumption in industrial medical, industrial and defence applications.
A Morgan design team will Crucibles for metals processing 5% of often work with the customer to ensure group revenue in 2013 comprehensive an optimum solution.
range for optimum performance in electrical carbon, linear and rotary transfer non-ferrous metal and alloy melting BuSIneSS StruCture systems 15% of group revenue in 2013 in foundries, die-casters and metal primarily used for transferring electrical processing facilities.
operating from approximately 100 energy in motor and generator applications High-technology composites 3% of manufacturing sites, supported by a network within mining, transportation and power group revenue in 2013 which are of sales offices, and employing approximately generation markets.
combined with the groups advanced 9,100 people, Morgan Advanced Materials Seals and bearings 7% of group revenue ceramics for lightweight armour systems, has a significant operational presence in all in 2013 carbon graphite and silicon providing ballistic protection in the form of the worlds major regions, serving customers carbide components that provide personnel body armour or vehicle armour.
improved performance, reliability and extended life to pumps and similar In addition to these principal product ranges, Following the implementation of one Morgan equipment used in petrochemical, there are also a high number of applicationin early 2013, the group now reports through aerospace and water applications.
specific products made to customer three geographical regions, north America, requirements using a wide range of structural europe and Asia rest of world, and each of ceramics, electro-ceramics and precious metals those regions offers the full range of Morgans that are sold into the seven markets.
the move away from the previous structure, defined by product lines, has enabled better collaboration and efficiency within the Morgan group and has resulted in more cross-regional selling and improvements in how the group interacts with its key clients.
the one Morgan model integrates the group under a cohesive brand identity which better reflects the business as a whole.
MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS AnnuAl report 2013 AnnuAl report 2013 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS StrAtegIC report 13 19% 44% oF 2013 oF 2013 reVenue reVenue mArkeTS InDuStrIAl trAnSportAtIon tHe group operAteS In A nuMBer oF SeleCteD Morgan Advanced Materials designs and Morgan Advanced Materials makes manufactures products for use in a broad high-performance products to exacting MArKet SeCtorS: tHe range of challenging processes and standards for aerospace, automotive, marine perCentAge oF group manufacturing environments.
reVenue FroM eACH oF the groups advanced materials offer a wide the group has longstanding experience tHeSe, togetHer wItH range of performance characteristics, including in the transport sector making components exAMpleS oF tHe proDuCtS superior insulating properties, dimensional and sub-assemblies for many and varied stability, strength and stiffness.
the group combines its materials MorgAn SupplIeS, science and manufacturing capabilities to offer IS proVIDeD Below.
with these materials the group engineers consistent and reliable products in flexible components that are highly resistant to production quantities, from small, even chemical and physical wear, corrosion and one-off runs to high-volume.
extreme heat, for use in industrial processing and demanding manufacturing environments.
over the years the group has applied its materials know-how to solve engineering Many of the industrial projects the group challenges and enhance performance for air, is involved in exploit the properties of its sea and land transport systems.
For example, advanced materials to contribute to improved the group has helped to improve reliability in process efficiency, productivity and reduced high-speed rail and on long-haul freight trains waste and environmental impact.
that must operate consistently in widely varying climatic conditions.
the group has developed For example, in the mining industry the precision parts used in the manufacture groups electrical brush material technology of aero engine turbine blades and critical has facilitated reliable equipment operation in components for in-flight refuelling and harsh environments, even in the very deepest satellite positioning systems.
the groups crucible technology is helping to improve the efficiency In the automotive sector the group supplies of energy-intensive melting processes used high-temperature fibre products used in in metal casting, through increased strength catalytic converters and has developed and longer life.
new materials that improve performance and address regional regulatory issues in the Syncarb z2 crucibles for aluminium processing vehicle emission controls market.
the group are made with isostatically pressed hybrid has also contributed to the development of ceramic, with a high silicon carbide and more fuel-efficient vehicles with lightweight graphite content.
this gives them a high components and intelligent fuel sensors breaking strength so they last longer in the and is working on projects to help improve harsh environments in which they operate, the efficiency of battery technology for lowering the costs of operation for the electric cars.
the groups insulating products allow manufacturers to control their thermal processing operations for optimum throughput.
For example, the high fibre content of the groups Superwool plus low bio-persistent insulating fibre used for high-temperature kiln linings means it is 17% more energy-efficient than traditional refractory ceramic fibre.
MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS AnnuAl report 2013 AnnuAl report 2013 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FinAnCiAl DireCTOrS STrATeGiC Overview STATemenTS repOrT repOrT 14 StrAtegIC report wHAt MorgAn DoeS continued 10% 8% 8% oF 2013 oF 2013 oF 2013 reVenue reVenue reVenue SeCurIty AnD DeFenCe eleCtronICS petroCHeMICAl Morgan Advanced Materials supplies precisionMorgan Advanced Materials makes Morgan Advanced Materials makes critical engineered materials, components and components for use in semiconductor components for demanding applications assemblies to meet the exacting standards of fabrication and electronic products.
in the global petrochemical industry.
the international defence and security markets.
the group exploits the unique properties the oil and gas industry presents some of the Materials technology and manufacturing of its advanced materials to help electronics worlds harshest operational environments capability is combined to produce solutions manufacturers achieve competing demands for equipment and people.
the groups that deliver real performance benefits in on size, functionality and cost.
products and materials are routinely chosen security and defence applications, from to fulfil critical applications onand offshore in military hardware to surveillance equipment.
the group works closely with its customers exploration, drilling and downstream processing.
to design and manufacture small or intricate the group is a global leader in lightweight components, achieving explicit electrical and It is the resistance of the groups materials armour systems for the protection of people, thermal properties within restricted size and to chemical and physical wear, corrosion and vehicles and equipment.
the groups vehicle shape constraints.
the group is able to extreme heat that makes them ideally suited armour combines advanced ceramics with offer durable piezo-ceramics, high-quality for use in these severe duty applications.
For high-technology composites to create systems dielectric materials and specialised metallisation example, due to a unique microstructure, the that are much lighter than the equivalent in techniques.
the groups products are found groups zirconia materials exhibit a property armoured steel.
they are easier, faster and in mobile phones, laptops, high-definition known as transformational toughening that more cost-effective to deploy and they televisions, lighting controls, laser instrumentation, makes them exceptionally strong and resistant demonstrate higher ballistic performance.
the group uses For example the groups single capacitor them to engineer hardwearing parts for pumps, the groups ceramic components for naval assemblies are constructed from ceramic drilling machinery and specialist fluids sonar systems are made from hardwearing dielectric materials that exhibit a high handling equipment.
pzt400 and pzt800 series piezoelectric AC breakdown strength, allowing them formulations to ensure low dielectric and to operate continuously in the capacitor the integrity of the components the group mechanical losses in the transducer for divider circuits for which they are designed, manufactures are often fundamental to the optimum acoustic output and efficiency.
safety and efficiency of high-value hydrocarbon extraction and processing operations.
For reliability of products, materials and supply In semiconductor and leD substrate example, the groups precision machining is a fundamental requirement in this market.
fabrication, the groups high-purity materials of silicon carbide composite mechanical the group is a critical resource supplier for and controlled microstructures have brought seals dramatically reduces interface leakage the uK Ministry of Defence, providing tactical significant yield improvements in specialist in demanding conditions, allowing operators wheeled vehicles, equipment and armour, processes for ion implantation, epitaxy and to work at elevated contact pressures.
the and a tier 2 supplier of ceramic body armour compound crystal growth.
groups tribology work on pumps and bearings plates to the uS Department of Defense.
is producing low-friction composites for longer examples include the use of very high-purity life and better energy efficiency.
silicon carbide to coat graphite wafer carriers used in chemical vapour deposition tools.
the groups high-efficiency insulation materials the material is resistant to the harsh highare used to provide complete fire protection temperature ammonia environment, so the systems for low critical temperature operations possibility of contamination is much reduced.
MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS AnnuAl report 2013 AnnuAl report 2013 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS StrAtegIC report 15 6% 5% oF 2013 oF 2013 reVenue reVenue energy HeAltHCAre Morgan Advanced Materials develops products Morgan Advanced Materials makes for power distribution and generation from components used in medical monitoring renewable and traditional sources and instrumentation and tools for treatment insulation materials for heat management.
the groups materials and products have Medical engineering demands the highest a strong reputation for performance and standards of precision, accuracy, reliability and reliability in the energy sector, built on years performance.
equipment manufacturers and of experience supplying products across the medical professionals choose the groups electricity supply chain.
materials for their exceptional physical characteristics.
the group continues to work on diverse energy-related projects from piezo-ceramics the groups teams collaborate with medical for energy harvesting technologies to scientists and device manufacturers to source, high-quality capacitance for high-voltage refine and engineer materials that facilitate systems and specialist fire protection systems specific advances in diagnostics, surgery, for offshore wind farms.
For example, the groups piezo-ceramic air in-line and occlusion Increasingly, the groups materials technology sensors allow non-invasive air bubble detection is employed to allow more efficient use of and accurate measurement of pressure changes energy by reducing friction, providing better in tubes leading in to the body, providing a insulation and enabling new technologies.
For highly precise means of monitoring safetyexample, the group makes metallised ceramic critical events in infusion pumps, feeding components for critical service uninterruptable pumps, dialysis equipment and other medical power supplies using our Sintox FA, which is fluid-handling equipment.
chemically resistant to the corrosive environment within the cell structure and provides high the group also makes high-quality ceramic strength and joint integrity for the lifetime implants, including ceramic replacement hip of the battery.
and knee joints, favoured by surgeons because they have better resistance to wear than polyethylene, and complex ceramic-to-metal assemblies used in implantable pacemakers, defibrillators, neurostimulators and housings for cochlear implants.
experience over many years has given the group a good understanding of the uniquely demanding environment in which equipment for the global medical market is developed.
the groups capability in materials innovation and quality manufacturing allows it to produce parts that are optimised to meet precise complex physical and chemical specifications.
MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS AnnuAl report 2013 AnnuAl report 2013 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FinAnCiAl DireCTOrS STrATeGiC Overview STATemenTS repOrT repOrT
