46 DIrECTorS rEporT BoarD oF DIrECTorS Andrew ShilSton Andrew hoSty MArtin flower ChaIrMan ChIEF opEraTIng oFFICEr SEnIor InDEpEnDEnT DIrECTor MArk robertShAw kevin dAngerfield Andrew given ChIEF ExECuTIVE oFFICEr ChIEF FInanCIaL oFFICEr non-ExECuTIVE DIrECTor 1.
MArtin flower non-ExECuTIVE ChaIrMan agED 58 ChIEF opEraTIng oFFICEr agED 49 SEnIor InDEpEnDEnT DIrECTor agED 67 appointed: May 2012 Chairman Designate: appointed: February 2013. appointed: December 2004 non-executive Director: august 2012, Chairman.
Career history: prior to his appointment as Chief april 2008, Senior Independent Director.
Career history: From 2002 until his retirement operating officer, andrew was Chief Executive Career history: Martin was previously Chairman of in 2011, andrew was Chief Financial officer of officer of Morgan Ceramics and joined the Morgan autogrill holdings uK plc, a non-executive Director rolls-royce holdings plc and prior to this he was advanced Materials Board in July 2010.
Before this of autogrill group Inc. and Deputy Chairman and the Finance Director at Enterprise oil plc.
andrew appointment he held a number of senior positions Senior Independent Director of Severn Trent plc.
was previously a non-executive Director of Cairn within Morgan advanced Materials.
andrew was Martin held a variety of senior management positions Energy plc, where he chaired the audit Committee.
a non-executive Director of Fiberweb plc from with Coats plc from 1968 to 2004, and was group additional appointments: Senior Independent 2012 to 2013 and president of the British Ceramics Chief Executive of that group and Chairman of the Director of Bp p. l. c. : non-executive Director of Confederation from 2003 to 2005.
additional appointments: non-executive Director additional appointments: Chairman of Croda Committees: nomination Chair and of British Ceramic research Limited.
International plc: Chairman of Low & Bonar pLC.
Committees: audit, nomination and remuneration.
Andrew given ChIEF ExECuTIVE oFFICEr agED 45 ChIEF FInanCIaL oFFICEr agED 47 non-ExECuTIVE DIrECTor agED 66 appointed: august 2006. appointed: august 2006. appointed: December 2007.
Career history: prior to august 2006 Mark was Career history: Kevin joined Morgan advanced Career history: andrew was previously the senior Chief operating officer from February 2006 and Materials in July 2000 as Deputy group Financial non-executive Director and Chair of the audit Chief Financial officer from october 2004.
Before Controller before being promoted to group Committee of VT group plc, the Senior joining Morgan advanced Materials, from 2000 Financial Controller.
Before joining Morgan Independent Director and Chair of the audit to 2004, Mark was Chief Financial officer of advanced Materials Kevin worked for London Committee of Spectris plc and a non-executive gartmore Investment Management plc and prior International group plc and Virgin retail Europe Director and Chair of the audit Committee of to this he spent nine years with Marakon associates.
he qualified as a chartered accountant Spirent Communications plc.
andrew was Mark was a non-executive Director of rathbone with .
formerly Deputy Chief Executive of Logica plc Brothers plc from 2006 to 2010. additional appointments: non-executive Director and held senior management positions in plessey additional appointments: non-executive Director of e2v technologies plc.
Committees: audit Chair, nomination and Committees: nomination.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2013 annuaL rEporT 2013 Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS DIrECTorS rEporT 47 ExECuTIVE CoMMITTEE SiMon heAle Andrew reynoldS SMith pAul boulton non-ExECuTIVE DIrECTor non-ExECuTIVE DIrECTor CoMpany SECrETary & gEnEraL CounSEL viCtoire fide MArgerie peter blAuSten non-ExECuTIVE DIrECTor group huMan rESourCES DIrECTor 7.
Andrew reynoldS SMith 10. pAul boulton non-ExECuTIVE DIrECTor agED 60 non-ExECuTIVE DIrECTor agED 47 CoMpany SECrETary & gEnEraL CounSEL agED 46 appointed: February 2005. appointed: May 2013.
Career history: Simon was Chief Executive of China Career history: andrew joined gKn in 2002 appointed: July 2004 general Counsel and Deputy now from 2007 to 2008 and was Chief Executive and has held a number of senior positions across Company Secretary: 2007, Company Secretary.
of The London Metal Exchange from 2001 to 2006. gKns Driveline, powder Metallurgy and Career history: Before joining Morgan advanced he qualified as an accountant with price Waterhouse offhighway businesses.
prior to gKn, he held Materials, paul spent nine years with IMI plc, his and has had extensive experience in the Far East, various general management and functional positions last role being Deputy Company Secretary and having held senior positions with the Swire group at Ingersoll rand, Siebe plc.
in Japan and hong Kong and with Jardine Fleming and Delphi automotive Systems.
andrew is a former in hong Kong.
Chairman of the CBI Manufacturing Council and 11. peter blAuSten additional appointments: Chairman of Kazakhmys a former member of the Ministerial advisory group group huMan rESourCES DIrECTor pLC: Senior Independent Director of Coats plc: for Manufacturing.
agED 54 non-executive Director and Chair of the audit and additional appointments: Chief Executive appointed: March 2011.
Compliance Committee of Marex Spectron group automotive and powder Metallurgy and an executive Career history: prior to joining Morgan advanced Limited: Trustee and Treasurer of Macmillan Cancer director of gKn plc: Vice president of CLEpa Materials, peter advised on private equity acquisitions Support, chairing their audit Committee.
the European association of automotive Suppliers.
and international leadership programmes as an Committees: audit, nomination and Committees: audit, nomination and remuneration.
he was formerly group hr remuneration Chair.
Director of Baa plc and held senior roles with Charles Schwab & Co, British airways, and Ford 8. viCtoire fide MArgerie Motor Co. he served as a member of the CBI non-ExECuTIVE DIrECTor agED 50 Employment policy Committee and was appointed appointed: May 2012. a Commissioner for the uK Civil Service in 2010.
Career history: Victoire previously held nonexecutive positions at Ciments Franais, outokumpu MArk robertShAw and Ipsos, and was a professor of Strategic ChIEF ExECuTIVE oFFICEr Management at grenoble School of Business.
kevin dAngerfield During her executive career she held senior ChIEF FInanCIaL oFFICEr management positions in germany, France and the Andrew hoSty uSa with arkema, CarnaudMetalbox and pchiney.
ChIEF opEraTIng oFFICEr Victoire holds a phD in Strategic Management from universit paris 2 panthon assas.
additional appointments: Chairperson of rondol Industrie SaS: Chairperson of the Materials Committee, French Waste recycling Scheme: non-executive Director of arkema: non-executive Director of Eurazo: non-executive Director of norsk hydro: non-executive Director of Italcementi.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2013 annuaL rEporT 2013 Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS finAnCiAl direCtorS StrAtegiC overview StAteMentS report report
