18 StrAtegIC report Key perForMAnCe InDICAtorS to support the groups strategy and to historic performance.
regional and business the list of KpIs selected is reviewed and monitor performance, the Board of Directors management use a range of further updated to ensure they remain important and the executive Committee use a number benchmarks and other KpIs as part of their to the success of the group.
Financial and of financial and non-financial key performance planning and performance review processes.
non-financial performance is reviewed in indicators KpIs.
these KpIs are selected as In order to measure the underlying more detail in the Corporate responsibility, being important to the success of the group performance of the business, management review of operations and Financial review in delivering its strategic objectives.
progress further analyse the headline KpIs to exclude sections of this report.
is assessed by comparison with the groups the impact of acquisitions and foreign exchange.
strategy, its budget for the year and against KpI 2013 2012 wHy A KpI?
perForMAnCe CoMMentAry Financial kpis revenue growth 4.9 % 8.5 % Creating consistent long-term revenue declined in the first half of 2012 and, value for shareholders.
at constant currency, there have since been Focus on higher growth markets.
three half-years with no growth of note.
group underlying operating 11.3% 10.7% Creating consistent long-term Improvements in sales mix, operational profit margin value for shareholders.
improvements and overhead reductions from Focus on higher growth markets.
one Morgan and other initiatives have more to have a culture of operational than offset the impact of reduced revenue.
Free cash flow before 37.4m 48.9m Creating consistent long-term A reduction on prior year due primarily to the acquisitions value for shareholders.
increased capital expenditure investment and and dividends spend on the restructuring programmes in the year, both of which are expected to improve the long-term position of the group.
return on operating 27.5% 26.3% Creating consistent long-term limited improvement made in roCe in Capital employed value for shareholders.
the year small increase in profit and small decrease in capital employed.
A key area of focus for the future, as reflected by the fact that this is a key element of ltIp plans.
underlying earnings 21.5p 21.7p Creating consistent long-term the underlying earnings have increased per share value for shareholders.
marginally but there has been a larger increase in the weighted average number of shares, thereby reducing this ratio.
Dividend per share 10.5p 10.0p Creating consistent long-term A 5% increase in the dividend is driven by the value for shareholders.
improved results and reflects managements confidence in the business.
u non-financial kpis year-on-year pricing change 1.4% 2.0% to be high value-added to the group has continued to secure price the groups customers.
increases across most of its businesses, though the challenging market dynamics, particularly in Asia, means that this is lower than 2012.
Critically, the group continues to achieve positive price pass through the sales price increase more than covers direct and indirect cost increases.
employee turnover 13.8% 13.4% to find, keep and develop this increase reflects the actions taken as part the right people.
of one Morgan as well as other cost-cutting headcount reduction actions that the group has taken over the year.
lost time accident frequency 0.44 0.52 to have a culture of operational A good 15% reduction, with significant excellence and cost-efficiency.
progress in the Asia rest of world region per 100,000 hours worked to find, keep and develop where there have been sustained efforts to the right people.
increase safety awareness and good practice.
tonnes Co e per m revenue 404 392 to have a culture of operational whilst absolute emissions reduced by 2% 2 excellence and cost-efficiency.
this was on revenue that was nearly 5% lower as a number of our energy-intensive processes cannot be fully flexed to sales volumes.
Definitions of the measures can be found in the glossary.
u non-financial KpIs are at constant currency and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.
2013 lost time Accident Frequency and the 2013 and 2012 Co e information has been subject to assurance by pwC, see page 31 for further details.
2 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS AnnuAl report 2013 AnnuAl report 2013 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS
