76 Governance Antofagastas mining business represents nearly 95% of the Groups earnings and is managed by the Antofagasta Minerals corporate centre, under the leadership of Diego Hernndez, the CEO of Antofagasta Minerals.
Members of the Antofagasta Minerals Executive Committee are responsible for executive management within the scope of their divisions, and collectively in relation to management of the Antofagasta Minerals business.
The Executive Committee comprises the Antofagasta Minerals CEO, nine Vice-Presidents and the General Managers of the four operating mines and the Antucoya project.
The core areas of responsibility for each of the members of the Executive Committee are set out below.
Diego Hernndez Isaac Arnguiz CEO Antofagasta Minerals Vice-President Projects Diego Hernndez joined the Group as CEO of Antofagasta Minerals in August 2012.
Isaac Arnguiz joined Antofagasta Minerals as Vice-President of Projects in 2013.
Isaac is also on the Board of Directors of Esperanza.
Before joining the Group, Diego was Executive President of Codelco, President of BHP Billiton Base Metals, Executive Director of Vale do Rio Doce and CEO of Cia Before joining the Group, Isaac was Vice-President of Development at Codelco, Minera Doa Ins fide Collahuasi.
Diego was also CEO of Mantos Blancos Mining Project Manager at Freeport-McMoran, President and General Manager of Company and has also held other senior positions within the Anglo American Cia.
Contractual Minera Candelaria AUREX, Technical Manager at Antofagasta groupin Chile and with the Rio Tinto group in Brazil.
Minerals and General Manager of Phelps Dodge Mining Company, Minera El Abraand Candelaria.
Diego was named 2010 Copper Man of the Year by the Copper Club, New York and received the gold medal awarded by the Chilean Institute of Engineers in 2013 Isaac holds a Civil Mining Engineer degree from the Universidad fide Chile and in recognition of his contribution to the development of engineering in Chile.
aBusiness Management degree from Universidad Catlica fide Chile.
Isaac also graduated from the Business Program of the American Graduate School in Diego holds a Civil Mining Engineer degree from the Universidad fide Chile and Phoenix and from the International Business Program at MIT.
isagraduate of the cole Nationale Suprieure des Mines in Paris.
Alfredo Atucha Patricio Enei Vice-President Finance and Vice-President Legal Administration, CFO Alfredo Atucha joined Antofagasta Minerals as Vice-President of Finance and Patricio Enei joined Antofagasta Minerals as Vice-President of Legal in Administration and CFO in February 2013.
Before joining the Group, Alfredo worked at BHP Billiton where he served for Before joining the Group, Patricio was General Counsel at Codelco from 2011 eight years as the Vice-President of Finance for Minera Escondida and for two until2014 and Corporate Affairs Manager of Minera Escondida from 2010 years as the Senior Manager of Base Metals Major Projects.
Patricio also worked as a Senior Lawyer at BHP Billiton in Chile, 2003, Alfredo was Finance and Administration Manager at Chilquinta Energa, as Chief Legal Counsel at Minera Doa Ins fide Collahuasi, at the Instituto acompany belonging to the Sempra Energy and PSG Group.
For the previous deNormalizacin Previsional and in private practice.
11years, he worked for the multinational Reckitt & Colman now ReckittPatricio holds a Law degree from the University of Concepcin and a combined Benckiser as Chief Financial officer in Spain, Brazil and Chile.
He began his MBA from the University of Chile and the University of Tulane in the USA.
career at British American Tobacco in the areas of Tax Planning & Treasury.
Alfredo is a Chartered Accountant Universidad fide Chile and has an MBA fromESEUNE in Spain.
He also holds an Economics degree from the Universidadde Chile.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 77 Hernn Menares Ricardo Muhr Vice-President Operations Vice-President Mining Resources Hernn Menares joined the Group in 2008 as Project Development Manager Ricardo Muhr joined the Group as a Chief Geologist in 1984.
In 1988 he led the forthe Sierra Gorda District where he was responsible for analysing the business evaluation of the Los Pelambres deposit.
Ricardo was appointed Vice-President and growth options for the area.
Hernn was appointed Vice-President of ofMining Resource in 1997.
Since August 2011, Hernn has also served on the Board Before joining the Group, Ricardo was a consultant and worked across different ofLos Pelambres and Antucoya and as Chairman of the Board of Esperanza.
exploration projects in Chile and Argentina, including at the Escondida copper Before joining the Group, Hernn was responsible for leading and managing mine mine, between 1982 and 1984. and plant business units and for developing the business plans of Codelco Norte, Ricardo is a member of the Chilean Geological Society and the Society of including the Chuquicamata, Radormiro Tomic and South Mine sites.
Hernn EconomicGeologists in the United States.
has also worked in the iron ore business for Compaa Minera del Pacco and Ricardo holds a Geology degree from the Universidad fide Chile.
Compaa Minera Huasco S. A. Hernn holds a Civil Mining Engineer degree and a Master of Science in Mineral Economics from the University of Technology in Perth, Australia.
Ana Mara Rabagliati Alejandro Rivera Vice-President Vice-President Human Resources Corporate Development Ana Mara Rabagliati joined Antofagasta Minerals as Vice-President of Human Alejandro Rivera joined the Group in 1997 as CFO of Los Pelambres.
In2004hewas appointed Vice-President of Corporate Finance and Business Development and in 2012 he became the Vice-President of Corporate Before joining the Group, Ana Mara was Corporate Human Resources Development.
Alejandro also serves as Chairman of the Boards of both Managerat Masisa, Country Human Resources Vice-President at Citigroup ElTesoroand Michilla.
and also worked at the Lafarge Group.
Before that, Ana Mara was also Human Resources Manager at the Lubricants Business of Shell Oil Latin America and Before joining the Group, Alejandro was Finance Manager at Corpora also worked across several divisions and areas at Shell Chile S. A. TresMontes and Finance Manager at Compaa fide Telfonos fide Chile.
Ana Mara holds a degree in Business Administration from Universidad Alejandro holds a Civil Industrial Engineer degree from the Universidad fide Chile.
Gonzalo Snchez Francisco Veloso Vice-President Sales Vice-President Corporate Affairs and Sustainability Gonzalo Snchez joined Antofagasta Minerals as Deputy Commercial Director Francisco Veloso joined the Group in 1993 as a lawyer at Michilla.
From 1997 in1996 and has been the Vice-President of Sales since 2004.
He has 25 years to 2002, Francisco was General Counsel of Los Pelambres.
In 2002, he was ofexperience in marketing and hedging of metals.
appointed Vice-President of Legal and Corporate Affairs, and he also acted asVice-President of Human Resources during 2012.
Francisco is Chairman Gonzalo holds a Civil Engineering degree in Structural Engineering and a oftheBoard of Los Pelambres and a Director of Michilla.
Postgraduate Diploma in Business Management from Universidad fide Chile.
Since 2011 he has been the alternate Director of the Chairman of Antofagasta plc at the Consejo Minero and was elected as First Vice-President of Sociedad Nacional fide Minera Sonami between 2010 and 2013.
He is also a member of the advisory committee of Corporate Governance of Universidad Catlica deChile.
Francisco holds a Law degree from Universidad Catlica fide Chile and a Masters inInternational Business Law from the London School of Economics.
78 Governance Antofagasta Minerals Executive Committee Alberto Cerda Ramn Jorquera General Manager Los Pelambres General Manager Antucoya Alberto Cerda was appointed as General Manager of Los Pelambres Ramn Jorquera joined the Group in 1986 and has worked as Operations inJune 2012.
Manager for Michilla, Minera Cerro Negro and El Tesoro.
In 2008, Ramn was appointed General Manager of Michilla and in 2012 he was appointed Before joining the Group, Alberto was General Manager of Kinross Gold as General Manager of the Antucoya project.
As General Manager of Corporations Lobo Marte mine, Development Manager and General Antucoya, Ramn is responsible for the construction of the project and Manager of Xstrata Coppers Lomas Bayas mine and Planning Director thestart-up of operations.
Ramn also served as a Director of El Tesoro andDevelopment Vice-President at the Collahuasi mine.
Alberto has also and Michilla from 2010 until 2012. worked as Project Mine Manager of Spence and in a number of other senior positions at BHP Billiton and within the Ro Algom Group.
Before joining the Group, Ramn held various positions in the mining industry in both the operations and management of open pit and Alberto holds a Civil Mining Engineer degree from La Serena University.
Ramn holds a Civil Mining Engineer degree from the Universidad fide Chile and an MBA from the Universidad Catlica del Norte.
Sergio Parada Andr Sougarret General Manager El Tesoro General Manager Esperanza Sergio Parada joined the Group as General Manager of El Tesoro in 2012.
Andr Sougarret joined the Group as General Manager of Esperanza inMarch 2012.
Before joining the Group, Sergio worked in a number of different mining companies, including at Codelco Norte as Manager of Mina Sur, and Before joining the Group, he worked for Codelco for 20 years at asGeneral Manager of Radomiro Tomic.
Sergio also worked as General ElTenientewhere his last position was Assistant Director of Operations.
Manager of Anglo Americans Mantos Blancos mine from 2008 until 2012.
Andr holds a Civil Mining Engineer degree from the Universidad fide Chile.
Sergio is a Metallurgical Civil Engineer and has more than 29 years ofmining experience.
Transport and Water Patricio Troncoso General Manager Michilla The divisional Boards of the transport division Antofagasta Railway Company plc and the water division Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A., consider matters specic to those businesses that are not reserved for the Antofagasta plc Board.
Jean-Paul Luksic, Ramn Jara and Gonzalo Menndez are members of the Antofagasta plc Board and both the Patricio Troncoso joined the Group in 1989 as Chief of Projects and Antofagasta Railway Company plc and Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A.
Patricio worked in a number of positions at Michilla over The General Manager of the transport business is Miguel Sepulveda and the a period of 11 years.
In 2001 he was appointed Corporate Manager of interim General Manager of the water division is Hugo Masana.
An overview Planning and Control Management in the Strategic Management area of the operations and 2013 performance for these divisions is set out in the ofAntofagasta Minerals.
In 2012 he was appointed General Manager Operational review section of the Strategic report.
Patricio holds an Industrial Civil Engineering degree from Universidad Catlica fide Chile.
