74 Governance 7 5 10 9 6 3 1 8 4 2 1 2 Jean-Paul Luksic William Hayes Executive Chairman 49 Independent Non-Executive Director & Senior Independent Director 69 Committees: Nomination C Committees: Audit and Risk C, Remuneration and Talent, Nomination Appointed to the Board 1990 Appointed to the Board 2006 Jean-Paul Luksic has over 20 years of experience with Antofagasta.
William Hayes is the Senior Independent Director.
He has held a wide range Priortohis appointment as Chairman in 2004 he was Chief Executive officer of finance and operational roles in the copper and gold mining industries, of Antofagasta Minerals, in which capacity he oversaw the development inChile and North America.
He was previously a senior executive with ofthe Los Pelambres and El Tesoro mines.
He plays a key role in shaping PlacerDome Inc. from 1988 to 2006.
He is a former President of the the strategic direction of the Group, and leading the Board.
Consejo Minero, the industry body representing the largest international He holds a B. Sc.
degree in management and science from the London mining companies operating in Chile, and former President of the Gold School of Economics.
Institute in Washington, D. C. He is Chairman of the Consejo Minero, the industry body representing He holds a B.
A. degree in Political Science from the University of thelargest international mining companies operating in Chile, and is a SanFrancisco and an M. A. degree in International Management from non-executive director of Quienco S. A. and other listed companies in the theThunderbird School of Global Management.
Quienco group including Banco fide Chile and Sociedad Matriz SAAM S. A.
He is Lead Independent Director of Royal Gold Inc. Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 75 3 7 Gonzalo Menndez Tim Baker Independent Non-Executive Director 65 Independent Non-Executive Director 61 Appointed to the Board 1985 Committees: Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Talent C, Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Gonzalo Menndez has extensive experience in commercial and financial Appointed to the Board 2011 businesses across Latin America.
He holds a degree in business administration from the Universidad Tim Baker has significant mining operational experience across North and deChileand is a public accountant.
He was previously Executive Vice-President and Chief Operating officer at Kinross Gold Corporation and prior to that was He is a director of several companies including Quienco S. A. and Banco executive General Manager of Placer Dome Chile.
He has previously deChile and is Chairman of the Board of Directors of Banco managed mining operations in Chile, the United States, Tanzania and Latinoamericano fide Comercio Exterior S. A. Bladex.
Venezuela and held geological and production roles in Kenya and Liberia.
in Geology from Edinburgh University and is an ICD.
He is Chairman of Golden Star Resources, and a director of Augusta Ramn Jara Resource Corporation.
Non-Executive Director 60 Committees: Sustainability and Stakeholder Management C 8 Appointed to the Board 2003 Manuel Lino Silva fide Sousa-Oliveira Ollie Oliveira Independent Non-Executive Director 62 Ramn Jara is a lawyer with wide-ranging legal and commercial experiencein Chile.
Committees: Audit and Risk He is a director of several companies including Empresa Nacional del Appointed to the Board 2011 Petrleo.
He is Chairman of the Fundacin Minera Los Pelambres and adirector of the Fundacin Andrnico Luksic A. which are charitable Ollie Oliveira has over 35 years experience in the mining industry, in foundations in Chile.
corporate finance, operational and strategic roles.
He held various senior executive positions within the Anglo American group and the fide Beers group, including Executive Director Corporate Finance and Head of 5 Strategy and Business Development of fide Beers S. A. Juan Claro He holds a B. Com degree from the University of Natal Durban with Independent Non-Executive Director 63 postgraduate qualications in Accounting and Economics.
He is a Committees: Remuneration and Talent, Nomination, Sustainability CharteredAccountant and Chartered Management Accountant.
andStakeholder Management He is a non-executive director of Ferrous Resources Limited and Dominion Appointed to the Board 2005 Diamond Corporation.
Juan Claro has extensive industrial experience in Chile, and has played 9 anactive role in the representation of Chilean industrial interests within Nelson Pizarro thecountry and internationally.
Independent Non-Executive Director 73 He is a former Chairman of the Sociedad fide Fomento Fabril Chilean Societyof Industrialists, the Confederacin fide la Produccin y del Appointed to the Board 2012 Comercio Confederation of Chilean Business and the Consejo Binacional Nelson Pizarro is a mining engineer and has held various senior executive fide Negocios Chile-China Council for Bilateral Business Chile-China.
positions in the mining sector in Chile, both in project and operational roles.
He is currently chairman of Coca-Cola Andina S. A. and Energia Coyanco Previous roles include CEO of Division Andina and Chuquicamata both for S. A. and is a director of several other companies in Chile, including Codelco.
Between 1997 and 2003 he worked for the Antofagasta Group, EntelChile S. A. Empresas Cementos Melon and Agrosuper.
He is also rstly as CEO of Minera Los Pelambres during its construction and start-up, amember of the governing boards of Centro fide Estudios Pblicos, and then as Mining Vice-President of Antofagasta Minerals.
Between 2003 anon-profit academic foundation in Chile.
and 2006 he worked for Codelco Chile, as Corporative Vice-President of the Codelco Norte Division.
6 He holds a Civil Mining Engineering degree from the Universidad fide Chile.
Hugo Dryland He is currently CEO of Minera Lumina Copper Chile S. A. and is in charge Non-Executive Director 58 ofthe construction of the Caserones Project.
Appointed to the Board 2011 10 Hugo Dryland has extensive expertise in corporate finance and mergers Andrnico Luksic andacquisitions within the mining sector, with over 25 years of investment banking experience in natural resources with the Rothschild group.
Priorto Non-Executive Director 59 joining Rothschild he practised law in the United States, specialising in the Appointed to the Board 2013 natural resources and infrastructure sectors, and before that worked inthe energy group at the World Bank.
Andrnico Luksic has extensive experience across a range of business He holds Masters Degrees in Business and Comparative Law from sectors throughout Chile, Latin America and Europe.
He is Chairman theUniversity of Warwick UK and the George Washington University ofQuienco S. A. and Chairman of Compaa Cerveceras Unidas S. A.
Heisalso the Vice Chairman of both Banco fide Chile and Compaa Sudamericana fide Vapores S. A. and a director of Invexans S. A. previously He is an Executive Vice-Chairman at Rothschild, and is global head of Madeco, all of which are listed companies in the Quienco group.
He is Rothschilds investment banking activities in the mining and metals sector.
alsoa director of Nexans S. A. a company listed on NYSE Euronext Paris.
