Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 09 Corporate Affairs and Sustainability, and Legal Vicewater which we use at our Esperanza and Michilla Presidencies, which had previously been combined.
operations, and when Antucoya is commissioned This change reects the ever increasing importance it will use sea water as well.
The cost of energy we are attaching to sustainability and the way we at Los Pelambres is currently high and volatile interact and communicate with the communities in as it depends to a significant extent on the the areas of our operations.
Patricio Enei has been amount of precipitation in the region.
We have appointed as the Vice-President Legal having joined therefore invested in a wind farm and a run-of-river us from Codelco where he held the same position.
hydroelectric project to secure long-term sustainable energy supply for the mine and have also negotiated a further Power Purchase Agreement that will Safety and sustainability satisfy all of the mines current power needs from Early in 2013 we had two fatalities in separate the end of 2018.
A further focus area is to improve incidents at Los Pelambres and at Esperanza and the productivity of our workforce by studying work since the year end we have had another fatality at practices, the efficient use of contractors, and the Esperanza.
These fatalities are unacceptable and full utilisation of automated processes.
I deeply regret that they occurred.
I extend my The project team is continuing to review options for heartfelt condolences to the families of the men reducing the capital cost of our projects, including who passed away.
The root causes of the fatalities the impact of using a larger Antofagasta-led project last year have been investigated and actions have team, as well as other capital cost-saving initiatives been taken and procedures are being implemented such as the procurement of mining equipment to ensure that incidents such as this do not occur from China.
The causes of the latest fatality are currently being investigated and once complete we will implement the necessary changes.
The Group Outlook hasa zero fatalities policy and I mean to make This year will be a year of consolidation as we surethat target is achieved, not just for one year, create a strong base from which to grow over the butevery year.
We are strengthening procedures As part of our safety management processes and lowering our cost base while investing in we are reinforcing the system of reporting near projects that will improve operating efficiencies at miss incidents as we believe that these incidents our operations and generate significant value for the are an accident that has only been avoided by Group and shareholders.
chance, rather than by the correct application of In 2014 we expect to produce some 700,000 tonnes our Health and Safety procedures.
This reporting of copper, similar to the production levels in 2013. structure and the training programmes that are in Cash costs before by-product credits are expected place will continue to improve the safety for all of to remain in line with 2013 costs at $1.80 lb, our employees.
however, net cash costs will be impacted by lower We are constantly working to improve our production and price assumptions for gold and sustainability processes and monitoring.
The profitability of our operations will We recognise the vital importance of sustainable depend to a large extent on the copper price during mining to the future of the Group and to those the year which we expect, in line with consensus, stakeholders that we impact through our activities.
to be reasonably stable for the year at levels similar As part of this programme we have applied for to 2013, although there will of course be shortmembership of the International Council onMining term uctuations.
and Metals ICMM, an organisation created in We expect the copper market to move into surplus 2001 to maximise the contribution of the mining, during 2014, although this remains highly dependent minerals and metals industry to sustainable on the new mine supply, which this year is driven development.
To be accepted as amember by greenelds projects, which are naturally higher we must satisfy an independent audit ofour risk than browneld expansions.
China continues sustainability procedures and achievements, to be key to the copper industry, and some volatility aprocess we expect to complete during the first half is expected to continue.
However, in the longer We continue to focus of this year.
As a member of the ICMM we will work term the fundamentals of the copper market with other members to strengthen the contribution relentlessly on cost remain strong.
of the mining industry to sustainable development.
control at each of Overall, we have had a successful year in challenging circumstances and I expect a similar our operations.
Cost control operational performance in 2014.
The changes We continue to focus relentlessly on cost control we have put in place during the year have at each of our operations.
We began a process resulted in improved operational efficiency and of reviewing all of our costs as well as our supply our development projects are on time and on chain, work practices, and the use of contractors budget and this process will continue during 2014. over 2013 and will continue this review and We remain focused on profitability and productivity begin implementing it over the course of 2014. across the Group.
I am confident that we will achieve significant improvements and will rebase our costs to a level from which our growth programme can be implemented over the coming years.
The focus Diego Hernndez isonprotability at each of the mines.
CEO Antofagasta Minerals We are making particular efforts in three key areas: 17 March 2014 water consumption, energy and labour productivity.
We already achieve water recycle rates of up to 85% and are leaders in the use ofuntreated sea Strategic report 10 Overview Copper mining is, and always Copper has been, a cyclical business.
Antofagasta is a copper-focused mining company.
The Groups strategy reects the All of its mining operations, projects and growth need to create value in a sustainable opportunities are predominantly copper assets, many of which contain by-products as well.
manner across the economic cycles Copper sales represent almost 90% of the that impact demand, as well as Groups revenues.
throughout the lives of its mines.
The following pages illustrate how the Group does that through: Tonnes of copper produced in 2013.
Focus Eciency Weighted average net cash costs in 2013.
Investment Up-stream mining activities Sustainability Projects are focused on the core up-stream mining activities, as this is where most of the value in the production chain is realised, and so there is no smelting or fabricating capacity within the Group.
It produces either copper concentrates 2535% copper or copper cathodes 100% copper.
% 100 The Groups mining operations are entirely focused on up-stream miningactivities.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 11 Organic growth Improving capital competitiveness The Groups growth story has been and The competitiveness of the mining industry is continues to be focused around organic growth.
constantly being squeezed by declining mined The approach is to develop assets from the initial grades and ination in operating and capital costs.
exploration stage through to operating assets The Groups response has been to adopt a new to ensure the maximum creation of value for approach to lower the cost base of future growth shareholders.
The Group is always seeking projects through optimising and adjusting project to optimise or expand existing operations standards, implementing a new procurement to further maximise their value.
strategy and using larger owners teams in project engineering to reduce the reliance on, and cost of, Engineering, Procurement and Construction Management EPCM contractors.
Growth in copper production over thelastve years.
Cost-saving initiatives Control of operating costs remains a priority across the Group and during periods of lower Returns growth, even greater focus can be applied to The Group has a history of exceptional returns reducing costs.
Currently, cost-saving initiatives to shareholders, with 2013 full-year dividend are under way across the operations and at the representing a 142% pay-out ratio.
corporate centre, which will reinforce and strengthen operational competitiveness, providing the Group with a strong lower cost base going forward.
% 78 Average pay-out ratio overthelast five years.
Strategic report 12 Overview Creating value through the cycle Organic expansion Longer-term growth options Continuing to invest throughout the cycle creates The main options for longer-term growth are options and exibility to support future growth, around existing mines.
Within the Centinela bringing new production online during upturns Mining District where El Tesoro and Esperanza in the business cycle.
In the current market the are located, the Group has two further significant Group has refocused its nearer term investment deposits, Esperanza Sur and Encuentro Sulphides, strategy on higher return, lower capital, organic which are being evaluated for processing through projects and in growth periods inorganic a new single concentrator, reducing the capital developments are also considered.
intensity and maximising the value of the project.
At Los Pelambres, a feasibility study is under way At Los Pelambres, the current mine plan only evaluating a marginal expansion.
At Esperanza, utilises approximately one-third of its total a debottlenecking project will increase throughput resource base and therefore there is potential to and at El Tesoro, the Encuentro Oxides deposit signicantly increase production following the will ensure that current levels of production can completion of the marginal expansion.
The most advanced international opportunity is Twin Metals, a copper-nickel-PGM deposit in Minnesota, USA.
The Group also continues to expand its portfolio of early-stage exploration agreements with various junior mining companies Projected annual production in 2018. in countries worldwide, and has also invested signicantly in exploration in Chile, both near existing mines and in other parts of the country.
For more on our long-term opportunities see pages 45 and 46.
$274.9m 3 Investment in exploration and evaluation by the Number of browneld Groupin 2013. development projects.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 13 Sustainability directly supports the Groups ability Employees and communities to create value for shareholders.
Its approach The Group is proud of its track record of having is guided by its values, and its social and had no significant labour disputes.
It places a high environmental policies.
The Sustainability and priority on the Health and Safety of its workers Stakeholder Management Committee reviews and contractors by applying a robust risk system strategy and performance across the social and and strong safety culture.
In addition, the Group environmental issues that the Group and its works closely with local communities to prevent stakeholders view as material to future success.
and monitor both environmental and social These issues are managed operationally and are impacts while enhancing its contribution reported to the Board.
Further information to local development.
is contained in the separately published Sustainability report.
Resource eciency The Group continues to lead the way in the use Lost time injury frequency rate.
of untreated sea water, and to gain eco-eciencies through alternative energy investments.
These investments contribute to fide-risking its energy portfolio against future price swings.
Recent investments include the Alto Maipo hydroelectric project near to Santiago, a wind farm and a solar plant.
% 45 $24.4m Sea water as a 2013 investment in percentageof total community projects waterconsumption.
Strategic report 14 Strategic review Strategic review Marketplace 16 Business model 18 Strategy for the mining business 20 Key performance indicators 22 Risk management 24 Key inputs and cost base 28 Key relationships 30 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 15 Strategic report 16 Strategic review Mining division revenue Global copper consumption Products by-product $5,639.1m by sector market $m % D A C A The Groups mining operations produce copper E B 1 with by-products of gold, molybdenum and silver.
4 Los Pelambres and Esperanza produce copper D concentrate containing gold and silver, which 3 is sold to smelters for further processing and B rening into copper cathodes as well as the C 2 production of gold and silver.
The El Tesoro and Michilla mines produce rened copper cathodes A Copper 4,998.0 A Construction 31 while Los Pelambres also produces molybdenum 1 Los Pelambres 2,821.0 B Electrical & Electronic products 34 concentrate, which is sold to molybdenum roasters 2 Esperanza 1,121.7 C Industrial machinery 13 for further processing and rening.
3 El Tesoro 747.4 D Transport 13 4 Michilla 307.9 E Consumer products 9 Source: Brook Hunts Long Term Copper B Gold Copper Outlook December 2013 Los Pelambres Esperanza 382.5 The principal end markets for rened copper are construction and C Molybdenum electricaland electronic products, which account for approximately 65% Los Pelambres 180.3 ofglobal copper demand, followed by industrial machinery, transport and D Silver consumer products.
The price of copper is typically determined by the major Los Pelambres Esperanza 78.3 metals exchanges the London Metal Exchange LME, the Commodity Exchange, Inc. COMEX, and the Shanghai Futures Exchange SHFE.
The price of copper is affected by supply-demand fundamentals as well asbeing influenced by financial investors, which can lead to volatile and cyclical movements.
Gold Gold is used as an investment asset and for jewellery and various industrial and electronic applications.
Gold can be readily sold on numerous markets throughout the world and benchmark prices are generally based on London Bullion Market Association quotations.
Molybdenum The main use of molybdenum is as a key alloying element in steel, although itis also used in other products such as catalysts.
Contract prices are typically based on price benchmarks such as those reported by Platts.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 17 Copper concentrate Market environment 2013 market performance Rened copper The concentrate market was impacted by major maintenance at some keysmelters and temporary unexpected shutdowns that created a surplus 2013 market performance during the second half of the year and resulted in higher spot treatment andrening charges TC RCs.
The concentrates market was also The average LME copper price during 2013 affectedby the delays in construction and ramp-up of new smelter capacityduring 2013. was $3.32 per pound $ lb, representing an 8.0% decrease compared to the 2012 average.
Market outlook Over the course of the year there was a substantial In 2014, more than 600,000 tonnes of smelting capacity is expected to come on-stream, however, this is expected to be offset by an approximate destocking of material stored in Chinese bonded 7% increase in concentrates mine supply.
Benchmark TC RCs, with respect warehouses.
This was due to a tight cathode to 2014 charges, have been set at $92.0 per dry metric tonne of concentrate for smelting and 9.2 cents per pound of copper for rening, which reects market environment in the second half of the year, asofter market in favour of smelters with an approximate increase of 30% which was aected by smelter maintenance and on 2013 levels.
smelter disruptions, as well as by a reduction in Gold scrap availability due to the lower copper price The gold price experienced a significant decline during early 2013 due environment.
In line with this tight market, total totheacceleration of the global recovery and increased confidence in the equity markets.
Since the financial crisis started, gold has provided a natural visible stocks on the LME, COMEX and SHFE, hedge against the weaker dollar, however, as the US Federal Reserve and which initially rose during the year, dropped o other governments changed their monetary policies, gold no longer provided this security.
steadily during the second half to close at below These factors led to significant outows from gold Exchange Traded Funds the level they had started.
ETFs back into the equity and other markets, which resulted in a large volume of sales and a fall in the price.
Gold averaged $1,410 per ounce $ oz in 2013 compared with $1,669 oz in 2012.
Global mine production grew by 6% in 2013 due to improved operational performance, browneld expansions at a number of larger mines as well The 2014 market consensus is for an average price of $1,200 oz.
asnew greeneld projects and the impact of limited disruptions.
The surplus that had been expected one year ago in the cathodes market did not Molybdenum materialise, for the reasons explained above.
The molybdenum market continued in surplus during 2013 with new supply Prices were supported by better than expected demand from China, as entering the market and stagnant demand.
Prices continued a downward wellas to a lesser degree from the US and Europe.
The Groups average trend, falling from an average price of $11.8 lb in January to $9.7 lb realised price in 2013 was marginally below the LME price at $3.28 lb, which inDecember.
The average price was $10.3 lb during the year, compared reected net negative provisional pricing adjustments of $126.2 million.
with $12.7 lb in 2012, although for 2014 market consensus is for an average In2012, average realised prices were $3.66 lb reecting a tighter market price of $11.0 lb.
andstrong Chinese consumption that had continued to drive demand.
Market outlook Average LME copper price US dollars per pound In 2014 the general consensus is that the copper market may move into surplus for the first time in five years, although this is highly dependent onthe delivery 400 ofa number of high prole greeneld projects and the level ofproduction 350 disruptions during the year, which during 2013 had been historically low 300 compared to the ten-year average.
250 Demand growth will continue to be focused around Chinese consumption, 200 which now accounts for approximately 45% of global copper demand.
Outside 150 China, Europe and the US remain the other key consumers accounting for 16% 100 and 9% respectively, with demand in these economiesbeing dependent on, 50 among other factors, continued globaleconomic recovery.
0 After Chinese bonded warehouses destocked over the course of 2013, 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 apotential restocking could provide some support to the copper price in2014.
1.30 1.67 3.05 3.23 3.15 3.34 3.42 4.00 3.32 3.32 In the meantime the amount of supply that will come from scrap during the year remains unclear.
The consensus price forecast for 2014 is approximately $3.20 lb, reecting theexpectation that the copper market will move into a surplus at some timeduring the year.
Strategic report 18 Strategic review The Mining lifecycle Creating value The Group has consistently created value for its shareholders as a result of its expertise in the discovery of copper resources and the subsequent development and operation of copper mines.
The organic growth the Group has achieved as a result of its strong mining base and in-house exploration work has allowed full control from Exploration Evaluation the outset over how the projects are developed.
Successful exploration is fundamental Effective evaluation and project design to the long-term future of a mining are key to maximising the potential value Given that much of the potential value of a company.
Over the past five years, the of a mining project.
The Group has Group has signicantly increased the great depth of experience in designing mining project is realised or lost during the mineral resource base of its subsidiaries projects which make best use of complex as a result of its own in-house exploration mineral deposits, using innovative evaluation stage when the optimal nature of the activity.
Generally the Group conducts technical solutions across a wide range its own exploration activities in the areas of environments.
Sustainability is integral project is determined, this control has enabled in which it has the deepest experience, to the evaluation process, and the the Group to select the timing of when the namely Chile and Peru.
For early-stage Group seeks to maximise social and exploration outside of these areas, environmental value through the design projects are developed and to maximise the Group normally works through of its projects.
partnerships with other companies the value created from its mineral deposits.
already established in those locations.
A Governance Investment versus income B Business Development Committee Mining is a long-term business.
Timescales can run in decades.
C Executive Committee The period from initial exploration, through evaluation and construction to the start of production will often be in excess often years.
Then, depending on the nature of the project and market conditions, it can take more than five years of operation to recoup the initial investment.
Therefore, mines usually plan to exploit higher grade areas 35 years 1 2 35 years 3 towards the start of the mine life in order to maximise income from the operation.
As a result, average ore grades often decline over time, with production volumes decreasing along with revenues.
This, however, depends on commodity price levels, which tend to be cyclical.
Long-life and low-cost operations increase the likelihood of being able to benefit from several high points in thecommodity price cycle, while withstanding the troughs.
Exploration projects 1 Twin Metals Major exploration programme Pre-feasibility study to be completed in 2014 throughout Chile Mineral resource estimate completed Earn-in agreements in North America, More on page 47 Latin America, Europe, Africa and Australia 2 Los Pelambres Project More on page 47 Resources: 5.7 billion tonnes at 0.52% copper by-products More on page 45 3 Centinela Mining District Encuentro Resources: 1.4 billion tonnes at 0.40% copper by-products More on page 46 Investment Income Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 19 Strategy The strategy for growing the Groups mining business is basedaroundthree pillars: Page 20 1 The existing core business Construction Operation 2 Organic and Constructing a mine requires a high The Groups operations are focused sustainable growth level of up-front capital investment.
on its core, up-stream mining activities, of the core business Effective management of the costs, typically competitive cost, long-life mines.
timing and efficiency of construction is Initial mine plans often change over the needed to maximise a projects return course of a mines life through improved 3 on investment.
processes, browneld expansions or the incorporation of additional reserves, Growth beyond which can add significant extra value the core business overthe long term.
4 35 years 5 6 7 20 years 8 4 5 6 7 8 Antucoya Esperanza Los Pelambres El Tesoro Michilla First expected production: 2015 Start of operation: 2011 Start of operation: 2000 Start of operation: 2001 Start of operation: 1959 Average annual production: 85,000 tonnes End of mine life: 2059 End of mine life: 2037 End of mine life: 2022 End of mine life: 2015 Construction progress: 32% Years of operation: 3 49 Years of operation: 14 38 Years of operation: 13 22 Years of operation: 55 57 as at 31 December 2013 2014E copper production: 2014E copper production: 2014E copper production: 2014E copper production: More on page 45 170,000 tonnes 390,000 tonnes 95,000 tonnes 45,000 tonnes More on page 38 More on page 36 More on page 40 More on page 42 A B C The Antofagasta plc Board is responsible for The Business Development Committee At an operational level, the Executive thelong-term success of the Group, for its focuseson the mining divisions growth Committeeapproves capital expenditures leadership and strategic direction, and for opportunities reviewing potential bythemining operations and monitors oversight of the Groups performance, its risks transactionsand project expenditure.
and internal controls and strategy for managing material issues.
Strategic report 20 Strategic review A Chilean-based mining The existing core business 1 company focused on copper and related by-products, which delivers value to Current strategic focus: deliver ecient and competitive performance at all the Groups shareholders and is recognised operations through improvements in safety, production and costs.
as a preferred partner in the international mining space.
Actions in 2013 t 5SBHJDBMMZ UIF SPVQ IBE UXP GBUBMJUJFT JO BOE POF 1 in March 2014.
Following each incident the Group has, The existing based on the circumstances of the particular incident, core business dened steps to ensure such fatalities do not occur again.
An integrated safety and occupational health plan has been implemented and is regularly reviewed, and updated when required.
2 t 3FDPSE BOOVBM DPQQFS QSPEVDUJPO PG UPOOFT Organic and sustainable growth of copper: an increase of 2.5% compared with 2012. of the core business t SPVQ OFU DBTI DPTUT GPS UIF GVMM ZFBS PG MC better than expected for the year.
"3 Growth beyond the core business Objectives for 2014 t :FSP GBUBMJUJFT 1 The first pillar of the strategy for the mining business t ""DIJFWF QSPEVDUJPO PG UPOOFT BOE LFFQ isto optimise and enhance its existing core business the Los Pelambres, Esperanza, El Tesoro, Michilla pre-credit cash costs in line with 2013 pre-credit andAntucoya mines."
2 The second pillar of the strategy is to achieve t. BJOUBJO BOE JNQSPWF UIF SPVQ T DPNQFUJUJWF sustainable, organic growth from further developing position by using innovative initiatives, employing the areas around the existing asset base in Chile.
best practice and process optimisation.
An example 3 The third pillar of the strategy is to look for growth of this is the new Corporate Supply Strategy, which beyond the areas of the Groups existing operations is discussed in greater detail in the Key inputs section.
both in Chile and internationally.
The primary focus ison the potential early-stage developments.
Pages 36 to 43 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 21 Organic and sustainable Growth beyond the 2 3 growth of the core business core business Current strategic focus: develop a portfolio of Current strategic focus: working actively on attractive growth opportunities surrounding the growth of the Groups mining base and the Groups core assets and prioritised by the development of growth opportunities.
strategic relevance and the implementation capacities of the Group.
"Actions and achievements in 2013 Actions and achievements in 2013 t $PNQMFUJPO PGPT 1FMBNCSFT SPXUI 1SPKFDU t $POTUSVDUJPO PG UIF ""OUVDPZB QSPKFDU SFTUBSUFE pre-feasibility study."
and progressing on time and on budget.
t $PNQMFUJPO PG &ODVFOUSP 0YJEFT QSPKFDU t $POUJOVFE FYQMPSBUJPO BDUJWJUJFT JO $IJMF XJUI B pre-feasibility study.
increase in Resource Inventory achieved during the year.
Continued progress in existing exploration t %FWFMPQNFOU PG B OFX BQQSPBDI UP NBYJNJTF agreements and new international agreements signed.
the value of the Centinela Mining District.
FUBMT QSF GFBTJCJMJUZ study, including completion of an evaluation of the optimal metallurgical process for the project.
t 4FDVSJOH QPXFSTVQQMZ BU MPOH UFSN QSJDFT UISPVHI the agreement with AES Gener for participation in the Alto Maipo hydroelectric project.
Objectives for 2014 Objectives for 2014 t $PNQMFUFPT 1FMBNCSFT.
"BSHJOBM &YQBOTJPO t ""EWBODF ""OUVDPZB QSPKFDU PO UJNF BOE PO CVEHFU feasibility study and advance the environmental t $POUJOVF OBUJPOBM BOE JOUFSOBUJPOBM FYQMPSBUJPO permit for the project."
with a strong focus on the Centinela Mining District, t $PNQMFUF &ODVFOUSP 0YJEFT GFBTJCJMJUZ TUVEZ as well as grassroots exploration elsewhere in Chile and start early works at the project.
JOJOH %JTUSJDU QSPKFDU pre-feasibility study and advance the environmental permit for the project.
Pages 44 to 47 Pages 44 to 47 Strategic report 22 Strategic review The Group uses KPIs to assess performance in terms of meeting its strategic and operational objectives.
Performance is measured against the following financial, operational and sustainability objectives: Financial KPIs Revenue EBITDA Earnings per share An analysis of Financial KPIs is includedwithin the Financial $5,971.6m $2,702.2m 66.9 cents review onpages 64 to 71.
principally from the sale of copper as well Performance in 2013: EBITDA Performance in 2013: EPS was as the molybdenum, silver and gold decreased 30.1% as a result of higher impacted by lower profitability as costs by-product credits.
mining unit costs across the operations rose and realised prices declined and the Performance in 2013: Revenue fell and lower realised prices.
increase in withholding tax related to the 11.4% principally due to a 10.6% fall in 2013 final dividend.
realised copper price, marginally offset byhigher production at Esperanza.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 23 Operational KPIs 1 2 Copper production Net cash costs Mineral resources An analysis of the Groups copper production isincluded 721,200 tonnes $1.36 lb 16.2bn tonnes within the review of each 721.2 1.36 16.2 709.6 operation in the Operational 15.2 review onpages 36 to 43 and 640.5 13.7 13.4 within the Financial review on 1.04 1.02 1.03 521.1 0.96 pages 66 and 67.
442.5 An analysis of the Groups 9.2 cash costs isincluded within thereview of each operation in the Operational review on pages 36 to 43 and within the Financial review on page67.
Mineral resources a review of the Groups exploration 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 activities is set out in the Operational review on pages Why it is important: Copper is the Why it is important: A key indicator of Why it is important: Growth to Groups main product and its production operational efficiency andprotability.
theGroups mineral resources base 44to 47, and the ore reserves is a key operational parameter.
hassupported its strong organic and mineral resources estimates, Performance in 2013: Net cash costs growthpipeline.
Performance in 2013: Copper rose 32.0% primarily due to lower byalong with supporting production increased 1.6% primarily due product credits as gold and molybdenum Performance in 2013: The mineral explanations, are set out to increase in production at Esperanza.
prices fell during the year and increased resource base grew by 6.6%, mainly onpages 168 to 176. costs atLos Pelambres and Esperanza.
reecting the incorporation of additionalresources at Polo Sur andPenancho Blanco.
Sustainability KPIs 4 5 Lost time injury Water consumption Carbon emissions Further information on health 3 3 and safety, water consumption frequency rate LTIFR 2.1 millions of m 44.6 tonnes of CO2 copper 3.09 and carbon emissionsis provided Continental water 3.2 3.09 in the Sustainability section Sea water 2.92 45.8 2.76 onpages 50 to 65.
2.8 44.6 2.6 38.5 2.16 44% 2.1 2.01 45% 1.9 41% 24.0 20.4 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 Why it is important: Safety is a key Why it is important: Weacknowledge Why it is important: The Group priority for the Group with the LTIFR being water as a precious resource and are recognises the risks and opportunities of one of the principal measures of safety focused on maximising the efficient use of climate change and the need to measure performance.
water and utilising themost sustainable and mitigate its greenhouse gas GHG 1 sources as we growproduction.
The Group is investing in Cash costs are an industry measure of the Performance in 2013: The LTIFR of the renewable energy projects to address cost of production.
mining division in 2013 was 2.1 accidents Performance in 2013: Although copper 2 Mineral resources relating to the Groups rising energy costs and as part of its with lost time per million hours worked, the production increased, water consumption subsidiaries.
approach to mitigate climate change.
Itis decreased due to the mining divisions The lost time injury frequency rate is the regrettable to report two fatalities in 2013 focus on improving water efficiency.
Performance in 2013: The Group has number of accidents with lost time during theyear per million hours worked.
and one inMarch 2014 and this isnot improved the quality of information to 4 Water consumption relates to the mining acceptable.
TheGroup continues totarget verication standards.
5 Total CO2 emissions per tonne of copper produced.
Data relates to the mining divisiononly.
Strategic report 24 Strategic review Eective risk management is an essential element of the Groups operations and strategy.
The accurate and timely identication, assessment and management of risks are key to the operational and financial success of the Group.
Risk management framework The Groups risk management framework can be divided into three tiers: Governance Ensuring that the Groups vision, strategy and objectives are communicated throughout the organisation, and that appropriate governance structures and policies and procedures are in place toembed those key aims and objectives.
GOVERNANCE Risk management Ensuring that there are appropriate structures and processes in place RISK toidentify and evaluate risks, and that appropriate controls and mitigating MANAGEMENT actions are developed to address those risks.
Ensuring that details of thekey risks, and the performance in managing those risks, are reported on a timely basis to the relevant individuals.
Compliance Ensuring that the Groups internal policies and procedures and control activities, as well as all relevant external laws and regulations, are COMPLIANCE adhered to.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 25 The Board has ultimate responsibility for determining the nature and extent BOARD ofthe significant risks that the Group is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives, and for maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems.
The Directors receive a detailed analysis of the key matters for AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE consideration in advance of the Board meetings.
They also receive regular reports which include analysis of key metrics in respect of operational performance, including health and safety, financial, environmental, legal and RISK MANAGEMENT FUNCTION social performance, as well as key developments in the Groups exploration Provide guidelines, standards and best practice examples of risk and business development activities, information on the commodity management to the organisation markets, the Groups talent management activities and analysis of the Overall responsibility for risk management activities Groups financial investments.
This facilitates the timely identication Maintenance of risk register ofpotential key issues andany necessary mitigating actions.
Oversight of risk workshops to update risk register The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board with its review of the Oversight of operations risk registers effectiveness of the risk management process and monitoring of key risks Review of effectiveness of mitigating actions andmitigations.
The Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee reports tothe Support internal stakeholders in key strategic decisions Board following each committee meeting, allowing the Board to understand, Co-ordination with Internal Audit function and if necessary, further discuss the matters considered in detail by the Committee.
These processes allow the Board to monitor the Groups major The Group has developed a Crime Prevention Model in accordance with risks and related mitigations, and assess the acceptability of the level of risks anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws in the United Kingdom and in Chile.
which arise from the Groups operations and development activities.
The Chief Financial officer is responsible for setting, operating and The Groups Ethics Code sets out the Groups commitment to undertake monitoring the Crime Prevention Model.
business inaresponsible and transparent manner.
The Code demands As part of the Crime Prevention Model the following activities were honesty, integrity and responsibility from all employees and contractors, undertaken during the year: andincludes guidelines to identify and manage potential conicts of training of all employees on anti-corruption and antitrust matters interest.
AnEthics Committee, comprising members of senior executive investigation of whistleblowing complaints management, is responsible for implementing, developing and updating theEthics Code andmonitoring compliance with the Code.
During 2013 due diligence activities were performed on all business partners.
theEthics Code andother compliance matters formed an integral part ofthetraining programme for newemployees.
Areas of focus during 2013 Risk and Compliance management function and development of key risks There is a central risk management function that has overall responsibility for risk management activities across the Group.
The riskmanagement function During 2013 the focus was on implementing better risk management maintains the Groups risk register, which includes the strategic risks that processes, including the following measures: cover the most significant threats to the Groups performance and the enhanced the design and development of critical controls to increase achievement of its strategy, along with mitigation activities.
The risk register their effectiveness is updated on a continuous basis and strategic risk workshops are held at development of a Disaster Recovery Plan DRP and Business least once a year in which senior management from across the business ContinuityPlan BCP perform a comprehensive review of the Groups key strategic risks and increased the number of Risk Champions in order to roll-out risk related mitigation activities.
The risk management function reports to the management processes and track Risk Management across the Group Audit and Risk Committee at least quarterly, reporting on the overall risk management process, including a detailed status of the Groups key risks, updated the Risk Management Methodology and incorporated new mitigations and key actions.
areas eg specic risk chapter for new contracts The General Managers of each of the operations have overall responsibility for included compliance matters in the Groups training programme leading and supporting risk management within their business.
There are Risk implemented the Antitrust Protocol Champions within each operation who have direct responsibility for the risk extended Due Diligence and the Conict of Interest Declaration process management processes in their business and for the continuous update of the to associated companies and people individual business risk registers, which include relevant mitigation activities.
received certication for the second consecutive year of the Crime Finally, at each business unit, the owner of risks and controls provide a more Prevention Model under Chilean law.
effective and direct management of the risks.
As part of the processes, risk workshops for each operation are held at least annually, in which the business units risks and corresponding mitigation activities are reviewed in detail to Further information allow a thorough updating of these business risks.
These workshops are used to assess and monitor the key risks that may impact each of the business Further information about the Groups risk management systems are units relationships with its stakeholders, limit its resources, interrupt its givenin the Corporate governance report on pages 85 to 88 and in the operations and or negatively affect its potential future growth.
The mitigating Sustainability report on pages 50 to 63.
Further detailed disclosure in activities in relation to the most significant strategic and business unit risks respect ofnancial risks relevant to the Group are set out in Note 24 arereviewed by the risk management function at least annually.
The Board regularly reviews the compliance of the Group with all relevant external laws and regulations, and internal policies, procedures and controlactivities.
Strategic report 26 Strategic review Risk management Principal risks and uncertainties Set out below are the Groups principal risks and related mitigations.
Risk Mitigation The Group engages with its local communities, to establish relations based on trust and mutual benefit Community relations throughout the mining lifecycle, from exploration to closure.
The Group rstly seeks to identify and minimise any Failure to identify and manage local concerns and potentially negative operational impacts and risks through responsible behaviour acting transparently and expectations can have a negative impact on relations ethically, prioritising the health and safety of its workers, promoting dialogue and complying with commitments withlocal communities and therefore affect the Groups to stakeholders and establishing mechanisms to prevent or address a crisis.
These steps are undertaken in the reputation and social licence to operate and grow.
early stages of each of the projects in line with the requirement of the Groups project development process and the environmental permitting process.
The Group also contributes to the local development of the communities in the areas of influence in which it operates, in particular through human capital development education, training and employment of the local population.
The Group endeavours to ensure clear and transparent communication with local communities, including through the use of a grievance management process, local perception surveys, local media and community meetings.
Details of the Groups community relations activities are included in the Sustainability section on pages 58and 59.
Contingency plans are in place to address potential short-term disruptions to strategic resources.
The Group Strategic resources enters into medium and long-term supply contracts for a range of key inputs to help ensure continuity of supply.
Disruption to the supply of any of the Groups key Certain key supplies are purchased from several sources, when nancially rational, to mitigate potential supply strategicinputs such as electricity, water, fuel, sulphuric disruption arising from excessive exposure to any one supplier.
Technological solutions, such as increased use acidandmining equipment could have a negative impact of sea water in the Groups mining processes, can help address long-term shortages of scarce resources such onproduction volumes.
Longer-term restrictions on key as fresh water.
strategic resources such as water and electricity could Information on the Groups arrangements for the supply of key inputs are included within the Key inputs impact opportunities for the growth of the Group.
section on pages 28 and 29, and details of significant operational or cost factors related to key inputs are Asignicant portion of the Groups input costs are included within the Operational review on pages 32 to 49. inuencedby external market factors.
The key operational risks relating to each operation are identied as part of the regular risk review process Operational risks undertaken by the individual operations.
This process also identies appropriate mitigation for each of these Mining operations are subject to a number of circumstances specic operational risks.
Monthly reports for the Board provide a variance analysis of operational and financial not wholly within the Groups control, including damage to performance, allowing potential key issues to be identied in a timely manner and any necessary actions, orbreakdown of equipment or infrastructure, unexpected monitoring or control activities to be established.
Also, during 2013, the Group developed a Business Continuity geological variations or technical issues, extreme weather Plan BCP for all key processes within its operations.
It is expected that this BCP will be implemented by the conditions and natural disasters, which could adversely end of 2014 and that this will help to mitigate the consequences of an event that may lead to disruption of the affect production volumes and costs.
The Group has appropriate insurance to provide protection from some, but not all, of the costs thatmay arise from such events.
Details of the operational performance of each of the Groups operations are included within the Operational review on pages 32 to 49.
The Group has a project management system consisting of standards, manuals and procedures that contain Development projects the best practices which are applicable and enforceable in all phases of a project.
The project management A failure to effectively manage the Groups development system supports the decision-making process by taking the approach of balancing risk versus benefit, thereby projects could result in delays in the commencement of increasing the likelihood of success and providing a common dening language and standards for all stages production and cost overruns.
Additionally, during the project cycle when going from one phase to another there are quality equipment and skilled personnel could affect capital and checks for each of the standards that are applied by a panel of experts from within the Group.
Increasing regulatory and environmental reviews the feasibility process in order to assess the technical and commercial viability of the project.
Detailed approvals and litigation could result in delays in construction progress reports on the ongoing development projects are regularly reviewed, including assessments of the or increases in project costs.
progress against the key project milestones, as well as actual performance against budget.
Details of the progress of the Groups development projects are included within the Operational review onpages 44 to 47.
The Group assesses political risk as part of its evaluation of potential projects, including the nature of any foreign Political, legal and regulatory risks investment agreements.
Political, legal and regulatory developments affecting the Groups operations and The Group may be affected by political instability and projects are monitored closely on a continuous basis.
The Group operates in full compliance with the existing regulatory developments in the countries in which it is legal framework, licences, permits and rights in each country where its operations are.
operating, pursuing development projects or conducting Details of any significant political, legal or regulatory developments impacting the Groups operations are exploration activities.
Issues regarding the granting of included within the Operational review on pages 32 to 49. permitsor the withdrawal or variation of permits already granted, and changes to the legal environment, regulations or taxation could adversely affect the Groups operations anddevelopment projects.
Health and Safety risk management procedures are being strengthened, with particular focus on fatalities.
Health and safety Thecorporate Health and Safety area was established to provide a common strategy to the Groups operations Health and safety incidents could result in harm to the and to co-ordinate Health and Safety matters.
The Group is reinforcing the application of the significant Incident Groups employees, contractors or to local communities.
Report without energy exchange system as an important part of the Groups overall approach to safety.
Ensuring their safety and wellbeing is first and foremost an TheGroups goal is for zero fatalities and to minimise the number of accidents.
This goal requires all contractors ethical obligation for the Group and is stated in the charter.
to comply with the Groups Occupational Health and Safety Plan, which is monitored through monthly audits Poor safety records or serious accidents could have a supported byregular training and awareness campaigns for employees and contractors.
The Plan is also serious impact on the Groups production and reputation.
beingextended to workers families and local communities, particularly in regard to issues of road safety.
Further information about the Groups activities in respect of health and safety is set out in the Sustainability section on page 54.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 27 Risk Mitigation The Group has a comprehensive approach to incident prevention.
Relevant risks have been mapped and are Environmental management monitored and controlled.
The Groups approach includes raising awareness among employees and providing An operational incident which impacts the environment training to promote operational excellence.
Potential environmental impacts are key considerations when couldaffect the Groups relationship with local stakeholders assessing projects, including the integration of innovative technology in the project design where it can help and the Groups reputation and ultimately undermine its tomitigate those effects.
The Group has pioneered the use of sea water for mining operations in Chile and social licence to operate and to grow.
The Group operates strives to ensure maximum efficiency in water use, achieving high rates of reuse and recovery.
inchallenging environments, including the Atacama desert Further information in respect of the Groups environmental activities is set out in the Sustainability section where water scarcity is a key issue.
The Group assesses a wide range of potential growth opportunities, both from its internal portfolio and Growth opportunities .
A rigorous assessment process is followed to evaluate all potential business acquisitions.
The Group may fail to identify attractive acquisition TheBusiness Development Committee reviews potential growth opportunities, including internal projects opportunities, or may select inappropriate targets.
andpotential transactions, and approves transactions and project expenditures within designated authority Thelong-term commodity price forecasts used when levels.
For transactions in excess of these levels the Committee makes a recommendation to the Board.
assessing potential projects and other investment TheCommittee also monitors all ongoing projects.
opportunities are likely to have a significant influence Details of the Groups growth opportunities are set out in the Operational review on pages 44 to 47. ontheforecast return on investment.
The Group considers exposure to commodity price uctuations within reasonable boundaries to be an integral Commodity prices part of the Groups business and its usual policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices.
The Group The Groups results are heavily dependent on commodity monitors the commodity markets closely to determine the effect of price uctuations on earnings, capital prices principally copper and to a lesser extent gold and expenditures and cash ows.
From time to time, the Group uses derivative instruments to manage its exposure molybdenum.
The prices of these commodities are strongly to commodity price uctuations where appropriate.
The Group has established a plan to address lower influenced by a variety of factors, including world economic commodity price environments which contain different scenarios.
growth, inventory balances, industry demand and The sensitivity of Group earnings to movements in commodity prices is set out in the Financial review possiblesubstitution.
Details of hedging arrangements put in place by the Group are included in Note 24 to the nancialstatements.
The Group maintains an active and focused currency hedging programme to reduce short-term exposure to Foreign currency exchange uctuations in the US dollar against the Chilean peso.
The Group continuously monitors the macroeconomic The Groups sales are mainly denominated in US dollars and variables that affect it, particularly exchange rate movements.
some of the Groups operating costs are in Chilean pesos.
Details of the Groups currency hedging arrangements are shown in Note 24 to the financial statements.
The strengthening of the Chilean peso may negatively affect the Groups financial results.
The Group conducts exploration programmes both in Chile and elsewhere.
The Group has entered into Identication of new mineral resources early-stage exploration agreements and strategic alliances with third parties in a number of countries and has The Group needs to identify new mineral resources in order also acquired equity interests in companies with known geological potential.
The Group focuses its exploration to ensure continued future growth.
The Group seeks to activities in stable and secure countries to reduce country risk exposure.
identify new mineral resources through exploration and A review of the Groups exploration activities is set out in the Operational review on pages 44 to 47. acquisition.
There is a risk that exploration activities may notidentify sufficient viable mineral resources.
The Groups reserves and resources estimates are updated annually to reect material extracted during the Ore reserves and mineral resources estimates year, the results of drilling programmes and any revised assumptions.
The Group follows the JORC code in The Groups ore reserves and mineral resources estimates reporting its ore reserves and mineral resources, which requires that the reserves and resources estimates are are subject to a number of assumptions and estimates, based on work undertaken by a Competent Person, as dened by the code.
In addition, the Groups reserves including geological, metallurgical and technical factors, and resources estimates are subject to a comprehensive programme of internal and external audits.
future commodity prices and production costs.
Fluctuations The ore reserves and mineral resources estimates, along with supporting explanations, are set out on pages in these variables may result in some reserves or resources 168 to 176. being deemed uneconomic, which could lead to a reduction in reserves or resources.
The Group develops skills through training and development, invests in initiatives to widen the talent pool and Talent and labour relations focuses on maintaining good relationships with workers, unions and contractors.
Protecting the health and The Groups highly skilled workforce and experienced safety of workers is a fundamental priority.
The Groups performance management system is designed to management team is critical to maintaining its current provide reward and remuneration structures and personal development opportunities appropriate to attract operations, implementing its development projects and andretain key employees.
The Group has in place a talent management system to identify and develop internal achieving longer-term growth.
The loss of key individuals candidates for critical management positions, as well as processes to identify sustainable external candidates, andthe failure to recruit appropriate staff may have where appropriate.
There are long-term labour contracts in place at each of the Groups mining operations, anegative impact on the performance of the existing which help to ensure labour stability.
The Group seeks to identify and address labour issues which may arise operations and the growth of the Group.
Labour disputes throughout the period covered by existing long-term labour agreements.
Contractors employees are an could result in disruption to operations.
important part of the Groups workforce and under Chilean law are subject to the same duties and responsibilities as the Groups own employees.
The Groups approach is to treat contractors as strategic associates and its goal is to build long-term mutually beneficial relationships with its contractors.
The Group maintains constructive relationships with its workers, and the six labour unions that represent them, through regular communication and consultation.
Labour representatives are involved in discussions about the future ofthe workforce as early as possible.
Details of the Groups relations with its employees and contractors are set out within the Sustainability section on page 56 and within the Operational review on pages 32 to 49.
Strategic report 28 Strategic review The Groups mining operations are dependent on a range of key inputs, Chilean central and northern such as energy, water, labour and fuel.
In the case of copper concentrate grid spot energy prices $ MWh producers such as Los Pelambres and Esperanza, steel balls used in the milling process are also a significant input cost.
With cathode producers 300 using the SX-EW process, such as El Tesoro, Michilla and from next year 250 Antucoya, sulphuric acid is a key input.
The availability and cost of these, 2013 Avg:$149 and other inputs, lies at the heart of the Groups cost management strategy, 2012 Avg:$188 200 which focuses on cost control and security of supply.
150 The Groups two largest operations, Los Pelambres and Esperanza, are competitively positioned on the copper industry cost curve, reecting a 100 combination of their low operating costs and their significant molybdenum 2012 Avg:$86 2013 Avg:$80 and gold by-product credits.
The Groups net cash costs sit in the second 50 quartile of the cost curve and are well placed among its competitors.
0 Thecash cost before by-product credits guidance for 2014 is $1.80 lb, 2011-12 2012-06 2012-12 2013-06 2013-12 inlinewith 2013, despite a fall in average grades.
The initiatives implemented Northern grid SING Central grid SIC by the Groups procurement department, which are explained below, are Source: SIC and SING.
key in achieving the cost reductions required to keep unit costs steady despite the decline in grade.
Energy There are two electricity grids in Chile from which the Group takes its energy requirements the northern grid SING which supplies the Esperanza, ElTesoro and Michilla mines, and the central grid SIC which supplies The percentage of power at LosPelambres.
In the SIC approximately 40% of the energy is provided Los Pelambres coming from byhydroelectric plants with the remainder being provided by coal, LNG and sustainable sources by the diesel-fuelled plants, whereas in the SING approximately 80% of the energy end of 2018. comes from coal-red power stations, with the remainder being provided byLNG and diesel powered plants.
Due to its reliance on hydroelectric power generation, the costs of energy on the SIC uctuate depending onthelevel of precipitation.
The Group procures its electricity supply through medium and long-term contracts at each of its mines.
The cost of electricity under these contracts is, in most cases, linked to either the current cost of electricity on the Chilean grids or the costs of generation of the particular supplier, with the latter subject to adjustments for ination and generation fuel input prices.
Following completion of a favourable xed price contract in 2012, Los Pelambres has been exposed to the spot price, facing an energy market Sulphuric Acid with scarce availability of short-term Power Purchase Agreements PPAs indexed to more stable commodity prices such as coal or LNG.
To improve $ tonne the mines security of supply Los Pelambres has made an investment in one 160 of the largest wind power plants being built in Chile, El Arrayn, which will provide approximately 20% of Los Pelambres energy requirements from 140 mid-2014 for a period of 20 years.
During 2013, the Group also invested in 120 2012 Avg:$130 2013 Avg:$93 Alto Maipo, a major 530MW run-of-river hydroelectric project currently under 100 construction to the south-east of Santiago.
As part of this investment, two 80 20-year PPAs were signed commencing from 2015 and 2018, which will 60 provide the remaining current energy requirements for Los Pelambres at competitive and stable prices.
40 Currently all of the Groups operations located on the SING benefit from 20 long-term contracts indexed to the price of coal.
During 2013, the Group 0 also secured a competitive long-term PPA that will secure the energy 2011-12 2012-06 2012-12 2013-06 2013-12 provision for the Antucoya project once it commences operation in 2015.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 29 Water Service contracts and key supplies The Group has a secured water supply for each of its operations with The Group has over 1,000 contracts for services and supplies.
Key supplies thenecessary permits in place to use surface water as well as water from and services such as tyres, grinding equipment, chemicals, explosives, nearby wells.
As water is a precious commodity in the regions where the camp administration and maintenance services are covered by long-term mines operate, considerable effort is made to maximise the amount of agreements.
Although the contracts are normally between the operation waterthat is recycled.
andthe supplier, the tender and negotiation processes are mostly led centrally by the Groups procurement department in order to maximise The Group has also been a pioneer in the use of untreated sea water for thebenets of economies of scale and better risk control.
mining operations in Chile, with both its Esperanza and Michilla mines using this process.
In 2013, sea water accounted for 45% of total water use and Price ination of key mining supplies has been a challenge to the Chilean from 2015, Antucoya will also use sea water, pumping water from mining sector in recent years.
The Group is currently accessing and Esperanzas existing pipeline.
developing a wider strategy to reduce operating costs through a more integrated and centralised supply chain model that will allow the Group For new greeneld projects in Chile, the Group believes that the use of tonegotiate collectively, increasing its buying power and benefiting the surface and well water will generally no longer be feasible and therefore operations.
In addition the Group has entered into agreements with agreater use of sea water is expected.
experienced local partners in China to increase procurement of equipment and other supplies from China.
Labour Security of the supply of labour is key to the success of the Groups Fuel operations.
Labour agreements with unions are in place at all of the Groups The main use of fuel at the operations is for the trucks used to transport ore mining operations, generally covering periods of between three to four years.
and waste at the mine sites.
Improving fuel efficiency is a strategic priority for Threeof the four operating mines have labour agreements that terminate the Group with the number of litres of fuel consumed per tonne of material during 2014.
There has never been a strike at a Group company and it is extracted being a key performance measure for the operations.
Fuel is expected that new agreements will be agreed during the year, securing the supplied by Chiles two largest suppliers to avoid sole supplier risk.
terms of employment for all employees for another two to four years, the minimum and maximum allowed under Chilean law.
Exchange rate Contractors are a significant part of the Groups workforce at all of the operations, totalling approximately 75% of the total workforce.
During 2014 The Groups costs are also impacted by the Chilean peso to US dollar areview will be conducted of the split of the activities undertaken by the exchange rate, ason average across the Groups mining operations contractors and employees with a view to reducing the contractor approximately 40% of operating costs are denominated in Chilean pesos.
Labour negotiations for the contractors workforce are the However, the economic exposure to uctuations in the exchange rate is responsibility of the contractor.
The Group focuses on maintaining strong partly mitigated by a natural hedge, as the copper industry is a major labour relations with all contractors as this ensures operational continuity.
component of the Chilean economy, and movements in the copper price and Chilean peso tend to be correlated.
However, the Chilean peso Sulphuric acid remained strong during the year, despite the weakening in the copper price, averaging Ch$495 $1, compared to an average rate of Ch$487 $1 in 2012.
The Group normally contracts for the majority of its sulphuric acid requirements in term contracts of a year or longer at specified rates.
Inmostcases contractual prices will be agreed in the latter part of the Exchange rate year, to be applied to the purchases of acid for the following year.
CLP USD The sulphuric acid market has softened in recent years primarily due to the weaker fundamentals in the phosphates fertiliser sector and the subsequent 430.00 impact on sulphur and acid prices.
More recently, there has been an 450.00 increase in sulphur prices which may result in higher acid prices, although 2012 Avg:489 this will have a limited impact on the Groups 2014 costs as the prices for 470.00 2013 Avg:495 these contracts have already been set.
Strategic report 30 Strategic review The structure of the Groups contracts The Group recognises that The Groups contracts will typically set out the annual volumes to be supplied and the main terms for the sale of each payable metal, it cannot run its business in with the pricing of the contained copper in line with London Metal Exchange LME prices.
A deduction is made from LME prices in isolation.
Therefore, strategy the case of concentrate, to reect treatment and rening charges TC RCs the smelting and rening costs necessary to process is underpinned by a series of the concentrate into copper cathodes.
These TC RCs have typically been determined annually and are normally in line with terms relationships with stakeholders negotiated across the concentrate market.
A significant proportion of the Groups copper cathode sales are at local, national and made under annual contracts and are priced in line with LME prices.
In copper cathode transactions, a premium or in some cases a international level, which discount over the LME price is negotiated to reect the differences inquality, logistics and nancing that can be agreed compared with contribute to the long-term the metal exchanges standard copper contract specications.
Similarly, the Groups molybdenum contracts are made under longsuccess of the business.
term framework agreements with pricing usually based on Platts average prices.
Customers Across the industry neither copper producers nor consumers Most of the copper and molybdenum sales are made under annual typically make annual commitments for 100% of their respective contracts or longer-term framework agreements, with sales volumes production or needs and therefore producers normally retain a agreedfor the coming year.
portion to be sold on the spot market throughout the calendar year.
The majority of sales are with industrial customers who rene or further The prices realised by the Group during a specic period will differ process the copper smelters in the case of copper concentrate production from the average market price for that period because, in line with and copper fabricators in the case of cathode production.
The Groups in-house marketing team seeks to build long-term relationships with these industry practice, sales agreements generally provide for provisional core industrial customers.
pricing at the time of shipment with final pricing based on the average market price for the month in which settlement takes place.
Approximately 75% of Group sales are made to customers located in Asia.
The metals sales pricing is generally based on prevailing market prices.
For copper concentrate the period for which sales remain open until settlement occurs is, on average, three to four months from the shipment date, compared to copper cathode sales which remain open for an average of one month from shipment.
Molybdenum sales remain open on average for two or three months from shipment and settlement for the gold and silver content in copper concentrate sales occurs approximately one month Group sales made to from shipment.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 31 Employees felt their key strengths were autonomy, commitment, sense of belonging, structure and forward-thinking.
Suppliers Contractors The number of contractors working for Antofagasta varies considerably Suppliers play a critical role in the Groups ability to operate, supplying according to business need and the current level of construction activity.
alarge range of products from sulphuric acid to tyres for the trucks.
Moreinformation on what the Group considers its key inputs is included As at 31 December 2013, there were approximately 15,000 contractors onpages 28 and 29. working at the Groups operations and projects, approximately 4,000 higher than the same time last year, principally due to the Antucoya construction.
The Group has a significant number of suppliers across its operations and Contractors are vitally important to mining operations and the aim is to build alot of effort is put into maintaining strong working relationships with them.
The Group has an open door policy which encourages suppliers to raise long-term relationships with contractor companies based on high standards.
They are audited regularly to ensure compliance Health and safety targets are included in their performance contracts and with the law and company standards.
their compliance with safety, human rights and labour standards is assessed by internal and external audits.
Employees The minimum wage that Antofagasta Minerals sets for contractor employees is 70% higher than that set by Chilean law, and contractor staff have access The Group directly employs approximately 5,000 people, who work to the same facilities as the Groups own employees at the mining camps.
alongside approximately 15,000 contractors at its operations and projects.
Mining is an inherently risky activity.
Ensuring the health and safety of every Local communities worker is an absolute priority: first and foremost, it is an ethical obligation forthe Group.
It is crucial to have strong relationships built on trust with local Skilled workers remain in short supply throughout the mining sector in Chile, communitiesin the areas that the Group operates as it is not possible and the Groups efforts and initiatives brought in over the last few years to toruna mine successfully without the co-operation and agreement with secure and develop talent and bring young professionals into the industry these communities.
have been successful throughout the year.
Having clear social policies and engaging regularly with community Relationships with trade unions based on mutual respect and transparency members helps to manage potential conicts and maintains the Groups help the Group retain workers and avoid labour disputes, contributing to social licence to operate.
Further information on this is included in the theproductivity and efficiency of its business.
Sustainability section on pages 58 and 59.
The Group undertakes an annual Organisational Climate survey to Other local stakeholders understand the level of employees satisfaction.
Based on the results, actionplans are implemented to improve the work environment.
Positive relationships with all local stakeholders near to the Groups Moreinformation on this is provided on page 56. operations and projects are critical to the smooth operation of the businessand its future growth.
All of the Groups operations designate a manager to oversee relationships with external stakeholders such as the local authorities and local media, aswellas others.
Government and public authorities The ratio of employees to contractors across the Group.
Political developments and changes to legislation or regulations can affectbusiness: in Chile, the UK, or other countries where the Group hasdevelopment projects or exploration activities.
New and proposed legislation is monitored to enable the Group to anticipate, mitigate or reduce possible impacts, and to ensure it complies with all legal and regulatory obligations.
The Group works with industry bodies to engage with governments on public policy, laws, regulations andprocedures that impact its business, including on issues such as climate change and energy security.
The Group assesses political risk as part of its evaluation of potential projects, including the nature of foreign investment agreements in place.
Political, legal and regulatory developments affecting the Groups operations and projects are monitored closely.
The Group utilises appropriate internal and external legal expertise to ensure its rights are protected.
Strategic report 32 Operational review Op erational re view Mining division The existing core business 36 Growth projects and opportunities 44 Transport 48 Water 49 The Groups approach to sustainability 50 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 33 MI MIC CH HIL ILL LA A Strategic report 34 Operational review Antofagastas mining The Groups existing operations are  Other mines and projects located in Chile.
In 2013 the Group Towns and cities Plants achieved a record year of production, 8090 Pound Rail supported by strong operational 6575 Pound Rail 5060 Pound Rail performance at all operations.
Other railways National highway ADASA facilities Distribution line for untreated water Distribution line for potable water Tonnes of copper produced in 2013.
Weighted average net cash costs in 2013.
% 100 The Groups mining AN ANT TU UC CO OY YA A operations are entirely focused on up-stream miningactivities.
EL EL L T L TE ESO SOR RO O ES ESPE PERA RA R R NZ NZ NZA A A C CE EN NTIN TINEL ELA A A A MININ MINING G DI DIS ST TR RI IC CT T CH CHI IL L L LE E Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information PRAT BAQUEDANO SOCOMPA TUPIZA TALTA LA PAZ A GUAQUI VIACHA COCHABAMBA ORURO RIO MULATO AMINCHA L UJINA AUGUSTA VICTORIA Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 35 PERU BOLIVIA SUCRE POTOSI UYUNI ATOCHA OLLAGE VILLAZON TOCOPILLA ANTUCOYA CALAMA LAQUIACA MICHILLA EL TESORO MEJILLONES ESPERANZA ANTOFAGASTA ARGENTINA CHNARAL COPIAPO % 1.6 Increase in 2013 Group production versus 2012.
LA SERENA OVALLE COMBARBALA ILLAPEL LOS PELAMBRES LOS VILOS CHILE Strategic report 36 Operational review 1 2 3 The existing core business The first aspect of the Groups strategy is to deliver ecient and competitive performance at all of its operations through improvements in safety, production and costs.
Start of operation: 2000 End of mine life: 2037 Years of operation: 14 38 Position within mining lifecycle Exploration Evaluation Construction Production Los Pelambres 60% owned Los Pelambres exceeded the original production forecast for the year, producing 405,300 tonnes of copper in 2013, marginally ahead of the 403,700 tonnes produced in 2012.
Increased production arose from higher ore grades, which were partly oset by a decrease in average plant throughput.
2013 Production Copper Molybdenum Gold Production Net cash costs tonnes 2012: 403,700 tonnes 2012: 12,200 ounces 2012: 51,500 000 tonnes $ lb 411.8 1.25 405.3 0.4% 26.2 % 10.1% 390.0 384.6 1.16 405,300 9,000 56,700 311.6 0.86 0.79 0.78 2014 Forecast Copper Molybdenum Gold tonnes tonnes ounces 390,000 7,500 55,000 10 11 12 13 14E 10 11 12 13 14E 2013 Financials Net cash costs Operating profit US dollars per pound 2012: $2,292.0m 2012: $0.86 34.9% 28.7 % $1.16 $1,635.3m Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 37 Los Pelambres is a sulphide deposit located in Chiles Coquimbo Legal update El Mauro tailings dam Region, 240 km north-east of Santiago.
It produces copper The El Mauro tailings dam began operating in 2008 and has always complied concentrate containing gold and silver and molybdenum with all applicable laws, regulations and controls.
During 2013, the Supreme concentrate, through a milling and otation process.
Court of Chile ruled that the responsible authorities should install an early warning system and evacuation plan for the dam to ensure the safety of the localpopulation in the case of an earthquake.
Los Pelambres is working with 2013 Performance theauthorities to assist them to full their obligations.
The Supreme Court has not required any changes to the existing operation of the tailings dam or to LosPelambres operations.
Operating profit Los Pelambres has defended a series of unsuccessful legal claims led by Operating profit at Los Pelambres was $1,635.3 million in 2013, compared somemembers of the Los Caimanes community since 2008 relating to the with $2,292.0 million in 2012.
This decrease in profitability can be explained dams operation.
Two of these claims are currently before the Courts in Chile.
by two factors: higher net cash costs and lower realised prices.
Net cash Details of these claims are set out in Note 37 to the financial statements.
costs were affected by higher energy costs and lower by-product, as detailed below.
Lower realised copper prices, which fell to $3.25 lb from $3.67 lb, also impacted operating profit.
Outlook Production Production Copper production was 405,300 tonnes in 2013, which exceeded the original forecast for the year and was marginally ahead of 2012 production The initial forecast for production in 2014 is for approximately 390,000 of403,700 tonnes.
Production was supported by slightly higher ore grades tonnes of payable copper, compared with 405,300 tonnes in 2013.
2.9% higher than in 2012 offset by lower plant throughput, resulting in the Thisdecrease is mainly due to lower expected ore grades, averaging 1,600 tonne increase in production.
The initial forecast for 2014 molybdenum production is for approximately 7,500 tonnes, a decrease Molybdenum production decreased by 26.2% to 9,000 tonnes in 2013 of1,500 tonnes compared with 2013 volumes.
Similarly to copper, this compared with record production of 12,200 tonnes in 2012, mainly due isprimarily due to lower grade.
Gold production is forecast to be 55,000 tomining a lower molybdenum grade phase of the pit.
Gold production ounces, in line with 2013. was10.1% higher in 2013 at 56,700 ounces produced and sold, compared with 51,500 ounces in 2012.
Cash costs Costs Cash costs before by-products for 2014 are forecast to be approximately $1.55 lb, similar to 2013 levels of $1.52 lb, and net cash costs are Cash costs before by-product credits were $1.52 lb in 2013, $0.13 lb higher  $1.25 lb, assuming a molybdenum price of than in 2012.
This 9.4% increase was principally due to the $0.12 lb impact $9.5 lbandagold price of $1,200 oz.
Energy prices remain a key input of higher spot energy prices following the expiration of a favourably priced costforLosPelambres and are largely dependent on the level of energy contract in 2012 and subsequent exposure to higher spot prices.
precipitation intheregion, where much of the power is generated Netcash costs increased 34.9% to $1.16 lb, reecting the impact of higher byhydroelectric schemes.
energy costs and lower by-product credits, as molybdenum production andprices for molybdenum and gold decreased in the year.
To address the energy cost increase at Los Pelambres, the Group hasentered into several new power purchase agreements PPAs.
Total capital expenditure in 2013 was $208.9 million, which included works LosPelambres will start to see the benefit of these in the second half on a new truck shop and El Mauro tailings dam facilities.
Parts of the capital of2014when the El Arrayn wind power plant, in which the Group has expenditure programme were deferred so expenditure was lower than a30% interest, commences operation.
It will provide approximately 20% budgeted.
Capital expenditure is expected to be approximately $240 million ofLos Pelambres energy needs at attractive, long-term prices.
in 2014, reecting some carry-over from the 2013 budget and the feasibility study costs relating to the marginal expansion of Los Pelambres.
During 2013, the Group also acquired a 40% interest in the Alto Maipo Moredetails on this project can be found on page 45. run-of-river hydroelectric project and, as part of this agreement, two further PPAs were signed, securing the balance of Los Pelambres current energy requirements by the end of 2018.
More information on El Arrayn and AltoMaipo are set out in Energy opportunities on page 47.
Strategic report 38 Operational review Mining division: The existing core business 1 2 3 Start of operation: 2011 End of mine life: 2059 Years of operation: 3 49 Position within mining lifecycle Exploration Evaluation Construction Production Esperanza 70% owned Copper production increased by 7.2% to 174,900 tonnes in 2013 compared with 2012, supported by higher plant throughput, which was partly oset by lower mined grades.
2013 Production Copper Gold Production Net cash costs tonnes 2012: 163,200 ounces 2012: 248,400 000 tonnes $ lb 174.9 1.45 1.43 7.2% 4.6 % 170.0 163.2 174,900 237,100 0.83 90.1 2014 Forecast 0.66 Copper Gold tonnes ounces 170,000 215,000 10 11 12 13 14E 10 11 12 13 14E 2013 Financials Net cash costs Operating profit US dollars per pound 2012: $878.3m 2012: $0.66 116.7% 46.0 % $1.43 $474.5m Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 39 Esperanza is a sulphide deposit located in Chiles Antofagasta Outlook Region, 1,350 km north of Santiago.
It produces copper concentrate containing gold and silver through a milling andotation process.
Production The forecast for 2014 is for production of approximately 170,000 tonnes of payable copper and 215,000 ounces of gold.
This forecast is based on an 2013 Performance average plant throughput similar to that achieved in 2013, as work continues on the optimisation and expansion, which will not benefit the operation until 2015.
The mined copper grade is expected to be similar to 2013 at 0.65%.
Operating profit The operating profit at Esperanza in 2013 was $474.5 million, compared with Cash costs $878.3 million in 2012, reecting higher net cash costs and lower realised Cash costs before by-products for 2014 are forecast to be approximately copper prices, partly offset by increased sales volumes as Esperanza lifted $2.25 lb, $0.11 lb lower than in 2013, mainly due to a reduction in mine itsdaily throughput by 7.5% to an average of 87,200 tonnes per day during the movement activities, which were a major cost factor in 2013.
The realised copper price decreased from $3.65 lb in 2012 to $3.22 lb are forecast at approximately $1.45 lb, assuming a gold price of $1,200 oz.
in2013, while the realised gold price also fell from $1,677 oz in 2012 to Esperanzas net cash costs are sensitive to the gold price and production, $1,357 oz in 2013. with each $100 oz movement in the realised gold price having a $0.07 lb impact on net cash costs in 2014.
Production Esperanza continues to evaluate the potential for construction of a separate Esperanza produced 174,900 tonnes of copper in 2013, a 7.2% increase molybdenum plant which would produce approximately 2,000 tonnes compared with 2012, reecting the increase in throughput, marginally offset peryear of molybdenum over the remaining life of the mine.
The project is bylower grades.
Gold production in 2013 was 237,100 ounces compared currently at the feasibility study stage, however, if it is approved, production with248,400 ounces in 2012, following the expected 14.3% drop in the could commence from 2016. goldgrade, partly offset by the higher plant throughput.
Costs Net cash costs rose signicantly to $1.43 lb in 2013, compared with $0.66 lb in 2012, primarily due to higher mining costs associated with entering a new phase of the pit, which required signicantly higher movement of ore, as well as a $0.35 lb drop in by-product credits due to lower gold production and the19.1% fall in realised gold prices.
During 2013 work continued on the optimisation of the operation, including the installation of two additional tailings thickeners.
As an extension of the original project, it was determined that for a minimal additional investment the daily throughput of the operation could be increased by a further 1012,000 tonnes of ore to a daily throughput level of 105,000 tonnes.
This additional amount was approved during the year, further improving the return on the project, which will be completed by the end of 2015.
Capital expenditure in 2013 was $325.3 million, which included approximately $130 million in respect of the optimisation and expansion project mentioned above.
The remaining capital expenditure required for the completion of this project is approximately $300 million, with some $210 million being spent during 2014 and a further $90 million in 2015.
Total capital expenditure in 2014is expected to be approximately $460 million.
Strategic report 40 Operational review Mining division: The existing core business 1 2 3 Start of operation: 2001 End of mine life: 2022 Years of operation: 13 22 Position within mining lifecycle Exploration Evaluation Construction Production El Tesoro 70% owned El Tesoro achieved strong production of 102,600 tonnes in 2013 at its lowest cash cost for four years, following extended mining activities at the high grade Mirador pit.
2013 Production Copper cathode Production Net cash costs tonnes 2012: 105,000 000 tonnes $ lb 105.0 1.72 1.69 1.70 2.3 % 102.6 97.1 95.3 95.0 1.49 102,600 1.36 2014 Forecast Copper cathode tonnes 95,000 10 11 12 13 14E 10 11 12 13 14E 2013 Financials Cash costs Operating profit US dollars per pound 2012: $446.7m 2012: $1.49 8.7 % 17.1 % $1.36 $370.5m Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 41 El Tesoro is a mine located in Chiles Antofagasta Region, Outlook 1,350kmnorth of Santiago, which produces copper cathodes using a solvent-extraction electro-winning process SX-EW.
Itcomprises three open pits Tesoro Central TC, Mirador and Production Tesoro North-East TNE which, along with oxide ore from For 2014, total cathode production is forecast at approximately 95,000 Esperanza, feed aheap-leach operation and a Run-of-Mine tonnes.
Production from the heap-leach operation is expected to be ROM leaching operation.
Mining activities between 2011 and approximately 87,000 tonnes which will comprise of ore from both the 2013 were focused primarily on the Mirador open pit and have now TNEand TC pits.
The Run-of-Mine ROM operation is expected to reverted to Tesoro Central TC and Tesoro North-East TNE.
Ore grades for the heap-leach operation are expected to decrease to an average grade of 1.14% in 2014, versus 1.52% in2013, as mining activities focus on the lower grade pits.
2013 Performance To partly compensate for this fall in grade, El Tesoro will increase throughput.
However, overall production will still decrease.
The steady decline in production is expected to be compensated for by sourcing feed from the Operating profit Encuentro Oxides deposit, which is expected to start production in 2016.
The 2013 operating profit at El Tesoro was $370.5 million, compared to This deposit is located some 15 km south of El Tesoro and will pump the2012 operating profit of $446.7 million.
This decrease was primarily pregnant leach solution to El Tesoros SX-EW plant in order to maintain dueto lower realised prices, which fell from $3.65 lb in 2012 to $3.34 lb production at approximately 100,000 tonnes per year.
Further information in2013 and marginally lower production, partly offset by an 8.7% decrease onthis project is included on page 45. in unit cash costs.
Cash costs Copper cathode production was 102,600 tonnes in 2013 compared with the105,000 tonnes produced in 2012, primarily due to lower copper grades, Cash costs at El Tesoro are forecast to be approximately $1.70 lb in 2014, particularly in the fourth quarter when mining activities concluded at the compared with $1.36 lb during 2013.
This increase is primarily due to mining higher grade Mirador pit and resumed at the lower grade Tesoro North East activities moving to the lower grade and higher cost TNE and TC pits.
TNE and Tesoro Central TC pits.
The average ore grade decreased to1.52% in 2013, compared with 1.72% in 2012.
Throughput at the plant fromthe heap-leach operation averaged 21,300 tonnes per day in 2013, compared with the 2012 throughput of 19,900 tonnes per day.
Despite lower production and grade, cash costs decreased from $1.49 lb in2012 to $1.36 lb in 2013, supported by the lower cost and consumption ofacid and favourable inventory movements.
Capital expenditure in the year was $155.6 million, including approximately $100 million relating to development and stripping costs at the TNE and TC pits, which resumed mining activities in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Capital expenditure is expected to drop to approximately $90 million in 2014 following completion of development work at the TNE and TC pits in 2013.
Strategic report 42 Operational review Mining division: The existing core business 1 2 3 Start of operation: 1959 End of mine life: 2015 Years of operation: 55 57 Position within mining lifecycle Exploration Evaluation Construction Production 1 Michilla 74.2% owned Michilla met its production guidance for the year with cash costs raised by greater stripping activity in preparation for the development of the open pit Lince mine during 2014.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 43 Michilla is a leachable sulphide and oxide deposit located Costs inChiles Antofagasta Region, 1,500 km north of Santiago.
Cash costs remained at a similar level to 2012, increasing 1.3% to $3.22 lb.
Itproduces copper cathodes using a heap-leach and However, the composition of the costs has changed since 2012, when a SX-EWprocess.
The ore that is processed at the Michilla significant amount of ore was purchased from third parties, with the cost plantcomes from a variety of sources underground and ofthe ore linked to the copper price and therefore higher cost than ore openpit mines, which are operated by Michilla, and from fromMichillas own mining operations.
In 2013, most of the ore feed came otherunderground operations owned by Michilla and leased from Michillas own mines, reducing the cost of the ore during the year.
Nonetheless, in 2013 cash costs included stripping activities related to theopen pit Lince mine, which will be mined in 2014, which raised costs above the costs incurred during 2012.
2013 Performance Capital expenditure in the year was $17.2 million in 2013 compared to$58.4million in 2012.
Operating profit Michilla had an operating loss of $43.1 million in 2013, compared to an Outlook operating profit of $29.3 million in 2012.
The operating loss in 2013 was dueto significant stripping activities during the year which were recognised Cathode production in 2014 is forecast at approximately 45,000 tonnes.
inoperating costs due to the short remaining mine life and accelerated Themajority of this production is expected to come from the open pit Lince depreciation.
The operation is expected to return to profit during 2014, due mine, which commenced activities in late 2013, and from the secondary to a significant reduction in operating costs compared with 2013, as well as heap-leaching process.
Michilla was also impacted by a 2.4% reduction The forecast cash costs for 2014 are approximately $2.40 lb, signicantly inrealised prices in 2013 compared to 2012 and accelerated depreciation lower than 2013, reecting the impact of a higher production base and no asthe end of mine life nears.
Michillas realised copper price of $3.64 lb planned stripping activities during the year.
wassignicantly higher than the other operations due to hedging Under the current mine plan, 2014 will be Michillas last full year of operation.
instruments covering approximately 80% of the production in 2013.
However, the Group is continuing to review options to extend the life of the Furtherdetails of the effects ofcommodity hedging are given in Note 24 operation beyond 2015. tothe financial statements.
The Group has acquired the minorities interest in Michilla since the year end, taking its interests to 94.9%, to allow it greater exibility in how it Production manages the closure of the mine and the utilisation of its assets, particularly Total annual production in 2013 was 38,300 tonnes of copper cathodes, those relating to its strategic coastal location, which may allow the better amarginal increase on the 2012 production of 37,700 tonnes, reecting capture of potential synergies with the Groups other operations.
higher plant throughput and recoveries, offset by a decrease in grade.
Production from the secondary leaching of ore that has already been through the heap-leach process was higher than in 2012, providing approximately 17% of the copper production compared to 12% in 2012.
Itisexpected that this secondary leaching process will remain an important source of material for the Michilla plant during 2014.
Strategic report 44 Operational review Mining division: Growth projects and opportunities 1 2 3 The Group is focused on developing its projects and growth opportunities, both around its existing mining districts in Chile and also beyond those areas, in Chile and internationally.
The Groups primary focus is on value, to ensure that potential production from existing operations is maximised through debottlenecking and incremental expansions.
The Group also has a portfolio of longer-term growth options which are currently being evaluated as part of pre-feasibility and feasibility studies.
Given the early-stage nature of some of these projects, their potential and timing is inherently uncertain and so the following outline is only intended toprovide a high-level indication of potential opportunities.
The Groups exploration and evaluation expenditure remained relatively stable with $274.9 million spent in 2013 compared with $283.4 million in2012.
The 2014 full-year forecast expenditure in relation to exploration andevaluation activities is approximately $210 million.
The decrease in theexploration and evaluation expense is due to the completion of the LosPelambres pre-feasibility study at the end of 2013.
Projects under construction 3 Antucoya Antucoya is an oxide deposit located approximately 45 km east ofMichilla inChiles Antofagasta Region.
The Group has a 70% economic interest inthe project.
A feasibility study on the project was completed in 2011 and construction commenced during 2012.
However, during December 2012 the project wastemporarily suspended while a review of the projects cost estimates was undertaken.
A full impairment charge of $500 million was recognised inrespect to the projects assets as at 31 December 2012 and no further adjustment has been made during 2013.
Following completion of the review and decision to resume the project in March, good progress has been made onconstruction with 60% total project progress design, procurement and physical progress and 32% construction progress as of 31 December 2013.
The project is on schedule and on budget with first production expected inthe first half of 2015 and willthen ramp-up to full production, of 85,000 tonnes per year of copper cathodes, expected by 2016.
Cash costs are expected to be approximately $1.80 lb for the first five years of operation.
The mine plan includes proved and probable ore reserves of 635.8 million tonnes of 0.35% copper using acut-off grade of 0.21% over the 20-year mine life.
Total development costs for the project are expected to be $1.9 billion, ofwhich approximately $1,025 million has been incurred up to 31 December 2013.
In December 2013 Antucoya completed its $650 million project nancing, which was provided by a consortium of lenders for a term of 12years as well as also securing a competitive long-term power purchase agreement from 2014.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 45 Browneld growth projects Greeneld growth Given the particular pressure on capital costs in the market at present, the 2 Centinela Mining District development Group is focused on ensuring that production from existing operations is optimised through debottlenecking and incremental plant expansions.
The Groups El Tesoro and Esperanza operations are located in the Centinela Mining District.
This District is the main focus area for the Groups 2 Esperanza longer-term growth opportunities and includes the significant Esperanza Sur and Encuentro deposits.
The debottlenecking project currently being performed at Esperanza will enable throughput at the plant to reach 105,000 tonnes of ore per day by During the year the Esperanza mine plan was updated to incorporate the the end of 2015.
Further detail on this is provided in the Esperanza section Esperanza Sur deposit, which extended Esperanzas life by approximately ofthe Operational review.
The Encuentro deposit contains a large sulphide deposit resource of 1,193.5 million tonnes at 0.40% copper grade with gold and molybdenum 2 by-products and an oxide cap Encuentro Oxides.
This oxide cap will be Los Pelambres processed at the existing SX-EW plant at ElTesoro as explained in greater During the year the Group completed the pre-feasibility study examining the detail above.
options for an incremental expansion and a larger longer-term expansion of The Group is continuing to evaluate the options for the development of the the current Los Pelambres operation.
During November a feasibility study Centinela Mining District.
Previously the plan had been to develop Esperanza was started on the marginal expansion, which is expected to be completed Sur and Encuentro Sulphides separately, but during the year it was decided by the end of 2014, with possible first production from 2018.
It is currently that it would be more effective if both deposits were used to feed a single expected that throughput could be increased to approximately 205,000 newconcentrator.
This concentrator plant is expected to have a daily ore tonnes per day while at the same time modifying the plant to allow the throughput of approximately 90,000 tonnes per day, with annual copper processing of harder ore, which is expected in the later stages of the mine andgold production of approximately 140,000 tonnes and 150,000 ounces plan.
These factors combined would support a net increase in average respectively.
First production could come through from 2019 onwards, production of approximately 4045,000 tonnes per year.
withcapital development costs initially estimated at $2.7 billion.
Theproject team is continuing to review options for reducing the capital costof the 2 El Tesoro Encuentro Oxides project, including the impact of using a larger owners team, asopposed toan EPCM contractor, aswellas other capital cost savinginitiatives.
The Encuentro Oxides deposit is located within the Centinela Mining District and is expected to produce approximately 50,000 tonnes of copper cathode The Group is also continuing to evaluate other earlier-stage opportunities per year over an eight-year period, utilising the existing capacity at the inthe Centinela Mining District.
Currently work is focused on the Polo Sur ElTesoro SX-EW plant.
This could potentially enable the plant to continue deposit, which has a resource of 1.4 billion tonnes at 0.34% copper grade toproduce at full capacity of 100,000 tonnes per annum for a number including 112.2 million tonnes of copper oxides at 0.40% copper as well as ofyears from 2016, thereby helping to offset a decline in production that some additional leachable supergene sulphides with gold and molybdenum would otherwise occur due to falling mined grades.
This oxide deposit is situated approximately 35 km from the ElTesoro deposit and could provide additional feed for the El Tesoro SX-EW At the site of the Encuentro Oxides deposit there will be new crushing and plant.
The scoping study in respect of Polo Sur was completed in 2013 heap-leach facilities and a pipeline to take the leach solution to the existing andapre-feasibility study is under way.
ElTesoro plant for processing some 15 km away.
The higher grade ore will be crushed and sent to the new heap-leach facilities while lower grade ore will be processed on a ROM leach pad.
The cash costs at El Tesoro, once processing of the Encuentro Oxides deposit has commenced, is expected tobe approximately $1.75 lb.
The feasibility study is expected to be completed in the first half of 2014 andpre-stripping is likely to commence in late 2014 for a two-year period, followed by first production in 2016.
Preliminary indications of the potential capital cost of the Encuentro Oxides project are approximately $760 million.
However, the Group is reviewing ways to reduce this capital cost, including sourcing equipment from China and the use of a larger Antofagasta-led project team owners team as opposed to an EPCM contractor.
In July 2013 the Environmental Impact Assessment for the Encuentro Oxidesproject was approved by the relevant authorities.
The results of the pre-feasibility study include an updated resource of 178.8 million tonnes at0.44% copper.
Strategic report 46 Operational review Mining division: Growth projects and opportunities 1 2 3 2 Los Pelambres Given the size of the resource base, which at 5.7 billion tonnes is more than three times the quantity of ore that is expected to be processed under the existing mine plan, there is significant scope to increase the existing plant capacity.
In the longer term it is possible that the existing plant capacity couldbe increased by a further 125,000 tonnes per day beyond the Marginal Expansion project, with first production from this potential large-scale expansion starting at some point from 2022 onwards.
Nodatehas been decided on when to commence a feasibility study .
3 United States Twin Metals The Group has a 40% controlling stake in Twin Metals Minnesota LLC TwinMetals.
The principal assets are the Maturi, Birch Lake and Spruce Road copper-nickel-PGM deposits, which are located in north-eastern Minnesota, USA.
Twin Metals is continuing to make progress on the pre-feasibility study.
Asatthe end of December 2013 Twin Metals had a total resource of 2.3billion tonnes within three of its separate deposits, with an average copper grade of0.52%, 0.17% nickel and other significant contained precious metals gold, platinum and palladium.
The pre-feasibility study is expected to be completed during 2014 and, ifapproved, Twin Metals will commence advanced studies to support theenvironmental permitting process.
Thedatefor commencement ofconstruction depends on the regulatory approval process.
3 Other exploration and evaluation activities The Group is also conducting a wide range of early-stage exploration activities in areas beyond the existing core locations of the Centinela Mining District andLos Pelambres, both through its in-house exploration team and through partnerships with third parties, to build a portfolio of longer-term opportunities across an increasingly diversied geographical area.
Chile The Group is continuing with exploration activities to identify prospective targets on the main copper belts in Chile, focusing on the northern and central regions, which includes studies on covered copper porphyries in theTarapaca Region.
Work is continuing at the Conchi and Brujulina Sur deposits as well asin areas nearby including the Cerro Las Papas project to define potential resources.
The area is now referred to as the Los Volcanes District and work will continue there during 2014.
During this period, work on the evaluation of a new coal deposit suitable for underground coal gasication purposes in the Magallanes area in southern Chile has stopped.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 47 International Inversiones Hornitos The Group has also continued to expand its portfolio of early-stage The Antofagasta Railway Company FCAB group owns a 40% interest international exploration interests through a number of strategic alliances inInversiones Hornitos S. A. Inversiones Hornitos, which operates the andearn-in agreements, with new agreements being entered into in Finland, 165MW Hornitos thermoelectric power plant located in Mejillones, in Australia, Peru, Mexico, Zambia, Canada and United States and terminated ChilesAntofagasta Region.
The main offtakers of the energy are the agreements in Namibia, Australia, Ireland and Brazil.
miningoperations of Esperanza and El Tesoro.
Alto Maipo 3 Energy opportunities In July 2013 the Group acquired a 40% interest in the Alto Maipo During 2013 the Group has continued its programme of exploration and hydroelectricproject.
Alto Maipo will construct, own and operate two development of energy prospects and has made additional investments run-of-river hydroelectric power stations located in the upper section of the inpower generation projects.
Further information regarding the Chilean Maipo river, approximately 50 km to the south-east of Santiago, with a total Energy market is included in the Key inputs section.
As part of this transaction, the Group also signed two 20-year power purchase agreements PPAs that will secure Energa Andina the provision of energy to Los Pelambres for up to 160MW, with the first PPA Energa Andina S. A. is a geothermal energy joint venture with Origin Energy starting in 2015 and the second in 2018.
The total capital cost is expected Limited of Australia in which the Group holds a 60% stake.
To date, the tobe $2.1 billion, with $1.2 billion funded by project nancing secured in exploration has demonstrated the existence of an active geothermal system December 2013. at the Tinguiririca project located close toSantiago.
El Arrayn Antofagasta has a 30% interest in Parque Eolico El Arrayn SpA El Arrayn, which is engaged in the construction of what will be one of the largest wind farms in Chile, about 400 km north of Santiago.
The plant will supply 40MW ofpower to Los Pelambres under a 20-year supply contract, accounting forabout 20% of Los Pelambres total power requirement.
The Group is responsible for its 30% equity contributions to project development costs.
El Arrayn started construction in early 2012 at atotal cost of $300 million, of which approximately $225 million was funded byproject nancing.
The plant is expected to start operating in the second halfof 2014.
Strategic report 48 Operational review The transport division provides rail cargo services in Chile and Bolivia, and road cargo as well as other ancillary services in Chile.
In Chile, the main business during 2013 was the transport of copper cathodes from, and sulphuric acid to, mines in the Antofagasta Region.
In Bolivia, the Group has a 50% controlling interest in the Ferrocarril Andino, which transports zinc and lead concentrates from Bolivia via the border town of Ollage.
The transport divisions total volumes transported were lower in 2013, falling to 7.4 million tonnes, compared with 7.7 million tonnes in 2012.
This Transport decrease was primarily due to a 13.1% decrease in the road transportation volumes during the year.
Combined turnover at the transport division was $196.6 million, a 3.3% The transport division typically provides services increase compared to turnover of $190.4 million in 2012, mainly reecting an to customers under long-term contracts, often increase in tariffs, partly offset by a decrease in rail tonnage.
Operating profit fell to $63.0 million in2013, mainly reecting the exclusion of a $5.0 million with agreed pricing levels which are subject to gain on land sales that had supported 2012 operating profit.
Capital adjustments for ination and movements in fuel expenditure in 2013 was$28.7 million compared to $22.7 million in 2012. prices.
The division also oers cargo transfer, The Antofagasta port is managed by the Groups 30% associate Antofagasta Terminal Internacional S. A. ATI.
ATI is a strategic investment shipment and storage services both domestically for the Group and complements transport divisions principal business as and internationally.
the main transporter of cargo within Chiles Antofagasta Region.
The transport division also owns Forestal S. A. which manages the Groups forestry assets.
Forestals two properties, Releco-Puir and Huilo-Huilo, comprise 26,295 hectares of native forest near the Panguipulli and Neltume lakes, in Chiles Region fide Los Lagos.
During 2013, Forestal continued with its ongoing forestation, fertilisation and thinning programme to maintain these assets.
2013 tonnage transported 2013 Financials Combined tonnage Operating profit 000 tonnes 2012: $66.6m 2012: 7,680 3.5 % 5.4 % 7,413 $63.0m Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 49 Aguas fide Antofagasta ADASA operates a 30-year concession for the distribution of water in Chiles Antofagasta Region, which it acquired from the state-owned Empresa Concesionaria fide Servicios Sanitarios S. A. ECONSSA CHILE SA in 2003.
The division provides potable desalinated water to domestic and commercial customers in the Antofagasta Region, obtaining water from mountain catchments and the sea and distributing it through its 1,140 km pipe network.
In 2013, the water division sold 51.3 million cubic metres of water todomestic and commercial customers, compared with volumes Water of50.8million cubic metres in 2012, mainly driven by higher demand fromdomestic clients.
Turnover in 2013 increased 1.9% to $135.9 million from $133.4 million The water division consists of two main in2012, due to a number of factors including increased demand from businesses, a regulated water business supplying bothregulated and unregulated customers.
Operating costs rose in the yeardue to increased depreciation and maintenance costs, partly explaining domestic customers and an unregulated business the decrease in operating profit to$57.2 million from $65.1 million in 2012. serving mines and other industrial users.
Sales to Capital expenditure in 2013 was$13.4 million compared to $8.0 million in2012.
domestic customers are priced in accordance with During 2013, studies into a second desalination plant were put on hold, regulated tari structures, while sales to industrial asthe business reviews alternative, cost-effective options to meet future customers are generally priced in accordance with demand, which include an expansion of the existing plant.
The divisions activities in Chile are regulated by the Superintendencia fide Servicios Sanitarios SISS.
2013 Volume sold 2013 Financials Water Operating profit Million cubic metres 2012: $65.1m 2012: 50.8 1.0% 12.1 % 51.3 $57.2m Strategic report 50 Operational review Antofagasta aims to build and Guided by best practice, maintain relationships based on policies and guidelines trust and mutual benefit with its Preventing and managing social and stakeholders.
This supports its social environmental risks, while seeking opportunities licence to operate and grow.
for improvement, is critical to maintaining the Groups competitiveness and capacity to grow.
The Groups current operations are Antofagasta Minerals strategy for generating only in Chile, an OECD country economic, social and environmental value is guided by Environmental and Social Relations Policies, with strong environmental and human and implemented through a comprehensive set rights protections built into its legal of guidelines and procedures covering: framework.
Compliance standards are high across most of the Groups Social Environmental main sustainability issues.
Code of Ethics Water management Grievance management Air quality management Community investment Climate change management Crisis communication management Biodiversity and ecosystem services management Recognised as a Climate Disclosure Cultural heritage management Leader by the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Waste management Land use These in turn are supplemented by a set of social and environmental KPIs, which monitor performance.
In early 2014 Antofagsta Minerals applied for International Council onMining and Metals ICMM membership, thus voluntarily submitting to the highest industry sustainability standards.
% 45 Sea water as a percentageof total waterconsumption.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 51 Ethics, compliance and human rights Human rights The Group respects the rights of its workers and contractors as well The Groups Code of Ethics sets out how as those of everyone that comes into contact with the business.
it conducts itself in its daily activities and Human rights are protected in the following ways: interactions with stakeholders.
It is also a guide EMPLOYEES to how the Group protects human rights.
No under-age employees The aim is to stand out in the market for honesty, Fair wages, good accommodation and high health and safety standards transparency and consistency in business conduct, Good relationship with labour unions and to be recognised for reaching these objectives Training and development opportunities fairly and through respect for others.
Monitoring worker satisfaction Preventing discrimination, harassment or bullying CONTRACTORS Committed to high ethical standards Ensure appropriate working conditions for contractors regarding health and safety, The Code of Ethics was last revised in 2012, together with other accommodation, wages and benets internal control systems, to ensure compliance with the latest Chilean legislation and the anti-bribery requirements of the United Kingdom.
SOCIETY The Code covers conicts of interest, discrimination and harassment as well as protection of condential company information.
It safeguards Prevention of corruption and whistleblowing procedures working conditions and provides instructions for workers on reporting Contributing to a positive social, economic and environmental legacy throughout the unethical behaviour.
Groups business, from exploration to closure All workers are required to comply with the Code, and to sign a form Preventing and when not possible, mitigating environmental impacts acknowledging that they have received and understood it.
The Code ofEthics can be downloaded at www.
COMMUNITY The Ethics Committee controls compliance with corporate policies, and Respecting the rights, culture and heritage of local people investigates reports of unethical conduct.
In the mining division, members Identifying potential impacts of the committee are the Vice-Presidents of Finance, Human Resources Early and ongoing community engagement from exploration to closure and Corporate Affairs and Sustainability.
Their work is supervised by the Boards Audit Committee.
In the Transport and Water Divisions, all such Listening and responding to community grievances and other stakeholders reports are investigated by the designated managers and are presented Supporting community development to the respective General Managers.
Strategic report 52 Operational review The Groups approach to sustainability Underpinned by strong governance Sustainability forms an integral part of the Groups Antofagasta plc Board decision-making process and supports its business strategy.
The Board continues to place importance on a range of sustainability considerations, including health and safety, management Audit and Risk Nomination Sustainability Remuneration of human resources, the environment and Committee Committee and and Talent community relations.
The Board has ultimate Pages 85 Pages 88 Stakeholder Committee to 88 and 89 Management Pages 90 responsibility for sustainability and is supported Committee to 100 by the Sustainability and Stakeholder Page 89 Management Committee.
Business Divisions Divisional Boards Transport Mining Water Employee satisfaction score.
44 Training hours per employee inmining division.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 53 Focused on the issues that matter most Health and safety Labour relations Protecting the health, safety Maintaining positive relations Antofagastas sustainability strategy supports its and wellbeing of workers and with workers and the unions business strategy by strengthening its licence to contractors workers.
that represent them, as well as encouraging contractors to do See page 54 operate, delivering operational eciency and the same.
This strategy See page 56 focuses on the risks and opportunities that are most material to the Group and its main Talent Community relations stakeholders: workers, contractors, communities, Attracting and retaining workers Maintaining positive relations and developing their talents.
with communities near to local government and investors, identied through the Groups operations and See page 57 corporate risk assessment and regular engagement.
investing in projects to support their education, enterprise The sustainability issues that are considered most and employability.
material to the business are: See page 58 Energy and Water management climate change The Group is efficient in its use Improving efficiency in energy and innovative in the use of use and searching for alternative alternatives to continental water, sources of energy.
while ensuring water availability See page 61 and water quality.
See page 60 Reducing environmental impact Ensuring the Group identies, prevents or manages its environmental impacts, includingair quality, water qualityand availability, greenhouse gas emissions, biodiversity and cultural heritage.
Strategic report 54 Operational review The Groups approach to sustainability Health and safety Performance Despite a sustained decrease in the Groups accident rate, the goal of zero fatalities was not The Group regrets to report that in 2013 it suffered the loss of two people, a contractor in Los Pelambres and a worker in Esperanza and since achieved.
Ensuring the safety of the Groups the year end there was another fatality of a contractor at Esperanza.
people is a key enabler of business success and In response, the Group is further strengthening the corporate health and safety model to standardise best risk prevention practices, with a focus thus, embedding a risk prevention culture based on eliminating fatalities and promoting reporting of significant incidents.
on fatalities prevention throughout the Group, Key measures of the safety performance are the Lost Time Injury and ensuring contractors share this commitment Frequency Rate LTIFR and the All Injury Frequency Rate AIFR that to safety, remains a priority.
In the mining division, despite an 18% increase in the size of the workforce from 2012 to 2013, the number of accidents continued to decrease, achieving a 1.1 LTIFR and 3.9 AIFR Why it matters in2013.
The railway division achieved a LTIFR of 10.3 and AIFR of 17.8 and the water division achieved a LTIFR of 6.6 and AIFR of 15.5.
Extracting and processing copper creates risks Managing risk for worker health and safety.
Public health and safety are additional responsibilities for the water Embedding a preventive culture, ensuring comparable safety standards among workers and contractors and going beyond industry best and railway divisions.
practices will enable the Group to meet and maintain its goal of zero fatalities.
Protecting the health and safety of workers, The risk-based approach to managing the health and safety of contractors and local communities is the workers and contractors continues to be implemented.
2013 saw Groups first sustainable development principle.
the strengthening of the Corporate Health and Safety Unit to provide the operations and projects with a common strategy based on risk management and a preventive approach, focused on eliminating fatalities.
Performance A corporate health and safety management model was implemented, building on the policies, standards and guidelines previously introduced.
Safety The new model applies equally to workers and contractors.
Its pillars are: risk identication with a focus on fatal accidents, adherence to standards, 17.8 17.8 comprehensive and immediate reporting of near misses, and leadership LTIFR with safety as a core corporate value.
AIFR 10.3 6.6 3.9 1.1 Mining Transport Water In focus Improvements in near miss reporting The reporting of near misses improved by 65% in the last quarter of 2013, while the number of lost time accidents halved, reecting the priority this lead indicator has been given in the mining division.
In order to raise awareness, since September 2013, near misses that might have resulted in a fatal accident have been immediately reported to all managers across the division.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 55 Each mine has a health and safety management system aligned The Groups goal is zero fatalities and to reduce the number and severity to OHSAS 18001.
Accountability and reporting is a key part of this.
These goals require all contractors to comply with the Safety managers report performance to their companys General Occupational Health and Safety Plan, which is monitored through a Manager on a weekly basis while the five mining company General monthly audit.
It is communicated through regular training and awareness Managers report to the corporate Vice-President of Operations monthly.
campaigns for employees and contractors.
An additional aim is to reach Board members receive monthly safety reports and performance is workers families and local communities, particularly on the issue of discussed in Board meetings and remuneration of senior management road safety.
is linked to safety performance.
Safety performance is linked to remuneration.
Occupational health Contractors must also comply with the Groups Occupational Health Occupational health and safety plans are in place to help employees andSafety Plan.
Contractor companies compliance with these standards and contractors stay healthy and avoid common injuries or illnesses.
at the mining, railway and water divisions is monitored through internal All Antofagasta Minerals workers are encouraged to take annual controls and an annual external audit.
preventative health checks, paid for by the Company.
All operations have wellness programmes in place to encourage healthy eating, regular Fostering a safety culture exercise and to support workers in giving up smoking and relieving stress.
Sites are designed with workers health and wellbeing in mind with the Anchoring safety in daily actions is central to achieving its health and provision of gyms, sport facilities and healthy eating options in cafeterias.
This is done by raising risk awareness and training workers and contractors to identify, mitigate and manage safety in their working Future priorities environment.
Regular safety management workshops are held to review near significant incidents near misses without energy exchange Build a baseline of the general health of site workers.
and risks, share best practice and lessons learned.
During 2013 the Identify the five top risk events such as electric shocks, rocks reporting of significant incidents was strengthened as a key enabler falling, collision, etc at each operation and do the same for each ofapreventive approach.
contractor company, using the new risk model.
Source: Chilean Mining Council Consejo Minero, an industry association which represents the large mining companies in Chile.
Data includes employees and contractors.
LTIFR Number of accidents with lost time during the year per million hours worked.
AIFR Number of accidents with and without lost time during the year per million hours worked.
Strategic report 56 Operational review The Groups approach to sustainability Labour relations Strong labour relations The potential for labour disputes in Chile has increased in recent years, with rising copper prices Good relations with employees, contractors and the labour unions representing them, is important for securing the Groups labour resource and the shortage of skilled workers resulting in needs and ensuring the continuity of the operations.
The Group has increased pressure from unions.
Antofagastas strong labour relations and has never had a strike of either its own employees or its contractors.
In 2014, the four-year collective labour ongoing engagement with workers and contractors agreements are due for negotiation at Los Pelambres, Esperanza supports its strong labour relations.
The Group recognises workers rights to union membership and Why it matters collectivebargaining and maintains an ongoing, proactive dialogue withworkers and their representatives regarding all matters of mutual interest, with emphasis on ensuring their health and safety.
Positive relations with workers, contractors Some 62% of the mining divisions workers are unionised.
Each operation and their representative unions maintains has at least one collective labour agreement that covers salaries, working the operations capacity and eciency.
hours, and variable compensation and employment benets, among other items.
Benets agreed with the unions are extended to nonLabour disputes pose a risk to unionised workers.
At the water division 70% of the workforce are members of a union andatthe railway division the rate is 49%.
Performance In 2013 the Group issued corporate Labour Relations Policy  to maintaining mutually beneficial, long-term The Group had a total workforce of 20,660 people in 2013, including the relations built on trust between the Company, its workers and their Groups own employees and contractors, compared to 17,136 in2012.
The increase is explained mainly by the 2,600 contractors hiredto build the Antucoya Project.
Listening to employees Contractors and employees by division Antofagasta Minerals maintains constructive relationships with its workersand their representative unions through regular communication and consultation.
In 2013 internal communications were bolstered 18,652 1,219 789 through the use of face-to-face meetings, the Company intranets, Number of own employees 14,424 392 531 newsletters, bulletin boards and social events.
Number of contractors The Antofagasta Minerals 2013 Annual Organisational Climate survey 827 49.3% received responses from 95% of employees, who posted an overall satisfaction score of 81%.
The survey is designed to identify strengths 258 andweaknesses in each operational unit, based on 11 dimensions.
69.8% 4,228 62.2% Of these, autonomy, commitment, sense of belonging, structure and Mining Transport Water vision obtained the highest scores.
Employees can also communicate their concerns condentially through the whistleblowing procedure to report breaches of corporate ethics.
In focus Future priorities Internal engagement over values Continue to strengthen relations with workers through effective In 2013, Antofagasta Minerals agreed on six Group implementation of the Labour Relations Policy.
values:Health and Safety, Sustainability, Respect, Implement action plans based on the 2013 survey to improve Innovation, Excellence and Forward-thinking.
chosen through a participative process involving workers throughout the division.
Representatives participated in four-hour workshops and or answered a survey onthe topic.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 57 Talent In 2013 the mining division engaged with its employees to define a set of The predicted shortage of skilled workers in corporate values: Health and Safety, Sustainability, Respect, Innovation, Chile remains an issue for the mining sector.
These values will be rolled out in 2014 and will help guide key processes such as business alignment, Antofagasta aims to be an employer of choice performance management and leadership development.
by investing in the development of its workers Managing and developing talent helps Antofagasta become an employer while also contributing to broadening the of choice.
Talent development covers personal, professional and technical available pool of talent for the industry.
Since 2010, Antofagasta has had in place a trainee programme, designed to recruit young professionals with potential to become future leaders of the business.
As a result, the mining division Why it matters has recruited 114 young professionals, 24% of whom were women.
A highly-skilled workforce and experienced Gender diversity management team are critical to maintaining Gender diversity is a challenge in many industry sectors, including mining.
Chile is no exception, with women making up just 6% of the mining current operations, implementing development workforce.
Female representation within the Groups mining division projects and achieving growth.
exceeds the national average for the sector, but there is still more work to do.
In 2013, women represented 10% of the mining divisions total workforce and 14% of its supervisors.
At the end of 2013 there were 599 Performance women and 4,714 men employed by the Group.
Women make up 10% ofthe railway division and 33% of the water division.
There is one woman in senior management out of a total of 19 people at that level in the Group and she is a member of the Executive Committee.
There are no women on the Antofagasta plc Board, although a search for a suitable candidate is under way.
Availability of skilled labour People who have joined Antofagasta Minerals through its Young The Group is committed to investing in training to make sure workers Professional Programme since both full their potential and have the skills that are needed today and in 2010,24% of whom were women.
During 2013 the mining division provided 44 training hours per employee, the transport division 15 hours and the water division 30 hours.
In 2013 Antofagasta Minerals continued to partner with the Chilean In focus government and peer mining companies, through the Mining Skills Council, to increase the number and level of qualications of new mining Corporate Talent Management Process professionals at a technical level.
Through this initiative it will invest $4 million over five years to train 12,500 new mine operators.
In 2013 Antofagasta Minerals designed a corporate Talent Management Process to prepare succession plans for key Antofagasta Minerals strives to hire as many local people as possible.
positions in the division at the corporate head ofce and at This is more noticeable during a projects construction phase when the its operations and projects.
The process began by dening size of the workforce peaks.
Thus at this stage, the Groups companies key positions, then identied high potential successors for offer specic training opportunities for locals through its Apprenticeship these positions and is now in the process of developing Programme.
In December 2013, Antucoya trained 28 people from the thehigh potential candidates for them.
neighbouring Maria Elena community and hired 27 of them.
Future priorities In 2014 efforts will be focused on building the desired culture and Group identity through the implementation of the following initiatives: An HR strategy to support the business Roll-out of the Groups shared values and leadership model Over the last couple of years, Antofagasta Minerals has signicantly Strengthening of talent management through a mentoring upgraded its Human Resources management programmes to strengthen programme and increasing transfer opportunities within the Group.
corporate culture and ensure its alignment with the Groups business strategy.
The areas of focus have been talent development, leadership and shared values.
Strategic report 58 Operational review The Groups approach to sustainability Community relations Managing community concerns In Chile, large projects particularly in mining and power face growing opposition from Responsiveness and consistency of approach in dealing with community concerns and expectations is vital in demonstrating respect for local social and environmental groups, often involving people, building trust and preventing conict.
Antofagasta is a strong proponent hasbeen promoting the use of its grievance management procedure toallow stakeholders to raise their concerns and get a formal answer of early, ongoing engagement with local fromthe operations.
communities, aiming to identify and manage The Group identies local concerns and expectations through ongoing its impacts and establish relations based on dialogue, grievance management, participative monitoring, joint companytrust and mutual benefit.
community dialogue committees and yearly perception studies, among other tools.
Social and environmental considerations are an integral part of all project design standards and when applying for environmental Why it matters permits the Company commits to certain impact prevention, mitigation and compensation measures that are enforceable by law.
Good community relations support the Groups Antofagastas approach is guided by its Social Strategy, Social Relations social licence to operate.
Policy, corporate Ethics Code and specic standards for community investment and grievance management to ensure they are addressed Future growth depends on communities being consistently and transparently.
Each mining operation has an external affairs team dedicated to stakeholder relations.
able to trust the Companys commitment to establish mutual beneficial relations with Managers are supported in this with the Companys Social Performance Assessment Tool.
Community investment guidelines are applied communities and other key stakeholders.
by each mining company to deliver a consistent approach to social projects supported.
Performance Investing in local development Antofagasta is committed to enhancing its positive social impact, recruiting local workers whenever possible, investing in community projects and supporting initiatives dedicated to local development.
The focus for community investment is: developing human capital Invested by Antofagasta Minerals during 2013 in community projects througheducation and training, improving community quality of life 1 surrounding its operations.
In focus Raising awareness of grievance process The northern companies Michilla, El Tesoro and Esperanza made a concerted effort to increase both internal and community awareness about the existence of their formal grievance procedures.
They discussed their procedures in meetings with neighbouring communities and local authorities and distributed letters to each household informing them of the procedures.
The companies also engaged with their managers to involve them in providing timely responses to the issues raised, that they are responsible for.
Following this effort, the companies have seen an increase in reported and investigated grievances, from two reported in 2012 to 16in 2013.
1 Excludes donations to universities, foundations and other social contributions.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 59 In 2013 quarterly reporting of community investment initiatives was introduced to increase effectiveness and transparency.
The reporting process also facilitates the exchange of best practices and knowledge between the Groups operations and projects.
In 2013, the main community investments were: $5 million to build a health clinic in the Choapa Valley that will be operated by the national health system $2.5 million to finance new potable water facilities in Sierra Gorda a $0.5 million contribution to the $2 million public facility to provide drinking water to Caleta Michilla, which was previously supplied by the water trucks $0.2 million to provide free wi access in Sierra Gordas main public areas such as the town square, the health clinic, in schools, the re station and in the library a three-year programme to improve education quality and management in three local Choapa schools continued in 2013 the continued provision of technical assistance and soft loans for over 200 local farmers and herders at Los Pelambres.
Future priorities Los Pelambres to work with multi-stakeholder alliances, including local government and community organisations, to identify suitable local projects for support.
Publish a corporate policy or guideline for engagement with indigenous people based on ILO Convention 169 and the ICMMs position statement on indigenous people and mining.
Strategic report 60 Operational review The Groups approach to sustainability Water Making better use of water Continental water is already a scarce resource in many parts of Chile while increasing demand, To address the issue of water scarcity, Antofagasta Minerals has implemented innovative solutions, pioneering the use of non-desalinated non-sustainable practices and climate change are sea water and more water-efficient thickened tailings deposit technology.
Mining activities can aect The Company monitors the quality of water in its area of influence and minimises its use of natural high-quality water.
Water reuse rates as the availability of water through water extraction highas 85% are achieved at some operations.
and or impacting water quality.
All sites have water management plans, which include regular monitoring and detailed water accounting records.
These are based on the Water Why it matters Accounting Framework methodology developed by the Sustainable Minerals Institute of Queensland University and the Minerals Council of Australia.
Water scarcity is an environmental challenge, The Company has participated in the CDP Water Disclosure Project a highly material social issue for communities, WDP since 2010, publishing its information on water use in accordance as well as a cost issue.
with the WDP and the Global Reporting Initiative.
In 2013 Group-wide water consumption was 44.7 million cubic metres, of which 45% was seawater and the remaining 55% was low-quality continental water.
Performance Los Pelambres has been taking actions to prepare for the potential impact of continued below-average precipitation on its water supply.
Although copper production increased, water Initiatives include: the improvement of water capture and transport consumption decreased from 45,482 to 44,666 infrastructure, research on reducing evaporation loss from the tailings 3 000s of m due to the mining divisions focus dams and the feasibility of recovering more water from them, a detailed review of the operations water balance and data collection methods on improving water eciency.
and the identication of where water loss occurs and potential solutions.
The Company also works with the communities to help them use water more efficiently, having nanced the improvement of the local irrigation systems and lining the water channels, among other initiatives.
For the water division, maintaining water quality and pressure, aswell as reducing water losses from leaks is an ongoing priority.
Aguas Antofagasta is proud to be the first Latin American company Sea water as a percentage tosupply desalinated potable sea water.
Since 2011 the Company oftotalwater consumption.
hasbeen certied to ISO 22000, the highest water quality standard.
The transport division operates two wastewater treatment plants at its facilities to ensure that its discharges comply with legal requirements.
In focus Pioneering the use of sea water Antofagasta Minerals has pioneered the use of sea water with two operations using non-desalinated sea water and athird Antucoya is about to do the same.
It is also installing an innovative highly water-efficient thickened tailing deposition system at Esperanza.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 61 Energy and climate change Although energy demand in Chile is expected Responding to the energy challenge to continue growing, new power plants face strong Rising energy prices in Chile are a significant concern for mining opposition from some communities and NGOs.
The Group prioritises energy efficiency and is proactive Antofagasta prioritises energy eciency and is inseeking opportunities to reduce consumption and incorporate newenergy sources.
proactive in seeking opportunities to reduce Chile has set a target to reduce the countrys carbon emissions by 20% consumption and incorporate new energy sources.
by 2020 and introduced the requirement for 20% of energy generation to come from renewable sources by 2025.
Antofagasta is continuing to invest to understand and reduce its carbon footprint while exploring Why it matters alternative energy sources.
Energy accounts for over 10% of the mining In 2013 the Group bought a 40% interest in the Alto Maipo run-of-river hydroelectric project that will supply 60% 110MW of Los Pelambres divisions operating costs, so improving energy needs under a 20-year contract starting in 2018.
In 2014 some eciency can have significant financial, 20% of Los Pelambres energy needs will begin to be supplied by ElArrayan, one of the biggest wind farm projects in Chile, in which the as well as environmental benets.
Company has a 30% equity interest and a long-term energy supply contract.
The Group is also exploring for geothermal energy through its Performance 60% interest in Energa Andina, one of the leading companies seeking geothermal opportunities in Chile.
The corporate energy unit, created in 2012, is dedicated to the analysis The focus in 2013 has been on improving the of different sources of energy to ensure the long-term energy provision quality of information on which to base carbon for current operations and future mining projects.
It also promotes the emission reduction action plans.
The mining use of renewable energy when possible, such as at El Tesoros electrowinning plant where a solar-thermal facility has reduced the plants fuel divisions carbon emissions during 2012 have consumption by half, and the whole operations CO emissions by 4%.
2 been externally veried and the 2013 gures will be veried during 2014.
In 2013 Antofagasta Minerals emitted 2,229,407 2 tonnes of CO and the CO emission intensity 2 2 Scope 1 Scope 2.
3 Total CO2 emissions per tonne of ne copper produced scopes 1 and 2. was 3.09 tonnes of CO2 emitted per tonne 4 Tonnes CO2 e kiloton transported.
5 3 Tonnes CO2 e Mm water volume sold.
of copper produced, which represents a 5% 6 Antofagastas Intensity gure against 2013 turnover.
CO2 emissions Scope 1 Scope 2 CO2 In focus by location 2013 Direct Indirect Total emissions 2 3 tonnes of CO2equivalent emissions emissions emissions intensity Mining division El Tesoro solar-thermal plant a renewable Los Pelambres 179,923 551,568 731,941 1.80 energy success El Tesoro 125,366 234,972 360,338 3.51 One of the largest solar-thermal plants in the global mining industry was built at El Tesoro, which is in the Atacama Michilla 60,293 115,711 174,982 4.60 desert, to take advantage of the very high solar radiation Esperanza 242,977 717,620 960,597 5.49 in the area.
Designed to produce 25 thermal GWh year Corporate Ofces 142 835 997 the environmental benefit comes from reducing diesel Santiago and London consumption in the electro-winning plant by around 55% and by reducing the mines total emissions by 4%.
Total for mining division 608,701 1,620,706 2,229,407 3.09 Thefacility was built with US investment of $15 million.
Transport division 4 FCAB 94,902 2,084 96,986 13.08 Water division 5 ADASA 2,508 3,661 6,169 0.12 6 Total Antofagasta 706,111 1,626,451 2,332,562 390.61 Strategic report 62 Operational review The Groups approach to sustainability Reducing operations environmental impact The Groups mining operations generate significant amounts of waste rock, spent ore and tailings and involve moving large amounts of material.
They aect natural habitats and local vegetation and animal species.
However, Antofagasta has a strong track record in preventing and, when unavoidable, managing its impacts while striving to enhance environmental value in its areas of influence.
Why it matters Operational incidents which damage the environment pose a risk to the Groups reputation licence to operate.
Innovative solutions to resource needs go wider than the Company and improve the The mining divisions carbon emissions are expected to increase as Groups reputation as part of the solution theaverage mined grade decreases, and with increasing rock hardness and waste rock and ore transportation distances as the pits get deeper.
In addition, the divisions total production increases as new mining projects come into operation further augmenting its emissions.
Performance Antofagasta has measured its carbon emissions using the Carbon Disclosure Projects CDP methodology since 2009, in line with standards ISO 14,064-1 and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
In 2013, the Companys CDP disclosure score improved by 44% reaching 92 points, and our performance score improved from band E to band C, primarily by improving the quality and transparency of the information, and by publishing the Companys Climate Change guidelines.
These guidelines Incidents with environmental were introduced at the end of 2012 and have led to a more structured impact in 2013. approach to carbon mitigation.
Due to this improvement, Antofagasta wasrecognised by CDP as a Climate Disclosure Leader in 2013.
Future priorities In focus Antofagasta will continue to search for opportunities to use renewable energy sources to reduce its carbon emissions.
Assessing the value of ecosystem services Environmental Risk and Opportunity Valuation is a simple framework and process-based tool that helps assess the impact, dependencies, risks and opportunities associated with natural capital, such as biodiversity and minerals, and wider environmental parameters, such as noise, GHGs and dust, to assist decision-making.
The methodology aligns with WRIs Corporate Ecosystem Services Review, WBCSDs Guide to Corporate Ecosystem Valuation and the IFCs Performance Standard 6, among other initiatives.
The tool was developed in 2012 using three pilot studies and was applied in 2013 to two sites.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 63 A strategic approach Antofagasta Minerals environmental strategy helps the Company reduce its environmental impact, control business costs, ensure compliance with regulations and build good relationships with local stakeholders.
In 2013 the Group emphasised the application of environmental risk analysis at all of its companies and generated control plans for the identied risks.
Audits were then conducted at each operation in order to assess their compliance with their plans.
The mining companies have a risk-based approach and monitor performance by tracking indicators through the Assessment of Environmental Performance AEP tool introduced in 2010.
Through AEP the Group controls water and air quality, recycling, and biodiversity, among others.
Each of these environmental components has to comply with the Environmental Guideline approved by the Groups Executive Committee in 2012.
In 2013 the Group developed specic plans for the implementation of the guidelines by each operation, which were satisfactorily completed.
Managing issues Air quality is an important concern of the communities near to the Groups operations.
An example of this can be seen at Los Pelambres where the monitoring of compliance with air quality regulations and the Companys air quality targets is conducted by a joint company-community committee that supervises the implementation of some 30 specic control measures agreed with the community.
The Group also has dust-monitoring stations at all of its operations where it also applies dust prevention methods.
In 2013 air quality complied with the legal limits at all of the Groups operations.
Antofagasta Minerals recognises the importance of protecting local ecosystems.
The most significant impacts are at Los Pelambres where land has been restored to create a nature sanctuary, in an area of significant biodiversity, having been recognised in 2004 as a Wetland ofInternational Importance under the Ramsar Convention.
Future priorities This year the Groups main focus will be to address the gaps identied in Antofagastas application to join the International Council on Mining and Metals ICMM, specifically those relating to environmental management ICMM Principle 6, biodiversity ICMM Principle 7 and materials stewardship ICMM Principle 8.
Strategic report 64 Financial review Fi financial re view Results 66 Turnover 66 Cash ows 70 Financial position 71 Cautionary statement about forward-looking statements 71 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 65 Strategic report 66 Financial review Results Turnover Group turnover in 2013 was $5,971.6 million, 11.4% below the $6,740.1 million achieved in 2012.
The decrease of $768.5 million mainly reected Year ended Year ended adecrease in the realised copper price as well as lower molybdenum and 31.12.13 31.12.12 Movement Movement gold by-product revenues, partly offset by higher copper sales volumes.
$m $m $m % Turnover 5,971.6 6,740.1 768.5 11.4 Turnover from the mining division EBITDA 2,702.2 3,864.4 1,162.2 30.1 Depreciation and Turnover from copper concentrate and copper cathodes amortisation 517.7 494.2 23.5 4.8 Turnover from copper concentrate and copper cathode sales decreased by Impairment 500.0 500.0 100.0 $500.7 million, or 9.1%, to $4,998.0 million, compared with $5,498.7 million Net finance expense 74.2 90.9 16.7 18.4 in 2012.
The decrease reected the impact of a lower realised price and profit before tax 2,083.5 2,761.8 678.3 24.6 increased tolling charges partly offset by improved volumes.
Income tax expense 843.7 1,022.2 178.5 17.5 i Copper volumes Earnings per share Copper sales volumes increased by 2.7% from 703,200 tonnes in 2012 US cents 66.9 105.2 38.3 36.4 to722,200 tonnes this year.
The uplift in sales volumes accounted for an Net cash 1,311.2 2,402.7 1,091.5 45.4 increase of $137.2 million in turnover from copper concentrate and cathode sales.
The increased production in the year was mainly due tohigher A detailed segmental analysis of the components of the income statement production at Esperanza reecting the improved performance ofthe iscontained in Note 5 to the financial statements.
operation with increased plant throughput.
The following table reconciles between the 2012 and 2013 EBITDA: ii Realised copper prices $m The Groups average realised copper price decreased by 10.6% to EBITDA in 2012 3,864.4 327.5cents per pound 2012 366.4 cents, largely reecting the lower average LME copper price, which decreased by 7.9% to 332.1 cents per Turnover pound 2012 360.6 cents, as well as the negative impact of provisional Increase in copper volumes sold 137.2 pricing adjustments in the current year.
The decrease in average realised Decrease in copper realised price 603.4 prices led to a decrease of $603.4 million in turnover from copper Increase in tolling charges 34.5 concentrate and cathode sales.
Decrease in turnover from copper concentrate Realised copper prices are determined by comparing turnover gross and cathodes 500.7 oftolling charges for concentrate sales with sales volumes in the year.
Decrease in molybdenum revenues 134.4 Realised copper prices differ from market prices mainly because, in line withindustry practice, concentrate and cathode sales agreements generally Decrease in gold revenues 118.7 provide for provisional pricing at the time of shipment with final pricing based Decrease in silver revenues 23.4 on the average market price for future periods normally about 30 days after Decrease in turnover from by-products 276.5 delivery to the customer in the case of cathode sales and up to 150 days Increase in transport division turnover 6.2 after delivery to the customer in the case of concentrate sales.
Realisedcopper prices also reect the impact of realised gains or losses Increase in water division turnover 2.5 ofcommodity derivative instruments hedge accounted for in accordance Increase in turnover from transport and water divisions 8.7 with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurements.
Decrease in Group turnover 768.5 Provisional pricing adjustments decreased initially invoiced sales before Operating costs adjusting for tolling charges by $127.2 million in 2013, compared with an Increase in unit costs 252.1 increase of $81.3 million in 2012.
The negative adjustments in the current Increase in volume sold 69.0 year reected the decrease in the copper price in the first half of 2013, partlyoffset by positive year end mark-to-market adjustments reecting Increase in charge for closure provisions 70.0 theincrease in the price immediately prior to the year end.
Further details Decrease in exploration and evaluation costs 8.5 ofprovisional pricing adjustments are given in Note 6 to the Decrease in corporate costs 1.0 nancialstatements.
Increase in other mining division cost 1.0 In 2013 turnover also includes a net gain of $25.4 million 2012 net gain Increase in operating costs for mining division 382.6 of$0.4 million, mainly relating to commodity derivatives at Michilla which matured during the year.
Further details of hedging activity in the year are Increase in transport division operating costs 5.0 given in Note 24 d to the financial statements.
Increase in water division costs 6.1 Increase in operating costs for transport and water divisions 11.1 Decrease in EBITDA 1,162.2 EBITDA in 2013 2,702.2 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 67 iii Tolling charges Operating costs excluding depreciation, Tolling charges for copper concentrate increased by $34.5 million amortisation and impairments to$216.3million in 2013.
This reected increased tolling charges at Operating costs excluding depreciation, amortisation and impairments LosPelambres and Esperanza, mainly due to an increase in average amounted to $3,269.4 million 2012 $2,875.7 million, an increase of tollingcharges during 2013, as well as a minor impact of the increased $393.7million.
This was mainly due to increased average mining unit costs, salesvolumes.
as well as the impact of the higher mining production and sales volumes.
Tolling charges are deducted from concentrate sales in reporting turnoverand hence the increase in these charges has had a negative Operating costs excluding depreciation, amortisation impacton turnover.
and impairments at the mining division Turnover from molybdenum, gold and other by-products Operating costs at the mining division increased by $382.6 million to$3,091.4 million in 2013, an increase of 14.1%.
Turnover from by-products at Los Pelambres and Esperanza relate mainlytomolybdenum and gold, and a lesser extent silver.
Turnover Of this increase, $69.0 million is attributable to the higher mining copper fromby-products decreased by $276.5 million or 30.1% to $641.1 million production and sales volumes described above.
As explained in more in2013, compared with $917.6 million in 2012. detailabove, the additional turnover including by-product revenues associated with these increased volumes was $137.2 million.
Turnover from gold in concentrate net of tolling charges was $382.5 million 2012 $501.2 million, a decrease of $118.7 million, which mainly reected $252.1 million of the overall cost increase is attributable to higher unit adecrease in the realised gold price, as well as to a lesser extent lower costs.
Excluding by-product credits which are reported as part of turnover volumes.
The realised gold price was $1,358 per ounce in 2013, compared and tolling charges for concentrates which are deducted from turnover, with $1,675 per ounce in 2012, with the decrease largely reecting the weighted average cash costs for the Group comprising on-site and shipping general reduction in average market prices.
Gold sales volumes decreased costs in the case of Esperanza and Los Pelambres and cash costs in the from 300,100 ounces in 2012 to 282,700 ounces in 2013, mainly due to case of El Tesoro and Michilla increased from $1.50 lb in 2012 to $1.65 lb.
lower gold grades at Esperanza.
This increase was mainly due to higher mine movements costs at Esperanza and higher energy prices at Los Pelambres.
Turnover from molybdenum net of roasting charges was $180.3 million 2012 $314.7 million, a decrease of $134.4 million.
The reduction in Exploration and evaluation costs decreased by $8.5 million to $274.9 million turnover was mainly due to lower molybdenum sales volumes of 8,800 2012 $283.4 million.
This mainly reected decreases in the expenditure on tonnes 2012 12,600 tonnes, reecting lower molybdenum grades, the Centinela Mining District and the pre-feasibility studies at Los Pelambres aswellas a decrease in the realised price to $10.0 per pound 2012 and Twin Metals, partially offset by increased early-stage exploration work in $11.9per pound.
Chile in areas outside of the existing core locations of the Centinela District and Los Pelambres.
Turnover from silver decreased by $23.4 million to $78.3 million in 2013 2012 $101.7 million.
The decrease was mainly due to a decrease in the realised Charges to the income statement for mine closure rehabilitation costs silver price from $31.1 per ounce in 2012 to $22.7 per ounce in 2013, partially increased by $70.0 million in 2013.
Operating costs at Los Pelambres and offset by increased sales volumes of 3,500 ounces 2012 3,300 ounces.
Michilla included one-off charges totalling $58.0 million, reecting increases in their closure provisions following updated assessments performed by Turnover from the transport and water divisions external consultants during 2013.
Turnover from the transport division FCAB increased by $6.2 million or Operating costs excluding depreciation and amortisation 3.3% to $196.6 million.
This mainly reected an increase in tariffs, partly at the transport and water divisions offset by a decrease in rail tonnages.
Turnover at Aguas fide Antofagasta, which operates the Groups water business, increased by $2.5 million or Operating costs at the transport division increased by $5.0 million to 1.9% to $135.9 million in 2013, due to a number of factors including $119.8million.
This was mainly due to the costs of a major maintenance increased demand from both regulated and unregulated customers.
Operating costs at the water division increased by $6.1million to $58.2 million, mainly due to increased labour and maintenance costs.
Strategic report 68 Financial review Financial review EBITDA and operating profit from subsidiaries Net finance expense and joint ventures Net finance expense in 2013 was $74.2 million, compared with a net finance expense of $90.9 million in 2012.
EBITDA Year ended Year ended EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortisation 31.12.13 31.12.12 fromsubsidiaries and joint ventures decreased by $1,162.2 million or 30.1% $m $m to $2,702.2 million in 2013 2012 $3,864.4 million.
Investment income 12.6 24.6 EBITDA at the mining division decreased by 31.3% from $3,707.5 million Interest expense 62.0 85.9 in2012 to $2,547.7 million in 2013.
As explained above, this was mainly due Other finance items 24.8 29.6 to the decrease in the realised copper price and higher unit costs, partly Net finance expense 74.2 90.9 offset by increased volumes of metal sold.
EBITDA at the transport division increased by $1.2 million to $76.8 million Interest income decreased from $24.6 million in 2012 to $12.6 million in in2013, reecting the increased revenue as explained above.
The water 2013, reecting lower average cash balances and average rates received.
division contributed $77.7 million in 2013, compared to $81.3million last Interest expense decreased from $85.9 million in 2012 to $62.0 million in year, reecting the increased operating costs which offsetthe increased 2013, mainly due to the decrease of interest payable at Esperanza as a revenue as explained above.
Other finance items comprised a loss of $24.8 million 2012 loss of Depreciation and amortisation $29.6million.
A loss of $13.5 million 2012 loss of $12.4 million has been Depreciation and amortisation increased by $23.5 million to $517.7 million recognised in respect of the time value element of changes in the fair value in2013.
This increase was mainly due to the increased charge at Michilla, of commodity derivative options, which is excluded from the designated where depreciation increased by $42.1 million compared with the prior year, hedging relationship, and is therefore recognised directly in profit or loss.
partly offset by decreased depreciation at Esperanza as a result of the Foreign exchange gains included in finance items were $2.9 million in 2013, extension of its mine life.
In 2013 there was a loss on disposal of property, compared with a loss of $4.8 million in the previous year.
An expense of plant and equipment of $12.4 million, compared with a gain on disposal $14.2 million 2012 $12.4 million has been recognised in relation to the of$3.3 million in the prior year.
unwinding of the discount on provisions.
Provision against carrying values of intangibles and property, profit before tax plant and equipment exceptional items in the prior year As a result of the factors set out above, profit before tax decreased There were no impairments or other exceptional items recorded in 2013. by$678.3 million or 24.6% to $2,083.5 million in 2013, compared with During the prior year, development of the Antucoya project was temporarily $2,761.8million in 2012.
Excluding exceptional items, profit before tax suspended in December 2012 while a review of the project was undertaken.
decreased by $1,178.3 million or 36.1% compared with $3,261.8 million An impairment review was performed in respect of the project as at in2012.
31December 2012, and as a consequence an impairment of $500 million was recognised in respect of the projects assets at that date.
Income tax expense Theresumption of the project was announced on 27 March 2013 following The tax charge for the year was $843.7 million 2012 $1,022.2 million and conclusion of the project review.
There has been no adjustment to the the effective tax rate was 40.5% 2012 37.0%.
impairment provision recorded in 2012 during the current year.
Year ended Effective Year ended Effective Operating profit from subsidiaries 31.12.13 tax rate 31.12.12 tax rate $m % $m % As a result of the above factors, operating profit from subsidiaries decreased profit before tax 2,083.5 2,761.8 by 24.4% to $2,172.1 million.
Taxes current Share of results from associates and joint ventures anddeferred Corporation tax 455.0 21.8 703.2 25.5 The Groups share of results from its associates and joint ventures was Royalty 99.2 4.8 177.6 6.4 aloss of $14.4 million 2012 loss of $20.8 million, an improvement of $6.4million.
This reected improved earnings at Inversiones Hornitos, Withholding tax 289.1 13.9 141.7 5.1 aswellas lower expenditure in respect of the Tethyan joint venture.
Exchange rate 0.4 0.0 0.3 0.0 Total tax charge 843.7 40.5 1,022.2 37.0 Effective tax rate excluding exceptional items 40.5 31.3 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 69 The effective tax rate for 2013 varies from the standard rate of Chilean Earnings per share corporation tax of 20%, principally due to the additional mining tax royalty and withholding tax.
Year ended Year ended 31.12.13 31.12.12 Corporation first category tax cents cents Earnings per share including exceptional items 66.9 105.2 The rate of corporation first category tax in Chile is 20%.
The effective Earnings per share excluding exceptional items 66.9 140.7 rateof corporation tax is higher than the statutory rate principally due to the impact of exploration expenditure in particular in countries outside of Chile Earnings per share calculations are based on 985,856,695 ordinary shares.
which did not give rise to tax credits.
As a result of the factors set out above, profit for the 2013 financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company was $659.6 million Mining tax compared with $1,037.2 million in 2012.
Accordingly, earnings per share The Groups mining operations are also subject to a mining tax royalty.
were 66.9 cents in 2013 compared with 105.2 cents in 2012, a decrease From 1 January 2013 production from Los Pelambres, the Tesoro Central of36.4%.
and Mirador pits at El Tesoro and Michilla has been subject to the mining tax profit for the 2013 financial year attributable to equity holders of the at a rate of 4% applied to taxable operating profit, and Esperanza has been Company excluding exceptional items was $659.6 million, compared with subject to a rate of 5%.
Production from the Tesoro North-East pit andthe $1,387.1million in 2012.
Basic earnings per share, excluding exceptional Run-of-Mine processing at El Tesoro has been subject to a rate of514% items detailed in Note 4 to the financial statements, were 66.9 cents in oftaxable operating profit based on a sliding scale with the minimum rate 2013compared with 140.7 cents in 2012, a decrease of 52.4%.
of5% applying to operations with an operating profit margin ofbelow 35% and the maximum rate of 14% applied to operations with anoperating profit Dividends margin above 85%.
During 2012 production from LosPelambres, Esperanza, the Tesoro Central and Mirador pits at El Tesoro andMichilla Dividends per share proposed in relation to the year are as follows: was subject to a rate of between 49% of taxable operating profit, and 2013 2012 production from the Tesoro North-East pit and the Run-of-Mine processing cents cents atEl Tesoro was subject to a rate of between 514%, depending on the Ordinary levelof operating profit margin.
Interim 8.9 8.5 Withholding taxes Final 86.1 12.5 In addition to corporation first category tax and the mining tax, the Group 95.0 21.0 incurs withholding taxes on any remittance of profits from Chile, and Special deferred tax is provided on undistributed earnings to the extent that Interim remittance is probable in the foreseeable future.
Withholding tax is levied Final 77.5 onremittances of profits from Chile at 35% less corporation first category tax already paid in respect of the profits to which the remittances relate.
77.5 Prior to 2011 the rate of first category tax had been 17% for a number of Total dividends to ordinary shareholders 95.0 98.5 years.
Accordingly, withholding tax has been levied at a rate of 18% in The Board determines the appropriate dividend each year based on respect of remittances of profits earned prior to 2011 when the corporation consideration of the Groups cash balance, the level of free cash ow and first category tax rate was 17%.
Withholding tax will be levied at a rate of earnings generated during the year and significant known or expected 15% inrespect of remittances of profits earned from 2011 onwards when funding commitments.
It is expected that the total annual dividend for each the current rate of corporation first category tax of 20% is applied.
year would represent a payout ratio based on net earnings for that year of atleast 35%.
Non-controlling interests The Board has recommended a final dividend for 2013 of 86.1 cents per profit for the financial year attributable to non-controlling interests was ordinary share, which amounts to $848.8 million and if approved at the $580.2 million, compared with $702.4 million in 2012, reecting lower profit Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 23 May 2014 to shareholders on the attributable to the non-controlling interests as a consequence of the Register at the close of business on 25 April 2014.
This gives total dividends decrease in the earnings of the mining operations analysed above, partly for the year of 95.0 cents, including the interim dividend of 8.9 cents.
offset by the impact of the portion of the impairment loss attributable to thenon-controlling interests at Antucoya in the prior year.
Capital expenditure Capital expenditure increased by $455.2 million from $1,003.5 million in2012 to $1,458.7 million in 2013.
This was mainly due to the ongoing construction of the Antucoya project.
Strategic report 70 Financial review Financial review Derivative financial instruments Cash ows The Group periodically uses derivative financial instruments to reduce The key features of the Group cash ow statement are summarised in the exposure to commodity price movements.
At 31 December 2013 the Group had min-max instruments for 36,000 tonnes of copper production at Michilla covering a total period up to Year ended Year ended 31December 2014.
The weighted average remaining period covered by 31.12.13 31.12.12 $m $m themin-max hedges calculated with effect from 1 January 2014 was 6.5months.
The instruments had a weighted average oor of 331.7 cents Cash ows from operations 2,659.2 3,826.0 per pound and a weighted average cap of 433.0 cents per pound.
Income tax paid 896.5 901.2 Theportion maturing in 2014 represents approximately 80% of Michillas Net interest paid 43.2 63.3 forecast production, and approximately 5% of Group copper production Capital contributions and loan to associates 128.2 39.8 forthat year.
The Groups exposure to the copper price will be limited by Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries 351.8 theextent of these instruments.
Capital increase from non-controlling interest 109.9 26.8 At 31 December 2013 the Group had futures contracts for 11,205 tonnes ofcopper production, predominantly at El Tesoro, with the effect of Acquisition of available-for-sale investments 2.1 1.5 swapping COMEX prices for LME prices without impacting the general Proceeds from available-for-sale investment 1.4 market price exposure.
Details of the mark-to-market position of these Purchase of property, plant and equipment 1,344.8 873.5 instruments at 31 December 2013, together with details of any interest Proceeds from sale of property, plant and andexchange derivatives held by the Group, are given in Note 24 d equipment 10.6 9.3 tothenancial statements.
Purchase of intangible assets 3.9 The Group periodically uses foreign exchange derivatives to cover expectedoperational cash ow needs.
At 31 December 2013 the Group Dividends paid to equity holders of the Company 975.0 438.7 hadcross-currency swaps with a principal value of $96.0 million relating Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 452.1 702.5 toMichilla to swap Chilean pesos for US dollars, at an average rate Other items 0.2 0.9 ofCh$544.4 $1, covering a total period up to 15 December 2014.
Changes in net cash relating to cash ows 1,062.4 1,271.4 Theweighted average remaining period covered by these hedges, Exchange and other non-cash movements 29.1 8.4 calculated with effect from 1 January 2014, is 6.6 months.
Between 31December 2013 and 31 January 2014 $8.0 million of cross-currency Movement in net cash in the year 1,091.5 1,263.0 swaps matured.
Net cash at the beginning of the year 2,402.7 1,139.7 The Group also periodically uses interest rate swaps to swap the oating Net cash at the end of the year 1,311.2 2,402.7 rate interest for xed rate interest.
At 31 December 2013 the Group had Cash ows from operations were $2,659.2 million in 2013 compared with entered into contracts in relation to the Esperanza nancing for a maximum $3,826.0 million last year, a decrease of 30.5%.
This reected EBITDA for notional amount of $191.3 million at a weighted average xed rate of 3.372% theyear of $2,702.2 million 2012 $3,864.4 million and the decrease maturing in August 2018. innetworking capital of $43.0 million 2012 decrease of $38.4 million.
Commodity price sensitivities Cash tax payments in the year were $896.5 million 2012 $901.2 million, comprising corporation tax of $528.0 million 2012 $527.5 million, Based on 2013 production volumes and without taking into account miningtax of $160.0 million 2012 $226.5 million and withholding tax theeffects of provisional pricing and any hedging activity, a change in of$208.5 million 2012 $147.2 million.
These amounts differ from the commodity prices would affect turnover and profit before tax and earnings current tax charge in the Consolidated income statement of $686.0 million per share as follows: 2012 $871.6 million mainly because the cash tax payments for corporation tax and the mining tax comprise monthly payments on account Increase in turnover Increase in in respect of the estimated current year tax charge, which is estimated Amount of and profit earnings per increasein price $m before tax share cents based on prior year profits, as well as a settlement of any outstanding balance for the previous year.
Copper $0.10 lb 158.9 7.9 Contributions and loans to associates of $128.2 million in 2013 are mainly Molybdenum $1 lb 19.8 0.9 related to the Groups share of the funding of the development of the Gold $100 ounce 29.4 1.5 AltoMaipo project, in which the Group acquired a 40% interest in 2013.
Cash disbursements relating to capital expenditure in 2013 were $1,344.8million compared with $873.5 million in 2012.
This included expenditure of $596.5 million at Antucoya 2012 $313.6 million, $194.6million 2012 $164.0 million relating to Los Pelambres, $339.4million relating to Esperanza 2012 $131.0 million and $124.1million 2012 $132.3 million relating to El Tesoro.
Dividends including special dividends paid to ordinary shareholders of theCompany this year were $975.0 million 2012 $438.7 million, which related to the final dividend declared in respect of the previous year and theinterim dividend in respect of the current year.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 71 Dividends paid by subsidiaries to non-controlling shareholders were Cautionary statement about forward- $452.1million 2012 $702.5 million, consisting mainly of distributions byLos Pelambres and El Tesoro.
looking statements This annual report contains forward-looking statements.
All statements Financial position otherthan historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Examples of forward-looking statements include those regarding the Groups strategy, plans, objectives or future operating or financial performance: reserve and At 31.12.13 At 31.12.12 $m $m resource estimates: commodity demand and trends in commodity prices: growth opportunities: and any assumptions underlying or relating to any Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 2,685.1 4,291.9 ofthe foregoing.
Words such as intend, aim, project, anticipate, Total borrowings 1,373.9 1,889.2 estimate, plan, believe, expect, may, should, will, continue Net cash at the end of the year 1,311.2 2,402.7 andsimilar expressions identify forward-looking statements.
At 31 December 2013 the Group had combined cash, cash equivalents and Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, liquid investments of $2,685.1 million 2012 $4,291.9 million.
Excluding the uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that are beyond the Groups non-controlling interest share in each partly-owned operation, the Groups control.
Given these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, actual results attributable share of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments was could differ materially from any future results expressed or implied by these $2,420.8 million 2012 $3,860.2 million.
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report.
Important factors that could cause actual results to differ from those New borrowings in the year amounted to $198.7 million 2012 in the forward-looking statements include: global economic conditions: $109.0million, mainly due to new short-term borrowings at Esperanza demand, supply and prices for copper: long-term commodity price of$125.0 million and Antucoya of $63.0 million.
Repayments of borrowings assumptions, as they materially affect the timing and feasibility of future and finance leasing obligations in the year were $722.2 million, relating projects and developments: trends in the copper mining industry and mainly to regular repayments on existing loans at Los Pelambres of conditions of the international copper markets: the effect of currency $142.2million 2012 $134.7 million and the repayment of senior and exchange rates on commodity prices and operating costs: the availability subordinated debt at Esperanza of $300.6 million and $55.8 million and costs associated with mining inputs and labour: operating or technical respectively and repayment El Tesoro senior debt of $83.4 million.
difficulties in connection with mining or development activities: employee Total Group borrowings at 31 December 2013 were $1,373.9 million relations: litigation: and actions and activities of governmental authorities, 2012$1,889.2 million.
Of this, $948.5 million 2012 $1,295.6 million including changes in laws, regulations or taxation.
Except as required by isproportionally attributable to the Group after excluding the non-controlling applicable law, rule or regulation, the Group does not undertake any interest shareholdings in partly-owned operations.
obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Balance sheet Past performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
Long-term provisions increased from $384.6 million at 31 December 2012 to$494.3 million at 31 December 2013.
This was due to an increase in Strategic report approved by order of the Board theprovision for future mine decommissioning and restoration costs at LosPelambres and Michilla following updated assessments performed byexternal consultants during 2013, partly offset by a reduction in the discounted present-value of the provision at Esperanza as a result of theextension of its mine life.
Jean-Paul Luksic William Hayes Foreign currency exchange dierences Chairman Senior Independent Director and Chairman Audit and Risk Committee The principal subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the US dollar 17 March 2014 are Chilean peso denominated, of which the most significant is Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A.
Exchange rates used to translate the results of such subsidiaries are given in Note 34 to the financial statements.
In 2013 the currency translation loss recognised in net equity of $20.8 million resulted mainly from the weakening in the Chilean peso during the year from Ch$479.9 $1 at the start of 2013 to Ch$524.6 $1 at the end of 2013.
In2012 the currency translation gain recognised in net equity of $14.4 million resulted mainly from the strengthening in the Chilean peso during the yearfrom Ch$519.2 $1 at the start of 2012 to Ch$479.9 $1 at the endof2012.
Going concern The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Details of the factors which have been taken into account in assessing the Groups going concern status are set out within the Directors report.
72 Governance Go vernance Board of Directors 74 Antofagasta Minerals Executive Committee 76 Corporate governance report 79 Remuneration report 90 Directors report 101 Directors responsibilities 103 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 73
