Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 101 Going concern Political contributions The Groups business activities, together with those factors likely to The Group made political donations of $2.3 million during the year affect its future performance, are set out in the Operational review ended 31 December 2013 in relation to the presidential and local on pages 32 to 63.
Details of the cash ows of the Group during elections in Chile 2012 donations of $1.2 million were made in relation the year, along with its financial position at the year-end are set out to local elections in Chile.
These donations were made via the Chilean in the Financial review on pages 64 to 71.
The financial statements Electoral Management Body, which anonymously transfers funds to include details of the Groups cash, cash equivalent and liquid political parties and candidates.
investment balances in Note 21 to the financial statements, and details of borrowings are set out in Note 22 to the financial statements.
Capital structure Details ofthe Groups financial risk management, including details ofthe management of liquidity and counterparty risk, are set out Details of the authorised and issued ordinary share capital, including inNote 24 to the financial statements.
details of any movements in the issued share capital during the year, are shown in Note 29 to the financial statements.
The Company has In assessing the Groups going concern status, the Directors, with one class of ordinary shares, which carry no right to xed income.
detailed assistance from the Audit and Risk Committee, have taken Each ordinary share carries one vote at any general meeting of into account the above factors, including the financial position of the theCompany.
Details of the preference share capital are shown in Group and in particular its significant balance of cash, cash equivalents Note 22 to the financial statements.
The preference shares are nonand liquid investments, the borrowing facilities in place and their terms, redeemable and are entitled to a xed cumulative dividend of 5% thecurrent copper price and market expectations in the medium term, per annum.
Each preference share carries 100 votes on a poll at any the Groups expected operating cost prole and its capital expenditure general meeting of the Company.
The nominal value of the issued and nancing plans.
ordinary share capital is 96.1% of the total sterling nominal value of all issued share capital, and the nominal value of the issued preference After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors consider that the share capital is 3.9% of the total sterling nominal value of all issued Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue share capital.
in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the There are no specic restrictions on the transfer of shares or on financial statements.
their voting rights beyond those standard provisions set out in the Companys Articles of Association and other provisions of applicable Results and dividends law and regulation including, in particular, following a failure to provide the Company with information about interests in shares as required The consolidated profit before tax has decreased from $2,761.8 million by the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not aware of any in 2012 to $2,083.5 million in 2013. agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 86.1 cents 2012 90.0cents per ordinary share.
An interim dividend of 8.9 cents was The Company has the authority to purchase up to 98,585,669 of paid on 12 October 2013 2012 interim dividend 8.5 cents.
This gives its own ordinary shares, representing 10% of the issued ordinary total dividends per share proposed in relation to 2013 of 95.0 cents share capital.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of 2012 98.5 cents.
The total amount ofdividends paid to ordinary Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, shareholders proposed in relation to 2013 will be $936.5 million, the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012, the Companies Act 2006 compared with $971.1 million in 2012. and related legislation.
The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
There are no significant Preference shares carry the right to a xed cumulative dividend of 5% agreements in place which take effect, alter or terminate upon a per annum.
The preference shares are classied within borrowings change of control of the Company.
There are no agreements in place and preference dividends are included within finance costs.
The total between the Company and its Directors or employees which provide cost of dividends paid on preference shares and recognised as an for compensation for loss of ofce resulting from a change of control expense in the income statement was $0.2 million 2012 $0.2 million.
Further information relating to dividends is set out in the Financial review on page 69, and in Note 12 to the financial statements.
102 Governance Directors report Metalinvest Establishment and Kupferberg Establishment are both Directors interests and indemnities controlled by the E. Abaroa Foundation, in which members of the Details of Directors contracts and letters of appointment, remuneration Luksic family are interested.
As explained in Note 39 to the financial and emoluments, and their interests in the shares of the Company as at statements, Metalinvest Establishment is the immediate Parent 31 December 2013 are given in the Remuneration report.
No Director Company of the Group and the E. Abaroa Foundation is the ultimate had any material interest in a contract of signicance other than a Parent Company.
Aureberg Establishment is controlled by Jean-Paul service contract with the Company or any subsidiary company during Luksic, the Chairman of the Company.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to Other statutory disclosures the extent permitted by the laws of England and Wales, Directors The corporate governance report on pages 72 to 89 of this are granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of liabilities annual report and Notes 24 and 38 to the financial statements are personally incurred as a result of their ofce.
In respect of those incorporated into the Directors report by reference.
matters for which the Directors may or may not be indemnified, the Company maintained a Directors and Ofcers liability insurance policy Other information can be found in the following sections of the throughout the financial year.
A new policy has been entered into for Strategic report.
Location in Strategic Conicts of interest Information report The Companies Act 2006 requires that a Director must avoid a Future developments in the business of the Group Pages 36 to 49 situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conicts, or possibly may conict, with the Companys interests.
Subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures The Company has undertaken a process to identify and, where and FCAB branch Pages 36 to 49 appropriate, authorise and manage potential and actual conicts.
Employee consultation Pages 56 to 57 Each Director has identied his interests that may constitute conicts including, for example, directorships in other companies.
The Board Greenhouse gas emissions Pages 61 to 62 has considered the potential and actual conict situations of each of the Directors and decided in relation to each situation whether to authorise it and the steps, if any, which need to be taken to manage it.
By order of the Board The authorisation process is not regarded as a substitute for managing an actual conict of interest if one arises.
The monitoring and, if appropriate, authorisation of actual and potential conicts of interest is an ongoing process.
Directors are required to notify the Company of any material changes in those positions or situations that have already been considered, as well as to notify the Company of any other new For and on behalf of positions or situations that may arise.
In addition to considering any new situations as they arise, the Board usually considers the conict Petershill Secretaries Limited position of all Directors formally each year.
Company Secretary 17 March 2014 Substantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2013 and 17 March 2014, the following significant holdings of voting rights in the share capital of the Company had been disclosed to the Company under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: Ordinary share Preference Total Table of substantial capital share capital share capital shareholdings % % % Metalinvest Establishment 50.72 94.12 58.04 Kupferberg Establishment 9.94 8.27 Blackrock Inc. 5.10 4.24 Aureberg Establishment 4.26 3.54
