DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report shares of the company on 4 January 2013.
At the 2013 annual general meeting all of The directors present their annual report The net cost of this dividend was 15.3m the directors will retire and, being eligible, and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2012, 14.7m.
will offer themselves for re-election.
The directors who served throughout the The directors recommend a final dividend year in review were as follows: Activities and results of 8.23p per share 2012, 7.74p for the 52 The principal activity of the group is weeks ended 2 March 2013, the net cost Andrew Higginson 1 multi-channel retailing.
The activities are of which will be 22.9m 2012, 21.5m.
Non-executive Chairman more fully explained and reviewed in The dividend will be paid on 26 July 2013.
Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE the Chief Executives Review on pages 2 Non-executive Chairman 10 to 13.
Group profit before taxation Movements in reserves are shown in the Alan White from continuing operations for the 52 Statement of Changes in Equity on page 47.
Chief Executive Officer weeks ended 2 March 2013 amounted to Dean Moore 96.4m 2012, 96.9m.
No geographical Acquisitions and disposals Finance Director segmentation is provided because, other In the year under review there were no than small operations in the Republic of corporate acquisitions or disposals.
Ivan Fallon Ireland, Germany and the United States, all Senior Independent Non-executive Director activities take place in the United Kingdom.
Share capital Anna Ford Details of the companys issued share Non-executive Director Business Review capital are shown in note 22 on page 65.
John McGuire The company is required by the The company has one class of ordinary Non-executive Director Companies Act 2006 Companies Act shares which carry no fixed income.
Lord Stone of Blackheath to set out in this report a fair review of the Each share carries the right to one vote 3 Non-executive Director business of the group during the 52 weeks at general meetings of the company.
The ended 2 March 2013 and the position ordinary shares are listed on the Official Nigel Alliance OBE 4 of the group at the end of that period to List and are traded on the London Non-executive Director enable shareholders to assess how the Stock Exchange.
There are no specific 1 Appointed Chairman 1 September 2012 directors have performed the duty under restrictions on the size of a holding nor 2 Retired as Chairman 1 September 2012 Section 172 of the Companies Act duty to on the transfer of shares which are both 3 Resigned 2 January 2013 promote the success of the company.
governed by the general provisions of 4 Resigned 2 January 2013 The company is also required to set the Articles of Association and prevailing out a description of the principal risks legislation except as set out below In addition Simon Patterson, Fiona and uncertainties facing the group.
in the section entitled Voting Rights Laird and Ron McMillan, having been The information fulfilling these and Restrictions on Transfers.
No appointed directors since the last annual requirements can be found within person has any special rights over the general meeting, will stand for election.
this report, the Chairmans Statement, companys share capital and all issued Biographical details for Simon, Fiona and the Chief Executives Review and the shares are fully paid.
Financial Review pages 8 to 15, all of which information is incorporated by Details of outstanding employee share Details of directors interests beneficial cross-reference into this report and is options and the operation of the relevant and non-beneficial in shares of the deemed to form part of it.
schemes are shown in note 27 on company are given in the Remuneration page 67.
Report on page 42 and are deemed to The board continuously strives to identify be incorporated into this report by and review key business risks and The directors have no current plans to cross-reference.
monitors a number of financial and nonissue shares other than in connection with financial Key Performance Indicators.
The powers of directors are described The financial KPIs are detailed on page in the board terms of reference and the 14 and non-financial KPIs are discussed Annual general meeting Corporate Governance Report on page 28. further below.
The board oversees the The annual general meeting will be held on development of processes to manage risks Tuesday, 2 July 2013.
The notice convening No director had any interest in any appropriately.
The executive directors and the annual general meeting will be sent disclosable contract or arrangements, operating board directors implement and to members by way of separate circular.
other than a contract of service, with the oversee risk management processes and Explanatory notes on each resolution to be company or any subsidiary company either report to the board on them.
proposed at the meeting will accompany during or at the end of the year.
As required by the Code, pages 4 to 15 Directors and officers liabilities provide an explanation of the basis on Directors The group maintains insurance for which the company generates value and The biographies of the current directors, directors and officers of the group, preserves it over the long-term and its are shown on page 16.
With regard to indemnifying them against certain liabilities strategy for delivering its objectives.
the appointment and replacement of incurred by them whilst acting on behalf directors, the company is governed by of the group.
In accordance with section Dividends and reserves its Articles of Association, the UK 236 of the Companies Act, qualifying third An interim dividend of 5.45p per share Corporate Governance Code and the party indemnity provisions are in place 2012, 5.29p was paid on the ordinary Companies Act.
18 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT for the directors in respect of liabilities Rules, the following notifications had been incurred as a result of their office, to the received from holders of notifiable interests extent permitted by law.
Both the insurance in the companys issued share capital at and indemnities applied throughout the 30 April 2013: financial year ended 2 March 2013 and through to the date of this report.
Major shareholders In addition to the directors shareholdings shown in the Remuneration Report on page 42 and in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Holding % of issued share capital Nigel Alliance OBE 31,489,256 11.11 INVESCO Asset Management Ltd 18,884,510 5.96 Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd 15,355,580 5.42 Artemis Investment Management LLP 8,513,327 3.00 Environmental, social and foster an inclusive team-working through him, to the board of directors.
governance issues environment in which praise and recognition play key roles.
Since 2007, the group has been actively Governance and risk management working alongside its environmental The board is committed to maintaining Directors of all group companies are partners, Envantage Limited and high standards of corporate governance.
required to disclose details of related party Viridor Limited, to boost environmental The company monitors and evaluates transactions for review and authorisation performance and increase grouprisk on an on-going basis as part of its by the audit committee and by the board.
wide environmental awareness and commitment to sustainable business.
Ongoing investment Further details are contained in the A gifts and hospitality register requires all into energy, carbon, waste and water Corporate Governance Report on pages employees to record any gift or hospitality minimisation initiatives has led to a 28 to 32. offered by suppliers and other parties.
considerable reduction in our carbon Monthly returns are required from all emissions and water footprint profiles.
Ethical standards directors and employees declaring any The board regards the maintenance of the offer with a value of 25 or more, and highest ethical standards in business as an stating whether any offer was accepted essential characteristic of the way in which or declined.
the group conducts all of its business.
A code of ethical conduct covering A whistleblowing policy and confidential commercial standards, bribery and hotline provides employees with a secure corruption, conflicts of interest, gifts and and private means of reporting any ethical hospitality has been adopted by the group.
concerns that they may have regarding All senior managers and employees of the the way the group or any employee is group are required to comply with both the behaving in day-to-day activities.
letter and the spirit of the code in all their No whistleblowing events were dealings for and on behalf of the group.
In dealings with each other, shareholders, Environment customers, suppliers, competitors, regulatory authorities and the wider Overview community, all employees are required to: Our sustainability strategy and environmental performance has become conduct dealings with honesty, integrity, an integral element of our core business respect and fairness: strategy.
As a responsible multi-channel comply with all relevant laws, regulations retailer, we have formally committed to and internal company policy: reduction targets and continually strive to encourage and support a business exceed expectations of our customers, culture which promotes sound ethical staff and investors.
Group-wide conduct at all levels within sustainability responsibility has been the organisation: assigned to Ian Carr, director of logistics, avoid any situation or action, which who sits on the operational board of could cause a conflict of interest or J D Williams & Company Limited and who damage to the groups reputation: and reports to the Chief Executive Officer and, N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 19 DIRECTORS REPORT Achievements As referred to above, we have committed expressed in tCO2e.
We have also Annual measurement and reporting of full to an emissions reduction target which committed to further waste and Green House Gasses GHG emission, includes group wide electricity, natural gas water reduction targets across some water and waste footprint profiles are and diesel associated GHG emissions.
The of the group which are evaluated on an carried out.
In this report we have focused reduction target is founded on a base year absolute basis.
on key emissions and water figures of performance during the financial year and achievements against our imposed 2007 08.
Calculated GHG emissions are The table below illustrates achieved reduction targets.
evaluated against annual turnover figures targets to date and on-going targets: Scope Units Target from Date to be Status 07-08 levels achieved 2 GHG Emissions: T onnes Co million 15% 2012 Achieved turnover relative Electricity Natural Gas 30% 2017 On-going Diesel 1 Waste Tonnes Zero to landfill 2013 On-going 2 Water absolute 25% 2017 On-going 1.
Across sites where waste is controlled by the group.
Across sites with water meters Absolute energy and emissions consumptions and related GHG emissions evaluation from 07 08 to 12 13.
Figures are expressed The tables below illustrate group wide on an absolute basis.
There was a slight Simply Be stores and longer operating increase of only 2% is lower than would increase in 2012 2013 on the previous year hours across our logistic sites.
20 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT Relative emissions evaluation on a relative basis to take into account the The table below illustrates group wide growth of the group.
Since 07 08 the group GHG emissions from 07 08 to 12 13 has reduced emissions per million turnover in comparison with group turnover.
by an impressive 20% due to the continued Figures are expressed in terms of tCO2e environmental improvement and investment per million.
Emissions history is analysed the group has undertaken since 07 08.
at its main operating sties.
Working with Summary The table below summarises the groups performance against our committed reduction targets.
Scope Units Target reduction Date to be Current performance Status from 07-08 levels achieved 2012-2013 2 GHG Emissions: Tonnes Co million Electricity turnover relative Natural Gas 30% 2017 20% On track Diesel 3 Waste Tonnes absolute Zero to landfill 2013 99.98% On track 4 Water Cubic metres 25% 2017 28% Exceeding absolute target 3.
Across sites with water meters The continued investment and Future planned expenditure into resource environmentally responsible retailer in development of our sustainability efficiency, effective management and todays low carbon society.
strategy has allowed the group to achieve awareness campaigns, will allow the impressive results since 07 08. group to continue to proposer as an N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 21 DIRECTORS REPORT Employees In addition we offer placements within the the aptitude of the applicant being The Chief Executive has board level Buying and Merchandising function.
In the event of responsibility for employment matters.
any employee becoming disabled during In 2012 2013, 13% of our recruitment their employment, every effort is made Employee involvement - Our success was achieved through our Employee to ensure that their employment with has been substantially contributed to by Referral Programme which is a the group continues and the group will an engaged, enthusiastic, motivated and programme whereby existing endeavour to assist the employee by well-trained workforce.
Considerable employees can recommend friends offering additional training, adapting the resources are devoted to employee and relatives to fill vacancies.
job if appropriate or by offering a transfer training, with a large dedicated training to another position.
It is the policy of the team based in the contact centre with An employee profit share scheme has group that the training, career development around 40 people providing customer been introduced to enable employees and promotion of disabled persons should, service and systems training to ensure to participate in the companys success.
as far as possible, be identical to that of our customers receive the highest Bonus levels for the 2013 14 scheme other employees.
This year we provide an enhanced bonus entitlement have launched a new certified bespoke for certain junior grades, providing Health and safety - The health, safety leadership programme for all 50 Team greater benefit differentials for employees and welfare at work of its employees, Leaders.
In contractors and visitors is paramount as addition the companys grading structure is ensuring compliance with all relevant A management development team has been enhanced by the introduction of legislation.
The group is also committed based at head office provides learning two new grades to allow enhanced career to best practice initiatives.
and development support for both the progression and better alignment of pay head office teams and all subsidiary and and benefits.
As we increase the number of our retail support divisions.
The entire management outlets, we have increased Health & Safety team undergoes a bespoke 360 process Consultation - Constructive relationships resources to ensure that all areas of the every two years with the intention of with the trade unions that represent the business meet the same exacting safety ensuring every employee understands the groups employees principally USDAW standards that we demand throughout.
impact they have on the teams around and SATA exist.
Elements of the group them.
The Customer Services Division are covered by a collective bargaining Cumulative group accident statistics show also runs an engagement survey every arrangement with USDAW.
Union that for the year in review, reportable two years to check engagement level membership is encouraged and regular accidents under Reporting of Injuries, at a team level across the group.
communication with the union is facilitated Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences A consultative forum operates within the through partnership forums established Regulations 1995 RIDDOR have reduced.
logistics division where employees from on the principle of shared commitment to The ratio of employee number to RIDDORs all levels contribute and share ideas that business success, employment security has fallen from 0.04% to 0.03% from the help shape the culture of the business.
and development with a particular previous year in review.
This year the Logistics and Customer emphasis on quality of life, openness and Services divisions have also achieved adding value.
In the year in review, the group ratio of Investors in People accreditation at Silver accidents per employee remain static at and Gold standard.
Over 500 group Equal opportunities - The group supports 0.6%.
This reflects the work completed to employees either hold shares in the the principle of equal opportunities in ensure that our new retail sites maintain company or have options awards to acquire employment and is opposed to all forms the tight safety standards expected within them through the groups various share of discrimination, including those on the the group to retain this figure.
option and long-term incentive schemes.
grounds of colour, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion, gender, age, The groups Health & Safety and A large proportion of the groups training sexual orientation, marital status Human Resources departments are and development work is delivered by the or disability.
complimented by the Occupational Health HR learning and development team, which Department, whose focus is to look after is supplemented by external training in Our selection processes for recruitment, the well-being of the groups employees.
specialist technical and IT training areas promotion, training and development are The department provides advice, guidance where necessary as well as individually non-discriminatory.
We believe it is in and support on peoples fitness to work, tailored training, there is also a suite of the best interests of employees and the on-site physiotherapy, chiropody and a self-training tools available and an online group to provide these opportunities to the counselling service.
database, simply development which most suitable candidates, and to achieve enables employees to access a wide a balanced working population spread We endeavour to ensure that all products range of self-development activities, across a diverse range of ethnic origins, and services sold by the group or used tools and information.
in the workplace are safe and without risk to employees and customers when The company has developed close Applications for employment by used properly.
relationships with local universities to retain disabled persons are thoroughly and talent within the northwest.
We now offer sympathetically considered, with graduate schemes in Buying, Quality & IT.
22 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT Customers proportion of customer telephone 8.
Regular employment is practiced A key factor of the groups success is payments and parcel collection requests.
No harsh or inhumane treatment is the strength of relationships with our We continue to invest in improved speed allowed customers and their levels of satisfaction of product deliveries to our customers with our group products and services.
and to offer more delivery service options As an integral part of ensuring that such as next-day or nominated day of our suppliers comply with the Code of We aim to attract and retain customers delivery.
E-mails inform customers about Conduct and implement processes and through a highly competitive product and their order and account status.
procedures to enable this, we regularly service offering, regularly monitoring retail audit and risk assess our suppliers.
and home-shopping sector developments Service developments are planned This is done with a combination of to stay in touch with our marketplace.
to further enhance our multi-channel external audits carried out by external Insights into our customers needs and customer experience with new parties and also some due diligence expectations are regularly updated capabilities to offer personalisation and checks from our internal ethical trading through customer satisfaction surveys choice.
Individual customer needs and team.
The audits are always carried out conducted both directly and through preferences will drive their relationship to either the SMETA SEDEX Members third parties.
with us across brands, products, services, Ethical Trade Audit or to SA8000 Social channels, offers, trading terms, and Accountability International standards.
Our overall strategy is to adopt a communications.
"These standards are recognised across ""multi-channel"" approach to managing the world by most retailers and NGOs customer contacts, with the key aim Suppliers Non-Governmental Organisations."
of a joined-up and consistent customer We have joined SEDEX this year to assist experience across channels.
Ethical trading policies and compliance us in our ethical trading programme.
Our multi-channel service platforms The group is aware of its impact on This is a database that holds audits and cover web, telephone, mobile tablet, communities all over the world, wherever risk assessments for factories.
All our post, and will extend to our relatively we manufacture the products that we suppliers are encouraged to join the new UK store operations.
As part of this we have a strict system as this enables them to share their Code of Conduct that we expect all our information with any members across We continually develop our web sites for suppliers to adhere too.
This is a cost effective way richer product content, ease of use, and Conduct is based on the ETI Ethical of sharing audit information with other improved performance.
Optimisation for Trading Initiative Base Code.
This is a retailers, cuts down on audit duplication mobile tablet devices is a priority due global Code of Conduct that is used and helps to increase transparency across to the rapid growth of demand in this as a standard by retailers across the supply chains.
We also upload our own channel.
Web self-service capabilities world and especially within the UK.
"audits into the system for factories to be are delivered through a ""my account"" This is in turn based on the standards able to share this information."
In addition facility for customer order and account set out by the ILO International Labour to this we have developed our own swift management information.
Web-enabled Organisation, which is the United Nations audit system.
This is designed to be contact centre capabilities are being body that oversees international labour used after a risk assessment has been deployed to support our web-trading standards.
This Code of Conduct is carried out and it is felt that a full audit customers, including multimedia, web incorporated into our standard terms is not necessary.
Currently we have 866 chat, click-to-call and social media.
and conditions for dealing with suppliers.
suppliers operating from approximately The Code of Conduct is available in 2,260 factories, of which 87% are The group operates both in-house 6 languages Chinese, Thai, Urdu, currently compliant with our Code of and outsourced contact centres, Vietnamese, Turkish and English and we Conduct.
Suppliers are requested on at predominantly located in the UK.
Our encourage all suppliers to display this least a quarterly basis for accurate audit international businesses are supported Code of Conduct in their factories.
Our information and to check the progress through local contact centres in the Code of Conduct is also being rolled on outstanding CAPS Corrective Action U. S. A. Germany and Eire.
Enquiries out across all transactional websites to Plans.
This information is also discussed and complaints have been pro-actively inform customers of our policy, as well as by the wider buying and merchandise team reduced over recent years as a proportion being displayed in all stores.
The Code of when they travel to visit the suppliers.
We of customer order transactions, reflecting Conduct includes the following principles: have also completed a trial of giving our the introduction of more customersuppliers an ethical score on our supplier oriented policies, processes and product 1.
Employment is freely chosen scorecard.
This helps to increase visibility service standards.
Freedom of association and the right of ethical trading within buying and letter contacts received from customers to respect collective bargaining are merchandising and also encourages the are analysed and remedial actions taken respected long term relationship with the suppliers.
to improve our levels of service.
Working conditions are safe and This will be rolled out to the rest of the hygienic buying teams later this year.
Our speed of answering calls and 4.
Child labour shall not be used responding to emails has been improved 5.
Living wages are paid and made more consistent.
Working hours are not excessive speech services handle a significant 7.
No discrimination is practiced N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 23 DIRECTORS REPORT The group is a member of the ETI.
Following a recent factory fire in Future work This is a ground breaking alliance of Bangladesh ETI members have agreed Much of our future work will encompass retailers and suppliers, trade unions and some concrete measures to improve fire the new UN Guidelines for Business and non-governmental organisations.
Members and electrical safety within our supply Human Rights, also known as the Ruggie include major companies, trade unions chains.
These place responsibilities such as the TUC and non-governmental on all businesses to have policies and organisations such as Oxfam and Women 1. the setting up of a task force, of which procedures in place which should include: Working Worldwide.
The idea is that by we are members, to co-ordinate a working together we can influence change joint approach to fire and electrical policy commitment from the most for the better in all our worldwide supply safety which will include agreeing joint senior level to stipulate the human rights chains.
Members also share policies and standards which will apply to all factories expectations of the group and also other best practice which has enabled us to by involving experts in the area: related parties: introduce our own policies on banning 2. immediate review of all our factories human rights due diligence which sandblasting within our denim supply chain regarding all aspects of fire safety and should cover all aspects of the groups and also joining the Kimberley Process electrical safety: and operations either directly or indirectly: on Conflict Diamonds.
Members are open 3. lobbying the government of Bangladesh and about shared supply chains and work to improve the safety standards across processes to be in place within the together to influence collective change.
the garment sector and also improve the business to ensure any remediation that Annually we compile a detailed report on policing of the relevant laws.
is required can be acted upon.
our supply chain at factory level on 6 key management benchmarks: We have reviewed all our main agents The UK government is currently working factories in Bangladesh, which account on guidelines for businesses which we 1.
Commitment to ethical trading for 66% of our production in the country, will adopt and report on in the future.
Integrating ethical trade into the and have also developed an additional fire We will also conduct relevant human rights company culture and practices and electrical safety check which will be assessments within our supply chains.
Capacity building for suppliers rolled out to the rest of our suppliers in 4.
Identifying problems in our supply chain the country.
We will continue to ensure that our suppliers 5.
Projects and work undertaken and the group companies have a positive 6.
Public transparency We are continually working to improve and open relationship regarding ethical working conditions in garment factories in trading and we will undertake more project We are currently in the process of Bangladesh.
work with suppliers as deemed appropriate.
We submitted our first annual report for We have rolled out a Chain of Custody As part of our continued commitment 2010 2011.
We had risk assessed 1,126 system in order to comply with EU Timber to ethical trading and corporate social sites and audited 249 sites.
This will enable us to responsibility 'CSR', the board has has considerably improved for 2012 13 trace back to source all the timber used decided to establish a CSR Committee.
with us having risk assessed 2,010 sites in our supply chain and suppliers have to and audited 749 sites.
We estimate that keep auditable and reportable records to This committee will report to the board on our risk assessments and audits have fit in with this system.
all matters relating to CSR, specifically: covered over 500,000 workers.
The report is graded by an independent consultancy Our ethical trading manager has travelled looking after our environment: firm and also assessed by a nonto key markets this year both to audit ethically sourcing our products: and governmental organisation.
Our results are current suppliers and to also gain a greater working with the wider community then benchmarked against other retailer understanding of these markets.
members and a final grade is given.
has been achieved by working closely We were very pleased in our first year of with UKTI UK Trade and Investment, The committee will be chaired by Anna reporting to be graded from a Foundation Foreign and Commonwealth Office, ILO Ford and will comprise one other nonlevel, which is the entry level membership International Labour Organisation, IHRB executive director, the Finance Director, to the Improver level, which is the International Human Rights Board and the the Company Secretary and the group second level of membership.
This further ITUC International Trade Union Congress.
The committee demonstrates our commitment to ethical will set SMART Specific Measurable trading and our swift progress has been The group has also joined the All Achievable Relevant Timed targets in noted by the Ethical Trade Initiative.
Parliamentary Group on International CSR areas, and will report on progress Further information on the 2012 13 will be Corporate responsibility.
to these targets annually once established.
released when available later in the year.
The committee will have a specific budget We have also launched an intranet and will pass recommendations to the site within the group to improve board.
It is anticipated that the CSR communication and visibility of ethical committee will be established in the trading across the group.
Further information can be obtained from ethical.
24 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT Paying our suppliers Pension fund Financial risk management, objectives The groups policy for the payment The company has a defined benefit and policies of suppliers is to ensure that terms of scheme The N Brown Group Pension The group is exposed to certain payment are negotiated with suppliers Fund Pension Fund.
Its assets are financial risks, namely interest rate risk, when agreeing the terms of each administered by a trustee company currency risk, liquidity risk and credit risk transaction and to ensure that all suppliers the Trustee which is controlled by a Information regarding such financial risks is are made aware of and accept agreed board of directors and which includes detailed in note 19 on page 61.
The group continually an independent trustee and others who risk management policies and procedures reviews payment procedures and liaises represent the interests of pension fund are also discussed in the Financial Review with suppliers to eliminate difficulties and members including pensioners and the on page 15. to maintain good working relationships.
Agreed payment terms are then abided Change of control by and payment is made in accordance The Trustee has appointed Mercer Limited There are a number of agreements that with those terms.
Trade creditors of the to provide various services including take effect, alter or terminate upon a group at 2 March 2013 represented actuarial advice, investment advice, change of control of the company such 38 days 2012, 40 days of purchases.
administration services and fiduciary as commercial contracts, bank loan Trade payables days is calculated by management services.
agreements, property lease arrangements dividing the trade payables by the and employee share plans.
None of these aggregate of trade purchases and non The Pension Fund is required to undertake are considered to be significant in terms inventory expenditure multiplied by 365. an actuarial valuation every 3 years and of their likely impact on the business of the Trustee has instructed the actuary the group as a whole.
Executive Directors Community relations to undertake the valuation due as at service contracts are terminable by the The group takes great pride in its links with 30 June 2012. company on giving 12 months notice.
local communities and actively supports There are no agreements between the the communities in which it operates.
The company and some of its associated company and its directors or employees It maintains close links with the Christie companies are required to indemnify the that provide for additional compensation Hospital in Manchester and the Retail Trust Trustee company and its officers in respect for loss of office or employment that and also regularly encourages employees of certain liabilities incurred by them in the occurs because of a takeover bid.
to participate in fundraising activities performance of their obligations relating No events were reported in the year.
for these, and other worthwhile causes.
to the Pension Fund or in administration The group matches the money raised of the Pension Fund.
This amounts to a Essential contracts by employees to double the size of the qualifying indemnity provision as defined The group has a number of contractual donation.
The logistics division provide in section 236 of the Companies Act.
arrangements with suppliers both of Christmas presents and Easter Eggs for goods and services and occupies childrens wards at local hospitals, sponsor The Pension Fund was closed to new leasehold premises for the purpose of the local bonfire and firework display and entrants with effect from 31 January 2002. conducting its business.
Whilst these Christmas lights, make donations to local New employees joining the group after arrangements are important to the schools and work closely with charities 31 January 2002 and existing employees business of the group, individually none of close to home to help raise much needed who had not joined the Pension Fund them are essential to the business of the funds for good causes.
134,000 was as at that date, are entitled to join a group and do not require disclosure under raised for good causes in this way in the stakeholder pension scheme providing section 417 5 c of the Companies Act.
a defined contribution pension arrangement, administered by Prudential Tax status The family, health and well-being Stakeholder Pensions.
The company is not a close company programme, now in its ninth year, within the meaning of the Corporation continues to provide support and real The company is currently working towards Tax Act 2010. assistance for all of our employees.
the introduction of pension auto-enrolment to ensure full compliance across the group.
Charitable and political donations The People Pension has been selected During the year, the group made charitable as the auto-enrolment provider for weekly donations of 40,070 2012, 71,011. paid employees, whilst Prudential will No political donations have been made auto-enrol monthly paid employees and 2012, nil.
No contributions have been continue to run the Stakeholder Pension made to non-EU political parties 2012, nil.
for weekly employees already in the scheme.
The company has chosen to defer its staging date from 1 July 2013 to 7 September 2013 for weekly employees and 1 October 2013 for monthly employees.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 25 DIRECTORS REPORT Auditor decision.
In exercising their trustee powers In preparing the parent company financial A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the trustees may take all of the following statements, the directors are required to: auditor to the company and to authorise matters into account: the directors to fix remuneration will be select suitable accounting policies and proposed at the annual general meeting the long-term interests of beneficiaries: then apply them consistently: on 2 July 2013. the interests of beneficiaries other than make judgments and accounting financial interests: estimates that are reasonable and Voting rights and restrictions on the interests of beneficiaries in their prudent: transfer of shares capacity as employees or former state whether applicable IFRSs as None of the ordinary shares carry any employees or their dependents: adopted by the European Union have special rights with regard to control of the interests of persons whether been followed, subject to any material the company.
or not identified who may become departures disclosed and explained in beneficiaries in the future: and the financial statements: and There are no restrictions on transfers of consideration of a local, moral, ethical, prepare the financial statements on shares other than: environmental or social nature.
the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the certain restrictions which may from Going concern company will continue in business.
time to time be imposed by laws or The directors have adopted the going regulations such as those relating to concern basis in the financial statements The directors are responsible for keeping insider dealing: and their opinion is explained in the adequate accounting records that pursuant to the company's code for Financial Review on page 15. are sufficient to show and explain the securities transactions whereby the companys transactions and disclose directors and designated employees Liability with reasonable accuracy at any time the require approval to deal in the All the information supplied in the financial position of the company and company's shares: and Chairmans Statement on pages 8 to 9, enable them to ensure that the financial where a person with an interest in the the Chief Executives Review on pages 10 statements comply with the Companies companys shares has been served with to 13, Financial Review on pages 14 to 15, Act.
They are also responsible for a disclosure notice and has failed to Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 42 safeguarding the assets of the company provide the company with information and the Corporate Governance Report on and hence for taking reasonable steps for concerning interests in those shares.
pages 28 to 32 form part of this Directors the prevention and detection of fraud and Report.
Any liability for the information is other irregularities.
The directors are not aware of any restricted to the extent prescribed in the arrangements between shareholders that Companies Act.
The directors are responsible for may result in restrictions on the transfer of the maintenance and integrity of the securities or voting rights.
The rights and Directors responsibilities statement companys website.
Legislation in the obligations attaching to the company's The directors are responsible for preparing United Kingdom governing the preparation ordinary shares are set out in the Articles the Annual Report and the financial and dissemination of financial statements of Association.
statements in accordance with applicable may differ from legislation in other law and regulations.
Employee share schemes rights of control Company law requires the directors to Each person who is a director at the date The trustees of the N Brown Group plc prepare financial statements for each of the approval of this report confirms that: Employee Share Ownership Trust hold financial year.
Under that law the directors shares on trust for the benefit of the are required to prepare the group so far as the director is aware, there is executive directors and employees of the financial statements in accordance with no relevant audit information of which group, which are used in connection with International Financial Reporting Standards the groups auditors are unaware: and the company's various share incentive IFRSs as adopted by the European the director has taken all steps that he plans.
The trustees currently abstain from Union and have elected to prepare the ought to have taken as a director in voting but have the power to vote for or parent company financial statements order to make himself or herself aware against, or not at all, at their discretion in accordance with United Kingdom of any relevant audit information and to in respect of any shares in the company Generally Accepted Accounting Standards establish that the groups auditors are held in the relevant trust.
The trustees and applicable law.
Under company aware of that information.
may, upon the recommendation of the law, the directors must not approve the company, accept or reject any offer accounts unless they are satisfied that relating to the shares in any way it sees fit, they give a true and fair view of the state of without incurring any liability and without affairs of the company and of the profit or being required to give reasons for their loss of the company for that period.
26 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT This confirmation is given and should Responsibility statement be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the We confirm that to the best of our Companies Act.
knowledge: By order of the board the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Philip F Harland LL.
B Hons Solicitor position and profit or loss of the Secretary company and the undertakings included 17 May 2013 in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the management report, which is incorporated into the directors' report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the board Alan White Chief Executive Dean Moore Finance Director 17 May 2013 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 27
