OUR SUCCESS STORIES Agility has become a key business skill in this new age of retail progress.
But as the figures show, being flexible and receptive to change hasnt meant getting smaller.
Weve seen good growth in sales, with plenty more exciting developments across the business.
Were going places on the high street NEW STORES Weve opened five new Simply Be stores and introduced the Jacamo brand to five of the seven stores now open.
The dual fascia format has shown encouraging results so far, attracting new customers both to the stores and online.
We are reviewing the business model in preparation for further expansion.
A bigger US reach Things stateside are just getting better, with 75% annual sales growth in the US.
Simply Be is going from strength to strength.
Weve launched Marisota online, and well also be launching Jacamo for direct mail.
These are exciting times for our brands overseas, and weve got every reasonable expectation of their ongoing success.
75% US GROWTH 04 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 05 THE PERFECT FIT Were looking good.
In fact, weve never looked better.
Our uniquely innovative approach to fit-oriented fashion continues to pay off.
This is how sales are taking shape.
100m Menswear sales up 8% 87m Footwear sales up 5% 362m Ladieswear sales up 1% OUR SUCCESS STORIES Real star quality Freddie, Dannii, Claire and Coleen.
Inspiring people, fresh ideas, cutting-edge design.
Superb collections from our celebrity designers continue to keep us relevant and aspirational.
Freddie Flintoff is continuing his good work for Jacamos Flintoff range.
Dannii Minogues Project D fashion line in larger sizes has been launched exclusively in Simply Be.
Coleen Nolan is on-board with Marisota and doing great things.
Claire Richards from the band, Steps, is our brand ambassador for Fashion World.
4 Its a lifestyle thing Customers are loving our new ranges of gifts and homeware.
The Brilliant Gift OF BRAND Shop is really living up to its name, and winning over more and more customers with everything from jewellery and toys to crafts and technology.
NEW LINES 06 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 INSPIRING CELEBRITIES % 2 5 MOBILE SITE TRAFFIC ONLINE SALES Weve never been better connected Our websites now account for 55% of our overall business.
The mobile-optimisation of our sites is also bringing in results, and 26% of website visits are from mobile 6 devices a figure which will increase as more customers take advantage of the speed, ease and convenience of shopping on the move.
business which is one of the leading New faces at the top online retailers.
Progress brings positive change, and In his place will stand Angela Spindler, as our business adapts, so does our the Chief Executive of The Original leadership team.
Lord Alliance remains Factory Shop, who has had a blue on our board of directors, but has chip retail career with Debenhams, stepped down as Chairman to make Asda, Coca Cola and Mars.
way for Andrew Higginson, former Our people and our success are Executive Director of Tesco.
Andrew intertwined, and every achievement is a strong commercial strategist, and past, present and future is a direct his experience in modern-day retailing result of our leadership strengths is sure to serve us extremely well.
We warmly Our Chief Executive, Alan White, welcome Andrew and Angela onto will also leave us later this year.
Alan our leadership team, and we wish has led the business since 2002, and Alan all the very best for the future.
his legacy is a thriving and progressive NEW LEADERS N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 07 5 %
