Corporate Governance Board Committees responsibility for ensuring that provision review and approval of the Audit and Audit Committee of non-audit services does not impair Non-Audit services and fees: the external auditors independence consideration of the results of internal overview or objectivity: audit compliance testing of financial liaising with the external auditor on matters controls Annual Fitness Checks within relating to the nature and scope of the audit the subsidiaries: and any issues or concerns arising from the review of the effectiveness of the external audit process: audit process and the independence of reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys the external auditor: internal control and risk management consideration and recommendation to systems, including the internal audit the Board of the re-appointment of the programme and major findings identified from external auditor: internal audit investigations and reviews: and approval of the 2013 external audit plan reviewing the half-year and annual financial and fees: statements including accounting judgements undertook a self assessment of the and policies.
effectiveness of the Committee and concluded that it continued to operate The Audit Committee routinely considers a effectively: number of standing items during the year such Dear shareholder, review of the Companys Preliminary Results, as consideration of the internal and external The Audit Committee plays a key role full year and half year financial statements audit reports, review of the Annual Report and and accounting policies: in the governance of the Company and Accounts, review of the Preliminary and Half review of the operation of the Groups I am pleased to report to you on the Year Results Announcements, and review whistleblowing and anti-bribery and work undertaken by the Committee of the Governance Report.
corruption policies: during 2013. review and approval of the Committees Meetings report for inclusion in the Annual Report: and Three Committee meetings were held in 2013. consideration and recommendation to Details of attendance at these meetings can Composition the Board for approval of the updated be found on page 58.
Outside of the meeting The individuals who served on the Committee Committees terms of reference.
process the Committee Chair has regular during 2013 are set out below: contact with the Executive Directors, other Significant issues Committee members and the auditor on a Name of Director Position The significant issues considered in the year are variety of topics.
The Committee itself meets detailed below: Tim Score Committee Chair with both the Head of Internal Audit and the until 25 February 2014 external auditor at least once a year without Goodwill impairment As it is required to the Executive Directors being present.
do annually, the Committee considered Sir Andrew Non-Executive Director whether the carrying value of goodwill Foster At the invitation of the Committee, and as and intangible assets held by the Group appropriate to the matters under discussion, Jackie Hunt Independent Non-Executive should be impaired.
The judgements largely meetings may be attended by the Executive Director appointed Committee related to the assumptions applied in Directors and internal and external auditors.
Chair from 26 February 2014 calculating the value in use of the Spanish Full minutes are kept by the Secretary of the Coach and Bus and the North American Chris Independent Non-Executive matters considered and decisions taken by School Bus businesses when testing for Muntwyler Director the Committee.
The key considerations were the underlying cash flows, the discount rates Both myself and Jackie Hunt are considered by Main activities during the year and the future growth rates.
The Committee the Board to meet the requirements of the Code During the year, the Committee considered received a detailed report on the outcome that at least one Committee member has recent the following: of the impairment reviews performed by and relevant financial experience.
review of compliance with Code: management and took into account the On 25 February 2014, I stepped down from the review of the effectiveness of the Groups views of the external auditor.
The Committee Board and Jackie Hunt took on the role of Chair internal audit function and internal controls concluded that the goodwill and intangible of the Committee from 26 February 2014. and approval of the internal audit plan for assets of the Spanish Coach and Bus and the 2013: North American School Bus businesses were Responsibilities review of the Group Risk Register: not impaired and it approved the disclosures The Audit Committees primary responsibilities review of the Groups IT strategy: included in the 2013 Financial Statements.
comprise the duties and tasks delegated to it approval of the updated Group Treasury by the Board and include the following: Counterparty Risk Policy: overseeing the process for selecting the external auditor, assessing the continuing independence of the external auditor and recommending approval of the audit fee to the Board: 64 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance pp52-92 Insurance and other claims The Committee external auditor.
For services exceeding this limit Internal Audit considered the adequacy of the provisions specific pre-approval is required.
The performance of the Group internal audit associated with insurance and other claims function itself continues to be assessed on In deciding whether or not to grant approval for risks particularly in North America.
The an ongoing basis and we believe it is effective the provision of specific services by the external assessment focused on the advice received in the role it carries out.
auditor, the Audit Committee includes in its from a third party actuary in connection with consideration the following factors: Audit tendering the Groups exposure to auto and general The Committee currently has no set policy liability and workers compensation insurance i whether the external auditor is best placed on the tendering frequency of the external claims.
Consideration was also given to the to provide an effective and efficient service, auditor or the tenure of the external auditor.
most likely outcome, and associated financial given its knowledge and understanding of The Committee is aware of the introduction effect, of other claims and exposures facing the Companys processes, systems and of the audit tendering provisions in the Code the Group.
The Committee received a report people: and and regularly considers the marketplace, from management on North American ii the level of non-audit fees paid to the external benchmarking the current level of audit services insurance and other claims and considered auditor in the year as a proportion of the that the Company receives along with the the views of the external auditor.
The annual external audit fee.
fees it pays and the value being delivered.
The Committee concluded that the insurance and Company last put its external audit contract out other claims provision was fairly stated.
The majority of non-audit work undertaken to tender in 2011, following which Deloitte LLP Spanish receivables The Committee by the external auditor during the year relates were appointed as the Companys auditor.
considered the assessment of the to advice in respect of tax advisory and other recoverability of the Spanish Coach and Bus regulatory services.
Effectiveness and independence net trade receivables.
Considerations were of external auditor The split between audit and non-audit fees for given to the nature of overdue balances and The Audit Committee assesses and reviews the year ended 31 December 2013 appears the ageing of trade receivables along with on a regular basis the independence and in note 6 to the Consolidated Accounts.
The Committee effectiveness of the external auditor.
As part received a report on the analysis of the net of their determination the Audit Committee aged receivables from management and took considers a report by the external auditor on into account the views of the external auditor.
the firms independence which is required in The Committee concluded that the Spanish order to carry out their professional duties and Coach and Bus net trade receivables were responsibilities as auditor.
Other matters The Committee also We believe the auditor has performed Tim Score considered the key assumptions satisfactorily in 2013, that the audit process they Audit Committee Chair underpinning the Groups defined benefit implemented was effective and they remain 25 February 2014 pension obligations as well as the adequacy independent.
of the liabilities arising from uncertain tax Re-appointment of auditor positions.
The Committee received reports The auditor is re-appointed on an annual basis.
from management and considered the views Based on Deloittes work during the year, the of the auditor on the appropriateness of the Committee concluded that it was satisfied defined benefit pension assumptions with with their performance and we were happy reference to the latest market assumptions to recommend to the Board that they be put and employee pension benefits.
Similarly forward to be re-appointed at the 2014 AGM.
reports were received from management and the auditor on the taxation charge and the adequacy of the taxation liabilities in the Non-audit services context of uncertain tax positions.
Following The Committee has an approved policy on consideration, the Committee concluded the provision of non-audit services by its auditor that the defined benefit pension assumptions for the following types of service: were reasonable and the taxation liabilities services that are considered to have general were fairly stated.
pre-approval by the Audit Committee, by virtue of the approval of the policy: Risk management and services that require specific pre-approval, internal control on a case-by-case basis, before any work The Committee continued to monitor the can commence: and Groups internal financial controls and risk services that cannot be supplied by the management systems.
Further details of the internal controls are set The services that have general pre-approval are out on pages 61 to 62.
A summary of the tax, transaction investigation and advisory and Companys risk management framework and corporate finance services.
The fees for these an overview of its principal risks are detailed services are pre-approved up to 50,000 for each on pages 24 to 27. non-audit assignment undertaken and subject to an overall limit of 75% of the total fees paid to the www.
com 65 Corporate Governance Board Committees continued Responsibilities Diversity Nomination Committee The key responsibilities of the Nomination Our goal at National Express is for our people to Committee are summarised below: reach their full potential and to give their best as overview individuals and in teams.
In this context, we are responsibility for identifying and nominating, committed to never discriminate on the grounds for the approval of the Board, candidates to of race, colour, creed, disability, religion, ethnic fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: origin, sex, sexual orientation or age.
While giving full consideration to succession maintaining our existing policy of selecting the planning, and keeping under review the best available candidate for any position, National leadership needs of the organisation, both Express has set the aspirational target that by Executive and Non-Executive: 2015, 30% of the Board will be women, in line reviewing the time required from and spent with the recommendations of the Davies Report by a Non-Executive Director in fulfilling his or on Boardroom Diversity.
We are making good her duties: and progress towards our target and with the recent leading the process for Board appointments appointment of Jane Kingston, 20% of our Board and making recommendations to the Board: are now women.
and preparing a description of the role and requirements for any particular appointment based on its evaluation of the Board Dear shareholder, as a whole.
I am pleased to report to you on the Meetings work undertaken by the Committee One Committee meeting was held in 2013. during 2013.
Details of attendance at this meeting can be Sir John Armitt found on page 58.
Nomination Committee Chair Composition 27 February 2014 At the invitation of the Committee, and as The individuals who served on the Committee appropriate to the matters under discussion, during 2013 are set out below: meetings may be attended by the Executive Directors and external advisers.
Full minutes are Name of Director Position kept by the Secretary of the matters considered Sir John Armitt Committee Chair appointed and decisions taken by the Committee.
a Committee member on Main activities during the year 1 January 2013 and as During the year the Committee: Committee Chair on 1 February 2013 evaluated the balance of skills, experience, independence, diversity and knowledge on Joaqun Ayuso Independent Non-Executive the Board and then prepared a description Director appointed 26 February of the role and capabilities required for the 2013 recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director: Jorge Cosmen Deputy Company Chairman appointed search consultants, JCA Group who have no other connection with the John Devaney Company Chairman resigned Company, to identify a shortlist of candidates 31 January 2013 for the role of Non-Executive Director and Sir Andrew Non-Executive Director interviewed candidates following which Foster the appointment of Jane Kingston was recommended to the Board: and reviewed succession plans across the Group.
66 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance pp52-92 It is now mandatory for UK public companies Responsibilities Safety & Environment to report on greenhouse gas emissions in all of The key responsibilities of the Committee are their businesses from 2013 and more details on as below: Committee overview this can be found on pages 22 to 23. responsibility for reviewing and challenging The safety of our employees and customers constructively the structure, content and is of critical importance to the Board, as is the operation of the safety management responsible management of our environmental arrangements put in place by members of obligations.
I would like to thank Dean Finch the Executive management of the Groups and his team for the leadership they show operating companies: in these areas.
reporting periodically to the Board on its observations on the safety management arrangements in place and reviewing and making recommendations to the Board on any specific safety management issues relating to the Company or any subsidiary company: and Chris Muntwyler reviewing and monitoring the Companys Safety & Environment environmental performance and targets.
Committee Chair Dear shareholder, 27 February 2014 I am pleased to report that in 2013 Meetings Three meetings were held in 2013.
Details of we continued to make good progress attendance at these meetings can be found on in our safety performance and in page 58. the management of the Companys At the invitation of the Committee, and as environmental responsibilities.
appropriate to the matters under discussion, meetings may be attended by the Executive Composition Directors, senior management responsible for The individuals who served on the Committee Safety and Environmental matters, and external during 2013 are set out below: advisers.
Full minutes are kept by the Secretary of the matters considered and decisions taken Name of Director Position by the Committee.
Chris Committee Chair Main activities during the year Muntwyler During the year the Committee: Sir John Armitt Company Chairman reviewed the findings and actions from the appointed 1 January 2013 2012 review of the Groups Driving Out Joaqun Ayuso Independent Non-Executive Harm programme: Director monitored progress of the divisional action plans stemming from the 2012 Driving Out Jorge Cosmen Deputy Company Chairman Harm review: Sir Andrew Non-Executive Director reviewed the findings and recommendations Foster of the external audit of corporate governance Jackie Hunt Independent Non-Executive of safety and agreed a further external audit Director should be carried out in 2014 in line with the Global Safety Standard: Lee Sander Independent Non-Executive reviewed environmental management across Director the Group: Tim Score Senior Independent Director monitored safety practices and procedures resigned 25 February 2014 across the Group: and considered and recommended to the Board Jane Kingston was appointed a member of the for approval the updated Committees terms Committee on 26 February 2014. of reference.
