Strategic Report: UK Coach Strong year growing revenue and profit Overview of 2013 Tom Stables UK Coach has delivered a strong turnaround Managing Director, UK Coach performance, recovering from the previous withdrawal of senior citizen concession funding.
The business has re-established a solid financial and operational foundation from which to drive continued revenue growth and margin improvement, generating momentum for the future.
Total revenue increased by 3% to 263.5 million 2012: 255.1m.
Core express revenue increased by 7%, with dynamic pricing, network improvements and new distribution agreements Our business model achieving passenger volume growth of 9%.
How our business works This was supported by good performances in National Express is the national coach network operator in the UK, offering Eurolines, Airlinks and The Kings Ferry, with only great value and accessible travel to all.
It operates the only scheduled national Rail Replacement significantly lower following UK coach network and the largest in Europe, in a deregulated market where the handback of the NXEA rail franchise in 2012. we have flexibility over pricing and supply.
Competition is modal, against rail and private car.
National Express runs 500 coaches a day serving around Growth 1,000 domestic destinations.
% How we build long term value Passenger yield 2 National Express has a flexible, outsourced business model, where third Passenger volume 9 party providers supply 80% of the coaches and responsibility for sales lies Change in core express revenue 7 with the Company.
With 90% brand recognition, the National Express coach business benefits from its integrated network and scale, offering breadth Other revenues primarily Rail 6 Replacement and interconnectivity, where competitors offer only point-to-point services with limited infrastructure.
Total revenue 3 Key risks to manage Normalised operating profit increased by Competition rail.
Excluding the one-off profit in 2012 from Olympics contracts, the underlying profit Read more p26 improvement was over 6 million, an increase of 30% year-on-year.
Giving passengers easy access to lower fares, more frequent and punctual services, investment in new coaches Year ended 31 December 2013 2012 and greater cost efficiency all contributed to m m this progress.
Revenue 263.5 255.1 m Operating profit 24.5 20.6 2012 normalised operating profit 21 Operating margin 9.3% 8.1% Cost inflation 11 Impact of government rebate changes 1 Net impact of growth and new contracts 13 Olympic contracts 2 We re-established a solid Cost efficiencies & network changes 7 Other 2 financial and operational 2013 normalised operating profit 25 foundation from which to drive continued revenue growth and margin improvement.
44 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report pp01-51 Putting our markets into context Market size Operations m 300 Market size 300m of contested revenues in the scheduled coach market.
Market share Around 1,000 destinations served.
National Express is the UK scheduled coach market leader.
Composition Third party operators National Express has the only nationwide network of services.
Owned operations Other competitors tend to focus on specific regions or corridors.
Trends Core revenue growth, reflecting value and convenience of coach.
Revenue split Price competition from rail through discounted fares.
Customer safety and disability access supported by regulation.
Operators able to compete flexibly on selected routes.
Customers Customer satisfaction important in driving longer term loyalty.
Attracted by fare discount to rail, increasing cost of private motoring Passenger and environmental friendliness.
Contract Competition Subsidy Selective competition from rail, large bus operators and Other localised services.
Labour Outsourced model: 80% operated by third-party partners on long term contract.
Consistent service and behaviour standards across all operators.
Growth Revenue growth through competitive pricing, better distribution channels and greater understanding of our customers and their needs.
In the longer term we will implement improved retailing systems.
com 45 Strategic Report: UK Coach Measuring our performance KPIs Operational excellence Operational excellence Revenue growth core network Margin % % 7 9.3 2013 2013 7 9.3 2012 2012 2 8.1 2011 2011 4 13.5 Why we measure Why we measure Each National Express division is targeting revenue growth as Normalised operating margin reflects pricing, operational efficiencies a core driver of value.
2013 performance 2013 performance Strong recovery in core business after loss of concession income Increase from cost control and profitable revenue growth.
Operational excellence Operational excellence Mileage Passenger journeys m m 84.2 18.0 2013 2013 18.0 84.2 2012 2012 16.5 85.0 2011 2011 16.8 82.2 Why we measure Why we measure Passenger journeys are reflective of underlying demand for travel.
Mileage is both a key cost management tool and also an indicator National Express is targeting increased passenger ridership as a long of organic growth.
term driver of sustainable value.
2013 performance 2013 performance We reduced mileage to drive faster journey times, removing stops Introduction of faster routes and new distribution channels in smaller locations and selecting more direct routes.
Superior cash and returns Safety Operating cash conversion Lost time injuries per 1,000 FTE % 140 14.0 2013 2013 140 14.0 2012 2012 101 13.2 2011 2011 70 35.3 Why we measure Why we measure A key part of the Groups strategy is to maximise the cash Safety is a key National Express value, with a Group-wide objective generated by the divisions, within the framework of their market of reducing injuries to employees and making our customers feel and operating model.
This will support sustainable revenue growth and save costs maintenance, insurance, claims.
2013 performance Lower vehicle acquisitions in the owned fleet, plus a move to using 2013 performance more operating leases to match fleet life.
Accident rate broadly stable and a significant two-year improvement.
46 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report pp01-51 Operational excellence Our customer service strategy has focused on providing frequent coach services at low prices.
Firstly, network changes have shortened journey times for example, along the M4 corridor between the West Country and Heathrow and London.
Supported by technology through real time coach monitoring, punctuality improved by over one percentage point.
Secondly, lower prices, which were reduced during 2012, have been sustained, whilst better yield management has allowed us to encourage travellers by flexing pricing in line with market conditions.
This has been supported by enhanced products, such as the senior citizen coach card.
Ease of access to fares has been improved by broadening retail distribution with particular focus on target customer segments.
This has resulted in distribution agreements with the Post Office, where we access customers through 11,000 branches, and Ryanair, via their website New distribution agreements with airlines and the Post Office have improved ease of access to tickets during the inbound passenger booking process.
We have also focused on building on our contract capabilities, commencing operations Creating new opportunities to serve Luton Airport from London 70 times Attractive pricing, alongside improved yield a day, extending airport work at Gatwick and management, will allow the division to continue carrying a record number of passengers to the to grow volume, improving load factors and Glastonbury Festival.
Distribution channels to customers Air, a key Luton Airport carrier, was added at will be expanded, alongside a continued focus the end of 2013.
The Kings Ferry expanded on operational efficiency.
Remaining competitive its popular commuter operation with a new against our key competitor, rail, will be a key focus.
service serving North Somerset and Bristol.
The unique UK Coach model with its low price, We operated express coach services linking modern, frequent services is well placed to ten cities with London, Heathrow and Gatwick continue to grow both revenue and margin.
on Christmas Day for the first time: all but one The concept is also applicable to developing service was sold out.
international markets as a template for capitalAs a result of this strategy, all express segments light growth for example, we have adopted have seen increased patronage, with airport the partner model to develop our German routes particularly popular.
This has driven coach operation, mitigating significant efficiency through better load factors per investment cost in new markets.
Coupled with streamlining of our third services were launched in Germany in April party network and cost efficiency in our owned 2013 with three initial services, expanded to operations with the closure of the Crawley five in July, linking Munich, Stuttgart, Frankfurt, depot, in total saving over 7 million, this has Better yield management has allowed us to Cologne, Dusseldorf and Hamburg.
During this encourage travellers by flexing pricing in line with driven significant margin improvement.
Safety start-up period revenue has been 2.4 million market conditions improvements saw customer injury frequency and normalised operating loss 2.8 million, down 40% and vehicle collisions 8% lower.
the latter reflecting significant marketing investment.
We expect the loss to be similar Cash and returns in 2014 as market development continues.
The UK Coach business model has particularly strong return on capital and cash generation, outsourcing the majority of fleet provision and services to its partner operators in a capital-light model.
Operating cash conversion was 140% of profit in 2013.
Capital expenditure is primarily focused on technology and retail systems.
