Corporate Governance Other Statutory Information This section contains additional information Powers of the Directors Directors interests in shares which the Directors are required by law and Subject to its Articles of Association and The Board of Directors interests in shares in regulation to include within the Annual Report.
relevant statutory law and to any direction the Company are detailed on pages 83 and 84.
This section along with the information from that may be given by the Company in general Directors share options the Chairmans Statement on page 4 to the meeting by special resolution, the business Details of Directors share options are provided Statement of Directors Responsibilities on of the Company shall be managed by the in the Directors Remuneration report on page 92 constitutes the Directors Report in Directors, who may exercise all powers of page 87. accordance with the Companies Act 2006. the Company which are not required to be exercised by the Company in general meeting.
Directors indemnities Strategic report The Company has entered into deeds of The Company is required by the Companies Act Appointment and replacement indemnity with each of its Directors, which are to include a strategic report in this document.
of Directors qualifying indemnity provisions for the purpose The information that fulfils the requirements of The rules for the appointment and replacement of the Companies Act 2006 and remain in force the strategic report can be found on pages of Directors of the Company are set out in at the date of this report.
1 to 51, which are incorporated in this report the Articles of Association, the UK Corporate by reference.
Governance Code, the Companies Act and Accountability and audit related legislation.
In accordance with the UK Statements of the respective responsibilities of Branches outside the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the Directors the Directors and auditors are set out on pages The Company has branches in Spain.
will retire at the 2014 AGM and offer themselves 92 and 96. for election or re-election.
The Board is satisfied Results and dividends Corporate governance that each Director is qualified for re-election by The profit on ordinary activities before tax A full report on corporate governance can virtue of their skills, experience and contribution from continuing operations for the year ended be found in the Governance section of this to the Board.
31 December 2013 was 64.4 million 2012: document and the Companys governance 69.8m and a profit attributable to equity Directors conflicts of interest statement is on page 56.
Both are incorporated shareholders of 56.8 million 2012: 60m The Board has a procedure in place to deal by reference into this report.
with a situation where a Director has a conflict Post balance sheet events of interest, as required by the Companies Act The Directors recommend a final dividend for As at the date of this report, there were no post 2006.
As part of this process, the members the year of 6.75 pence per ordinary share 2012: balance sheet events to report.
of the Board prepare a list of other positions 6.6p which, together with the interim dividend held and all other conflict situations that may of 3.25 pence per ordinary share 2012: 3.15p, Employment policies need authorising either in relation to the Director paid on 20 September 2013, gives a total The Group strives to meet its business concerned or his or her connected persons.
dividend for the year of 10.0 pence per share objectives by motivating and encouraging its The Board considers each Directors situation 2012: 9.75p.
Subject to shareholder approval, employees to be responsive to the needs of its and decides whether to approve any conflict the final dividend will be paid on 23 May 2014 customers and continually improve operational situations, taking into consideration what is in to ordinary shareholders on the register performance.
The Group is committed to the best interests of the Company and whether of members at the close of business on providing equality of opportunity to employees the Directors ability to act in accordance with 2 May 2014. and potential employees.
This applies to his or her wider duties is affected.
Each Director appropriate training, career development Directors is required to notify the Company Secretary of and promotion for all employees, regardless The Directors of the Company as at the date any potential or actual conflict situations that will of physical ability, gender, sexual orientation, of the approval of this annual report are listed need authorising by the Board.
Authorisations religion, age or ethnic origin.
All businesses on pages 54 to 55. given by the Board are reviewed annually.
in the Group report diversity data.
On 1 January 2013 Sir John Armitt was Directors and Officers Liability Full and fair consideration is given to appointed a Director of the Company.
Insurance applications for employment received from The Company maintains Directors and Officers On 31 January 2013 John Devaney resigned disabled persons, according to their skills liability insurance in respect of legal action that as Chairman of the Board.
The services of any existing might be brought against its Directors.
Pursuant employee disabled during their period of On 1 February 2013 Sir John Armitt was to the Companys Articles of Association the employment are retained wherever possible.
appointed Chairman of the Board.
Company has indemnified its Directors and Officers in accordance with the provisions of Employee involvement On 25 February 2014 Tim Score stepped down Section 233 of the Companies Act 2006.
A copy The Group encourages employee involvement from the Board.
of the Articles of Association is available for in its affairs.
Subsidiary companies produce a On 26 February 2014 Jackie Hunt was inspection at the Companys registered office.
range of internal newsletters and circulars which appointed Senior Independent Director keep employees abreast of developments.
Directors interests in contracts and Chair of the Audit Committee and Jane Senior management within the Group meet Except as stated in note 36 on page 154, Kingston was appointed a Non-Executive regularly to review strategic developments no contract existed during the year in relation Director of the Company from this date.
and management conferences are held at to the Companys business in which any Group and business levels to bring our senior Director was materially interested.
managers together to share ideas and develop policy.
Dialogue takes place regularly with trade unions and other employee representatives on a wide range of issues.
88 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance pp52-92 Employee views are also sought through regular Environmental policy Financial instruments employee satisfaction questionnaires, both Information on the Groups environmental Details of the use by the Company and its within business units and across the Group.
initiatives, including the mandatory reporting subsidiaries of financial instruments and any Following such surveys, results are shared with disclosure on greenhouse gas emissions, can related risk management objectives and employees and action plans are put in place to be found in the strategic report on pages 19 policies including hedging policy and exposure deal with issues arising.
The Group encourages to 23 and on the Companys website, www.
including price, credit, liquidity or cash flow innovation from all levels of employees and nationalexpressgroup.
risk of the Company in connection with such has a structured programme in place known financial instruments can be found in the notes Political contributions as Make a Difference to develop ideas to the Consolidated Accounts on pages 102 It is the Groups policy not to make political and track them through to implementation.
to 156 and are incorporated by reference into donations and accordingly none were made Innovation Sponsors, Agents and Champions this report.
However, the Company did attend are appointed in the business and their work is party political conferences during the year for coordinated by an Innovations Council at Group which total expenditure was 13,500 2012: level.
For National Express, innovation is a way 6,750. of life that involves and engages our people.
The Group also has a well-developed succession planning process in place and succession plans are reviewed by the Board annually.
As a key part of this process, the Company focuses on emerging talent to ensure the Group has the right people being developed to meet our future business needs.
Talent management remains an important priority for the Group.
Major shareholdings As at 24 February 2014, the Company had been notified of the following interests in its shares which represent 3% or more of the voting rights in the Company.
Percentage of Ordinary shares share capital Nature of holding European Express Enterprises Ltd 78,795,062 15.4% Direct Prudential PLC 66,764,762 13.0% Direct Jupiter Asset Management Ltd 26,288,829 5.1% Direct The holdings for European Express Enterprises Ltd are included in Jorge Cosmens holdings which are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 84.
com 89 Corporate Governance Other Statutory Information continued The Company is not aware of any other Share capital and rights attaching Articles of Association restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares Any amendments to the Companys Articles of to the Companys shares in the Company other than: Association may be made in accordance with Under the Companys Articles of Association, the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. any share in the Company may be issued with certain restrictions that may from time to such rights or restrictions, whether in regard to time be imposed by laws and regulations Annual General Meeting dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise for example, insider trading laws : and The AGM will be held at 2.00pm on 14 May 2014 as the Company may from time to time by pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial at Hall 5, International Convention Centre, Broad ordinary resolution determine or, in the absence Services Authority whereby certain Street, Birmingham B1 2EA.
At the Meeting, of any such determination, as the Directors employees of the Company require approval special resolutions will be proposed to authorise may determine.
of the Company to deal in the Companys the Directors to issue shares without applying shares.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares statutory pre-emption rights, to authorise the with a nominal value of 5 pence.
At the date Company to make market purchases of its own The Company is not aware of any agreements of this annual report, the issued share capital shares and to authorise the calling of general between shareholders that may result in consisted of 511,738,648 ordinary shares meetings other than Annual General Meetings restrictions on the transfer of securities or of 5 pence each.
Full details are provided in the Notice of Meeting.
At a general meeting of the Company every Resolutions will be proposed at the 2014 If you would like to register any question you member has one vote on a show of hands and AGM to authorise the Directors to exercise all may have in advance of the AGM you can do on a poll one vote for each share held.
The powers to allot shares, or grant rights for, or to so at agm@nationalexpress.
com or you can Notice of AGM accompanying this document convert any security into, shares, and approve write to the Company Secretary at National specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights a limited disapplication of statutory pre-emption Express Group PLC, National Express House, either by proxy or by being present in person in rights.
Details are set out in the Notice of AGM Birmingham Coach Station, Mill Lane, Digbeth, relation to resolutions to be passed at a general accompanying this document.
Details of the authorised and issued The Company was granted authority at the share capital of the Company and details of Material contracts and change AGM in 2013 to purchase its own shares up to shares issued during the year can be found in of control agreements an aggregate value of 10% of the issued nominal note 15 on page 164.
Under the terms of the Companys Revolving capital.
The authority was not used during the Credit Facility, upon a change of control, No shareholder is, unless the Board decides year.
The authority is renewed annually and the Company would have five days to enter otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either approval will be sought at the AGM in 2014 for into negotiations with the lenders to alter the personally or by proxy at a general meeting or its renewal.
Further details are set out in the terms.
Following ten days of negotiations, if to exercise any other right conferred by being Notice of AGM accompanying this document.
no agreement has been reached, outstanding a shareholder if he or she or any person with balances would become repayable.
an interest in his or her shares has been sent a Share schemes notice under Section 793 of the Companies Act First Names Jersey Limited formerly IFG Trust Under the terms of the 1,000,000,000 Euro 2006 which confers upon public companies Jersey Limited are Trustee of the National Medium Term Note Programme under which the power to require information with respect Express Group Employee Benefit Trust.
As at the Company issued Medium Term Notes to interests in their voting shares and he or she 24 February 2014 they held 426,630 shares MTNs to various institutions on 13 January or any interested person failed to supply the 0.08% of the issued share capital of the 2010 as updated on 19 November 2012, there Company with the information requested within Company for employee share schemes.
is a change of control put option such that, 14 days after delivery of that notice.
The Board Further details of the Companys employee upon a change of control event, any holder of may also decide that no dividend is payable share schemes can be found in note 7 on any MTN may require the Company to redeem in respect of those default shares and that no page 116 and are incorporated by reference or purchase that MTN.
transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
The Trustee may vote the The Company entered into a private placement These restrictions end seven days after receipt shares held by the Trust at its discretion.
Note Purchase Agreement on 30 July 2012 by the Company of a notice of an approved The current ABI guidance on dilution limits relating to the issue by the Company of transfer of the shares or all the information provide the overall dilution under all share 78,500,000 4.55% Senior Notes due 16 required by the relevant Section 793 notice, plans operated by a company should not August 2021.
Under the terms of the Agreement whichever is earlier.
exceed 10% over a ten-year period in relation the Company is required to offer to Note holders The Directors may refuse to register any transfer to the Companys share capital, with a further to repay to them the entire unpaid principal of any share which is not a fully-paid share, limitation of 5% in any ten-year period on amount and interest thereon upon a change although such discretion may not be exercised executive plans.
National Express share plans of control.
in a way which the Financial Services Authority operate within ABI recommended guidelines regards as preventing dealings in shares of that on dilution limits.
class from taking place on an open or proper basis.
The Directors may likewise refuse any transfer of a share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
90 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance pp52-92 The Group currently runs one DfT franchise: Risks c2c.
The rail franchise agreement with DfT A summary of the Companys risk management contains termination rights for the benefit of framework and an overview of its principal DfT which would be triggered by a change risks are detailed on pages 24 to 27 and are of control in National Express Group PLC.
incorporated by reference into this report.
The Groups rail franchisee, c2c, leases its Auditors rolling stock and its leases with Porterbrook Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Leasing Company Limited contain termination auditors of the Company and to authorise rights for the benefit of the lessor which would the Directors to determine their remuneration be triggered by a change of control in National will be proposed at the 2014 AGM.
Disclosure of information The Groups North American business operates to auditors school bus services under contracts with The Directors confirm that, so far as they are school boards.
Those contracts invariably aware, there is no relevant audit information of contain a change of control clause for the which the Companys auditors are unaware and benefit of the Board which would be triggered that each Director has taken all the steps that by a change of control in National Express they ought to have taken as a Director in order Group PLC.
While no one single school bus to make themselves aware of any relevant audit contract could be considered significant in information and to establish that the Companys the context of the Group turnover, the impact auditor is aware of that information.
This on that turnover in the event that each school confirmation is given and should be interpreted board exercised its termination right on a in accordance with the provisions of Section change of control would be significant.
Directors and employees By order of the Board service contracts There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs Michael Hampson because of a takeover bid.
