National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 17 What are the risks?
Our risk management process has identified the following principal risk factors that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation, as well as the value and liquidity of our securities.
When appropriate, we implement processes, procedures and controls to minimise the likelihood of a risk occurring or the potential impact if it does occur.
It is not always possible to eliminate a risk even where a response is in place and considered effective.
Risk factor Details of the risk and examples of our responses Potentially harmful Aspects of the work we do could potentially harm employees, contractors, members of the public or the activities environment.
We are subject to laws and regulations relating to pollution, the protection of the environment and the use and disposal of hazardous substances and waste materials.
These expose us to costs and liabilities from our operations and properties, including those inherited from predecessor bodies, or formerly owned by us, and sites used for the disposal of our waste.
In addition, there may be other aspects of our operations that are not currently regarded or proved to have adverse effects but could become so.
We are increasingly subject to regulation in relation to climate change and are affected by requirements to reduce our own carbon emissions as well as reduction in energy use by our customers.
If the legal requirements become more onerous or our regulatory framework changes, then we may not be able to recover all the costs of complying with these laws and regulations.
Examples of mitigating actions We have established safety and occupational health plans, programmes and procedures that are aimed at continuous improvements in safety performance.
National Grid Group wide initiatives are supplemented with specific regional safety programmes.
These are aimed at addressing specific areas so that safety is at the forefront of every employees mind.
National Grid also benchmark against other industry groups to seek and implement best practice.
We continue to focus on process safety, aimed at preventing major incidents.
This includes the process and procedures governing the development and design of our assets, as well as the competence of the people who will build, operate and maintain them.
We monitor employee lost time injury frequency rate as a key performance indicator KPI as described on page 24.
We also have other measures relating to personal and process safety, and use them to understand our safety strengths and identify any weaknesses we need to address.
Infrastructure and IT We may suffer a major network failure or interruption, or may not be able to carry out critical non-network systems operations.
Operational performance could be materially adversely affected by failure to maintain the health of the system or network, inadequate forecasting of demand, inadequate record keeping or control of data or failure of information systems and supporting technology.
This could cause us to fail to meet agreed standards of service, incentive and reliability targets, or be in breach of a licence, approval, regulatory requirement or contractual obligation, and even incidents that do not amount to a breach could result in adverse regulatory and financial consequences, as well as harming our reputation.
In addition to these risks, we may be affected by other potential events that are largely outside of our control, such as the impact of weather, unlawful or unintentional acts of third parties, insufficient or unreliable supply or force majeure.
Weather conditions can affect financial performance and severe weather that causes outages or damages infrastructure together with our actual or perceived response will materially adversely affect operational and potentially business performance and our reputation.
Malicious attack, sabotage or other intentional acts, including cyber security breaches, may also damage our assets or otherwise significantly affect corporate activities and, as a consequence, have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
18 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 Risk factor Details of the risk and examples of our responses Unauthorised access to, or deliberate breaches of, our IT systems may also seek to access and manipulate our proprietary business date or customer information.
Unauthorised access to private customer information may make us liable for a violation of data privacy regulations.
Even where we establish business continuity controls and security against threats against our systems, these may not be sufficient.
Examples of mitigating actions We use industry best practices as part of our cyber security policies, processes and technologies and continually invest in cyber strategies that are commensurate with the changing nature of the security landscape.
Business performance Current and future business performance may not meet our expectations Earnings maintenance and growth from our regulated gas business will be affected by our ability to meet or exceed efficiency targets and service quality standards set by, or agreed with our regulator.
If we do not meet these targets and standards, or if we do not implement the transformation projects we are carrying out as envisaged or are not able to shape our operating model to deliver success under RIIO, we may not achieve the expected benefits, our business may be materially adversely affected and our performance, results of operations and reputation may be materially harmed and we may be in breach of regulatory or contractual obligations.
Examples of mitigating actions We have restructured our business, establishing end-to-end process teams aimed at improving our customer service and efficiency and building a culture of continuous improvement.
We monitor network reliability, as a KPI, as described on page 24.
Law and regulation Changes in law or regulation or decisions by governmental bodies or regulators could materially adversely affect us.
Our business is subject to regulation by governments and other authorities.
Changes in law or regulation or regulatory policy and precedent, including decisions of governmental bodies or regulators, in which we operate could materially adversely affect us.
Decisions or rulings concerning, for example: i whether licences, approvals or agreements to operate or supply are granted, amended or renewed, whether consents for construction projects are granted in a timely manner or whether there has been any breach of the terms of a licence, approval or regulatory requirement: and ii timely recovery of incurred expenditure or obligations and other decisions relating to the impact of general economic conditions on us, our markets and customers, implications of climate change, whether aspects of our activities are contestable, the level of permitted revenues and dividend distributions for our business and in relation to proposed business development activities, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows, the financial condition of our business and the ability to develop the business in the future.
See pages 8 to 10 which explain our regulatory environment in detail.
Examples of mitigating actions We participate in regulatory and energy policy development and implementation to help shape the outcomes.
We have restructured our business so we are well positioned to deliver value under RIIO.
Our price control has reopeners for some categories of expenditure where costs and volumes are currently uncertain: we can use these reopeners in certain circumstances to request additional allowances and output targets to be set when the cost and volumes become clear.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 19 Risk factor Details of the risk and examples of our responses Cost escalation Changes in foreign currency rates or interest rates or could materially impact earnings or our financial condition.
Our results and net debt position may be affected because a significant proportion of our borrowings, and derivative financial instruments are affected by changes in interest rates.
Furthermore, our cash flow may be materially affected as a result of settling hedging arrangements entered into to manage our exchange rate and interest rate exposure, or by cash collateral movements relating to derivative market values.
Operating costs may increase faster than revenues.
While income under our price controls is linked to the RPI, our operating costs may increase at a faster rate than RPI.
The majority of our employees are members of a defined benefit pension scheme where the scheme assets are held independently of our own financial resources.
If the scheme does not perform as currently expected, then we may be required to make additional contributions to the pension scheme which, to the extent they are not recoverable under our price controls, could adversely affect our results and financial condition.
Examples of mitigating actions National Grids treasury function manages our financial risks, including foreign currency and interest rate, to within pre-authorised parameters and under policies and guidelines approved by the Finance Committees of National Grid and National Grid Gas.
Financing and liquidity An inability to access capital markets at commercially acceptable interest rates could affect how we maintain and grow our business.
Our business is financed through cash generated from our ongoing operations, bank lending facilities and the capital markets, particularly the long-term debt capital markets.
Some of the debt we issue is rated by credit rating agencies and changes to these ratings may affect both our borrowing capacity and borrowing costs.
In addition, restrictions imposed by the regulator may also limit how we service the financial requirements of our business.
Financial markets can be subject to periods of volatility and shortages of liquidity, which may be exacerbated by the eurozone crisis.
If we were unable to access the capital markets or other sources of finance at competitive rates for a prolonged period, our cost of financing may increase, the discretionary and uncommitted elements of our proposed capital investment programme may need to be reconsidered and the manner in which we implement our strategy may need to be reassessed.
Such events could have a material adverse impact on our business, results and prospects.
Our regulatory agreements impose lower limits for the long-term senior unsecured debt credit ratings that we must hold and the amount of equity within our capital structures.
In addition, our regulatory arrangements impose restrictions on the way we can operate and may restrict the ability of the company to engage in certain transactions including paying dividends, lending cash and levying charges.
These include regulatory requirements for us to maintain adequate financial resources within the Company.
The inability to meet such requirements or the occurrence of any such restrictions may have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition.
Examples of mitigating actions We identify short-term liquidity and long-term funding requirements by regularly producing shortand longterm cash flow forecasts, along with undertaking financial headroom analysis.
The assessment of our liquidity takes into account the regulatory requirements that may restrict our ability to pay dividends from some of our operating businesses.
We maintain a number of commercial paper and medium-term note programmes to facilitate shortand long-term debt issuance.
We manage refinancing risk by limiting the amount of debt maturities on borrowings in each financial year.
20 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 Risk factor Details of the risk and examples of our responses Customers and Customers and counterparties may not perform their obligations.
counterparties Our operations are exposed to the risk that customers, suppliers, financial institutions and other whom we do business will not satisfy their obligations, which could materially adversely affect our financial position.
We have significant concentrations of receivables with a small number of large gas utilities.
Examples of mitigating actions Security deposits or other forms of collateral may be obtained from commercial and industrial customers to reduce the risk from customer default.
The Finance Committee has agreed a policy for managing financial counterparty risk.
This sets exposure limits based on an individual counterpartys credit rating from independent rating agencies.
We also consider other leading indicators of counterparty financial distress and reduce exposure below the approved limits, if appropriate.
Where multiple financial transactions are entered into with a single financial counterparty, a netting arrangement is usually put in place to reduce our exposure to the credit risk.
Employees and others We may fail to attract and retain employees with the competencies, values and behaviours required to deliver our strategy and vision and ensure they are engaged to act in our best interests.
Our ability to implement our strategy depends on the capabilities and performance of our employees and leadership.
Our ability to implement our strategy and vision may be negatively affected by loss of key personnel or an inability to attract, develop or retain appropriately qualified personnel in particular for technical positions where availability of appropriately qualified personnel may be limited, or if significant disputes arise with our employees.
As a result, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
There is a risk that an employee or someone acting on our behalf may breach our internal controls or internal governance framework or may contravene applicable laws and regulations.
This could have an impact on our results of operations, our reputation and our relationship with our regulator and other stakeholders.
Examples of mitigating actions During 2012, National Grid introduced a new global leadership development framework.
National Grid are developing a global, centralised academy to allow us to gather and share best practice from within National Grid and from our external partners.
This should help us build the skills and capabilities our business will need in the future, as well as contributing to employee development.
Described on pages 21 and 22 are some of the ways National Grid seek to engage employees, including how we promote inclusion and diversity.
Employee engagement is monitored as a KPI by National Grid who formally solicit employee opinions via a Group wide employee survey annually.
Further information can be found in the National Grid Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 and on National Grids website at www.
