8 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 What we do Regulation assets will generally increase regulated assets and disposing of Our transmission and distribution businesses operate as assets will generally decrease regulated assets.
The value of regulated monopolies.
Regulators safeguard customer regulated assets is also increased for inflation.
interests by setting the level of charges we are allowed to pass on, so that we provide value for money, maintain Our licences also determine the amount we are allowed to charge customers, commonly referred to as our allowed safe and reliable networks, and deliver good customer revenues.
Allowed revenue is calculated based on a number of service.
building blocks: How do we make money from our regulated Depreciation of regulated assets the value of regulated assets assets is depreciated over an anticipated lifespan.
The amount of Our licences, established under the Gas Act 1986 as amended depreciation is included in our allowed revenue, which the Act, require us to develop, maintain and operate economic represents the repayment of the amounts we have invested in and efficient networks and to facilitate competition in the supply the asset.
The licences also gives us statutory Return on equity and cost of debt regulated assets are funded powers, such as the right to bury our pipes under public through debt or equity and the licenses and regulatory highways and the ability to use compulsory powers to purchase agreements set this ratio.
The equity portion earns a return on land to enable the conduct of our business.
This represents the profit we can earn on our Our networks are regulated by Ofgem, which has established investment in regulated assets.
The debt portion earns an price control mechanisms that set the amount of revenue that allowance based on the cost of debt interest costs.
The can be earned by our regulated businesses.
Price control regulatory agreements use an external benchmark interest rate regulation is designed to ensure our interests, as a monopoly, as a way to incentivise us to raise debt efficiently.
The are balanced with those of our customers.
Ofgem allows us to benchmark interest method also provides an opportunity to charge reasonable, but not excessive, prices giving us a future outperform our regulatory allowances.
level of revenue sufficient to meet our statutory duties and Cost of service in establishing our regulatory agreements, our licence obligations, and also to make a reasonable return on regulator considers what costs an efficiently run company would our investment.
incur to operate and maintain our networks.
They vary and can The price control includes a number of mechanisms to achieve include costs relating to employees, office rental, IT systems its objectives, including financial incentives designed to and taxes, for example.
Our regulator determines what is encourage us to: continuously improve the cost and considered an efficient or prudent cost and this may be different effectiveness of our services: manage and operate our to the actual costs we incur.
networks efficiently: deliver high quality services to our Performance against incentives our licences include customers and wider stakeholder community: and invest in the incentives that are designed to encourage specific actions, such development of the network in a manner that ensures long-term as reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
Achieving performance security of supply.
beyond targets set out in these incentive mechanisms can Our Gas Transmission and Gas Distribution businesses operate increase our allowed revenues in the current year or a future under six separate price controls in the UK.
Failing to achieve certain minimum targets may lead to a for our gas transmission operations, one covering our role as reduction in our allowed revenue.
transmission owner TO and the other for our role as system Timing differences we use our allowed revenues to determine operator SO : and one for each of our four regional gas our billing rates, which we calculate using a forecast of the distribution networks.
While each of the six price controls may quantities that will be billed.
Where there is a difference have differing terms, they are based on a consistent regulatory between the actual and estimated quantities, the amount of framework.
revenue we collect will be different to the allowed revenue.
In addition to the six price controls, our LNG storage business Consequently, the overor under-collected amounts are has a price control covering some aspects of its operations.
adjusted against the following periods allowed revenues.
There is also a tariff cap price control applied to certain elements of domestic metering and daily meter reading activities undertaken by National Grid Metering.
The value of our regulated assets is calculated based on the terms of our regulatory agreements.
These may not be calculated on the same basis as the accounting value of assets, although the principles are similar.
For example, building new National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 9 Price controls up to 31 March 2013 nature and number of these deliverables varies according to the The previous price control mechanisms for our UK Gas output category, with some being linked directly to our allowed Transmission and UK Gas Distribution businesses expired on revenue, some linked to legislation, and others having only a 31 March 2013. reputational impact.
Ofgem, using information submitted by us along with independent assessments, determines the efficient 2012 13 saw another good year of performance, outperforming level of expected costs necessary to deliver them.
Under RIIO the allowed returns in each of the two main businesses: this is known as totex, short for total expenditure, and is similar to the sum of controllable opex, capex and repex for Gas Allowed Achieved Distribution under the previous price control.
Vanilla Vanilla Achieved A number of assumptions are necessary in setting these As at 31 March 2013 RAV Return Return ROE outputs such as certain prices or the volumes of work that will Gas Transmission 5,340m 4.75% 7.5% 17.2% be needed.
As a result, to protect us and our customers from Gas Distribution 8,330m 4.94% 6.0% 13.5% windfall gains and losses, there are a number of uncertainty mechanisms within the RIIO framework that can result in adjustments to totex if actual prices or volumes differ from the RIIO price controls assumptions.
Our UK regulator has introduced a new regulatory framework Where we underor over-spend the allowed totex for reasons called RIIO revenue incentives innovation outputs that that are not covered by uncertainty mechanisms, there is a became effective on 1 April 2013 and lasts for eight years.
The sharing factor, ie the underor over-spend is shared between building blocks of the RIIO price control are broadly similar to us and customers through an adjustment to allowed revenues the historical price controls used in the UK, however there are in a future year.
This sharing factor provides an incentive for us some significant differences in the mechanics of the to provide the outputs efficiently as we are able to keep a calculations.
portion of the savings, with the remainder benefiting our How is revenue calculated?
Under RIIO the outputs we deliver are clearly articulated and This sharing factor is one of the ways that RIIO has given are integrally linked to the calculation of our allowed revenue.
Innovation includes traditional These outputs have been determined through an extensive areas such as new technologies, as well as the broader consultation process which has given stakeholders a greater challenge of finding new ways of working to deliver outputs opportunity to input to these decisions.
The clarity around more efficiently.
This broader challenge will have an impact on outputs should lead to greater transparency of our performance everyone in our business and we have updated our strategy to in delivering them.
reflect this new way of thinking.
The six key output categories are: Totex is then split between fast and slow money, a new concept Safety: ensuring the provision of a safe energy network under RIIO, based on a specified percentage.
Fast money Reliability and availability : promoting networks capable of represents the amount of totex that we are able to recover in delivering long-term reliability, as well as minimising the the current year.
Slow money is added to our RAV.
number and duration of interruptions experienced over the In addition to fast money, in each year we are allowed to collect price control period, and ensuring adaptation to climate a depreciation of and a return on our RAV.
This operates in a change similar way to the previous price control, although there have Environmental impact: encouraging companies to play been changes to the depreciation calculation for our Gas their role in achieving broader environmental objectives Distribution business.
We are also allowed to collect additional specifically facilitating the reduction of carbon emissions revenues related to non-controllable costs and incentives.
as well as minimising their own carbon footprint Customer and stakeholder satisfaction: maintaining high The incentive mechanisms can increase or decrease our levels of customer satisfaction and stakeholder allowed revenue and result from our performance against engagement, and improving service levels various measures related to our outputs.
RIIO has introduced Customer connections: encouraging networks to connect new incentive mechanisms as a way to provide further customers quickly and efficiently incentives to align our objectives with those of our customers Social obligations Gas Distribution only : extending the and other stakeholders.
For example, performance against our gas network to communities that are fuel poor where it is customer satisfaction targets can have a positive or negative efficient to do so and introducing measures to address effect of up to 1% of allowed annual revenues.
Incentives will carbon monoxide poisoning incidents normally affect our revenues two years after the year of performance.
Within each of these output categories are a number of primary and secondary deliverables, reflecting what our stakeholders want us to deliver over the coming price control period.
The 10 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 Key RIIO financial metrics Some of the key financial metrics are included below: Transmission Distribution Cost of equity post-tax real 6.8% 6.7% Cost of debt pre-tax real iBoxx 10 year simple trailing average index 2.92% for 2013 14 Notional gearing 62.5% 65.0% Implied vanilla VACC 4.4% 4.2% Implied vanilla WACC cost of debt x gearing cost of equity x 1- gearing.
Gas Transmission Transmission System Operator Operator 1 Fast Baseline 35.6% 62.60% Uncertainty 10% 2 Slow Baseline 64.4% 37.40% Uncertainty 90% 3 Sharing 44.36% Gas Distribution North West East of West London England Midlands 1 Fast Repex: Stepped decline from 50% in 2013 14 to 0% in 2020 21 in seven equal instalments of 7.14% per annum 73.9% 73.37% 75.05% 76.53% 2 Slow Repex: Stepped increase from 50% in 2013 14 to100% in 2020 21 in seven equal instalments of 7.14% per annum 26.10% 26.63% 24.95% 23.47% 3 Sharing 63.04% For more information on RIIO, including incentive mechanisms, please see the relevant investor fact sheets on the Investor Relations section of the National Grid website.
