National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 21 What did we achieve?
It has been another important year for National Grid Gas as we secured appropriate regulatory changes and continued to bed down organisational change.
Here we highlight some of the work we did, and initiatives we introduced, during 2012 13 to support our strategy.
Reliability Delivering operational excellence We aim to deliver reliability by: planning our capital investments Safety remains a top priority for us and we strive to to meet challenging demand and supply patterns: designing improve our performance.
We also recognise the vital and building robust networks: risk-based maintenance and importance of good customer service and community replacement programmes: and detailed and tested incident relationships.
Our licences and regulatory agreements response plans.
set our reliability targets and these are linked to our For further details on our reliability performance, see page 22. revenue streams.
Business changes Safety We are restructuring our business so that we are well Our ambition is to achieve a world-class safety level by 2015, positioned to deliver value under RIIO.
featuring a lost time injury frequency rate of below 0.1.
We intend to achieve this through a relentless leadership focus, We have completed our organisational design for senior robust safety management systems and tactical actions leaders.
We are consulting Transmission employees on a focused on our main risks, which may vary between regions number of changes which, if agreed, will reduce costs and increase efficiency.
We have redefined our organisational and business areas.
design, reducing the number of manager roles by approximately Our employee lost time injury frequency rate for 2012 13 was 22% across Gas and Electricity Transmission combined.
While this is unchanged from last year we recognise that we need to do more to achieve During the year, new terms and conditions of employment have our ambition.
We have included below some examples of our been agreed for around 1,900 Gas Distribution directly employed field staff.
The changes focus on rewarding individual main safety initiatives, which aim to reduce incidents.
We introduced our Take Care campaign, which focused on cable avoidance in our UK Gas Distribution business.
From 1 April 2013, UK Gas Distribution entered into contracts with Balfour Beatty Utility Solutions and a joint venture of We connect office-based employees to the safety aspects of Morrison Utility Services and Skanska Construction UK Limited our operational activities through targeted campaigns, raising called tRIIO, to replace our previous alliance and coalition the profile of safety in the workplace and behaviours at home.
Mainly covering our mains replacement Examples of our initiatives during 2012 13 include interactive programme, the contractual framework is aligned to the new experiences, screen savers and seasonal safety messages.
In 2012 13, National Grid published its Company wide process Engaging our people safety management system and updated its process safety Engaging our people helps to retain the best possible commitment statement.
National Grid has modified its global incident reporting system so it can better differentiate process range of talent and experience, which will be necessary related incidents to improve communication, enhance visibility to meet the needs of our business.
We are committed to and share information relating to process safety events.
developing our employees to the best of their abilities and to creating an inclusive and diverse culture.
We have been continually increasing awareness and developing our safety culture through training initiatives, We measure employee engagement through our employee including e-learning.
Below we describe the results of this years survey and highlight some of the actions that have been taken Delivering customer service in response to previous ones.
We measure the success of our customer service initiatives through the Ofgem customer satisfaction studies and Development independent customer research.
The results of our 2012 survey showed that one of the three main factors driving engagement in our Company was having Our customer satisfaction results have demonstrated opportunities for personal development.
To develop the improvement in some areas in Transmission and Gas leadership capability of our next generation of managers and Distribution.
In our Gas Distribution business we have been middle level leaders, we introduced a new global leadership improving the literature we send to our customers.
From development framework in 2012. information cards and leaflets to letters, we are making sure the content is more reader friendly and refreshing the way it is Our business has developed an education and readiness presented.
programme to raise everyones awareness and understanding 22 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 of RIIO, and how we will need to change the way we work both Stimulating innovation as an organisation and as individual employees.
Encouraging and adopting new ideas helps us to work In the UK, National Grids graduate retention levels are efficiently and effectively.
This in turn helps us to access consistently high, standing at 85% in January 2013. investment and growth opportunities as well as to engage with our regulators.
It is essential to efficiently We provide training and other support so that our people can deliver what is required.
build, maintain and operate our networks safely and reliably.
Innovation initiatives Appreciate We have commissioned a study highlighting a least cost route The results of past employee surveys showed us that to how the UK can meet its 2020 renewable and 2050 carbon employees see recognition as an important part of engagement.
The study paid particular attention to heat and So, we have launched appreciate, a global recognition described the transitional and long-term role gas has to play as programme that encourages our people to recognise and part of a balanced approach.
The analysis has been adopted by reward their colleagues for a job well done.
Features include DECC and has been used extensively in the development of career milestones and the Chairmans Awards, as well as an the governments heat policy paper The Future of Heating: online system employees can use to send and receive Meeting the Challenge, published in March 2013. feedback on great work they see.
The system also administers non-financial awards.
We have been involved in a project that is investigating the feasibility of injecting hydrogen gas, generated from electrolysis Promoting inclusion & diversity fed from excess renewables, into the UK gas networks.
The We aim to develop and operate our business with an inclusive project includes preliminary research into the application for the and diverse culture, with equal opportunity in recruitment, UK market and the creation of a generation simulation model.
career development, training and reward.
This applies to all This aims to identify the possible scale of production and employees regardless of race, gender, nationality, age, financially viable production facilities, as well as options for use.
disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion and background.
Where existing employees become disabled, our We are also a partner in the European Gas Research Group, policy is to provide continued employment and training investigating the safe transportation, network developments and wherever practical.
These policies support the attraction and implications for customer appliances of hydrogen enriched retention of the best people, improve effectiveness, deliver natural gas.
superior performance and enhance our success.
IdeasNet We promote inclusion & diversity both within and outside Our strategy recognises that innovation must go beyond new National Grid.
Our female employees are able to access the technologies, as we look to embrace continuous improvement Springboard and Spring Forward development programmes in within everything we do.
During the year, we trialled programmes aimed at helping us Our employee survey improve the way we collaborate, share knowledge, generate The results of National Grids 2013 survey, have helped us ideas and exchange good practices.
This involved using online identify specific areas where we are performing well and those social tools, including IdeasNet, which encourages employees areas we need to improve.
Our engagement index has fallen by to submit ideas that will improve the efficiency and eight points to 76% in Transmission and five points to 64% in effectiveness of our processes.
It is fair to assume the extensive changes we For example, many employees responded to a challenge to find have introduced in the UK have contributed to the fall in our ways of digging fewer and smaller holes as part of the work we engagement score.
Managers receive a simple scorecard that do in our Gas Distribution business.
A number of these ideas aims to create greater leadership accountability and we have been taken forward to the next stage of development.
produce survey reports and action plans at Company, regional, business unit, function and team levels.
Managers also have Engaging externally access to an engagement framework.
This provides them with We work with external stakeholders to shape energy practical tools and guidance to support them when developing policy as these decisions directly affect our business.
We action plans for their teams.
seek to understand the expectations of all our Attracting the best people stakeholders so we can deliver a service that meets their We have introduced a web-based recruitment system to needs.
improve our hiring process in the UK.
Regulatory agreements We have continued our programmes designed to inspire the We have agreed all the price control arrangements Ofgem has engineers and scientists of the future.
Last year, around 6,500 proposed for RIIO.
For more information on RIIO see pages 8 young people discovered more about energy through National to 10.
Grid employees, and thousands more visited our website www.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 23 Powering Britains Future ambition for National Grids climate change, sustainability and We have launched a nationwide conversation about the environmental strategy.
The initial programme to deliver Our challenges we face in delivering the energy infrastructure the Contribution builds on projects developed through the summit.
country needs and minimising the impacts on communities and Among the initiatives has been the launch of a competition for the environment.
We have challenged them to find innovative Our Powering Britains Future campaign aims to raise ways of implementing the principles of the circular economy, awareness about the scale of the energy challenge facing the promoted by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, into the design of UK and find common ground with stakeholders and the public the materials, plant, processes and equipment they supply to so we can work together to find solutions.
The campaign started with a stakeholder forum in London, We have robust investigation and remediation programmes to bringing together senior representatives from bodies including clean up waste.
We also have controls in place to minimise or the Campaign to Protect Rural England, the consumer group mitigate releases to the environment during remediation Which?
and the National Trust, as well as industry and activities.
These range from containment to spill response government leaders.
You can find out more about the campaign at Climate change www.
This year National Grid has continued its focus on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and it remains on target to achieve Talking networks its 2020 and 2050 targets of a 45% and 80% reduction in Consulting with the people who have a stake in what we do has emissions.
always been fundamental to National Grid.
We measure and report our emissions of the six Kyoto In preparing for the new RIIO regulatory framework, we wanted greenhouse gases using the methodologies set out in the WRI to make sure we fully understood our stakeholders priorities WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and could take their views into account when shaping our and Reporting Standard Revised Edition.
Our total Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions for 2012 13 We have continued our talking networks initiative to gather were around 2.2 million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent, views from consumers, government, the energy sector and representing a 61% reduction compared with our 1990 baseline environmental organisations through workshops, surveys, meetings and forums.
We have published the outcome of our National Grid Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions are consultations on the talking networks section of our website, independently verified: a copy of the verification statement is describing the feedback we received and the action we are available on the National Grid website.
Our Gas Distribution mains replacement programme has Stakeholder engagement is an enduring approach that will continued to deliver a reduction in emissions due to gas leaks in continue through the RIIO period and beyond.
Through talking line with expectations.
Investment in pressure management networks we continue to encourage our stakeholders to let us equipment and an increased focus on system operating know how we are doing, how they would like to engage with us pressures has also helped reduce leakage.
and where we should focus our resources.
Driving growth Embedding sustainability Growing our core businesses and developing future new By embedding sustainability into National Grids business options depend on delivery of our investment decision-making we aim to create value, preserve natural plans.
Combining this with operational and procurement resources and respect the interests of our communities.
efficiencies contributes to our ability to achieve strong returns and meet our commitment to investors.
Our approach to sustainability has involved developing our long-term strategy under the banner of Our Contribution.
This Capital expenditure responds to external drivers and input from stakeholders, drives Capital expenditure this year was 1 billion.
Much of this work efficiency, supports growth and profitability, and aims to: involves asset replacement.
build a culture of sustainability within our organisation: and Strategic workforce planning integrate sustainability into our decision-making and To help drive growth, we need to consider our long-term everyday activities, so we can protect and preserve workforce needs.
Our strategic workforce planning approach natural resources, as well as respect the interests of the allows us to look ahead up to ten years and forecast these communities in which we operate.
needs, based on our business plans and an ageing workforce.
The approach has allowed us to plan for RIIO, identifying any Through our sustainability summit we worked with many of our gaps we may have in terms of skills and experience to meet external stakeholders to discover and define our long-term new ways of working under the new regulatory arrangements.
