National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 3 Our vision and strategy The National Grid vision sets out its intentions and aspirations at the highest level, while its strategic objectives outline what it needs to do to achieve that vision.
We share the National Grid vision and strategy.
Our vision Connecting you to your energy today, trusted to help you meet your energy needs tomorrow Our strategy To be a recognised leader in the development and operation of safe, reliable and sustainable energy infrastructure, to meet the needs of our customers and communities and to generate value for our investors Deliver operational Engage our Stimulate Engage Embed Drive growth excellence people innovation externally sustainability Our business model What we do How we do it We are a gas company based in the UK.
We What we do and the way we do it are equally play a vital role in connecting millions of important from setting the tone at the top people safely, reliably and efficiently to the and how we manage our internal controls, to energy they use.
matters reserved to the Board and our executive remuneration policies.
Operating environment National Grid Board see page 6 What we do National Grid governance structure see pages 7 to 10 Where we operate Internal control and risk management see page 11 see pages 14 and 15 Principal operations How executive remuneration aligns to see pages 11 to 13 National Grid strategy What did we achieve?
Our work and people underpin the prosperity and well being of our customers, communities and investors.
To read about what we achieved in 2012 13 see pages 21 to 23.
National Grid Gas is part of the National Grid group and our governance structure is incorporated and managed by the National Grid Board.
Further information can be found in the National Grid Annual Report and accounts 2012 13 and on National Grids website at www.
4 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 Embed sustainability integrate sustainability into our What our vision and strategic objectives mean to decision making to create value, preserve natural resources us and respect the interests of our communities.
Our vision sets out our intentions and aspirations at the highest Our long-term sustainability strategy sets our ambition to deliver level.
Our strategic objectives set out what we believe we need these aims and to embed a culture of sustainability within our to achieve to deliver our vision and be recognised as a leader in organisation.
That culture will make sure we make decisions the development and operation of safe, reliable and sustainable that protect and preserve natural resources and benefit the energy infrastructure.
communities in which we operate.
We remain committed to Deliver operational excellence achieve excellent levels of National Grid targets of a 45% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 safety, reliability, security and customer service.
greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and 80% by 2050.
Our customers, communities and other stakeholders demand Drive growth grow our core businesses and develop future safe, reliable and secure supply of their energy.
This is reflected new business options.
in our regulatory contracts where we are measured and We review investment opportunities carefully and will only rewarded on the basis of meeting our commitments to invest where we can reasonably expect to earn an adequate customers and other stakeholders.
Combining this disciplined approach with operational Excellence in operational processes should allow us to manage and procurement efficiencies gives us the best possible our assets efficiently, deliver network improvements quickly and opportunity to drive strong returns and meet our commitments provide services that meet the changing demands of to investors.
Engagement with our customers and communities will make sure our outputs reflect their needs and priorities.
It How our strategy creates value will help maximise the benefits our stakeholders derive from the Our vision and strategic objectives explain what is important to value we deliver.
us, so we can meet our commitments and deliver value.
Engage our people create an inclusive, high performance Business value culture by developing all our employees.
Regulatory frameworks operating under robust regulatory frameworks can help to reduce cash flow volatility.
Shaping It is through the hard work of our employees that we will these frameworks to maintain a balance of risk and return achieve our vision, respond to the needs of our stakeholders underpins our investment proposition.
Creating an engaged and talented team that is aligned with our strategic objectives is vital Reputation, safety and capability our approach to safety to our success.
Our presence within the communities we serve, and our reliability record underpin our reputation and brand.
the people we work with and our opportunities to grow both These are important factors that enable positive participation in individually and as a business are all important to making regulatory discussions and the pursuit of new business National Grid a good place to work.
Stimulate innovation promote new ideas to work more Efficient operations efficient capital and operational efficiently and effectively.
expenditure allows us to deliver regulatory outputs at a lower cash cost and reduces working capital requirements.
Our commitment to promoting innovation underpins how we will run our networks more efficiently and effectively and deliver on Maximising revenues positive performance under incentive our regulatory incentives.
Across our business, we will explore mechanisms, and delivery of the outputs our customers and new ways of thinking and working to benefit every aspect of regulatory stakeholders require, helps us to maximise allowed how we deliver on our customer and stakeholder commitments.
Embedding innovation and new technology into our operations Funding and cash flow management positive net cash makes sure we deliver continuous improvements in the quality flows and an innovative funding strategy help to deliver longand cost of our services.
Outperforming the allowed cost of debt can provide improved profitability.
Engage externally work with external stakeholders to shape UK and EU energy policy.
Disciplined investment we can achieve future revenue and earnings growth by increasing our regulatory asset value in line Policy decisions by regulators, governments and others directly with regulatory capital allowances.
We engage widely in the energy policy debate, making sure our position and perspective shape future policy direction.
We also engage with our regulators to manage uncertainty and provide the right mechanisms so we can deliver infrastructure that meets the demands of a changing energy landscape.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 5 Customer and community value Safety and reliability providing reliable networks in a safe way is at the core of customer expectations.
Affordability providing services in a cost efficient way helps to reduce the impact on customer bills.
Customer service providing reliable services that meet the needs of our customers and communities is a crucial part of the value they receive from us.
Environmental sustainability we aim to protect the environment and preserve resources for current and future generations.
Emergency services we provide telephone call centres, coordinate the response to make safe unplanned gas escapes and respond to severe weather events.
Community engagement we listen to the communities we serve and work to address concerns about the development of our networks.
Our people volunteer for community based projects and we support educational initiatives in schools.
