National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 7 What we do Gas Supply other companies The gas industry connects producers, processors, Pipeline shippers bring gas from producers to suppliers, who in storage, transmission and distribution network operators, turn sell it to customers.
as well as suppliers to industrial, commercial and domestic users.
We are not a gas supplier, however, we own National Grid Metering, which provides meters and metering services to Production and importation other companies supply companies, under contract.
Gas used in the UK is sourced from gas fields in the North and Irish seas, piped from Europe and imported as LNG.
Small Customers pay the supplier for the cost of gas and for getting it amounts are produced onshore.
There are seven gas reception to them.
We transport the gas through our network on behalf of terminals, three interconnectors connecting Great Britain via shippers, who pay us transportation charges.
undersea pipes with Ireland, Belgium and the Netherlands.
LNG importers bring LNG from the Middle East, the Americas and other places.
We do not produce gas in the UK.
National Grid owns and operates an LNG importation terminal and storage facilities at the Isle of Grain in Kent Grain LNG.
Grain LNG charges customers under long-term contracts for various services, including access to our importation terminal, storage facilities and capacity rights.
Transmission National Grid Gas only The transmission systems generally include pipes, compressor stations and storage facilities, including LNG storage.
They connect production through terminals to the distribution systems.
Gas enters the transmission system through importation and reception terminals and interconnectors and may include gas previously extracted and held in storage.
Compressor stations located along the network play a vital role in keeping large quantities of gas flowing through the system, particularly at times of high demand.
The gas transmission system has to be kept constantly in balance, which is achieved by buying, selling and using stored gas.
This means that, under normal circumstances, demand can be met.
We are the sole owner and operator of gas transmission infrastructure in Great Britain.
For more information on how we make money from our regulated assets, see page 8.
Distribution National Grid Gas and others Gas leaves the transmission system and enters the distribution networks at high pressure.
It is then transported through a number of reducing pressure tiers until it is finally delivered to consumers.
There are eight regional distribution networks, four of which are owned by National Grid Gas.
Our distribution networks deliver gas to around 10.9 million consumers.
