National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 1 About these regulatory accounting statements certain information, which, in accordance with the National Grid Gas is the holder of two gas transporter licence, is provided only to GEMA and is not published.
licences: one in respect of its gas transmission NTS business and one in respect of its gas distribution Relationship of regulatory accounting network DN businesses.
Under Standard Special statements with statutory accounts Condition A30 of each of these licences, we are The financial information contained in these regulatory required to prepare and publish annual regulatory accounting statements does not constitute statutory accounts accounting statements setting out the financial position within the meaning of section 404 of the Companies Act 2006. and performance of each of the regulatory businesses Statutory accounts for the Company for the year ended 31 covered by that licence.
March 2013, to which the financial information relates, have been delivered to the registrar of Companies.
Scope of the regulatory accounting statements These DN regulatory accounting statements are for National The auditors have made a report under Section 495 of the Grid Gas and its DN business, which comprises gas Companies Act 2006 on those statutory accounts which was distribution and metering.
We also prepare and publish unqualified and did not contain a statement under Section regulatory accounting statements for our NTS business, 498 2 or 3 of the Act.
The auditors opinion on the including liquefied natural gas LNG storage.
Together, these Companys statutory accounts is addressed to, and for the two sets of regulatory accounting statements comprise all the benefit of, the members of the Company and not for any other businesses and activities of National Grid Gas.
The auditors have clarified, in giving their opinion on those statutory accounts, that it has been prepared The regulatory gas distribution and metering businesses for and only for the Companys members as a body in included in these regulatory accounting statements differ in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act certain respects from the gas distribution and metering 2006 and for no other purpose.
In giving their opinion, they do operating segments reported in the Companys annual report not accept or assume responsibility for any other purposes or and accounts.
to any other person to whom their audit report on the statutory Content of the regulatory accounting statements accounts is shown or into whose hands it may come save In accordance with the licence and as agreed with the Gas where expressly agreed by their prior consent in writing.
and Electricity Markets Authority GEMA, these regulatory The statutory accounts of the Company, and of the ultimate accounting statements comprise: parent company National Grid plc National Grid, can be A Business Review for the Company as a whole obtained from the Company Secretarys Office, National Grid including information on the financial performance and plc, 1-3 The Strand, London WC2N 5EH, and from the website of National Grid plc at www.
financial position of our DN business.
A Directors Report in respect of the Company as a Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting whole.
A Corporate Governance Statement in respect of our statements regulatory gas distribution and metering businesses.
These regulatory accounting statements contain arbitrary A Statement of Directors responsibilities for preparing apportionments of certain revenues, costs, assets, liabilities regulatory accounting statements.
and shareholders equity of the Company which are not The Independent Auditors Report on the regulatory specifically attributable to the regulatory businesses and accounting statements.
This is separate to their report activities reported in these regulatory accounting statements, on the annual report and accounts of the Company, and but which, nevertheless, we are required to report against is to GEMA and the Directors of the Company.
Further details of these items Consolidated financial statements for the Company as a are provided in the Basis of preparation on page 40. whole, including additional accounting policies in respect of the basis of preparation of the supplementary analyses included in these regulatory accounting statements.
Supplementary analysis of the financial statements by regulatory business, including a reconciliation to the financial statements for the Company as a whole and
