National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 1 About these regulatory accounting statements certain information, which, in accordance with the National Grid Gas is the holder of two gas transporter licence, is provided only to GEMA and is not published.
licences: one in respect of its gas transmission NTS Supplementary analysis of the financial statements for business and one in respect of its gas distribution our NTS business by Transmission Owner TO and network DN businesses.
Under Standard Special System Operator SO activities.
This extra-licence Condition A30 of each of these licences, we are information is provided only to Ofgem and is not required to prepare and publish annual regulatory published.
accounting statements setting out the financial position Relationship of regulatory accounting and performance of each of the regulatory businesses statements with statutory accounts covered by that licence.
The financial information contained in these regulatory Scope of the regulatory accounting statements accounting statements does not constitute statutory accounts These NTS regulatory accounting statements are for National within the meaning of section 404 of the Companies Act 2006.
Grid Gas and its NTS business, which comprises gas Statutory accounts for the Company for the year ended 31 transmission, including liquefied natural gas LNG storage.
March 2013, to which the financial information relates, have We also prepare and publish regulatory accounting been delivered to the registrar of Companies.
statements for our DN business, including gas metering.
The auditors have made a report under Section 495 of the Together, these two sets of regulatory accounting statements Companies Act 2006 on those statutory accounts which was comprise all the businesses and activities of National Grid unqualified and did not contain a statement under Section Gas.
The auditors opinion on the The regulatory gas transmission business included in these Companys statutory accounts is addressed to, and for the regulatory accounting statements differs in certain respects benefit of, the members of the Company and not for any other from the gas transmission operating segment reported in the person or purpose.
The auditors have clarified, in giving their Companys annual report and accounts.
opinion on those statutory accounts, that it has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in Content of the regulatory accounting statements accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act In accordance with the licence and as agreed with the Gas 2006 and for no other purpose.
In giving their opinion, they do and Electricity Markets Authority GEMA, these regulatory not accept or assume responsibility for any other purposes or accounting statements comprise: to any other person to whom their audit report on the statutory A Business Review for the Company as a whole accounts is shown or into whose hands it may come save including information on the financial performance and where expressly agreed by their prior consent in writing.
financial position of our NTS business.
The statutory accounts of the Company, and of the ultimate A Directors Report in respect of the Company as a parent company National Grid plc National Grid, can be whole.
obtained from the Company Secretarys Office, National Grid A Corporate Governance Statement in respect of our plc, 1-3 The Strand, London WC2N 5EH, and from the regulatory gas transmission business.
website of National Grid plc at www.
A Statement of Directors responsibilities for preparing regulatory accounting statements.
Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting The Independent Auditors Report on the regulatory statements accounting statements.
This is separate to their report These regulatory accounting statements contain arbitrary on the annual report and accounts of the Company, and apportionments of certain revenues, costs, assets, liabilities is to GEMA and the Directors of the Company.
and shareholders equity of the Company which are not Consolidated financial statements for the Company as a specifically attributable to the regulatory businesses and whole, including additional accounting policies in respect activities reported in these regulatory accounting statements, of the basis of preparation of the supplementary but which, nevertheless, we are required to report against analyses included in these regulatory accounting those businesses and activities.
Further details of these items statements.
are provided in the Basis of preparation on page 40.
Supplementary analysis of the financial statements by regulatory business, including a reconciliation to the financial statements for the Company as a whole and
