888 888 Holdings plc Holdings plc Annual R Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc counts 20 ounts 2013 13 Directors Report The Directors submit to the members their Annual Report and Articles of Association Accounts of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The Articles of Association of the Company can only be The Strategic Report, Corporate Governance Statement and amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of Remuneration Report on pages 3, 27 and 34 respectively, form shareholders.
part of this Directors Report.
Rights Attaching to Ordinary Shares Results The rights and obligations attaching to ordinary shares are The Groups Profit after tax for the financial year of US$50 set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Holders of million is reported in the Consolidated Income Statement on ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at general page 53.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 4.0 meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies per share which together with the interim dividend equals and to exercise voting rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may 7.0 per share in accordance with our dividend policy and an receive a dividend and on liquidation may share in the assets of additional one-off 7.0 per share, bringing the total for the year the Company.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive to 14.0 per share 2012: 9.0 per share.
Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares may requisition a general Directors and their Interests meeting of the Company or the proposal of resolutions at Biographical details of the current Board of Directors are general meetings.
The Directors who served during the year are shown below.
All Directors retire at each Annual General Deadlines for Exercising Voting Rights Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election on Electronic and paper proxy appointment and voting an annual basis.
instructions must be received by the Companys Registrars not later than 48 hours before a general meeting.
Richard Kilsby first appointed 30 August 2005.
Restrictions on Transfer of Shares and Limitations Brian Mattingley first appointed 30 August 2005. on Holdings Aviad Kobrine first appointed 30 August 2005.
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of ordinary shares other than under restrictions John Anderson first appointed 30 August 2005. imposed by law or regulation for example, insider trading laws Amos Pickel first appointed 14 March 2006. or pursuant to the Companys share dealing code.
The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Directors Requirements of Gaming Regulations in shares of the Company are set out in the Directors Nevada Remuneration Report on page 34.
There has been no change The Company has been licensed by the State of Nevada.
As in the interests of Directors in shares of the Company between a licensee, the Company is subject to certain requirements 31 December 2013 and the date of this Report.
under the Nevada Gaming Control Act and to the licensing and Except as noted above, none of the Directors had any interests regulatory control of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, in the shares of the Company or in any material contract or and the Nevada Gaming Commission.
arrangement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The Company has registered with the Nevada Gaming Share Capital Commission as a publicly traded corporation and its Changes in the Companys share capital during the financial subsidiaries have been licensed as manufacturers and year are given in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in distributors of interactive gaming systems and as interactive Equity.
As at 31 December 2013, the Companys issued gaming service providers.
Such licenses are not transferable.
share capital comprised 351,977,275 ordinary shares of The Nevada Gaming Commission may limit, condition, suspend GBP 0.005 each.
At the Annual General Meeting held in May or revoke a license, registration, approval or finding 2013, the Board was empowered to allot equity securities of the of suitability for any cause deemed reasonable by such Company for cash without application of pre-emptive rights licensing agency.
under the Companys Articles, provided that such power is limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of Ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all Ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held by them: and b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to subparagraph a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 87,464.76 5% of the Companys Ordinary Share capital in issue as at 21 March 2013.
This authority expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
In 2013, the Company did not exercise any of the foregoing powers and authorities.
com The Nevada Gaming Commission may also require anyone Two subsidiaries of the Company, 888 Atlantic Limited and having a material relationship or involvement with the AAPN New Jersey LLC, have pending CSIE license applications Company to be found suitable or licensed.
For such time as the before the New Jersey Division in connection with providing Company is subject to the aforementioned legal requirements internet gaming services to New Jersey casino licensees.
and to the control of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board The issuance and maintenance of a CSIE license requires and Nevada Gaming Commission, any person who acquires that directors, officers, key employees and owners of the more than 5% of any class of our voting securities must applicant company be found by the New Jersey Division report, within 10 days, the acquisition to the Nevada Gaming to be of good character, honesty and financially stable by Commission.
Any person who becomes a beneficial owner of a showing of clear and convincing evidence.
A CSIE license more than 10% of any class of our voting securities is required application consists of disclosure forms for the applicant, to apply for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the each of its holding companies, and each individual required to Chairman of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board mails be found qualified by the New Jersey Division.
Generally, all written notice in accordance with NRS 463.643.
Under certain five percent 5% or greater direct or indirect owners, certain circumstances, an Institutional Investor, as such term is officers, certain directors, and sales representatives soliciting defined in the regulations of the Nevada Gaming Commission, business from Atlantic City casinos and their supervisors must which acquires more than 10% but not more than 25% of be qualified, unless the qualification requirement is waived.
any class of our voting securities, may apply to the Nevada Outside directors of a holding or intermediary company of a Gaming Commission for a waiver of such finding of suitability CSIE license applicant are only required to be licensed if they requirements.
are members of the Audit or Executive Committee.
Officers may be waived from the qualification requirement if they are The Nevada Gaming Commission may also, in its discretion, not significantly involved in and have no authority over the require any other holders of our equity securities or any holders conduct of business with a casino: however, the Chief Executive of our debt securities to file applications, be investigated and Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Technology Officer and be found suitable to own our equity or debt securities.
The Chief Legal Officer cannot be waived.
The New Jersey Division applicant security holder is required to pay all costs of such has the discretion to require other persons to be qualified.
These rules apply to all entities through the chain of ownership, regardless of any resulting dilution in interest in the applicant, Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of so that any direct or indirect owner of five percent 5% or suitability or a license within 30 days after being ordered more of any applicant or holding company must file, as must to do so by the Nevada Gaming Commission may be found their officers and directors.
The 5% or greater ownership is unsuitable based solely on such failure or refusal.
The same generally calculated based on ownership of equity securities.
restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, when The New Jersey Division may also aggregate the holdings requested, fails to identify the beneficial owner.
Any security of different owners of less than 5% and require each to be holder found unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, qualified if they have a commonality of interest with each other.
any beneficial ownership of the common stock beyond such Situations in which this may occur include common control of period of time as may be prescribed by the Nevada Gaming different entities or familial relationships.
Commission may be guilty of a gross misdemeanor.
With respect to security holders, the New Jersey Division may Changes in control through merger, consolidation, acquisition waive the qualification requirement for institutional investors, of assets, management or consulting agreements or any form as defined in the New Jersey Act, of an applicant if: i there of takeover cannot occur without prior investigation by the is no reason to believe that the institutional investor may be Nevada State Gaming Control Board and approval by the unqualified: ii the institutional investor holds less than 25 Nevada Gaming Commission.
percent of the outstanding securities: iii the securities were New Jersey acquired for investment purposes only, and iv the holder has no intention of influencing the affairs of the applicant, Vendors offering goods or services to a casino applicant or other than voting its securities.
The New Jersey Act defines an licensee which directly relate to internet gaming activity are institutional investor as i any retirement fund administered subject to strict regulation pursuant to the New Jersey Casino by a public agency for the exclusive benefit of federal, state or Control Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder local public employees: ii an investment company registered collectively, referred to as New Jersey Act.
The New Jersey under the Investment Corporate Law of 1940: iii a collective Act created the New Jersey Casino Control Commission New investment trust organised by banks under Part Nine of the Jersey Commission and the New Jersey Division of Gaming Rules of the Comptroller of the Currency, iv a closed end Enforcement New Jersey Division.
Under the New Jersey investment trust: v a chartered or licensed life insurance Act, a casino service industry enterprise CSIE license is company or property and casualty insurance company: vi required for a vendor offering goods or services to a casino banking or other licensed or chartered lending institutions: vii applicant or licensee which directly relate to Internet gaming an investment adviser registered under the Investment Advisers activity.
The New Jersey Division has the authority to decide Act of 1940, and viii such other persons as the New Jersey CSIE license applications.
The New Jersey Division also has Division may determine for reasons consistent with the policies the responsibility to investigate all license applications and of the New Jersey Act.
to prosecute violations of the New Jersey Act.
However, the New Jersey Commission has the authority to hear and decide appeals regarding denials of CSIE license applications by the New Jersey Division.
Stock Code: 888 23 23124.04 25 March 2014 6:24 AM Proof 11 888 888 Holdings plc Holdings plc Annual R Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc counts 20 ounts 2013 13 Directors Report In connection with a license application, the New Jersey The New Jersey Division has broad discretion regarding the Division conducts an investigation of the applicant and its issuance, suspension or revocation of CSIE licenses.
The New individual qualifiers to determine their suitability for licensure.
Jersey Division may impose conditions on the award of a In order for a CSIE license to be issued by the New Jersey license.
In addition, the New Jersey Division has the authority Division, the applicant and its individual qualifiers must to impose fines or suspend or revoke a license for violations of demonstrate, by clear and convincing evidence, their good the New Jersey Act, including the failure to satisfy the licensure character, honesty and integrity, and their financial stability, requirements.
A CSIE license is issued for an indefinite term and integrity and responsibility.
The investigation of a CSIE will essentially remain effective thereafter unless the license applicant and affiliated individuals and entities will normally is suspended, expires, or is revoked.
The applicant is asked to take at least a year.
resubmit related information every five years.
An applicant for an internet CSIE license is responsible for the Substantial Shareholdings entire cost of the investigation charged at the Divisions hourly As at 31 December 2013 the Company had been notified of the rates, which currently is $113, plus out-of-pocket expenses.
All following interests in 5% or more of its share capital under DTR unexpected cash disbursements are charged directly to the Rule 5 of the UK Listing Authority: applicant.
Principal Shareholders Number of shares % issued share capital E Shaked Shares Trust 86,283,534 24.51 O Shaked Shares Trust 86,283,534 24.51 Ben-Yitzhak Family Shares Trust 37,122,358 10.55 No notifications pursuant to DTR Rule 5 have been received by the Chairman of the Board being Independent Directors, such the Company between 31 December 2013 and the date of this appointment shall only become effective upon the appointment Annual Report.
to the Board of an additional Independent Director acceptable to the Nominations Committee.
Such restrictions and obligations Shareholder Agreements and Consent Requirements apply in respect of the E Shaked Shares Trust and O Shaked There are no known arrangements under which financial rights Shares Trust whilst they collectively hold not less than 7.5% of are held by a person other than the holder of the shares.
the issued share capital of 888, and in respect of the Ben-Yitzhak Family Shares Trust whilst it individually holds not less than 7.5% A Relationship Agreement governing the relationship between of the issued share capital of 888. the above Principal Shareholder Trusts and the Company was entered into in connection with the Companys flotation.
The Change of Control Relationship Agreement provides that all transactions between A change of control in the Group may, in the event of failure to the Group and the Principal Shareholder Trusts will be on a fulfill any applicable consent requirement, give rise to certain normal business basis, that the Group will be allowed to carry revocation or termination rights under the Groups gaming on business independently of them and that the Principal licences or certain contracts to which the Group is a party.
Shareholder Trusts will not cause the Company to contravene the Code unless required by law or as contemplated in the Political Donations Relationship Agreement.
It further provides that each of the The Company did not make any political donations during Principal Shareholder Trusts will not solicit Group employees the year.
without consent, that only Independent Directors can vote on proposals to amend the Relationship Agreement, that Financial Instruments the Principal Shareholder Trusts will consult the Group prior The financial risk management objectives and policies of the to disposing of a significant number of shares in order to Company are set out in the notes to the financial statements maintain an orderly market and shall not disclose confidential on page 83.
The Company is not materially exposed to foreign information unless required to do so by law or relevant exchange fluctuations given its policy to hedge its currency regulation or having first received the Companys consent.
exposure as described in note 27 to the financial statements.
The Relationship Agreement also includes restrictions on the The Company is not materially exposed to price risk, credit risk Principal Shareholder Trusts power to appoint Directors and or liquidity risk.
Given that end-users are required to fund their includes obligations on the trusts to ensure that the majority of online gaming wallet prior to carrying out any gaming activity, the Board, excluding the Chairman, is independent.
The Principal operational cash flow is not a material risk for the Company.
In Shareholder Trusts can nominate a Non-executive Director addition the Group manages its cash in a prudent manner and for appointment to the Board.
In the event that this right is maintains sufficient liquid resources to meet its anticipated exercised and it results in fewer than half the Board excluding liabilities as and when they come due.
com } New payment options: Configuration of the platform to Directors Indemnities interface with US banks and payment methods required The Companys Articles of Association permit the Company the implementation of entirely new processes.
to indemnify its Directors in certain circumstances, as well as to provide insurance for the benefit of its Directors.
The } Major product modifications: Our platform and games Company has undertaken to indemnify its Non-executive were adapted to suit US customers preferences and Directors: a in defending any proceedings, whether civil or needs.
criminal, in which judgment is given in favour of such NonWe will continue investing to develop our platform for executive Director or in which such Non-executive Director regulated markets as part of the Groups strategic direction.
is acquitted: or b in connection with any application under Section 378 of the Gibraltar Companies Act pursuant to which Mobile: 2013 saw the completion of 888s strategy of full the court may provide relief to such Non-executive Director mobile coverage, with all 888 products now offered on both in any proceedings for negligence, default, breach of duty or iOS and Android platforms Smartphones and Tablets.
breach of trust on grounds that such Non-executive Director The Group is constantly adding both content and customer has acted honestly and reasonably, and that, having regard to communication tools to its mobile offering.
all circumstances of the case, including those connected with his appointment, he ought fairly to be excused from liability Sport: The Group migrated its sports offering from the on such terms as the court thinks fit.
The Company also BlueSquare platform to the Kambi platform.
undertook in favour of Aviad Kobrine to indemnify him to the Games: In 2013, we made substantial investments in our worldfullest extent permitted by applicable law and the Companys class in-house games studio which, together with new external Articles of Association in connection with the execution of his partners such as Netent, added new games over all platforms duties and or exercise of his powers, authorities and discretions PC & Mobile.
pursuant to his employment agreement.
In addition, certain special indemnities were provided to the Executive Directors Core Business & Operation: During 2013, the Group invested in connection with the compliance and licencing procedures in infrastructure and tools supporting our operations and relating to the Companys business in the United States, details core business.
Projects included the rebuild of our back-office of which were provided in the Companys 2011 Annual Report.
software, the addition of new back-office tools, the addition of enhanced marketing capabilities including sophisticated Corporate Governance communication tools with players and additional payment The corporate governance statement is on pages 27 to 30 and options, all with a focus on optimizing cost and improving is incorporated in this Directors Report by reference.
Principal Subsidiary Undertakings Greenhouse Gas Emissions The principal subsidiary undertakings are listed on page 80.
Details of the Companys greenhouse gas emissions are set out in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Business Review Research & Development Activities on page 16.
2013 was a year of major investment in developing the Groups infrastructure, in order to support our growing business as Auditors well as to meet regulatory and market needs in support of our A resolution for the reappointment of BDO LLP and BDO business strategy.
Our research & development focus was on Limited as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the regulated markets and mobile, as well as improving scalability 2014 Annual General Meeting.
of our gaming platforms and of our back office, and included: During the year ended 31 December 2013 BDO LLP were Regulated Markets: Delivering the Groups offering in appointed auditors for the purposes of the Company preparing three states over a period of three months required the financial statements as required pursuant to the Listing Rules commitment of substantial capital and human resources, of the UK Listing Authority.
BDO Limited have been appointed leading to successful launches in Nevada in September, and in to act as auditors for the purposes of issuing an audit report both Delaware and New Jersey in November.
Major areas of pursuant to Section 10 of the Gibraltar Companies Accounts investment included: Act 1999 to be filed with the Gibraltar Companies Registry. }
Data center set-up: Three fully operational data centers were established in the US: one dedicated to each regulated market. }
Adaptation to regulation guidelines: The different state regulatory requirements meant that our platform and games needed to be adapted separately for each state. }
Certification: Working with accredited testing houses, we ensured that our platform passed regulatory certification for each state.
