888 888 Holdings plc Holdings plc Annual R Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc counts 20 ounts 2013 13 Directors Statement of Responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, statements in accordance with the Gibraltar Companies taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and Accounts Act 1999, the Gibraltar Companies Consolidated provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Accounts Act 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Act.
the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial We confirm, to the best of our knowledge: statements present fairly for each financial year the Group a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with and Companys financial position, financial performance International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in financial position and profit or loss of the Group and the accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the whole: and International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In b the strategic report includes a fair review of the virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved development and performance of the business and the by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
A fair presentation also position of the Group and the undertakings included in the requires the Directors to: consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face. }
consistently select and apply appropriate accounting policies: All of the current directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any } present information, including accounting policies, in a information needed by the companys auditors for the manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and purposes of their audit, and to establish that the auditors understandable information: and are aware of that information.
The directors are not aware } provide additional disclosures when compliance with of any relevant audit information of which the auditors are the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to unaware.
enable members to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
On behalf of the Board: The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors report which complies with the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999, the Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Act 1999 and the Gibraltar Brian Mattingley Companies Act.
Chief Executive 25 March 2014 Financial statements are published on the Groups website in accordance with legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The maintenance and integrity of the Groups website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The Directors responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and have also chosen to prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance with IFRSs.
