888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Regulation As a business operating in a highly regulated environment During 2012, the Group was awarded online gaming and and deeply committed to conducting its business in a lawful betting licenses by the German state of Schleswig-Holstein.
and compliant manner, 888 is heavily impacted by regulatory Legal ambiguities regarding the geographic scope of changes relevant to its business operations.
Whilst in its early this license and the conditions applicable to it, remained days internet gaming was characterized by under-regulation unresolved during 2013.
The regulation of online gaming itself in most jurisdictions, this situation has seen rapid change in in Germany continued to be characterised by legal ambiguity numerous large markets in recent years.
The German Federal Court of Justice expressed significant doubts regarding the validity Following several years of emerging regulation in various of the current German Inter-State Gambling Treaty under EU European jurisdictions Italy, Spain, Denmark, France and law, and referred the matter for adjudication by the European others, recent years have seen an emergence of licensing Court of Justice where the matter remains pending.
As a result, and regulatory regimes in various US States.
This represents legal proceedings in lower German courts with regard to online a drastic change in the regulatory landscape applicable in gaming have generally been suspended or adjourned pending the US, where a 2006 federal law resulted in the majority of guidance from the Federal Court.
A tender process intended to operators exiting the local market including the 888 group.
select a handful of operators who were to be granted national Commensurate with its deep commitment to regulation, 888 sports betting licenses was bogged down by legal challenges is proud to be the only international online gaming operator to and remains ongoing.
currently operate online gaming in all three US States that have launched commercial internet gaming Nevada, New Jersey 2013 saw the UK move towards a reform of the 2005 Gambling and Delaware and we hope to expand into additional states Act.
At the heart of the proposed reform which is expected to once online gaming becomes regulated there.
Additionally, the enter into law during early 2014 is the requirement for foreign group is preparing to face a reform to the regulation of online operators wishing to offer their services to UK residents, to gaming in the United Kingdom, which will require the group to obtain a UK Gambling License and pay UK gaming duty on obtain a UK gaming license in 2014. revenues generated from UK residents.
Such a reform would effectively abolish the right of EU EEA based operators to The group continues to be an active and vocal supporter of the advertise their services in the UK without a UK gaming license.
regulation of online gaming, and invests significant efforts in Various challenges to the new law are anticipated, including by facing the various challenges posed by the ever growing and the Gibraltar Betting and Gambling Association of which the complex mosaic of divergent regulatory regimes relevant to group is a member.
Notwithstanding, the Group is presently its business worldwide.
The following paragraphs summarize assessing the legal impact of the upcoming reform on its the main relevant regulatory developments of 2013 and our interaction with customers in the UK, has supplied comments expectations regarding changes that will impact the group to the UK authorities in the context of consultations conducted in 2014. with regard to the proposed reform, and is preparing to apply for licensure in the UK if and when required to do so.
Formal European Jurisdictions statements by the UK Gambling Commission indicate that After some years of hesitance by the European Commission holders of Gibraltar online gaming licenses will be subject to with regard to the regulation of online gaming within a transitional regime allowing them to seamlessly continue the European Internal Market, 2013 saw the adoption of operations under a UK license and avail themselves of a resolutions on the EU level calling for increased cooperation continuing license process.
Whilst the Group anticipates and coordination between member states with regard to that the upcoming reform will have a definite impact on the the regulation of internet gaming, as well as the launching manner in which it conducts its UK-facing business, it of infringement cases against member states whose gaming expects such business to continue uninterrupted despite the laws contradict EU law.
These actions may lead to a greater upcoming reform.
degree of inter-European consistency in the coming years, and will hopefully also encourage member states to open their In Greece the national regulator commenced a blacklisting markets to licensing of foreign online gaming operators.
Such process, in June 2013, targeting online gaming sites unlicensed developments are anticipated, in the coming years, in several in the jurisdiction.
This move, taken under the countrys 2011 European markets including Ireland, Romania, the Czech gaming law, was accompanied by orders issued to the countrys Republic, the Netherlands, and Sweden.
Internet Service Providers requiring them to block access to sites on the blacklist.
Legal challenges against the blacklisting Reports indicate that Spain, where the Group has held a license process remained pending as 2013 drew to a close.
In addition, since June 2012, is likely to expand its regulatory regime to despite the 2011 gaming law allowing for the issuance of online include online slots in 2014.
This would present an opportunity gaming licenses in Greece, no such licenses were issued in 2013. for 888, which has already been successful in capturing a large Various proposals to amend the law were presented to the share of the Spanish market.
Greek Parliament but have not yet passed into law.
com Both Hungary and Romania amended their gambling laws between local licensed operators.
The Group hopes that during 2011 and introduced limited regulatory regimes development on this front can be achieved in 2014.
In addition governing online gaming.
The implementation of these the Group has also supported efforts by the state to negotiate new regulatory regimes was delayed in anticipation of the inter-state agreements with other regulated US jurisdictions, publication of necessary secondary legislation.
It seemed allowing for regulatory cooperation between states as well as apparent as 2013 drew to a close that both jurisdictions the pooling of player liquidity.
In late February 2014, the Multiintended to introduce further changes to their existing online State Internet Gaming Agreement between state of Nevada gaming laws prior to their implementation.
and the State of Delaware was entered into.
Bulgaria issued regulations in 2013 to implement its 2012 Following the passage of legislation in the State of New Jersey gaming law, and began receiving applications for the issuance in 2012, approved by the State Governor in 2013, the Group of local gaming licenses.
In late 2013 Bulgaria amended the tax applied for licensing as a Casino Service Industry Enterprise structure applicable to online gaming.
The Group is studying in that State.
Late in 2013 the Group received a Transactional the impacts of that reform.
Waiver from the New Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement allowing it to commence internet gaming-related operations in The government of The Netherlands continued its efforts conjunction with Caesars Interactive Entertainment.
888 was towards liberalisation of the countrys regulatory regime amongst the group of first operators approved to launch their applicable to online gaming.
The Group continued to conduct online gaming platform in the state including poker and casino its operations in the Netherlands in accordance with interim games in November 2013.
The Groups platform is available guidelines issued by the local authorities, and maintained close to players in New Jersey both under 888s own brands as contact with the authorities providing information and making well as under several brands belonging to the Caesars group.
proposals with regard to the anticipated reform.
A draft online The Group continues to work with the Division towards final gaming bill is anticipated to be published for comments in approval of its licensing application.
2014, and the Group will continue to engage with the Dutch authorities with the hope that the anticipated reform will Following a 2012 law enacted by the State of Delaware, accommodate a vibrant and commercially viable online gaming allowing for the online provision of internet lottery games market in The Netherlands.
including casino-style gaming and poker by the State Lottery, 888 together with Scientific Games were selected to provide Political instability delayed reforms to the online gaming regime the technology to power the State Lotterys online offering.
The of the Czech Republic but these are expected to progress, Group worked with the State Lottery providing professional under a newly elected government, in 2014. input to the State Lottery in connection with the drafting of internet lottery regulations and standards.
Based on 888 In Ireland, the Ministry of Justice published a Heads of Bill technology, and under legislation governing the operation document encapsulating a proposed reform to the countrys of internet lottery games, internet gaming services are now betting and online gaming regimes.
While the component of offered to Delaware players through websites branded and the reform related to betting is expected to enter into force promoted by the states three racetrack casinos.
In connection during 2014, work on the gaming-related reform is unlikely to with its selection as the Lotterys technology provider, the reach fruition in the coming year.
The Group continues to Group is presently undergoing licensing by the Delaware follow these developments and their impact on its operations in Division of Gaming Enforcement.
The Group continues to these markets.
maintain a close dialogue with the Division and with the State USA Lottery on technological, regulatory and enforcement issues, Though no progress was made with regard to federal legislation and is supportive of Delawares desire to enter into inter-state governing online gaming in 2013, major developments gaming agreements with other regulated US jurisdictions.
occurred on the state level.
This followed the publication It is the Groups anticipation and hope that other US of a US Department of Justice memorandum reversing the jurisdictions will follow in the footsteps of Nevada, New Jersey Departments long-standing position regarding the scope of and Delaware, in regulating the operation of internet gaming the Wire Act.
The Departments conclusion that the Wire Act within their territories.
The State of Michigan is expected to does not apply to non-sports betting, and hence does not launch online lottery games in the coming months.
Several prohibit the intra-state sale online of lottery tickets by licensed other states, including California and Pennsylvania, have been state lotteries, paved the way for various US jurisdictions to considering online gaming legislation, while other States regulate intra-state online gaming.
Indeed, during 2013, internet including New York are reportedly studying the market gaming was launched in Nevada, New Jersey and Delaware.
and considering their position with regard to the regulation On 21 March 2013 the Group was licensed as an Interactive of internet gaming.
These developments could all present Gaming Service Provider by the Nevada Gaming Commission, potential business opportunities for the Group, which could act after being recommended for licensure by the State Gaming as a service provider to licensees and lottery corporations in Control Board.
Through its partnership with Caesars Interactive the various states.
The Group hopes to continue to lead the US Entertainment, the Group launched its first US-licensed online online gaming market, seeking licensing of its technology and gaming platform, offering online poker to players within the products wherever such licenses are available in a commercially State of Nevada under the World Series of Poker brand.
groups Nevada platform was approved for a field trial by the Nevada authorities, and final approval of the platform by the State Gaming Commission is anticipated in 2014.
As a pioneer of the Nevada online gaming market, the Group has continued to work with the Nevada authorities towards approval of interoperator poker networks which will allow for shared liquidity Stock Code: 888 15 23124.04 25 March 2014 6:24 AM Proof 11
