ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2013 DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS John Barton Jonathan Dawson Aged 68.
Became a member of the Board in 2002 and was Senior Independent Non-executive Director appointed Deputy Chairman in 2004 and Chairman in 2006.
Became a member of the Board in 2004.
He is also He is also Chairman of Catlin Group Limited and previously a non-executive director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc served as Chief Executive of JIB Group plc, Chairman of Cable and National Grid plc and a partner in Penfida Partners LLP.
and Wireless Worldwide plc, Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group Previous experience includes non-executive directorships of plc, Wellington Underwriting plc and Brit Insurance Holdings National Australia Group Europe Ltd, Standard Life Investments plc and as a non-executive director of WH Smith plc and Holdings Limited and GallifordTry plc, eight years in the Ministry Hammerson plc.
of Defence and over twenty years in investment banking with Lazard.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Steve Barber Lord Wolfson of Aspley Guise, Chief Executive Aged 61.
Became a member of the Board in 2007.
Appointed Retail Sales experience includes almost thirty years in the accountancy Director in 1993, became responsible for NEXT Directory in profession, principally with Price Waterhouse where he was a 1995 and was appointed to the Board in 1997 with additional senior partner.
Formerly Finance Director of Mirror Group and responsibilities for systems.
Appointed Managing Director of the Chief Operating Officer of Whitehead Mann.
Founder of The NEXT Brand in 1999 and Chief Executive in 2001.
Objectivity Partnership and a member of the Audit Quality Forum.
Christine Cross Christos Angelides, Group Product Director Aged 61.
Became a member of the Board in 2005.
Christos has a wealth of also a non-executive director of Sonae Group Ltd Portugal, experience in the product area starting at NEXT as a Trainee Woolworths Limited Australia and Kathmandu Limited Menswear Buyer and became General Manager of NEXTs New Zealand.
Christine is also Chief Retail Advisor to sourcing office in Hong Kong in 1989, Menswear Product  and a retail advisor to Apax Partners Director in 1994 and Womenswear Product Director in 1998. and Warburg Pincus.
Previous experience includes fourteen He was appointed to the Board in 2000 and has overall years as a director at Tesco plc and fifteen years lecturing and responsibility for all aspects of the design, buying, quality and course director roles at Edinburgh and Bath Universities.
Francis Salway David Keens, Group Finance Director Aged 55.
Joined NEXT in 1986 as Group Treasurer and was of Town & Country Housing Group and a non-executive director appointed to the Board in 1991.
Previous experience includes seven of Cadogan Group Limited.
Formerly Chief Executive of Land years in the accountancy profession and nine years in the UK and Securities Group plc and past president of the British Property overseas operations of multinational manufacturers of consumer Federation.
goods, with roles including Group Treasurer and Finance Director.
Professional qualifications include the Association of Chartered Caroline Goodall Certified Accountants and the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Became a member of the Board in January 2013.
Caroline has thirty years experience in the legal profession, with Andrew Varley, Group Property Director twenty years as a corporate finance partner at Herbert Smith, Aged 62.
Joined the Group in 1985 and was appointed to including five years as head of the Global Corporate Division.
Andrews responsibilities include property, She is currently a non-executive director of SVG Capital plc and franchise, corporate responsibility and code of practice related a non-executive on the Partnership Board of Grant Thornton matters.
Previous experience includes twelve years in retail and UK LLP, and a trustee and member of the Council of the commercial property.
He is also a non-executive director of National Trust.
LondonMetric Property Investments plc and is a Fellow of the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors.
BOARD COMMITTEES Audit Committee Company Secretary Steve Barber Committee Chairman Caroline Goodall Andrew McKinlay Christine Cross Francis Salway Jonathan Dawson Remuneration Committee Jonathan Dawson Committee Chairman Christine Cross Steve Barber Caroline Goodall John Barton Francis Salway Nomination Committee John Barton Committee Chairman Jonathan Dawson Steve Barber Caroline Goodall Christine Cross Francis Salway 27 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports
