Directors Report The Directors of NMC Health plc the Group or the Company are pleased to submit their Annual Report and audited financial statements of the Group and the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2013.
Information in the Group Strategic Report on pages 8 to 43, which constitutes a fair review of the business required by the Companies Act 2006, and in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 56 to 73, is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
The details of salaries, bonuses, benefits and share interests of directors are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 74 to 98.
Results and Dividends The Group results are shown in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on page 103.
Profit after taxation for the year was US$69.1m 2012: US$59.8m.
Factors influencing the results are discussed in the Business Overview and Financial review on pages 19 to 30.
No interim dividend was declared during the period.
Subject to shareholder approval, a final dividend of 4.4p per share 2012: 4.1p is proposed, to be paid on 3 July 2014 to shareholders on the Companys share register on 30 May 2014.
Future Developments The Groups strategy and potential future development are outlined in the Group Strategic Report on pages 8 to 43.
Composition of the Board The following have served as directors of the Company during the 2013 financial year: Director Position Date of Date ceased to be a appointment director if applicable Mr H. J.
Mark Tompkins Non-Executive 7 March 2012 - Chairman His Excellency Saeed Bin Butti Non-Executive 20 July 2011 24 February 2014 Director Mr Khalifa Bin Butti Executive Vice 20 July 2011 - Chairman Dr B. R. Shetty Chief Executive 20 July 2011 - Officer Mr Jonathan Bomford Non-Executive 27 June 2013 - Director Lord Clanwilliam Non-Executive 7 March 2012 - Director Mrs Heather Lawrence Non-Executive 19 March 2012 - Director Mr Justin Jewitt Non-Executive 7 March 2012 27 June 2013 Director Mr. Abdulrahman Basaddiq was appointed as a Director of the company on 24 February 2014.
No other directors have been appointed to serve during the period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 or subsequently.
Share Capital There have been no changes to the issued share capital of the Company during the year.
The issued share capital as at 1 January 2013 and at 31 December 2013 is 18,571,428 divided into 185,714,286 shares of 10p each.
As at the date of this report, the Company has not issued any options over the Companys share capital.
51 At the annual general meeting held in 2013, shareholders approved an authority for the Board to be permitted, in certain circumstances, to purchase its own shares.
This authority has not been used.
Under the articles of association of the Company, all Ordinary shares have equal rights to dividends and capital and to vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the size of holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed under the terms of the articles of association and relevant legislation.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or in voting rights.
Principal shareholders As at 24 February 2014, the Company is aware of the following significant shareholdings in the Ordinary shares of the Company: Shareholder Number of shares % of issued share Nature of holding capital held H. E. Saeed Bin Butti 53,466,559 28.8 Direct Dr B. R. Shetty 37,742,409 20.3 Direct Mr Khalifa Bin Butti 19,059,842 10.3 Direct Infinite Investment LLC 14,072,024 7.6 Direct Political donations Neither the Company nor any subsidiary company in the Group made any Political donations during the year ended 31 December 2013.
Whilst the Company has no intention of making formal political donations in the future, the Board acknowledge that given the wide interpretation of such donations, certain business events in which the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or the Board, may wish to participate may be caught under the formal definition of political donations.
The Company will therefore again be seeking approval from shareholders at this years annual general meeting, for a small approved limit for political donations, for use in such circumstances.
If this is approved by shareholders, the Board will provide full details of any such payments made in the next annual report.
Contracts of significance with directors Under UAE law and regulations, with the exception of certain specific areas designated by the Government as such, all land must be held legally by a UAE National.
In addition, all healthcare facility and pharmacy operating licences may only be held legally by a UAE National, and not a body corporate.
As a result, some of the property owned beneficially by the Group and all the Groups medical facility and pharmacy licences, are held legally in the name of either H. E. Saeed Bin Butti previously a Director of the Company or Mr Khalifa Bin Butti, a Director of the Company.
Related Party Transactions Details of related party transactions are included in note 28 of the financial statements on pages 136 to 138.
Post Balance Sheet Events The Companys subsidiary, NMC Healthcare LLC, entered into a renewed lease of 27 years with Municipality of Abu Dhabi for the site on which the Groups new Khalifa City Specialty Hospital is being constructed.
There were no other events which would have a material effect on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position between 31 December 2013 and the date of this report.
Going Concern The Group has two diverse operating divisions, both of which operate in a growing market.
The Board have undertaken an assessment of the future prospects of the Group and the wider risks that the Group is exposed to.
In its assessment of whether the Group should adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements, the Board has considered: Operating risk: The Board receives monthly management reports covering key operational matters, monthly comparison to budget and updated forecasts on a half yearly basis for the full financial year to ensure that the business is trading in line with its expectations.
The management team prepare a Group budget for each financial year and a cashflow forecast for 52 the following 18 months which allows the Board to monitor the financial position of the Group and to consider appropriate risks which the business may face from a financial perspective.
Financing risk: The Company has worked to structure its debts for the medium and long term as well as utilising short term facilities to meet the Groups working capital requirements.
The funds raised as a result of the share issue undertaken at IPO in April 2012 and the US$300m five year syndicated term debt facility, of which US$225m has been drawn down to date, are more than sufficient to fund the Groups material capital projects.
The Group has banking arrangements through a spread of local and international banking groups.
Debt covenants are reviewed by the board each month.
The Board believes that the level of cash in the Group, the spread of bankers and the improved debt facility terms agreed during 2013 mitigates the financing risks that the Group faces from both its capital expenditure program and in relation to working capital requirements.
Customer and Supplier risk: Both the Healthcare and Distribution divisions have continued their positive growth trends.
All major financial and non-financial KPIs showed good improvement during 2013.
In the Healthcare division, trade receivables are monitored regularly, provisions made where necessary and the Group has no history of significant bad debts.
In the Distribution division, the increase in revenue and product flow has an adverse effect on the Groups working capital position.
Trade receivables are monitored regularly and management maintain a close working relationship with all major suppliers to monitor performance as well as signs of financial risk The Board has reviewed the business plan for 2014 as well as considered growth forecasts for the healthcare sector in UAE, and considers the Groups future forecasts to be reasonable.
Impairment risk: The Board has considered the carrying value of inventories, accounts receivable and property and equipment and concluded that there are no indicators of material impairment of these items and therefore no material cash flow impact associated with any loss in those areas.
In its review, the Board considered other areas of potential risk, including regulatory risk, insurance and legal risks and potential areas of contingent liability and found no matters which are likely to affect the viability of the Group in the medium term.
The Directors therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements.
Financial risk management objectives The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group are included in note 29 to the financial statements on pages 138 to 142.
Greenhouse gas emissions The Group has not collected data as required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 in relation to its greenhouse gas emissions during 2013.
The Company is aware of its responsibilities to the environment.
The Company is aware that the climate in which its businesses operates is extremely hot when compared with other parts of the world.
The Groups medical facilities are particularly reliant on cooling to ensure a safe environment for our patients and employees.
The measuring of greenhouse gas emissions or other environmental indicators is largely not prevalent within businesses in the UAE.
The Group has therefore not had experience of having to consider environmental matters or its gas emissions previously.
The Company considers that its primary areas for review in relation to the effect that the Group has on the environment is as follows: The Groups electricity usage which, given the focus on healthcare operations, is significant: The use of air conditioning, and in particular the use of gases within cooling systems, which given the location of the businesses in an extremely hot climate, will be higher than other countries in the world: 53 The use of vehicle fuels, particularly with regards to the vehicle fleet used in the Distribution division, in an environment where the distribution of product throughout the UAE can only be made via the countrys road network.
The Company has commenced a project to ensure that data in relation to the Groups consumption of greenhouse gases is collected for 2014 onwards, but it hasnt been practical for the Group to collect and publish historical data in relation to the 2013 financial year.
Annual General Meeting The annual general meeting of NMC Health plc will be held at Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD on Thursday, 26 June 2014 at 2.00 p. m. Further details of the resolutions to be proposed at the annual general meeting are set out in the separate Notice of Meeting circular which accompanies this Annual Report and audited financial statements.
Auditors Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors: The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the Directors Report are set out on page 51.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the Companys Auditor, each of these Directors confirms that: to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no information that is, information needed by the groups Auditor in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Ernst & Young LLP have confirmed that they are willing to be reappointed as auditor for the financial year ending 31 December 2014.
As reported in the 2012 Annual Report, the Company agreed a basis for audit fees for a three year period 2014 and agreed, subject to their annual re-appointment by shareholders, that Ernst & Young LLP would remain as auditor to the Group for that period.
The Audit Committee now expect that Ernst & Young LLP will remain as auditor to the Group for 2015, after which an audit tender process is proposed.
Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are required by Company Law to prepare financial statements for the Group and the Company in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
The financial statements are required to present fairly for each financial period the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
In preparing the Group and parent company financial statements the Directors are also required to: Properly select and consistently apply accounting policies Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance Make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors also confirm that they consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a 54 whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors report and Directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We confirm to the best of our knowledge: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
The Directors Report was approved by the Board on 24 February 2014 and are signed on behalf of the Board by: Simon Watkins Group Company Secretary NMC Health plc registered in England and Wales, number 7712220 23 Hanover Square, London W1S 1JB 55
