Our Strategy Strategy: Historic opportunity drives focused healthcare expansion The highly positive macro environment coupled with NMCs long-track record, experience and reputation for quality care drives our determined expansion in the UAE.
Through the utilization of our 2012 IPO proceeds, long-term loans and cash flows from operations, we aim to maximise our growth and market position at this historic inflection point in the UAE healthcare sector presented by the impact of mandatory insurance adoption.
NMCs primary strategic objective is to extend the operational reach of its healthcare services through the development of a hub and spoke model in the key emirates of the UAE with mandatory medical insurance.
This will be achieved by organic and inorganic means in what remains a highly fragmented private sector, thus bringing our services to thousands of new patients.
We also aim to continue expanding our Distribution division through organic means and with limited additional capital expenditures, focusing mainly on new product additions to our growing portfolio and increased market penetration.
Healthcare Division: Adding 410 beds in Abu Dhabi and Dubai The initial growth plan post IPO, and the largest in NMCs history, is almost entirely organic, with nearly US$330m deployed into developing three hospitals and an equal number of medical centres day surgeries in the countrys main population centres.
With this expansion plan, we aim to 6 7 take the total number of NMCs licensed hospital beds from 310 as of 2013 to 720 in 2015, a 132% growth.
The addition of two medical centres and a day surgery is further strengthening our hub-andspoke model.
Note: E Estimated Projects under development 6 NMC Health had 261 operational beds as of December 2013 out of 310 licensed bed capacity.
Spare capacity was mainly in our most recent hospital addition, Al Ain City Specialty Hospital.
7 This refers to the total licensed capacity in all our facilities when the three new hospitals are completed and open.
However, we will not commence operations with the full licensed capacity.
NMC will adopt a phased introduction of the bed capacity in the new hospitals.
The current plan is to start operation with 50 beds out of 100 at Brightpoint Womens Hospital, 30 beds out of 60 at DIP General Hospital and with 75 beds out of 250 in Khalifa City Hospital.
13 We announced five development projects as part of our IPO and a further new facility in Al Ain in H1 2013.
Project Opening Licensed Starting City Location Total Bed Capacity Bed budgeted Capacity capital expenditure US$ BR Medical Suites July 2012 N A N A Dubai DHCC 9m NMC Day Surgery Centre in July 2013 N A N A Abu MBZC 15m Mohammed Bin Zayed City Dhabi Brightpoint Womens Hospital Early H1 100 beds 50 Abu City Centre 70m 2014 Dhabi Dubai Investment Park Early H1 60 beds 30 Dubai DIP 30m General Hospital 2014 Al Ain Medical Centre H2 2014 N A N A Al Ain Sanaiya 7m Khalifa City Hospital H1 2015 250 beds 75 Abu Khalifa City 200m Dhabi Total 410 155 331.0m Notes: BR Medical Suites was acquired DHCC is Dubai Healthcare City MBZC is Mohammed Bin Zayed City DIP is Dubai Investment Park To date we have completed the acquisition of BR Medical Suites in Dubai Healthcare City DHCC and the development of the NMC Day Surgery Centre in Mohammed bin Zayed City MBZC in Abu Dhabi.
Apart from delays on Brightpoint womens hospital and Dubai Investment Park general hospital, all other developments are in progress for opening on a phased basis in 2014 and 2015.
Full details of the progress of the relevant projects is set out on page 24 of the Business Overview.
Post completion of this organic expansion plan, NMC will have 550 licensed beds in Abu Dhabi including 100 in Al Ain City and 170 in Dubai.
Our 2012 development plan prioritised Abu Dhabi as the only market at the time with mandatory healthcare insurance, a major catalyst for investment returns.
However, we highlight that NMCs healthcare division is operationally present in four Emirates Abu Dhabi [includes Al Ain City], Dubai, Sharjah and Umm Al Quwain, which account for around 85% of the UAE population.
The above bed capacity is that estimated to be available to the Group by end 2015.
We believe that the new healthcare facilities will extend NMC Healths lead as the largest private sector operator in the UAE with a nationwide hub-and-spoke model centred around the 250 bed Khalifa City Hospital and our specialty hospitals in the largest cities.
As a result, NMC will be serving patients through an extended network of hospitals, day surgeries and medical centres on UAE regional level down to local and community levels.
15 NMC Healths Patient Service Network Note: AASH Al Ain Specialty Hospital AAMC Al Ain Medical Centre ADSH Abu Dhabi Specialty Hospital BWH Brightpoint Womens Hospital BRMC BR Medical Suites DGH Dubai General Hospital DIPGH Dubai Investment Park General Hospital DSH Dubai Specialty Hospital MBZMC NMC Day Surgery Centre in Mohammed Bin Zayed City SHJMC Sharjah Medical Centre Volumes raising specialisation Our hospitals and medical facilities received over 2m patient visits in 2013, amongst the highest for any private healthcare group in the UAE.
Higher volumes allow us to reinforce and elevate quality and diversity of services at NMC Health.
We are able to support the introduction of more sub-specialties higher complexity procedures through cross-referrals between our network leading to higher valueadded services and increasing our competitive advantages.
Note that most of the private sector competition in the UAE are made up of single hospital operations, typically with limited volume flow beyond standard services, often rendering increased specialisation difficult, operationally demanding and financially unfeasible.
With increased volumes we have been able to expand our service offering, enhance our competitive advantages, reduce loss of patient spend due to unavailability of services and thus increase revenue per patient.
Strategic market segments We seek to expand our addressable market through new facilities and geographic locations of our services and attracting all major insurance categories, rather than confine NMCs market to smaller but higher value per patient segments.
We are keen not to price existing or future NMC medical facilities out of any major insurance category, albeit select future assets will have a more premium positioning, such as our highly specialized Brightpoint Womens Hospital.
We view the Brightpoint Womens Hospital as an extension of our patient and service segment diversification strategy.
The 16 hospital is expected to benefit from substantial referrals through our growing Abu Dhabi network and, as part of our increased specialisation.
We have signed a Memorandum of Understanding to create a joint-venture with the highly reputable British firm Oxford Fertility Unit to provide IVF services at the new hospital.
Hiring for growth Recruitment and retention of clinical practitioners is undoubtedly one of the major challenges with such a sizeable expansion program, especially in a country with a shortage of medical staff and overwhelmingly reliant on an expatriate work force and in a global market where the availability of qualified clinicians is limited.
We mitigate this risk through our HR capabilities and long-term experience in international hiring.
We also have long-term partnerships with recruitment firms in several markets, including the Philippines, for nursing staff.
UAE healthcare authorities have also established supervised exam and testing centres for the required licensing in key markets, such as India and the Philippines, for nurses.
For physicians the process is more demanding, with licensing and associated exams performed only in the UAE.
It typically takes around six months to gain the right to practice medicine in the UAE.
Some countries and medical boards are exempt from this process.
We constantly evaluate and shortlist potential physician candidates to fill new openings and reduce recruitment lead time.
Our priority is to add new capacity to the market by hiring externally, rather than deplete the limited domestic pool of predominantly expatriate staff and encourage extraordinary wage inflation.
UAE has an estimated 1.1 doctors per 1,000 inhabitants, compared to a global average close to 3.. Our external hiring also emphasizes our NMC brand centric approach to our service, as opposed to the doctor-brand centric alternative.
We focus on attracting patients to the quality of service synonymous with NMC as an institution.
The vast majority of our clinical staff are compensated through a fixed salary model with elements of incentivisation and not revenue sharing we strongly believe that puts quality of service first.
Our recruitment capabilities are best demonstrated through the recent Operation & Management contract awarded to us by the Ministry of Presidential Affairs to manage and operate the 205-bed Sheikh Khalifa General Hospital in Umm Al Quwain, UAE.
We were awarded the contract in early Q4 2012, started outpatient services at the beginning of December of the same year.
By December 2013 we had nearly 517 staff operating the hospital.
Healthcare Management Services The operation and management of third party hospitals is a new but attractive business for us.
It is a very asset light model which we are keen to expand to complement our core operations.
We are extremely proud of having been selected to perform this role by the UAE Ministry of Presidential Affairs for the 205 bed Hospital in Umm Al Quwain.
We view our selection as a testimony and recognition of our capabilities and the quality of our services.
To date we have made very good progress at the Umm Al Quwain hospital and client feedback has been excellent.
In-hospital pharmacies: Win-Win strategy With our pharmacies we complement our comprehensive care approach and, as a result, we capture the maximum proportion of revenue streams associated with patient visit to our hospitals.
As a result, our pharmacies are located either within or in the immediate vicinity of our hospitals.
Convenience and proximity, coupled with the fact that pharmaceutical prices are fixed by the Ministry of Health, means most patients visiting our hospitals would opt to purchase any pharmaceuticals required from our retail outlets.
The company has no plans to pursue the retail pharmacy business outside this context.
We currently operate eight pharmacies and expect to open one in each of our new facilities.
17 Distribution A rewarding legacy business In addition to our healthcare services business, NMC Health is one of the top distributors and wholesalers in the country for leading international brands and products in the areas of Pharmaceuticals, FMCG, Food and Scientific equipment amongst others.
While we envisage minimal investments in this part of our business, we expect growth to continue to be driven by: Positive macro environment: Roll-out of mandatory medical insurance in Dubai with positive impact on pharmaceuticals and medical products: Sizeable expansion of retail space and tourism in the country affecting our nonpharmaceutical business: Entry of generics into the Pharmaceutical sector: and Our introduction of new products.
NMCs track-record, strong management, seamless integration of the distribution business, established supplier and customer networks, logistics infrastructure and the fact that it is a listed company with high-levels of disclosure allowing unparalleled insight for prospective partners to our strong financial standing are all key factors in our capability to attract established global brands to the UAE via the exclusive distributor model prevalent in the country.
Another competitive advantage of our distribution division is its access to over 500 doctors at NMC and its retail pharmacies providing a direct market for the supply of pharmaceutical and medical equipment products.
