Board of Directors and Senior Management Board of Directors Mr H J Mark Tompkins Independent Non-Executive Chairman, aged 73 RC, CGC, NC Mr H. J.
Mark Tompkins was appointed to the Board of NMC Health plc in March 2012 and is the Chairman of the Board and of the Nominations Committee.
Mr Tompkins has significant public company experience having previously served on a total of 11 publicly listed company boards, including five on NYSE, NASDAQ or junior market U. S. exchange boards and four London Stock Exchange Primary Market or AIM boards.
A number of these listed companies operated in various aspects of the Healthcare sector.
Mr Tompkins was Non-Executive Chairman of Allied Healthcare International Inc. one of the UKs leading providers of domiciliary care and healthcare staffing services, from 2007 to 2009, serving as a Director from 2005 to 2009.
From 2005 to 2008 he also served as Non-Executive Chairman of Healthcare Enterprise Group Plc, an international healthcare products company which was listed on the AIM market in London.
Mr Tompkins served as Conseiller Special aupres du Conseil DAdministration of Sodexo S. A. from November 2010 to August 2012 after serving as a NonExecutive Director from 2002 to 2010 and a member of its Audit Committee for six of those eight years.
Other previous directorships have included Abbey Healthcare Group Inc. and Apria Healthcare Group Inc.
Prior to his non-executive director roles, Mr Tompkins served as the Chief Executive Officer of Compagnie Financiere Haussmann, a publicly listed company in France involved in property development, investment and management.
Mr Tompkins began his career in investment banking in 1964 with Samuel Montagu & Company now HSBC.
From 1965 to 1971, he was a Management Consultant with Booz Allen Hamilton, Inc. working on assignments in the UK, continental Europe and the U. S. Mr Tompkins returned to investment banking joining Slater Walker Securities group from 1972 to 1974.
He subsequently entered into international real-estate development from 1974 to 1987 investing in both residential and commercial assets across the Middle East, the United States and Europe.
Since 1987, he has been focussed on financing small and medium sized enterprises whilst also contributing at board level of a number of listed companies.
Khalifa Bin Butti Executive Vice-Chairman, aged 34 Mr Bin Butti was appointed to the Board of NMC Health plc in July 2011.
Mr Bin Butti has significant financial and investment experience in the Middle East and Europe.
Born in 1979, Khalifa Bin Butti Bin Omeir is the first son of Butti Bin Omeir whose father, Omeir Bin Yousef, was one of the first prominent businessmen in Abu Dhabi.
Khalifa Bin Butti completed his secondary education in England and graduated with a concentration in finance from Suffolk University in Boston.
He joined the Abu Dhabi National Oil Corporation ADNOC in 2003, working in the financial department, where his educational background uniquely positioned him to succeed and gain further insight into the financial industry of Abu Dhabi.
In 2006 Khalifa Butti was appointed to the position of Chairman & CEO of Brokerage House Securities LLC, bringing extensive financial and business experience.
He is also the major shareholder of Brokerage House Securities LLC.
His financial acumen and years of experience in the international and MENA public and private equity markets led him to establish another addition to his consortium which is Khalifa Butti Bin Omeir KBBO Group.
This includes One Financial which is registered under the FSA regulation in the UK with operations in the UK, China, UAE, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Jordan and other areas in the Middle East.
Despite the global financial crisis, the entity has registered profits from day one which enabled the company to distribute dividends from their first financial quarter.
Khalifa Bin Butti is also the single largest individual Shareholder of One Financial.
46 Khalifa Bin Butti holds several roles in well established firms including the role of Chairman for KBBO Group, Bin Butti International Holding, Infinite Investment, BHS LLC and One Financial DMCC London.
He is also a Board Member of Centurion Investment.
Dr B. R. Shetty Chief Executive Officer, aged 71 Dr Shetty was appointed to the Board of NMC Health plc in July 2011.
Dr Shetty has been involved in the private healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors since these were established in the UAE nearly 40 years ago.
Dr B. R. Shetty is the founding partner of NMC.
He received the Order of Abu Dhabi in 2005, the highest civilian award, for contribution to the development of the community and the cause of the emirate, as well as the Padma Shri Award from the government of India in January 2009.
He is a member of the Advisory Board of the Financial Sector of the Dubai Economic Department, the Chairman of the Abu Dhabi Indian School, the Founder and Vice President of the Swiss Business Council, the Founder of the Australian Business Council, the Canadian Business Council, the Netherlands Business Group and the Philippines Business Council.
He is also a member of the Executive Panel of Dubais Pharmaceutical and Health Equipment Trading Business Group under the Dubai Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the ex-President of the Abu Dhabi Cricket Council and was the Managing Director of the Abu Dhabi Cricket Club since its inception in 1989 until 2006.
Dr Shetty trained as a Pharmacist.
He received a Doctorate degree from Georgia State University, Atlanta, USA and was invited by the Harvard Business School to attend its Owner President Management programme.
He holds a controlling interest in the Alexandria New Medical Centre in Egypt.
Mrs Heather Lawrence OBE - Independent Non-Executive Director, aged 64 AC, RC, CGC, NC Mrs Lawrence OBE was appointed to the Board of NMC Health plc in March 2012 and is the Chairman of the Clinical Governance Committee.
Mrs Lawrence has significant operational experience in the healthcare sector as well as operating on a number of UK Governmental Boards.
Mrs Lawrence has over 20 years experience as a Chief Executive Officer in the hospital and healthcare sector.
From 2000 to July 2012 she served as CEO of the Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, which gained NHS Foundation Trust status in 2006.
Prior to 2000 she served as CEO of North Hertfordshire NHS trust from 1996 to 2000 and Hounslow and Spelthorne Community and Mental Health Trust from 1989 to 1996.
Mrs Lawrence chaired the UK-wide negotiations for the Staff and Associate Specialists SAS Doctors contract during 2004 to 2006 and chaired the Agenda for Change three-year pay deal for nonmedical staff on behalf of NHS employers during 2006 to 2009.
She has also served as a Commissioner for the UK Prime Ministers Commission for the Future of Nursing and Midwifery and was a Founding Member of the Dr Foster Global Comparators Founders Board, which is an initiative to share comparative health data with other leading medical institutions in various countries to improve clinical quality.
Mrs Lawrence originally trained as a nurse at St Marys Hospital Paddington and is a Chartered Fellow of the Institute of Personnel Management.
She was appointed, by Secretary of State for Health, as a Non-Executive Director of Monitor, the NHS Regulator, in July 2012.
Mrs Lawrence was awarded an OBE in the 2010 New Year Honours List for her services to healthcare.
Lord Clanwilliam Independent Non-Executive Director, aged 53 AC, RC, CGC, NC Lord Clanwilliam was appointed to the Board of NMC Health plc in March 2012 and is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He has significant business experience in the Middle East and on the Boards of overseas companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Lord Clanwilliam is an international businessman and high-level government and financial communications specialist possessing over 30 years of business and political experience across a broad range of sectors, including mining, drilling, oilfield services and operational management and 47 consultancy.
During his career, Lord Clanwilliam has established an extensive network of senior level governmental and institutional contacts across the Middle East, the United Kingdom and Eastern Europe.
He is currently Chairman of Eurasia Drilling Company, a drilling and work-over company operating in Eurasia and listed on the Premium Segment of the London Stock Exchange.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Polyus Gold OJSC, a Russian gold mining company listed on the Premium Segment of the London Stock Exchange.
Lord Clanwilliam is the Founding Partner and Chairman of Gardant Communications Limited, a political, strategic, financial and litigation communications company based in London and Senior Advisor to Milio International Limited, a British owned and operated commodities and logistics company.
Lord Clanwilliam graduated from Eton College in 1978 and from The Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst in 1979 after which he served for four years with the 1st Battalion Coldstream Guards.
Jonathan Bomford FCA - Independent Non-Executive Director, aged 65 AC, RC, CGC, NC Mr Bomford was appointed to the Board of NMC Health plc in June 2013 and is the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is a Chartered Accountant and has significant accounting, financial and audit experience gained principally in the Middle East and East Africa.
Mr Bomford is a qualified Chartered Accountant who spent 24 years with Ernst & Young in a number of roles in the Middle East and East Africa including Abu Dhabi, Riyadh, Dubai and Jeddah.
For his last 15 years with Ernst & Young, he was a partner with a number of international clients across a range of sectors including healthcare, oil, banking and construction.
In 2000, Mr Bomford retired from Ernst & Young and since then has undertaken a number of roles including a Board Member of an Agricultural Trust funding agricultural projects and an Official Mentor providing Business Advice and Services to clients of the Princes Trust.
Given his strong financial expertise, Mr Bomford was appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee upon his appointment to the Board.
Abdulrahman Basaddiq Non-Executive Director, aged 65 Mr Basaddiq is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales FCA and a licensed auditor and consultant in the UAE.
He trained and qualified as a chartered accountant with Ernst & Young, London and spent over 25 years with Ernst & Young in the UK and the GCC, 15 of those as an equity partner.
During his period at EY, Abdulrahman served as the Managing Partner of their Riyadh and Abu Dhabi offices, in addition to responsibilities as UAE Country partner in charge.
During his tenure in Riyadh, he oversaw the development and implementation of the only Saudisation program within the profession in the Kingdom at the time.
He also served as an elected member of the firms executive committee for some eight years, in addition to serving on the human resources committee for a number of years.
Mr Basaddiq spent over 12 years with a number of Gulf based diversified groups across multiple jurisdictions and sectors including healthcare, global public and private equities, venture capital, real estate investment, development and construction, steel trading and fabrication, in addition to food manufacturing, retail and packaging.
He also spent over five years serving on two audit committees, chairing one of them, in addition to oversight responsibilities in the development of audit committees and the related internal audit functions of other entities, which have grown in size and complexity, to comply with the ever increasing governance and other regulatory demands.
AC member of the Audit Committee RC member of the Remuneration Committee CGC - member of the Clinical Governance Committee NC - member of the Nominations Committee 48 Senior Management Mr. Binay Shetty Chief Operating Officer, Since 2010, Mr Binay Shetty has been overseeing operations of NMC Healths healthcare and distribution divisions.
He is also closely involved with the HR, Marketing, IT and Projects units of the organisation.
Prior to his current role, he was an Executive Director of NMC Healthcare LLC with responsibility for strategic planning and governance and the management of new projects.
He holds a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration with specialisations in Finance and Entrepreneurship from Boston University, Massachusetts, USA.
He is always challenging himself and his team to work towards better healthcare delivery and to support the team of highly trained medical professionals at NMC Health in providing the best outcomes for their patients.
Born and raised in Abu Dhabi, Binay is well accustomed to the culture of the UAE as well as India.
Dr C. R. Shetty Group Medical Director Dr. Chandrakumari Raghuram Shetty is the Group Medical Director of NMC Health.
Along with her husband, Dr. B. R. Shetty, she has been a pioneer in establishing and developing the private healthcare sector in the UAE.
Dr. Shetty has been instrumental in establishing Centers of Excellence in various units of NMC Healthcare.
She has been actively involved in the conception, planning, design, execution and management of various healthcare facilities besides driving critical healthcare initiatives.
Under her leadership, NMC Specialty Hospitals in Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Al Ain have received accreditation from the Joint Commission International JCI.
Dr. Shetty supervises a diversified multi-cultural workforce within NMC Health comprising of over 500 doctors and 3,000 medical staff.
In her present role, Dr. Shetty chairs various committees including Governance, Infection Control, Patient Rights, Care of Patients, Quality and Facility Management.
Despite of her wide ranging responsibilities, Dr. Shetty remains rooted to the basic ethos of the healthcare profession of providing quality care with a human touch to all patients by continuing to remain as a practicing Physician for over three decades.
Mr. Prasanth Manghat Chief Financial Officer Mr Prasanth Manghat has 14 years of experience in management of treasury and banking functions, corporate finance, accounting and financial reporting activities.
Prasanth has been a part of the NMC Health Group for 11 years and spearheaded NMC Healthcares successful listing on the Premium Segment of the London Stock Exchange in April 2012, the first company so to do, raising US$ 187 Million.
Prior to joining NMC Health, he has worked as Credit & Operations Head with Kotak Mahindra Finance, one of the leading non-banking financial institutions in India.
Prasanth is a Fellow member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India FCA and a member of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants in the UK.
He is a Bachelor of Science 1995 from MG University, Kerala, India.
Prasanth was honored with the CFO of the Year award in 2012 by ICAEW, Middle-East.
He was also conferred with the prestigious award for Excellence in Finance by the Institute of Chartered 49 Accountants of India, Abu Dhabi Chapter in Nov, 2012 and Professional Excellence Award in the Healthcare Sector by ICAI UAE Dubai Chapter in May 2013.
Mr. Roy Cherry Head of Strategy & Investor Relations Mr Roy Cherry works closely with the CEO and the Executive Vice Chairman on NMC Healths strategy.
He also leads the investor relations efforts.
Roys career includes PwC Transaction Services where he advised on feasibilities and M&A transactions with a combined transaction value exceeding USD10bn across a variety of sectors including healthcare.
He previously headed the Equity Research Department at SHUAA Capital in Dubai, one of the regions first and most acclaimed equity research teams.
Roy played an important role on several regional IPOs including, Saudi Catering, NMC Health, Deyaar, DP World and Royal Jordanian Airlines.
Immediately prior to joining NMC Health, Roy was with Saudi Fransi Capital, where he was the Head of Research & Advisory Department.
He holds a BSc in Management from the University of London.
In addition to English, he is a fluent speaker of both Arabic and Swedish.
Mr. Simon Watkins Group Company Secretary Mr Simon Watkins is Group Company Secretary of NMC Health plc.
Simon joined NMC Health in May 2012 shortly after the Groups IPO and is responsible to the Board for the Groups listing obligations, all Governance matters affecting the Group and, with the Chairman, for ensuring that the Board operates effectively.
Simon has over 20 years experience as a Company Secretary, principally within UK companies having a London Stock Exchange Listing on either the Main Market or on AIM.
Previous experience includes Deputy Group Secretary of Rank Group plc and four years as Group Company Secretary of lastminute.
Simons primary experience in the last 14 years has been within businesses focussed on strategic and acquisitive growth Simon is an Associate Member of the UK Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
