Our Business Model Established in 1975, NMC Health plc is now the leading private sector healthcare operator in the United Arab Emirates, with a nationwide network of hospitals and operations in the country.
The group also operates a UAE wide distribution and wholesale business.
Healthcare services Through our healthcare services division we provide people in the UAE with a range of high quality outpatient and inpatient services across our facilities.
Our facilities range from the larger specialty hospitals to medical centres.
In addition, we have retail pharmacies mainly selling pharmaceuticals prescribed by our doctors to our patients either within, or in the immediate vicinity of, our healthcare services facilities.
Our comprehensive care approach maximises patient convenience and increases revenue contribution to our business.
While we serve both insured and self-paying patients, the overwhelming majority of our healthcare divisions revenue is generated through insured patients.
In return for the services rendered to insured patients, we submit claims to insurance companies to collect the remainder of our fees usually insured patients have some co-pay element, which is paid directly when services are delivered to them at our facilities.
Pricing of our healthcare services is typically negotiated on an annual basis with the insurance companies we work with and may differ between the various insurance plans offered in the market.
In contrast, prices of the majority of pharmaceutical products sold in our pharmacies are regulated and set by the UAE Ministry of Health.
NMC Hospitals are currently covered by the majority of the approximately 40 insurance companies operating in the UAE, including the largest market participants.
These companies have either a direct relationship with us or through the 13 Third Party Administrators TPAs who currently provide private medical insurance into the Abu Dhabi market.
Our Healthcare division also provides operational and management services to third party owned healthcare services assets.
In return for our services, we receive a contracted management fee by the asset owner.
Typically the fee received is partially tied to a set of pre-agreed performance metrics incorporating either qualitative and or quantitative operational targets.
We currently have one management contract with the UAE Ministry of Presidential Affairs pertaining to a general hospital in Umm al Quwain in the Northern Emirates.
11 Product distribution NMCs Distribution Division is now one of the largest in the UAE and it offers products across several 5 segments including FMCG, Pharmaceuticals, Scientific Equipment and Food.
NMC counts among its clients UAE Government entities, the largest UAE retailers, pharmacies and hospital operators.
We supply our customers with a portfolio of globally and locally established brands and products with end-user demand in the UAE.
We ensure our customers receive quality products in a timely manner with the required support services.
Our distribution capabilities are supported by a network of strategically located warehouses and a fleet of distribution vehicles ensuring timely delivery to our customers across the country.
Products are overwhelmingly sold on credit, with payments collected based on agreed terms.
Our pricing of these products includes a mark-up over the product cost to generate a profit and to cover import costs and duties, registration administration and fees, distribution expenses, credit costs and, in certain cases, marketing costs.
Pharmaceuticals are the only segment where pricing is widely regulated by the UAE Ministry of Health.
Only registered domestic distributors, a locally established company like NMC, are entitled by customs authorities to import products into the country.
Principals suppliers contract NMC as their distributor to gain access to the UAE market through a reputable partner with a long track-record, established distribution channels and infrastructure and strong financial standing.
Every individual brand and product has to go through an approval and registration process with local authorities before being allowed to be sold in the country.
NMC facilitates this process and ensures local requirements are met.
The majority of agreements with our Principals are on exclusive basis.
All agreements are registered with the government.
NMC procurement is on a principal basis.
In the majority of cases, NMC takes the inventory and collection risk of the product that it buys and sells.
Acting as a Principal rather than an agent enhances NMCs margins at the expense of increasing the Groups risk profile.
Our agreements are almost exclusively operated on a credit basis, with the number credit days agreed with our Principals.
