Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 53 Governance Heading One Board of Directors 54 Chairmans Governance Introduction 56 Statement of Corporate Governance 57 Audit Committee Report 66 Nomination Committee Report 70 Directors Remuneration Report 72 Annual Statement from the Chairman 72 Remuneration Policy Report 75 Annual Report on Remuneration 2013 88 Annual Report on Remuneration policy for 2014 101 We deliver the widest range and the freshest produce ONLINE results13.
com Stock Code: OCDO Board of Directors Sir Stuart Rose Timothy Steiner Duncan Tatton-Brown Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Age 65 Age 44 Age 48 Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 13 April 2000 11 March 2013 1 September 2012 Committee Membership Relevant Experience External Appointments Nomination Tim is a founding Director.
Prior to Ocado, he spent eight years as Non-Executive Director and Audit Committee Chairman of a banker at Goldman Sachs, during which time he was based in Rentokil Initial plc External Appointments London, Hong Kong and New York in the Fixed Income division.
Relevant Experience Chairman of Fat Face Chairman of Oasis Healthcare Tim graduated from Manchester University in 1992 with an Prior to joining Ocado, Duncan was Chief Financial Officer of Group Limited Limited honours degree in Economics, Finance and Accountancy.
Fitness First plc, and previously Group Finance Director of Chairman of A.
Levy & Non-Executive Director of Kingfisher plc, one of the worlds largest home improvement Son Limited trading as Woolworths Holdings Limited, retailers.
He has also been Finance Director of B&Q plc, Chief Blue Inc. listed in South Africa Financial Officer of Virgin Entertainment Group and held various senior finance positions at Burton Group Plc.
Duncan holds a Relevant Experience masters degree in Engineering from Kings College, Cambridge.
Sir Stuart Rose has worked in retail for over 40 years.
He has He is also a member of the Chartered Institute of Management held Chief Executive Officer positions at Argos plc, Booker plc, Accountants.
Arcadia Group plc and Marks and Spencer plc.
He was Chairman of Marks and Spencer plc from 2008 to 2011.
Sir Stuart was a Non-Executive Director at Land Securities Group plc until January 2014.
Sir Stuart was knighted in 2008 for services to the retail industry and corporate social responsibility.
Jason Gissing Mark Richardson Neill Abrams Co-founder and Commercial Director Operations Director Legal and Business Affairs Director and Age 43 Age 49 Company Secretary Age 49 Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 2 February 2000 3 February 2012 Appointment to the Board 8 September 2000 Relevant Experience Relevant Experience Jason is a founding Director.
He has Board responsibility for Mark was Head of Technology at Ocado from 2001 until he External Appointments Ocados retail activities, including buying, supplier and customer joined the Board in 2012.
He is responsible for the day to day Non-Executive Director of Mr Price Group Limited, listed in relationships, marketing and all brand development.
He was running of the Ocado operation, including Customer Fulfilment South Africa previously Chief Financial Officer for almost ten years.
From 2010 Centres, logistics developments, business planning, engineering Relevant Experience to 2012 Jason was the champion of all employee and internal and IT.
Prior to joining Ocado, Mark held a number of IT positions Neill has been a Director since 2000, having advised Ocado since cultural matters as the business made a transition from a private at the John Lewis Partnership, including Head of Selling Systems its founding.
He has Board responsibility for legal, insurance, risk to listed company.
Prior to Ocado, Jason spent eight years as a at Waitrose.
He graduated from University College London with a management and human resources.
Prior to Ocado, he was a banker at Goldman Sachs.
He graduated from Worcester College, degree in Physics.
barrister in practice at One Essex Court and an Executive Director Oxford with an honours degree in Jurisprudence in 1992. and Counsel at Goldman Sachs in London.
Neill graduated from Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge in 1989 with a masters degree in Law, having previously obtained BA and LLB degrees from the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg.
He is also admitted as a member of the New York Bar and as a South Africa Advocate.
