Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 107 Directors Report Heading One Directors Report 108 Our proprietary intellectual property platformhas created significant barriers to entry ONLINE results13.
com Stock Code: OCDO Directors Report Introduction This section of this Annual Report is a Directors Report required by the Companies Act to be prepared by the Directors for the Company and the Group.
Index of Directors report disclosures This Directors report should be read in conjunction with the Strategic report pages 2 to 51 which includes the Corporate social responsibility report CSR Report pages 48 to 51 and the Statement of corporate governance CG Statement pages 57 to 65, which are incorporated by reference into this Directors report.
The information required to be disclosed in the Directors report can be found on the following pages: Amendment of the Articles 109 Appointment and replacement of Directors 109 Board of Directors CG Statement, 54-55 Change of control 111 Community CSR Report, 51 Directors indemnities CG Statement, 65 Directors responsibility statement 113 Disclosure of information to auditors 112 Employee involvement CSR Report, 50 Employees with disabilities CSR Report, 51 Future developments of the business 112 Strategic Report, 2 to 51 Going concern 112 Greenhouse gas emissions CSR Report, 49 Independent auditors 112 Loss and dividends 112 Political donations CSR Report, 51 Post-balance sheet events 158, financial statements Powers for the Company to issue or buy back its shares 110 Powers of the Directors CG Statement, 60 Research and development activities 112 Strategic Report, 2 to 51 Restrictions on transfer of securities 110 Rights attaching to shares 109 Risk management How the business manages risk 44 Note 4.5.
4 to the consolidated financial statements 145-147 Share capital 109 Significant related party agreements 111 Significant shareholders 111 Statement of corporate governance CG Statement, 57 Voting rights 109-110 The Strategic Report The Strategic report contains the Directors explanation of the basis on which the Group preserves value over the longer term and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Group.
The Company has chosen to include some of the information required to be disclosed in the Directors report within the Strategic report pages 2 to 51, as noted above.
Certain matters, including those of sufficient importance, that would otherwise be required to be disclosed in the Directors report, have been set out in the Strategic report and Statement of corporate governance, as noted in the index on this page.
The Directors are required under the Companies Act to prepare a Strategic report for the Company and the Group.
The Companies Act requires that the Strategic report must: 1 contain a fair review of the companys business and contain a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the company: and 2 be a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the development and performance of the companys business during the financial year and the position of the companys business at the end of that year, consistent with the size and complexity of the business.
The information that fulfils the strategic report requirements is set out in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 51.
The Strategic report and the Directors report or parts thereof, together with this Annual Report incorporated by reference are the management report for the purposes of the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
22965.04 10 March 2014 10:21 AM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 109 Directors Report Directors Report The Strategic report and the Directors report together with the sections of this Annual Report incorporated by reference have been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
For an explanation of how the Board satisfies itself that this Annual Report meets the disclosure requirements refer to the Statement of corporate governance on pages 57 to 65 and the Directors responsibility statement on page 113.
Amendment of the Articles The Companys Articles, which govern a number of constitutional aspects of the Companys management, may be amended by a special resolution of its shareholders.
Appointment and replacement of Directors The appointment and replacement of Directors of the Company is governed by the Articles.
Appointment of Directors: A Director may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution of the shareholders or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next annual general meeting of the Company and is then eligible for reappointment.
The Board or any committee authorised by the Board may from time-to-time appoint one or more Directors to hold any employment or executive office for such period and on such terms as they may determine and may also revoke or terminate any such appointment.
Retirement of Directors: At every annual general meeting of the Company, each Director shall retire from office and may offer himself herself for reappointment by the members.
Removal of Directors by special resolution: The Company may by special resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his period of office.
Vacation of office: The office of a Director shall be vacated if: i he resigns: ii his resignation is requested by all of the other Directors not less than three in number : iii he is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill-health and the Board resolves that his office be vacated: iv he is absent without the permission of the Board from meetings of the Board whether or not an alternate Director appointed by him attends for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his office is vacated: v he becomes bankrupt: vi he is prohibited by law from being a Director: vii he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Act: or viii he is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
For a description of the Companys Director appointments, resignations and reappointments see the Statement of corporate governance on page 60.
Share capital The Companys authorised and issued ordinary share capital as at 1 December 2013 comprised a single class of ordinary shares.
The shares have a nominal value of 2 pence each.
The ISIN of the shares is GB00B3MBS747.
As at the latest practicable date prior to publication of this report, the Companys issued share capital consisted of 619,019,232 issued ordinary shares, compared with 614,660,938 issued ordinary shares per the Annual Report for 2012.
Details of movements in the Companys issued share capital can be found in Note 4.6.
1 to the consolidated financial statements.
During the period, shares in the Company were issued as set out in Note 4.6.
Rights attaching to shares The Companys shares when issued are credited as fully paid and free from all liens, equities, charges, encumbrances and other interests.
All shares have the same rights including voting and dividend rights and rights on a return of capital and restrictions as set out in the Articles, described below.
Except in relation to dividends which have been declared and rights on a liquidation of the Company, the shareholders have no rights to share in the profits of the Company.
The Companys shares are not redeemable.
However, the Company may purchase or contract to purchase any of the shares on or off-market, subject to the Companies Act and the requirements of the Listing Rules, as described below.
No shareholder holds shares in the Company which carry special rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no shares relating to an employee share scheme which have rights with regard to control of the Company that are not exercisable directly and solely by the employees, other than in the case of the Groups Joint Share Ownership Scheme the JSOS where share interests can be transferred to a spouse, civil partner or lineal descendant of a participant in the JSOS or certain trusts under the rules of the JSOS as noted below.
Voting rights Each ordinary share carries one right to vote at a general meeting of the Company.
At any general meeting, a resolution put to the vote of the meeting shall be decided on a show of hands unless a poll is demanded.
On a show of hands, every member who is present in person or by proxy at a general meeting of the Company shall have one vote.
On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which they are a holder.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not than less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
No shareholder shall be entitled to vote in respect of a share held by him if any call or sum then payable by him in respect of such share remains unpaid or if a member has been served a restriction notice, described below.
com Stock Code: OCDO Directors Report continued JSOS voting rights: Of the issued ordinary shares, 35,249,176 are held by Greenwood Nominees Limited on behalf of Appleby Trust Jersey Limited, the independent company which is the trustee of Ocados employee benefit trust the EBT Trustee.
The EBT Trustee has waived its right to exercise its voting rights in respect of these 35,249,176 ordinary shares, although it may at the request of a participant vote in respect of 23,934,156 ordinary shares which have vested under the JSOS and remain in the trust at period end.
The total of 35,249,176 ordinary shares held by the EBT Trustee are treated as treasury shares in the Groups consolidated balance sheet in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
As such, calculations of earnings per share for Ocado exclude the 35,249,176 ordinary shares held by the EBT Trustee.
The Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
1 to the consolidated financial statements provides more information on the Groups accounting treatment of treasury shares.
Restrictions on transfer of securities The Companys shares are freely transferable, save as set out below.
The Company may, under the Companies Act, send out statutory notices to those it knows or has reasonable cause to believe have an interest in its shares, asking for details of those who have an interest and the extent of their interest in a particular holding of shares.
When a person receives a statutory notice and fails to provide any information required by the notice within the time specified in it, the Company can apply to the court for an order directing, among other things, that any transfer of shares which are the subject of the statutory notice is void.
The transferor of a share is deemed to remain the holder until the transferees name is entered in the register.
The Board can decline to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share.
The Company does not currently have any partially paid shares.
The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve : A is duly stamped or certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate or such other evidence of the right to transfer as the Board may reasonably require: B is in respect of only one class of share: and C if to joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four such transferees.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules as defined in the Articles and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
JSOS: Participants interests under the JSOS are generally non-transferable during the period beginning on acquisition of the interest and ending at the expiry of the relevant restricted period as set out in the JSOS rules.
However, interests can be transferred to a spouse, civil partner or lineal descendant of a participant: a trust under which no person other than the participant or their spouse, civil partner or lineal descendant has a vested beneficial interest or any other person approved by the EBT Trustee.
If a participant purports to transfer, assign or charge his interest other than as set out above, the EBT Trustee may acquire the participants interest for a total price of 1.
Other than as described above, the Company is not aware of any agreements existing at the end of the period between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Powers for the Company to issue or buy back its shares The Company was authorised by shareholders on 10 May 2013, at the annual general meeting, to purchase in the market up to 10% of its issued ordinary shares excluding any treasury shares, subject to certain conditions laid out in the authorising resolution.
This standard authority is renewable annually: the Directors will seek to renew this authority at the AGM.
The Directors were granted authority at the previous annual general meeting to allot shares in the Company.
That authority will apply until the conclusion of the AGM.
At the AGM, shareholders will be asked to grant an authority to allot shares in the Company: A up to one-third of the issued share capital: and B comprising equity securities up to two-thirds of the issued share capital but after deducting any allotments or grants made under A above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue, such authorities to apply until the end of the next annual general meeting or, if earlier, until the close of business on 7 August 2015.
A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors powers to disapply pre-emption rights.
It would give the Directors the authority to allot ordinary shares for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
This authority would be, similar to last year, limited to allotments in connection with pre-emptive offers up to an aggregate nominal amount of approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
Share changes: During the period, the Directors used their power to issue shares under the authorities provided by the shareholder resolution passed on 10 May 2013, to satisfy options and awards under the Companys option and incentive schemes and one-off incentive arrangements.
The Directors did not exercise their authority to buy-back any shares during the period.
22965.04 10 March 2014 10:21 AM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 111 Directors Report Directors Report continued Significant shareholders During the period up to 1 December 2013, the Company has received notifications, in accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R, of interests in 3% or more of the voting rights attaching to the Companys issued share capital, as set out in the table below: Percentage of issued share Number of ordinary shares capital Nature of Holding Odey Asset Management LLP 29,146,308 5.01 Direct & CFD Generation Investment Management LLP 30,669,317 4.97 Indirect FIL Limited 30,380, 004 4.93 Indirect The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 27,279,396 4.42 Indirect Manning & Napier Advisors, LLC Below 5 Direct Trident Trust Co BVI Limited as trustee of the Jason Gissing Life Settlement II Below 3 Direct & Indirect Credit Suisse Group AG Below 3 Indirect These figures represent the number of shares and percentage held as at the date of notification to the Company.
No changes have been disclosed in accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R in the period between 2 December 2013 and 4 March 2014 being not more than one month prior to the date of the Notice of Meeting, except as set out in the table below: Percentage of issued share Number of ordinary shares capital Nature of Holding The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 37,337,244 6.04 Indirect The Nomad Investment Partnership L. P. 36,993,366 5.98 Direct These figures represent the number of shares and percentage held as at the date of notification to the Company.
Significant related party agreements There were no contracts of significance during the period between the Company or any Group company and either 1 a Director of the Company or 2 a controlling shareholder of the Company.
Change of control Agreements with employees and Directors The Company does not have any agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover bid except that it should be noted that: i provisions of the Companys share schemes may cause options and shares granted to employees under such schemes to vest on a takeover: and ii certain members of senior management not including the Directors who were employed prior to 2010 are entitled to a payment contingent on a change of control of the Company or merger of the Company irrespective of loss of employment as set out in his or her respective employment contract.
For further information on the change of control provisions in the Companys share schemes refer to the Directors remuneration report on pages 85 to 86.
Significant agreements Agreements with employees and Directors There are a number of agreements to which the Group is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
Details of the significant agreements are summarised below.
Morrisons Operating Agreement: If certain competitors of Morrisons acquire 50% or more of the voting rights in the Companys shares or take control of the composition of the Companys Board, or acquire all or substantially all of the Groups business and undertaking, then Morrisons will be entitled to give notice to terminate the Operating Agreement a Termination Event.
If such a Termination Event occurs prior to the date notified to Morrisons on which the Company intends to expend capital on an agreed new CFC, then: Morrisons will be entitled to give not less than four but not more than four and a half years notice to terminate and the Companys right to be the exclusive supplier of the services would fall away.
Further, on termination the Company shall purchase Morrisons shares in MHE JV Co Limited the joint venture company and may require the Company to repurchase Last Mile Developments Limited the freehold owner of CFC2.
If such a Termination Event occurs after the date notified to Morrisons on which the Company intends to expend capital on an agreed new CFC, then: The Company would continue to be obliged to provide the services under the Operating Agreement, but the Companys right to be the exclusive supplier of the services would fall away and Morrisons would be released from its annual sales target.
Further, certain of the fees payable by Morrisons would scale back to reflect Morrisons.
coms actual use of the services, but would not except if the Company had procured a third party to acquire Morrisons capacity of all relevant CFCs afford either party a termination right prior to the end of the term.
com Stock Code: OCDO Directors Report continued Sourcing Agreement with Waitrose: The Companys primary operating subsidary, Ocado Limited Ocado, is party to several sourcing agreements with Waitrose Limited and its parent company, John Lewis.
If certain competitors of Waitrose or John Lewis acquire 50% or more of the shares or control of the Companys Board, then each of Ocado, Waitrose and John Lewis may terminate the Sourcing Agreement.
In these circumstances, Ocado is obliged to pay Waitrose the lower of 40 million and 4% of the market capitalisation of the Company.
This change of control provision will cease to bind the parties if, prior to the change of control, any party has already given a valid notice of termination.
HSBC Equipment Finance Limited: On 22 July 2004 Ocado as lessee and HSBC Equipment Finance UK Limited as lessor entered into a master sale and leaseback agreement.
At period end, 12 sale and leaseback agreements remained with total amounts outstanding of 9.4 million which cover a significant amount of the conveyor systems and associated capital goods that have been added to CFC1 since August 2004.
Pursuant to side letters between Ocado and HSBC varying the original agreement, HSBC is able to terminate the master agreement if there is a change of control of the Company or if the Sourcing Agreement is terminated for any reason.
Research and development activities The Group has dedicated in-house software, logistics and engineering design and development teams with primary focus on IT and improvements to the CFCs and the automation equipment used in them.
Costs relating to the development of computer software are capitalised if it is probable that the future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will accrue to the entity and the costs can be measured reliably.
The Company is carrying out a number of IT and engineering design and build projects with the intention of developing new and improved automation equipment and processes for its warehouses.
Future developments of the business The Groups likely future developments including its strategy are described in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 51.
Loss and dividends The Groups results for the period are set out in the consolidated income statement on page 119.
The Groups loss before tax, for the period amounted to 12.5 million 2012: 0.6 million.
The Directors do not propose to pay a dividend for the period 2012: nil.
Post-balance sheet events There have been no material events after the balance sheet date of 1 December 2013 to the date of this report.
Going concern In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements, the Directors have made appropriate enquiries and have considered the Groups cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities and business activities as set out on page 68 and set out in the Groups financial statements on page 125 and the Groups principal risks and uncertainties as set out on pages 46 to 47 and the financial risks described in the notes to the consolidated financial statements on pages 145 to 147.
Based on the Groups forecasts, the Directors are satisfied that the Company, and the Group as a whole, have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis in accordance with Going Concern and Liquidity risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
Further information on going concern is set out on page 125.
The Companys going concern statement has been reviewed by the Companys auditors, PwC.
Independent auditors The Companys auditors, PwC, have indicated their willingness to continue their role as the Companys auditors.
Resolutions concerning the reappointment of PwC as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM and set out in the Notice of Meeting.
For further information on the reappointment of the auditors, refer to page 68 of the Statement of corporate governance.
Disclosure of information to auditors In accordance with the Companies Act, each Director who held office at the date of the approval of this Directors report whose names and functions are listed on pages 54 to 55 of this Annual Report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware, and that each Director has taken all of the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
22965.04 10 March 2014 10:21 AM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 113 Directors Report Directors Report continued Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the result of the Company and the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Groups corporate website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that this Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, who held office at the date of the approval of this Annual Report whose names and functions are listed on pages 54 to 55 of this Annual Report, confirms, to the best of his or her knowledge that: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group: and the management report as defined above includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Forward-looking statements Certain statements made in this report are forward-looking statements.
Such statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from any expected future events or results expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements.
They appear in a number of places throughout this report and include statements regarding the intentions, beliefs or current expectations of the Directors concerning, amongst other things, the Groups results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the business.
Persons receiving this report should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
Unless otherwise required by applicable law, regulation or accounting standard, Ocado does not undertake to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Neill Abrams Legal and Business Affairs Director and Company Secretary 12 March 2014 Ocado Group plc Registered in England and Wales no.
com Stock Code: OCDO Heading One OUR FINANCIALS 22965.04 10 March 2014 10:21 AM Proof 3
