Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 51 Strategic Report : Performance Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued each year.
They are committed to raising global awareness of the peace Diversity day through education and encouraging the global community to We are committed to carrying out our business in a non-discriminatory way.
In June 2013, we worked with Peace One Day to launch a We are committed to equal opportunities for all of our people, regardless nationwide poetry competition, which encouraged children to explore the of disability or background.
We value diversity and through our equal theme of peace and what it means to them.
We continue to co-sponsor the opportunities policy we are dedicated to creating an environment that is Peace One Day Primary Education Resource and during the period made a free from discrimination, harassment and victimisation, where everyone donation of 51,820. is treated equally regardless of age, colour, disability, race, gender, sexual Root Camp: Root Camp is an organisation providing unique and engaging orientation, marital status, political views or religious belief.
It is our policy that camping cookery courses for teenagers.
During the period, we made applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, a donation of 15,000 to sponsor places on the residential course for bearing in mind the respective aptitudes and abilities of the applicant underprivileged children.
In the event of employees becoming disabled all reasonable effort is made to ensure that their employment within the Group continues.
Waitrose Foundation: We make donations to the Waitrose Foundation It is our policy that the training, career development and promotion of a through our Sourcing Agreement with Waitrose.
The Waitrose Foundation is disabled person should, as far as possible, be identical to that of an able a partnership created in 2005 to help improve the lives of farm workers and bodied person.
smallholders in South Africa, Ghana and Kenya who grow produce for the Waitrose Foundation range of products.
The charts below show a breakdown of the number of people of each sex who were Directors of the Company, senior managers of the Group and Prince of Waless Charitable Foundation: During the period, we made a employees of the Group, at the end of the period.
When reviewing the donation of over 145,000 to the Prince of Waless Charitable Foundation, Companys succession plans, management is conscious of the need to a group of 20 non-profit organisations, through our sales of Duchy branded improve the gender balance in its management positions and employees products.
Other charities: During the period we made smaller donations totalling Human rights 34,880 and donated Ocado vouchers to approximately 700 other Ocado is committed to upholding and respecting human rights.
Whilst we do registered charities.
not operate a separate human rights policy, these values are reflected in our Political donations equal opportunities policy, which is regularly reviewed.
No political donations were made by the Group to any political party, We expect all our suppliers to operate in a fair and honest way towards their organisation or candidate during the period 2012: nil.
employees and with whom they do business.
STRATEGIC REPORT COMMUNITY The Companys Strategic report is set out on pages 2 to 51.
We support the community through a number of initiatives.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Charity of the Year: The Ocado 2013 Charity of the Year was Macmillan Cancer Support, which was elected by our employees through the annual Neill Abrams employee survey.
During the period, our charity committee organised a Legal and Business Affairs Director and Company Secretary number of events, which helped to raise 62,255 for Macmillan.
12 March 2014 Ocado Group plc Peace One Day: Peace One Day is a non-profit organisation which has established a ceasefire and non-violence day that occurs on 21 September 1 2 ALL EMPLOYEES SENIOR MANAGERS DIRECTORS 1 Female 11% 2 Female 17% 1,178 Female 17.6% 5,531 Male 82.4% 8 Male 89% 10 Male 83% 1 Number of employees as at period end including employees in Poland.
2 Senior Managers means the Management Committee excluding Executive Directors.
com Stock Code: OCDO Heading One GOVERNANCE 22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3
