Strategy page 12 Business model Our operational focus is on the exploration and appraisal part of the industry cycle which drives the highest return oninvestment for shareholders.
Stages of business model Develop Shareholder Commercialise and returns produce Appraise Explore Analyse Shareholder Monetise returns Capture Free cash The Companys activities can be summarised as a number ofdiscrete stages outlined in the chart above and in more detail inthe following pages.
As a prospect or play is matured through the process its potential value increases, especially ifacommercial discovery is made, but this comes with associated costs which generally rise as we move from prospect licence Capturethrough Analysis and eventually into the Exploration phase.
Itismanagements responsibility to manage the risk reward profile at each stage to ensure that shareholders capital isdeployed efficiently to maximise returns.
Tanzania: From first principles to monetisation Full case study on page 20 14 Ophir Energy plc Value and certainty Strategic Report Capture Select and acquire blocks Agree commercial terms The Company has a sector-leading African exploration portfolio, acquired partially due to an extensive network of relationships across the continent including active engagement with host governments.
This is coupled with considerable depth of experience amongst the geotechnical team of the major deepwater basins and plays in the region, allowing rigorous sifting of new opportunities.
New assets can be picked up through open licensing rounds, direct negotiation with governments or farm-ins to existing licensed acreage.
Demonstrated: 1 Awarded four new blocks offshore Gabon 2 Farm-in to acreage offshore Seychelles.
1 Subject to PSC negotiation 2 On 4 March 2014, Ophir announced that it had entered into an agreement with WHL Energy to acquire a 75% operated interest in Blocks PEC-5B 1 and PEC-5B 2.
Completion of this transaction remains subject to satisfaction of certain conditions.
New Blocks acquired subject to completion 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15 Analyse Identify and rank prospect inventory Prepare exploration drilling programme Farm-out to third parties for risk mitigation Relinquish unprospective acreage ahead of significant drilling expenditure Ophir places great emphasis on maximising the technical work it can undertake pre-drill to minimise risk, including ensuring planned drillable prospects are covered by modern 3D seismic.
Ophir has a strong geoscience core, employing over 20 geologists and geophysicists at 31 December 2013, undertaking the majority of its seismic interpretation in-house.
The depth of the technical team means we undertake rigorous internal peer review and risk analysis before a prospect or play is matured as a candidate for drilling.
Given the costs associated with deepwater exploration, we will typically undertake farm-outs to mitigate the technical risks, manage the Companys capital base and provide third-party expertise where a company can bring a particular skill set to a prospect or play, either pre-drill Petrobras, OMV in Gabon or in the ability to commercialise post success BG Group in Tanzania.
Where licences are viewed as unprospective or are ranked poorly against other opportunities in the portfolio, we will look to exit ahead of entering into onerous work commitments or farm-down to a position of minimal capital exposure.
Demonstrated: Interpretation of 3D seismic shot through 2012 firmed up 2014 drilling targets with up to 11 wells planned Comprehensive farm-out of Gabonese acreage 1 toOMV Exited acreage in Congo, Madagascar, Ghana and Kenya L15 and reduced exposure to Somaliland 1 On 18 December 2013, Ophir announced that it had entered into an agreement to sell to OMV a 10% interest in each of the Mbeli and Ntsina Blocks and a 30% interest in each of the Gnondo and Manga Blocks.
16 Ophir Energy plc Strategic Report Explore Drill key prospects Re-rank prospect inventory on drilling results and continued seismic calibration The rigorous technical work undertaken pre-drill has helped ensure Ophir has enjoyed further exploration success during 2013, especially in Tanzania where the BG-Ophir Joint Venture has a 100% success rate on Blocks 1, 3 and 4.
On completion of exploration wells, the data from the drilling results is analysed and used to assess the need for appraisal drilling and the impact on remaining prospect potential on the acreage.
At31 December 2013 Ophir had a specialist drilling team of nine people, which allows it to operate two multiple deepwater campaigns simultaneously.
Demonstrated: Two successful exploration wells: Mkizi and Ngisi Both operated exploration wells, Starfish and Mlinzi Mbali-1, although commercially unsuccessful, drilled safely and under budget Two rigs secured under long-term contract for both East and West African exploration campaigns.
Successful exploration wells 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17 Appraise Appraisal drilling on existing discoveries to refine resources, assess commerciality Further exploration on fide-risked plays and analogue prospects Additional seismic to target prospect inventory Pre-development planning to optimise value, demonstrate potential to buyers After discoveries have been confirmed, we undertake appraisal activities such as further drilling, flow-tests and additional seismic acquisition to firm up resource estimates and assess the commerciality of the discovered resource base.
We undertake pre-development planning which provides input into the valuation analysis of the assets.
At this stage, management willbegin to assess the optimal time to monetise the assets.
Consideration is placed on the remaining resource upside left on the licences and blocks, and ongoing cost to reach Final Investment Decision FID.
Demonstrated: Four successful appraisal wells in Blocks 1, 3 and 4 leading to increased resource estimates Three successful flow tests on Jodari, Mzia and Pweza confirming world-class reservoir deliverability Net contingent resource additions in 2013 254mmboe 18 Ophir Energy plc Strategic Report Commercialise Partially or wholly monetise ahead of development spend: or Invest capital to develop the asset, potentially carried by new partners Bring into production then invest further to maximise value Once the FID is made, significant expenditure is required to bring an asset into production.
The time to first production and overall cost is dictated by a number of factors including hydrocarbon phase and location.
Ophirs core strength is in the exploration and appraisal phase, where the most value can be added in the E&P cycle with the lowest cost compared to development activities.
Our strategy is to have either wholly or largely monetised discovered resource before entering the development phase, although residual interests may be retained if carries through the majority of the development spend can be obtained and Ophir sees long-term potential in an asset.
Demonstrated: Farm-down of 20% stake in Blocks 1, 3 and 4 in 1 Tanzania to Pavilion Energy for US$1.288 billion Progress on Equatorial Guinea FLNG project 1 On 14 November 2013, Ophir announced that it had entered into an agreement to sell to Pavilion Energy a 20% interest in Blocks 1, 3 and 4.
This transaction is unconditional and subject to completion.
Value realised from Tanzania divestments to date 1 US$1.288bn Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19 Tanzania: From first principles to monetisation Ophirs activities in Blocks 1, 3 and 4 offshore Tanzania demonstrate the success of the Companys strategy and business model and the significant value that it can create for shareholders.
The Company took an early position inan out of favour area, worked upthe technical case, brought in an industry leading LNG specialist in Capture Analyse BG Group, proved up a world-class resource base and then partially monetised itsposition ahead ofsignificant capital expenditure ondevelopment 2005 06 200508 Acquired PSCs covering Blocks 1, 3 and Acquired and interpreted additional seismic 4 at a time when the industry believed which identified several large prospects.
the potential in a success case was likely tobeuneconomic.
2010 Assessing the likelihood of significant gas discoveries, negotiated commercial terms to exploit gas resources success including the rights to export and market gas volumes.
Farmed out 60% of Blocks 1, 3 and 4 to BGGroup, a world leader in the exploitation and development of gas resources.
Capture Analyse In 2005 and 2006 Ophir acquired a Between 2005 and 2008 Ophir acquired and significant acreage position offshore interpreted a large volume of 2D and 3D seismic Tanzania taking operated interests in data across the three Blocks.
This work reaffirmed Blocks 1, 3 and 4 offshore in the deepwater.
the Companys initial thoughts about the At the time, the licence rounds received prospectivity of the plays on the Blocks and only modest interest as the industry was allowed several targets to be matured to concerned that the offshore basins were drill-ready status, backed up by potential direct high-risk and gas prone and that if there hydrocarbon indicators DHIs on seismic were gas discoveries they would be modest including AVO anomalies and flat-spots.
in size and hard to commercialise.
Ophirs At the same time, recognising the likelihood initial technical analysis suggested that that the basins were gas prone, Ophir prospect sizes could be material enough undertook two important commercial steps.
Firstly, the Company farmed-in BG Group, the worlds leading LNG developer, operator and trader, as a partner, farming-down a 60% stake for a carried interest in three wells.
Secondly, alongside BG Group, it negotiated commercial terms with the Tanzanian Government toensure successful gas discoveries could be rapidly exploited and commercialised forthe benefit of all stakeholders.
20 Ophir Energy plc Strategic Report Exploration and appraisal wells drilled to date Success rate 14 100% Explore Appraise Commercialise 2010 11 2013 2013 Drilled the first successful well on Block 4, Appraised the Jodari, Mzia and Pweza Announced monetisation of a 20% Pweza-1, followed by the Chewa, Block 4 discoveries including undertaking flow-tests, stake inthe project to Pavilion Energy and Chaza, Block 1, gas discoveries.
increasing volumes and fide-risking the forUS$1.288 billion sub-surface.
2012 Drilled the Jodari and Mzia large gas discoveries confirming enough gas forapotential export LNG scheme.
Explore Appraisal Commercialise The first exploration well was drilled in 2010 In late 2012 and into 2013 the focus of The assets have now moved into the on the Pweza prospect and resulted in a drilling shifted to also include appraisal planning stage for development having successful gas discovery in Block 4.
A number of appraisal wells have been fide-risked both commercially and quickly followed by the Chewa Block 4 and been drilled and flow-tests performed which technically by the drilling activities over Chaza Block 1 discoveries which confirmed have seen resource volumes increased the last few years, with the FID expected the potential of Tanzanias offshore and the commercial productivity of the on the project in 2016.
Whilst Ophir deepwater basins as a new hydrocarbon discoveries confirmed.
Mean resource continues to see upside in the assets, in-line province.
In 2012 the larger Jodari and estimates now stand at 15.7 TCF, enough with the Companys business model and Mzia gas discoveries were made, taking to underpin a two Train LNG development strategy, the decision was made to partially resource estimates above those needed and also meet contractual domestic monetise its position ahead of significant for a commercial LNG scheme.
In total, 14 exploration development expenditure.
A formal sales period, additional seismic acquisition was and appraisal wells have been drilled process was undertaken and agreement undertaken and further leads and prospects across Blocks 1, 3and 4, all of which have reached with Pavilion Energy, a Singapore identified which has pushed the resource beensuccessful.
based Asian LNG company, in November potential of the area to in excess of 50 TCF 2013 to sell a 20% stake in Blocks 1, 3 and 4 including volumes already discovered.
On completion of this transaction, the proceeds are expected to be reinvested back into the business to fund new high-impact exploration opportunities and move the LNG project forward in Tanzania.
