Corporate Governance Directors Report The report complies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 Whilethe Board does not currently intend to exercise the authority, and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and itwillseek a further renewal at the 2014 AGM and will keep the Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013. use ofthe authority under review, taking into account other .
The report has been prepared in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 and the requirements Substantial shareholders of the UKLA Listing Rules.
Details of the Companys financial As at 31 December 2013 and 18 March 2014 being the date of instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk this report, the Company was notified of the following substantial and liquidity risk are set out in full in note 21 on pages 122 and 124 holdings of voting rights in the issued share capital of the Company of the financial statements.
in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, as set out in the table below.
Results for the year ended 31 December 2013 The Companys results for the financial year are shown in the Shareholders rights consolidated financial statements on pages 98 to 155.
The rights and obligations in the Companys Articles of Association relating to the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the Directors Shareholder Information page on 158.
The Articles can be found Biographical details for the Directors of the Company who held onthe Companys website.
office during the year ended 31 December 2013 and at the date of this report are set out on pages 46 to 47.
Details of Directors Dividend policy service contracts or letters of appointment, their interests in the The Directors have not recommended a final dividend for the ordinary shares of the Company and in any of the Companys year ended 31 December 2013 and did not declare any interim long-term incentive and other share schemes are set out in the dividends during the year.
The Directors do not anticipate that Directors Remuneration Report which can be found on pages 67 the Company will pay dividends in the near future.
The Directors insurance and indemnity provisions are set out envisage that, as the Company advances the development of its on page50.
operations, a dividend policy will be determined based on, and dependent on, the results of the Companys operations, financial Share capital condition, cash requirements, prospects, profits available for The called-up share capital of the Company, together with details distribution and other factors deemed to be relevant at the time.
of shares allotted during the year, is shown in note 22 to the Group financial statements.
The Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
At the 2013 AGM, the Company was authorised by shareholders to repurchase up to 58.75 million of its own ordinary shares, representing just under 10% of its issued share capital as at the date of the AGM.
No buyback programme has been undertaken to date.
Number of Number of shares held as at % holding as at shares held asat % holding as at 1 2 Name 31 December 2013 31December 2013 18 March 2014 18 March 2014 Capital Group Companies, Inc 112,962,072 19.08 112,498,032 19.00 3 Kulczyk Investments S. A.
2 Calculated by reference to the issued share capital of the Company as at 18 March 2014.
3 The Kulczyk Investments S. A. indirectly owns a 100% interest in Oil and Gas Exploration Limited and includes Hydrocarbon Investments Limited.
64 Ophir Energy plc Corporate Governance Report on greenhouse gas emissions The Company has not made any political donations during the A breakdown of the Companys energy consumption and associated year.
The Companys policy is not to make political donations: greenhouse gas emissions during 2013 is set out in the Strategic however certain socially responsible activities, which may include Report on page 39.
These figures have been calculated in accordance actions undertaken through the Companys social and community with the guidance provided by the Department for Environment, related programmes, attendance at conferences and receptions Food and Rural Affairs Defra and the Department ofEnergy and where communicating the Companys views might be vital to Climate Change DECC and have been classified under the scopes itsbusiness interests may be inferred by some, as making political set out in the World Resources Institute World Business Council for donations as defined in the Companies Act 2006.
The Company Sustainable Developments Greenhouse GasProtocol.
does not consider such activities as being political donations but nevertheless, ensures that all such activities described in this report Diversity have been conducted in compliance with the Companys Code A statement of the Companys policy on diversity is set out in the ofConduct and Anti-Corruption Policy.
Strategic Report on page 42 and the Board policy on diversity issummarised on page 63 of the Nomination Committee report.
Directors responsibility statement The Directors responsibility statement is set out on pages 94 Human rights and132 the Companys financial statements are included on pages A statement of the Companys policy on human rights is set out 98 to155.
inthe Strategic Report on page 43.
Change of control Employees The Company has entered into a number of commercial contracts The Company is committed to actively communicating with which might take effect, alter or terminate on a change of employees in many ways, including regular briefings on financial control of the Company.
However, none of these is considered performance and training on health and safety matters.
The to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business Company continues to have a diverse workforce comprising local ofthe Company as a whole.
Details of change of control clauses employees, contractors and expatriates at most sites.
The Company contained in the Service Agreements of the executive directors are is an equal opportunities employer and where existing employees set out on page 77 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Certain become unable to perform their existing role due to a disability, Company employees have agreements providing for compensation itisthe Companys policy to provide continuing employment for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a change under similar terms and conditions, wherever practicable, and to ofcontrol.
provide training and career development.
As at 31 December 2013, theCompany employed 119 people 2012: 71 people.
All the Companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of control and full details of these plans are provided Corporate and social responsibility, business conduct inthe Directors Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 93.
Generally, andethicsand political donations outstanding awards under the Foundation Incentive Plan, the The Company is committed to sound business conduct in 2006 Plan and the Deferred Share Plan will vest in full and become its relationships with stakeholders shareholders, employees, exercisable on or before a change of control.
The Remuneration customers, business partners and suppliers, governments and Committee may allow outstanding awards under the Long-Term regulators, communities and the environment.
The Company Incentive Plan LTIP to vest to the extent that any performance seeks to conduct its operations with honesty, integrity and condition is satisfied at the date of that event and, unless the openness, andwith respect for the human rights and interests Remuneration Committee decides otherwise, such level of vesting ofour employees and, as such, ensures that its anti-bribery policy to be reduced to take account of the fact that the award is vesting is fully understood and implemented by all employees and other early.
LTIP awards may instead be exchanged for equivalent awards key stakeholders.
The Board is also fully committed to ensuring over shares in the acquiring company.
that high standards of health, safety and environmental practices areimplemented and maintained by the Company.
Further details are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility review on pages 38 to 43.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65 Corporate Governance Directors Report continued Corporate Governance statement management objectives: details of its financial instruments and The corporate governance statement, in accordance with Rule 7.2 of hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and Rule 9.8.
6 5 and 6 of the In making their going concern assessment, the Directors have Listing Rules on pages 44 to 52 forms part of this Directors Report.
considered Company budgets and cash flow forecasts for a period Directors Statement as to disclosure of information of at least the next 12 months from the approval of the financial toAuditors statements.
These include the anticipated proceeds from the The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of completion of the disposal of a 20% interest in Blocks 1, 3 and 4 in approving the Directors Report are listed on pages 46 to 47.
Having Tanzania to Pavilion Energy.
On 16 December 2013, the Company made enquiries of fellow directors and of the Companys auditors, received shareholder approval to dispose of this interest.
All conditions each of these directors confirms that: precedent to the transaction have been satisfied or waived.
The transaction is now unconditional and is expected to close shortly.
To the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no information that is information that is needed by the Companys The cash flow forecast prepared by management to March 2015 auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the concluded that despite significant expenditure on ongoing and Companys auditors are unaware planned drilling programmes across the Companys blocks during 2014, particularly in Tanzania, the Company will have sufficient resources to Each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably pay its debts as and when they fall due for at least the next 12 months.
be expected to have to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of As a consequence of the near completion of the disposal of a 20% thatinformation interest in Blocks 1, 3 and 4 in Tanzania, the Directors believe that the Company is well placed to meet its exploration and appraisal Auditor expenditure commitments for at least the next 12 months and have Details of the Companys policy on external auditor rotation are set areasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources out on page 56 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Further to to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
provision C. 3.7 of the Code listed companies are expected to put Thusthey continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting their external audit contract out to tender at least every 10 years.
inpreparing the annual financial statements.
During the year, the Audit Committee had undertaken a review of audit services including a tender by suppliers in advance of the Post balance sheet events 2014 audit.
Further details concerning the tender process can be A summary of the key post balance sheet events is set out in note 31 found on page 55. tothe Companys financial statements.
Following the conclusion of the external audit tender process, By order of the Board EY, has indicated its willingness to continue in office and resolutions to re-appoint EY as the Companys auditor and to authorise Nick Cooper theDirectors to set the auditors remuneration will be proposed Chief Executive Officer atthe 2014 AGM.
19 March 2014 Going concern Registered office: The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to 50 New Bond Street, London W1S 1BJ affect its future development, performance and position are set out Company registered in England and Wales No.
5047425 in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 43.
The financial position of the Company, consisting of cash resources of US$666.7 million, including the proceeds from the Placing and Rights Issue completed in March 2013, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial statements on pages 98 to 155.
Inaddition, note 21 to the financial statements include the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk 66 Ophir Energy plc
