Market overview Short-term volatility in commodity prices has little impact on our operations although longer-term price expectations will influence the market value of our exploration discoveries.
The market for new opportunities remains competitive: however, Ophir continues to capture new licences and blocks in its core areas.
Over recent years, the day rate costs for seismic vessels have risen Capture Analyse Explore Appraise Commercialise with increased streamer capacity.
However, improved productivity has offset this increase, such that overall survey costs have Acreage and licensing rounds remained stable.
Vessel availability also remains in good supply and Ophirs position in Africa, especially West Africa, is ideally located Competition for quality exploration acreage remains strong, tocontract vessels as they migrate between the survey seasons especially deepwater licences which hold the potential for in the northern typically North Sea and the Arctic and southern significant discoveries.
The recent trend for the International South East Asia, India, South America hemispheres, which helps OilCompanies IOCs to focus more resource on their exploration reduce mobilisation costs.
portfolios continued in 2013 and Africa remains a core area for several in the sector.
However, recent restraints on capital The period 2002-2008 saw an unprecedented rise in day rates spending from the IOCs may result in a reduction in the level for drillships and deepwater semi-submersible rigs, buoyed by ofcompetition for new acreage throughout 2014. rising commodity prices and the knock-on effect of increased drilling activity.
Rates dipped in 2009 10 with the global financial Deepwater licensing rounds remain a source of new opportunities crisis, before rising again in 2011.
Since 2011, rates have generally and there were a number of notable rounds globally in 2013, stabilised and the tightness in the rig market has partially eased.
In Africa, new acreage was offered in Toa certain extent, this has been driven by both an increase in Gabonand Tanzania, core areas for Ophir, and offshore South Africa.
supply as new rigs have been built, and by a shift in rig demand, While Africa has been the focus to date for the Companys where long-term contracts roll off and are not renewed.
operations, Ophir continues to look for new opportunities The preference for rig owners remains to secure long-term, elsewhere, where it can leverage its geological expertise in multi-well contracts, which gives an advantage to those companies analogous basins and plays.
In Asia, Ophir has applied for new offering multi-well campaigns.
This was demonstrated during 2013 acreage in the deepwater licensing round offshore Myanmar, where with Ophirs ability to secure competitively priced, high-quality rigs there is the potential for significant gas prospectivity.
Several basins for both its East and West African drilling programmes.
in Asia contain deepwater, under-explored, hydrocarbon systems, which may fit well with Ophirs demonstrated exploration expertise.
Fiscal terms continue to vary significantly across licences, depending on basin maturity and competition.
Early entry into new unproven Deepwater rig rates basins generally continues to offer more favourable terms, reflecting the higher risk profile.
700 Africa 600 Explore Appraise Commercialise Capture Analyse South America 500 Exploration cost drivers Gulf Of Mexico 400 Ophirs strategy relies on 3D seismic surveys to fide-risk prospects and plays prior to drilling.
This is the case in Gabon, where we are 300 planning a comprehensive 3D survey across the deepwater portion of the existing acreage and on a number of new blocks that have 200 Africa been provisionally awarded to the Company subject to successful South America PSC negotiation.
100 Gulf of Mexico 0 Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 Source: RS Platou units with capability of operating in water depths of 7,500 ft 8 Ophir Energy plc US$000 day Strategic Report Capture Analyse Explore Appraise Commercialise Business model page 14 Explore Appraise Commercialise Capture Analyse Explore Appraise Commercialise Capture Analyse M&A activity Commodity prices gas and oil A key element of Ophirs strategy remains the partial or total At present the Company has no producing assets, therefore current monetisation of its resource base ahead of significant development oil and gas prices have negligible impact on Ophirs near-term spend.
This is particularly the case with gas resources, which cashflow.
However, they indirectly impact the Companys cost in general have longer development times to bring to market.
base and its access to services and supplies.
In addition, the long- 2013 was a busy year for acquisition and divestment activities term expectations for commodity prices will ultimately affect the globally, especially in North America.
While the value of corporate economic value of its discovered resource base.
transactions was lower than in 2012, the value of asset transactions Brent crude oil prices have been relatively stable throughout 2013 was at a similar level to the prior year.
Asian National Oil Companies in comparison to prior years, starting and ending the year at NOCs remain active but appear to be more selective while IOCs c. US$110 bbl and trading within a US$20 bbl range.
This stability have reacted to greater capital discipline by focusing more on has continued into 2014.
Although consensus is for oil prices divestments than acquisitions.
However, quality assets that have toease in the medium term, aided by rising supply and modest both economic and strategic merit are still likely to be attractive to a global demand growth, the average long-term forecast from number of buyers.
This was in evidence during the process to farmcommodity researchers is for oil prices to remain above US$90 bbl.
out a 20% stake in Tanzania Blocks 1, 3 and 4, which resulted in the LNG contract pricing, specifically in Asian markets, is currently 1 successful sale to Pavilion Energy announced in November 2013. closely linked to oil prices and this is expected to continue in the medium term for new contracts.
However, a partial linkage to other benchmarks such as US Henry Hub gas pricing, alongside crude oil prices, is likely to be a consideration going forward for certain LNGbuyers.
Global oil and gas M&A deal value The Company continues to base its investment decisions on long- 300 Corporate term oil and LNG prices that are below current market levels and Asset consensus forward forecasts.
250 148 200 87 Securing rigs under long-term contract 150 79 25 60 During 2013 Ophir secured two rigs under long-term contract, tocover 37 its 2013-2014 drilling plans for both West and East Africa.
In East Africa, 100 109 alongside BG Group, a contract out to late 2014 was renewed for the 119 117 111 Deepsea Metro I drillship, to cover the drilling programmes of both 91 50 81 78 companies in Tanzania and Kenya.
InWest Africa, Ophir sub-contracted 37 from Petrobras the Vantage Titanium Explorer to drill a minimum of six 0 wells in Gabon and Equatorial Guinea.
Both contracts allow for 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 extensions and additional slots, giving Ophir the flexibility to appraise and explore further in the event of success with any of its new play Source: 1Derrick opening wells, or if new drill-ready acreage is acquired.
Theability to secure these contracts was a result of both the breadth of Ophirs 1 On 14 November 2013, Ophir announced that it had entered into an agreement portfolio and strength of its balance sheet.
to sell to Pavilion Energy a 20% interest in Blocks 1, 3 and 4.
This transaction isunconditional and subject to completion.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 9 US$bn
