W h d o e l t e s h u e r a T r t e d Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 28 Corporate and Social Responsibility Our vision is to pursue responsible development and deeper understanding of the world through science and technology.
The Oxford Instruments brand and Company values are at the heart of the Groups CSR at Oxford approach to Corporate Social Responsibility CSR.
These are: Instruments Our CSR strategy is focused on We listen and We build long engage with term relationships the following key themes: customers, based on colleagues, integrity, trust Business ethics shareholders and and respect.
partners for Our values Customer focus and service mutual success.
We bring skill, Diversity and inclusion We approach experience and what we do with openness to new Employees passion, with care ideas to address and with pace.
the needs of the Health and safety 21st Century.
Supplier and partner engagement We meet our We use innovation We have Sustainability We believe customers needs to turn smart experience to rely people make through advanced science into world on and integrity thedifference.
The performance of all employees is measured against our values through an annual appraisal process and competencies framework.
Business ethics Anti-corruption and bribery The Board is committed to maintaining Business malpractice the ethical standards the Oxford Instruments brand is known for and Communications including social expect the same commitment from our media and internet policy partners: employees, customers, suppliers Diversity and inclusion and representatives.
We workethically, openly, responsibly and inclusively.
We Environment strive for maximum transparency, do not Health and safety tolerate any form ofbribery, corruption or fraud and do not make political donations.
Human rights We have in place a Business Conduct and Insider dealing Ethics Code which all employees are made aware of at the time of joining the Company QA requirements for suppliers and through subsequent exposure on the Company intranet and corporate website.
Customer focus and service The Group believes that customer Our Code is supported by a range of policies relationships are built on mutual trust, which are regularly monitored by the Board respect and integrity, and that this and updated and added to whenever principle should govern all aspects of necessary.
Each policy gives detailed thebusiness.
Our customer is at the information on how to manage sensitive heart of everything we do and has led issues once an assessment of risk has toan improved and more professional been identified.
approach to supporting them on a continuing basis after the original sale.
a n I d e n p v n r i o s o v g u r a l e t c i s n v s i I e v e Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information 29 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 The continued focus on the Voice of the sharedunderstanding of our ambitions a. communication of strategy: Customer in any new product introduction in regard to developing our diverse b. the leadership of the or current product development ensures global talent pool: managementboard: that the customer needs are at the core development of policies that prevent of our business.
The success of new c. confidence in senior management: bias in relation to recruitment and products introduced in 2012 13 supports promotion including actively discussing d. clarity of objectives: this focus.
The percentage of revenue diversity during succession planning: that is made up of products launched or e. s ense that jobs are important acquired in the last three years is a key D&I were measured for the first time in andworthwhile: and indicator of the vitality of our new product our employee survey.
This has givenus a f. desire for career progression.
baseline from which we can buildupon: work with local universities and Our results are a reflection of the strong Diversity and inclusion professional bodies to help raise levels of motivation and commitment we Our business should reflect our awareness of women in science: and see across the Group.
Our next survey is diversecustomers and markets and planned for September 2014. theenvironment in which we operate.
embedding diversity and cross Our value of Inclusiveness reflects our culturalawareness in our Group Internal communication commitment to developing this diversity.
Oxford Instruments business strategy is communicated throughout the Group and The Board recognises that our employees We have also taken steps to respond is set out on our intranet for all employees are fundamental to our success.
As a high tothe recommendations set out in the to refer to.
This area of the intranet also technology business, we have a highly Davies Report and the related changes shows progress against this plan and the skilled workforce and it is they who deliver inthe Corporate Governance Code as business KPIs.
All employees receive our strategic objectives.
The Groups aim published by the FRC.
regular updates on the performance of is to ensure there are equal opportunities their own business together with the for all employees and that we create Employees performance of the Group at regular aninclusive culture where differences Employee engagement briefing meetings.
Whenever appropriate, arevalued and people are given the In 2012 we conducted our third global video announcements or interviews with environment in which they can do their employee survey, with an overall response key senior managers that offer more detail best work.
Decisions regarding recruitment, rate of 72%.
The survey focuses on five on our performance are posted on the selection, access to training and promotion key areas for measuring employee intranet.
Periodically, the Chief Executive are based on merit.
engagement: Day-to-Day Working writes a blog which summarises, at a top Conditions: Training and Development: level, meetings with investors and analysts, We believe that decision making is more My Manager: My Business: and Oxford and business strategy sessions.
This helps effective when people from a range of Instruments Overall.
We were able to to create understanding of interests and perspectives and backgrounds are involved.
benchmark the Oxford Instruments concerns from an investor perspective.
Therefore encouraging diversity is important Group against a control group, consisting to us.
We believe that diversity, at Board of 230 organisations, representing We invite feedback and suggestions from level, within management and amongst 185,600 respondents.
staff at every point of communication.
staff is important to allow our business togrow and maintain our position as a We have made progress since our first Learning and development leading innovator.
A Key Performance Building the knowledge and skills of our Indicator KPI is the fraction of our staff Over the past 12 months we have made people is critical to the future of our business ratedas Champions.
This reflects staff significant progress with our Diversity so this year we appointed a Group Learning understanding of our strategy and their and Inclusion D&I agenda.
This includes: and Development Manager to deliver commitment to achieving it.
The number leadership and management programmes appointment of a Diversity of Champions has increased from 45% and strengthen the talent pipeline to ensure Champion, Dawn Brooks, Group in2009 to 73%.
This exceeds both our robust succession planning throughout Service Director, who is a member internal Business Improvement Plan the Company.
The global graduate ofthe Management Board: target and the external benchmark of programme introduced this year allows 40%.
The overall Group results show delivery of D&I awareness and participants to gain broad experience, strong, positive responses in the engagement sessions for the plc developing their management skills and following areas: Boardand Directors to ensure a working on a business critical project.
Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 30 Corporate and Social Responsibility continued Reportable accidents Overall energy consumption per1,000employees millionrevenue 2.5 66.16MWh 34% 6.2% Employees continued The annual Chairmans Awards for manufacturing site annually.
All office Learning and development continued Innovation recognise and reward sites will be audited every two years and Wepride ourselves in offering employment innovation in its broadest sense.
will complete a self assessment audit in to apprentices at the beginning of their Thecontinued increase in the standard the intervening years.
career and internships to people and number of entries to these awards considering a career in the engineering isevidence of the engagement of our Reportable accidents defined by the UK andtechnology sector.
By investing employees in this successful programme.
standard of over seven days absence, inourpeople we aim to create loyalty, continued to reduce falling from 3.8 per high employee engagement and high Health and safety 1,000 employees in 2011 12 to 2.5 per performing teams and we will continue The Group is committed to providing 1,000 employees in 2012 13. tomake sure that our people have the thehighest standards of safety in the skills and knowledge to contribute to workplace for our employees and to the Employees are kept informed of current thecontinuing success of the Company.
continual improvement of our health H&S issues through information provided andsafety performance.
by their local H&S representative and Incentives their local H&S committees.
Members The Group believes it is important that Responsibility for Health and Safety H&S ofthe local committees include staff from our highly skilled and educated workforce lies with the Board.
Charles Holroyd, an all areas of the business who meet on a receive a share in the success of the Executive Director, is responsible for regular basis.
In addition to the regular formulating the Groups H&S strategy management and sales commission andobjectives, reviewing performance In addition, information on H&S matters schemes, we operate a Gain Share against these objectives and for ensuring ispublished on the Group intranet, notice payment for all employees not in receipt that key H&S issues are effectively boards and in monthly cascades and ofan existing management bonus.
Employees plan is linked to achievement of our are actively encouraged to suggest strategy and aligns employees interest The Board reviews the H&S performance improvements that can be made in with that of our shareholders.
of the Groups operations at each working conditions and practices.
All Group businesses regularly In addition, we offer employees extra report progress on H&S issues to the Supplier and partner engagement benefits such as discounts on certain Group Health, Safety and Environment The Group works hard to establish local activities, merchandise, insurance, Manager who is responsible for keeping trust, respect and mutually beneficial and health and dental cover.
Charles Holroyd, and consequently the relations with its business partners, Board, informed of serious issues.
The including suppliers, banks and Group Health, Safety and Environment collaborative associates.
Manager is responsible for auditing each Incentives Now in its eighth year, our annual Chairmans Awards for Innovation recognise and reward outstanding achievements across the Group photo shows 2013finalists.
Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information 31 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 We will maintain awholehearted commitment to our shareholders, customers, employees, partners, and local communities to conduct our business in an ethical and sustainable manner.
There is a Group supplier management All corporate literature is printed on Key CSR process in place which promotes a common environmentally friendly paper using Forest achievements2012 13 supply chain strategy split by commodity, Stewardship Council FSC accredited driving the business towards fewer high printers.
This, together with the vegetable level suppliers.
Regular inspections and oils used to coat the paper, means that Appointment of a Diversity audits are conducted and strategic reviews the documents are bio-degradable are in place for key suppliers.
Champion, Dawn Brooks, with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001, only quality Group Service Director, approved organisations are used.
There is a Sustainability area of the whoisa member ofthe intranet which regularly updates all Management Board.
Sustainability employees on the progress we make Environment energy onall aspects of sustainability.
Diversity and inclusion were The Group complies with all European directives aimed at benefiting the Communities measured for the first time environment.
Such directives include the The Group is an active support of local, inour employee survey.
Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment national and international science WEEE Directive, the Restriction on use of communities both on a corporate level, We have taken steps to respond Hazardous Substances RoHS Directive, abusiness group level and an individual tothe recommendations set the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation level.
It also sponsors a number of out in the Davies Report and and Restriction of chemicals REACh international and national awards Directive and the Energy use of Products andevents including the prestigious the related changes inthe EuP Directive.
SirMartin Wood Prize through the Corporate Governance Code.
Millennium Science Forum in Japan.
Products We conducted our third global Many of the Groups products and services Business groups and employees are employee survey, with an provide solutions which help address the supported in any activities that promote overall response rate of 72%.
global issues of environmental control good relations with the local communities and protection, and energy conservation.
by contributing to, and supporting, local For example, our hand-held XRF analysers charities and community activities.
The Reportable accidents are used in the analysis of hazardous focus is on supporting science in business, continued to reduce falling substances in soil and our microanalysis and encouraging innovation and the from 3.8 per 1,000 employees systems are used in the detection of promotion of science in schools and in 2011 12 to 2.5 per 1,000 asbestos fibres.
We are continually looking universities.
Local social clubs run annual employees in 2012 13. for new applications for existing technologies fundraising activities for a chosen charity to support the growing need to protect and the Group supports these efforts the world and the people who live in it.
Energy in the workplace Summary Every site has an Energy Champion who In 2013 and beyond we will maintain the isresponsible for implementing plans to focus on CSR in the strategic decision reduce its carbon footprint.
Each site reports making process and business performance.
its monthly energy consumption and We will continue to meet our customer reduction activities.
During the 2012 13 needs through advanced technology and financial year, the mixof revenues premium service and we will maintain favoured the sites that consumed most awholehearted commitment to our power.
Despite most sites reducing their shareholders, customers, employees, own energy usage, the overall energy partners, and local communities to consumption increased slightly from conduct our business in an ethical and 62.3MWh million revenue during 2011 12 sustainable manner.
Recycling in the workplace Jonathan Flint All major sites have a responsibility to Chief Executive recycle waste materials including cardboard, 11 June 2013 paper, wood and metals.
Employees are encouraged to recycle paper, packaging, bottles and cans.
