Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 02 What do we do at Oxford Instruments?
Our vision is to pursue responsible development and a deeper understanding of the world throughscience and technology.
To achieve this, our As the world develops business engages and populations continue to increase, withthe growing nanotechnology is nanoscience industry seen as a key to continued economic progress and growth.
By analysing and manipulating atoms and molecules individually, nanotechnology enables previously unheard of improvements in virtually all sectors.
The number of atoms onearth is fixed and will never increase.
If we are toprogress, we need toget value from each precious unit of materials.
We support progress in this rapidly 1 2 3 developing area by Providing Developing Industrialising knowledgeable quality tools certain tools for support needed by commercial use services researchers Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information 03 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 Our business is structured around three segments which reflect our expertise andbusiness objectives Our sectors 1 2 3 Nanotechnology Tools Industrial Products Service Scaling high technology Serving the quality control, Supplying service, support, productsfor use in environmental and compliance training, refurbishment, thenanoworld testing sectors consumables and accessories NanoAnalysis Industrial Analysis OiService Leading-edge tools that enable materials High quality instruments for materials Third party servicing and support characterisation and sample manipulation identification and thickness gauging tooperators of Magnetic Resonance at the nanometre scale.
analysis with quality control and Imaging MRI and Computerised qualityassurance.
Omicron NanoScience Worlds leading supplier of systems for Industrial Components Supply of refurbished MRI CT systems, nanocharacterisation and measurement High technology components X-ray tubes and other consumables for at low temperatures, high magnetic fields forindustryand research.
healthcare customers in North America.
Full range of spares, consumables and Plasma Technology accessories for all product ranges.
Tools and processes for the fabrication ofnanostructures.
Service elements of Nanotechnology Toolsand Industrial Products sectors.
Sector revenue Sector revenue Sector revenue 47% 166.1m 36% 125.1m 17% 60.6m Operating Review Operating Review Operating Review page 18 page 20 page 21
