Adding personalvalue Liberating cash Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 16 Strategic Update Our strategy to grow the business exploits the Oxford Instruments brand, our superior technology and exposure to diverse markets where demand is growing.
Our 14 Cubed plan reaches its final year This organic growth will be supplemented As we enter the In 2011 12 we introduced the 14Cubed plan.
by targeted acquisitions and the three made third and final year This plan calls for annual compound in 2011, together with the Asylum Research revenue growth of 14% and areturn acquisition made during the year, are of our 14 Cubed plan onsales of 14% to be achieved by 2014. already contributing to our growth.
The we remain focused The 14Cubed plan is driven by three organic and acquisition growth strands of elements: strong organic growth: our strategy are supported by an internal on achieving our continuous efficiency improvements: efficiency programme which seeks both objectives andtargeted acquisitions.
These will to increase revenues by boosting our eachcontribute to our targets for customer satisfaction levels and to growthand margin improvement.
The 14% compound growth rate is planned Each of these goals is measured by Key to be achieved primarily through organic Performance Indicators against which growth.
We believe that this growth level wecalibrate our progress, enabling us can be obtained because ofthe valued tomonitor momentum at both divisional position of the Oxford Instruments brand andGroup level on a regular basis.
in our high technology markets, our exposure to emerging marketsand our customer targeted R&Dprogramme.
1 2 Our strategic priorities 5 3 4 Realising the brand 1 Cash conversion is defined as the ratio of cash generated to adjusted operating profit see Income Statement.
Cash generated is calculated as adjusted operating profit plus depreciation on property, plant and equipment andamortisation on research and development, minus capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment andresearch and development, and adjusted for movements in working capital.
2 The Net Promoter Score is a metric which is compiled by asking customers whether they would recommend Oxford Instruments to a friend or colleague.
Customers give a score between zero and ten.
Those customers who score nine or ten are promoters, those customers who score seven or eight are neutral and customers who score six or less are detractors.
The Net Promoter Score is the difference between the numbers of promoters and the number of detractors both expressed as a percentage ofthe number of replies received.
The score can range between 100 no customers are promoters and 100 all customers are promoters.
A positive score indicates that the Company has fewer detractors than promoters.
The 2011 score was obtained from a survey of our customers at a single point in time.
During 2012 we initiated aprocess of surveying customers on a rolling basis immediately after the completion of a piece of work and we now use this data as the basis for our published KPI.
Delivering for shareholders Inventing the future
