Governance Audit & Risk Committee Report Continued A formal framework governs the process Role and key responsibilities Internal audit through which the Groups auditors are The terms of reference of the The Companys Vice President of considered to render non-audit services.
Committee are reviewed annually GroupFinance, who has direct access The Committee has approved a policy in andare available on the Companys tothe Audit & Risk Committee primarily relation to the provision of non-audit services website www.
through the Chairman of the Committee, by the external auditors and the nature oversees an internal audit function The Committees main and extent of non-audit services that the provided by external qualified : external auditors could provide within the .
scope of the policy during the year.
monitoring the integrity of the The Audit & Risk Committee Financial Statements of the Details of the external auditors total fees reviewsannually the arrangements Company and formal announcements including non-audit fees of $100,000 paid forinternal auditand during the year relating to the Companys financial to KPMG during the year are set out in theCommittee re-appointed BDO LLP performance and reviewing any Note4 to the Financial Statements.
BDO to act asinternal auditors, significant financial reporting performing anagreedprogramme of judgements contained therein: External audit appointment internal audits in collaboration with the The Committee reviews and makes reviewing the Companys internal Companys Vice President of Group recommendations with regard to the financial and operational control Finance andsenior management.
BDO re-appointment of the external auditors.
and risk management systems: attended and presented their reports Inmaking these recommendations, the toeach of the Audit & Risk Committee monitoring the effectiveness of the Committee considers auditor effectiveness meetings duringthe year.
Companys internal audit function and independence, partner rotation and and reviewing its material findings: The Committee has, amongst other any other factors which may impact the things, considered the quality of reporting external auditors re-appointment.
reviewing accounting policies, to the Committee and impartiality of the accounting treatments and The external auditors are required to internal auditors and has concluded that disclosures in the Strategic Report rotate the audit partner every five years.
the effectiveness of Internal Audit during and Financial Statements ensuring The most recent change occurred in the year was satisfactory.
that shareholders may understand theyear ended 31 December 2012 and strategic aims and risks of the therefore partner rotation is due in the External audit business of the Group and that the year ending 31 December 2017.
The Audit & Risk Committee Annual Report and Accounts taken hassatisfieditself that the external The current external auditors, KPMG as a whole is fair, balanced auditors, KPMG Audit Plc KPMG, Audit plc, were first appointed in 1996 andunderstandable: actedindependently of the Group.
and the external audit has not been overseeing the Companys Previous appointments of KPMG and formally tendered since then.
relationship with its external auditors, theextent of other work undertaken Having completed the activities outlined, including making recommendations byitwere considered inter alia the Committee remains confident that the as to frequency of tendering for inthisregard.
effectiveness and independence of the audit services, the appointment It is the Committees opinion confirmed in external auditors is not impaired in any orre-appointment of the external discussions with KPMG that there were way.
There are no contractual restrictions auditors, reviewing their terms of no limitations imposed by management on the choice of external auditor.
KPMG engagement and monitoring their on KPMG whilst performing their duties Audit plc has notified the company that, independence and ensuring that during the review period.
as a result of their intention to instigate policy surrounding their engagement anorderly wind-down of thelegal entity, to provide non-audit services The Committee, in consultation with the they are not seeking re-appointment.
isappropriately applied: Groups executive management, agreed Accordingly, a resolution proposing to the terms of the KPMG engagement monitoring fraud reports and KPMG LLP to be appointed as external letter, audit plan and budgeted audit fees reviewing the effectiveness of auditors will be put to shareholders at for the 2013 financial year.
theCompanys whistleblowing the2014 Annual General Meeting.
procedures: and reporting to the Board onhow it has discharged itsresponsibilities.
30 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 1 PIC ar13 Middle [MR].
indd 30 20 03 2014 12:22:31 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Committee will continue to assess The significant judgements considered Internal controls and risk management the effectiveness and independence of by the Committee in areas where there The Committee reviews the framework the external auditors.
In doing so, the was potential risk of material ofinternal controls and the processes Committee will consider a formal tender misstatement, were: bywhich the Groups control environment process in accordance with provisions is evaluated.
This represents ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code.
In this regard, the Committee akey area of judgement in the accounts We will comply with the Competition receivedreports from internal audit on due to the complexity of some of the Commission Order relating to the statutory the operation of, and issue arising from, Groups revenue streams, in particular audit market for FTSE 350 companies, those involving multiple elements.
The the Groups internal controls and procedures.
which is expected to come into effect Committee has discussed with senior External audit has also provided input from 1 October 2014. management the accounting for such and observations on the internal control contracts and may review the accounting environment and on any specific control Activities of the Committee treatment of all material new contracts.
issues that occurred during the year.
The main activities of the Committee The Committee has concluded that TheCommittee also reviewed compliance during the year are set out below.
thetiming of recognition continues activities in relation to internal audit reports Financial reporting tobeinline with IFRS requirements.
submitted to the Committee inprior years The Committee reviewed and considered Royalty provisions.
These are and received a report onthe status of the following areas in respect of financial considered a significant area of recommendations andactions outstanding.
reporting and the preparation of the judgement due to the complexity interim and annual financial statements: The Committee reviews the Groups ofthe claims made against the Group, riskmanagement framework in order and the range of possible outcomes the appropriateness of accounting toensure it is appropriate and operating ofeach claim.
The Committee and the policies used: effectively.
In doing so, the Committee Board receive a semi-annual report compliance with external and received reports from the Vice President from the General Counsel regarding internalfinancial reporting standards of Group Finance covering: royalties claims under negotiation andpolicies: asreferred to in Note 20 to the the effectiveness of the risk Financial Statements.
management processes and their significant judgements made: adoption across the Group: and disclosures and presentations: and Capitalised development costs.
Projectdevelopment costs are a summary of the top risks to the Group, whether the Annual Report capitalised and subsequently amortised controls identified to mitigate these andAccounts are fair, balanced over their useful life.
The Committee risks and actions planned to reduce andunderstandable.
considered the basis for selecting such risks where considered necessary.
In carrying this out, the Committee costs as relevant development costs and As part of its agenda, the Committee considered the work and recommendations the process for identifying the useful life.
allowed time for in-depth reviews of of the Group Finance Team.
In addition, The Committee also reviews a summary particular risk areas.
During the year, the Committee received reports from the of the larger projects, by carrying value, therisk areas considered included external auditors setting out their view on to understand how the costs capitalised implementation of the Anti-Corruption the accounting treatments and judgements are covered by future forecast margin.
Policy, information and IT security, and included in the financial statements.
The Committee has concluded that the the impact of changes to corporate Theexternal auditors reports are based processes for capitalising development governance rules.
costs are robust and that the balance on a full audit of the annual financial isrecoverable.
statements and a high-level review oftheinterim financial statements.
Other areas of judgement reviewed bythe Committee, but where it was With the support of the external concluded that there was not a risk auditor, the Committee assessed ofmaterial misstatement, included: whethersuitable accounting policies warranty provisions: classification hadbeen adopted, whether management ofitems as exceptional: potential had made appropriate estimates and impairments of goodwill, intangible judgements and whether the disclosures andother fixed assets: and treatment were fair and balanced.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 31 1 PIC ar13 Middle [MR].
