Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report The directors present their report Disclaimer Dividend together with the audited consolidated The purpose of this Annual Report and The directors recommend the payment of financial statements for the year ended Accounts is to provide information to the a final dividend of 3.66 cents per ordinary 31 December 2013. members of the Company.
The Annual share 2012: 3.06 cents to be paid on Report and Accounts have been prepared 4July 2014 to shareholders on the register Principal activities for, and only for, the members of the at the close of business on 6 June 2014.
The Groups principal activities are the Company, as a body, and no other An interim dividend of 1.83 cents per development, design and distribution persons.
The Company, its directors and ordinary share was paid during the year oftechnologies, products and services employees, agents or advisers do not 2012: 1.44 cents.
for managed subscription television, accept or assume responsibility to any Dividends will be paid in Sterling telephone and broadband services and other person to whom this document is equivalent to 2.192 pence per ordinary the provision of engineering design and shown or into whose hands it may come share.
This is based on an exchange rate software applications to its customers.
and any such responsibility or liability of $1.670, being the rate applicable The Group also provides related support isexpressly disclaimed.
on3March 2014. services including systems integration The Annual Report and Accounts contain and customer care centres.
certain forward-looking statements with Going concern respect to the operations, performance and The following statement has been included Strategic report financial condition of the Group.
Bytheir in accordance with the Listing Rules: The Companies Act 2006 requires us nature, these statements involve uncertainty based on normal business planning and topresent a fair review of the business since future events and circumstances control procedures, the directors have a during the year to 31 December 2013 can cause results and developments to reasonable expectation that the Company and of the position of the Group at the differ materially from those anticipated.
and the Group have adequate resources end of the financial year along with a The forward-looking statements reflect including committed finance facilities to description of the principal risks and knowledge and information available at the continue in operational existence for the uncertainties faced.
date of preparation of this Annual Report foreseeable future.
For this reason, the and Accounts and the Company undertakes The Strategic Report can be found directors continue to adopt the going on pages 1 to 23 no obligation to update these forwardconcern basis in preparing the accounts.
Nothing in this Annual Corporate governance statement Report and Accounts should beconstrued Share capital The Disclosure and Transparency Rules as a profit forecast.
Details of the Companys share capital require certain information to be included including changes for the year, the rights in a corporate governance statement in Financial results attaching to the ordinary shares and the Directors Report.
Information that The consolidated income statement for restrictions on their transfer are contained fulfils the requirements of the corporate the year is set out on page 54 and the in Note 21 and are incorporated in this governance statement can be found in results are summarised in the Financial report by reference.
the Corporate Governance Report on Review on pages 18 to 20.
The profit before pages 26 to 28 and is incorporated into tax was $130.8 million 2012: $80.1 million Political donations this Directors Report by reference.
and the profit before tax, interest, exceptional No political donations were made items and amortisation of other intangibles intheyear.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 47 1 PIC ar13 Middle [MR].
indd 47 20 03 2014 12:22:33 Governance Directors Report Continued Significant shareholdings The Company has been notified in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests of 3% ormore in its ordinary share capital: % of issued Number of shares share capital Prudential plc group of companies 35,599,554 11.34 Schroders plc 34,189,630 10.89 David Hood and related family trusts 16,117,539 5.13 Old Mutual 15,859,145 5.05 Norges Bank 15,607,286 4.97 As at the date of this report, indemnities Directors Authority to purchase own shares which are qualifying third party indemnity The names of the current directors of At the Annual General Meeting in 2013 the provisions under the Companies Act 2006 theCompany are shown on page 95 and Company was authorised by shareholders are in place under which the Company has all those listed held office throughout the to purchase up to 46,707,801 of its own agreed to indemnify the directors of the year.
During the year Mike Inglis retired ordinary shares, representing 15% of it Company and the former directors of the 24April 2013 also held office asa director.
issued share capital as at March 2013.
The Company who held office during the year, Company did not utilise this authority during All the directors will retire at the forthcoming tothe extent permitted by law and by the year.
The authority for the Company to Annual General Meeting of the Company theCompanys Articles of Association, in purchase its own shares expires at the and offer themselves for re-election.
The respect of all liabilities incurred in connection conclusion of the Annual General Meeting Board has determined that all of the with the performance of their duties as a in2014 and a resolution to renew it will directors continue to make a very effective director of the Company or its subsidiaries.
contribution to the Board and demonstrate Copies of these indemnities are available for a high level of commitment.
Details of the review at the Companys registered office.
Greenhouse gas emissions executive directors service contracts All disclosures concerning the Groups Information provided by the Company andthe non-executive directors letters greenhouse gas emissions as required pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency ofappointment are disclosed in the to be disclosed under the Companies Act Rules is publicly available via the regulatory Remuneration Report on page 40.
2006 Strategic Report and Directors information services and on our website Nodirector had a significant contract, Report Regulations 2013 are contained www.
otherthan a service contract or contract in the Corporate Responsibility Report forservices with any member of the Group forming part of the Strategic Report atany time during the year.
Furtherdetails onpages 21 to 23. relating to the appointment, removal and powers of directors are contained in Note21 and are incorporated in thisreportby reference.
48 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 1 PIC ar13 Middle [MR].
indd 48 20 03 2014 12:22:33 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The directors are responsible for keeping the Strategic Report includes a Statement of Directors adequate accounting records that are fairreview of the development and Responsibilities sufficient to show and explain the Companys performance of the business and The directors are responsible for transactions and disclose withreasonable theposition of the Company and preparing the Annual Report, the Directors accuracy at any time the financial position theundertakings included in the Remuneration Report and the Group and of the Parent Company and enable them consolidation taken as a whole, Parent Company Financial Statements to ensure that its financial statements and together with a description of the inaccordance with applicablelaw the Directors remuneration report comply principal risks and uncertainties andregulations.
Company law requires the directors general responsibility for taking such steps Each of the persons who is a director as toprepare Financial Statements for each as are reasonably open to them to at the date of this report confirms that: financial year.
Under that law they are safeguard the assets ofthe Group required toprepare the Group Financial andtoprevent and detect fraud so far as the director is aware, there is no Statements inaccordance with IFRSs as andother irregularities.
relevant audit information of which the adopted bythe EU and applicable law Companys auditors are unaware: and Under applicable law and regulations, and have elected to prepare the Parent thedirectors are also responsible for the director has taken all the steps Company Financial Statements on the preparing a Strategic Report, Directors that he or she ought to have taken same basis.
Report, Directors Remuneration Report asa director in order to make himself Under company law the directors must and Corporate Governance Statement herself aware of any relevant audit notapprove the Financial Statements that comply with that law and information and to establish that unless they are satisfied that they give thoseregulations.
theCompanys auditors are aware atrue and fair view of the state of affairs ofthatinformation.
The directors are responsible for the ofthe Group and Parent Company and maintenance and integrity of the corporate This confirmation is given and should oftheir profit or loss for that period.
In and financial information included on the beinterpreted in accordance with the preparing each of the Group and Parent Companys website.
Legislation in the UK provisions of section 418 of the Companies Company Financial Statements, the governing the preparation and dissemination Act 2006.
In addition, the directors as at directors are required to: of financialstatements may differ from the date of this report consider that the select suitable accounting policies legislation in other jurisdictions.
Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a and then apply them consistently: whole, is fair, balanced and understandable The directors as at the date of this and provides the information necessary make judgements and estimates Report, whose names and functions are for shareholders to assess the Companys thatare reasonable and prudent: listed in the Board of Directors on page 24, performance, business model andstrategy.
confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: state whether they have been prepared By Order of the Board in accordance with IFRSs as adopted the Financial Statements, which by the EU: and havebeen prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting prepare the Financial Statements Anthony J Dixon standards, give a true and fair view of onthe going concern basis unless Company Secretary the assets, liabilities, financial position itisinappropriate to presume that 4 March 2014 and profit orloss of the Company theGroup and the Parent Company andthe undertakings included in the willcontinue in business.
consolidation taken as a whole: and Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 49 1 PIC ar13 Middle [MR].
indd 49 20 03 2014 12:22:33 Financial Statements Contents Financial Statements 51 Independent Auditors Report 54 Consolidated Income Statement 55 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 56 Consolidated Balance Sheet 57 Company Balance Sheet 58 Statements of Changes in Shareholders Equity 59 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 60 Company Statement of Cash Flows 61 Notes 95 Directors, Secretary and Advisers 96 Five Year Record and Shareholder Information 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 1 PIC ar13 Back [MR].
