Governance Board of Directors Allan Leighton The Board Chairman Allan was appointed a Non-executive Director in May 2011 and became Chairman on 21 June 2011.
He is currently President and Chief Executive Officer of Pandora A S, Chairman of Office Retail Group Limited, Matalan and MusicMagpie.
co. uk and Non-executive Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Director of Bighams Limited.
Previously he has held a wide range of public and private Allan Leighton Mike Pulli companyroles including CEO at ASDA, Chairman of Royal Mail John Grant andLastminute.
com, and Non-executive Director of British Sky Roddy Murray Broadcasting plc, Dyson Applications and Scottish Power plc.
Amanda Mesler Patricia ChapmanHe is patron of Breast Cancer Care and has an honorary Pincher degreefrom Cranfield University and an Honorary Fellowship attheUniversity of Lancaster.
Audit & Risk Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee John Grant C Patricia Allan Leighton ChapmanC Patricia Pincher C ChapmanJohn Grant Pincher Allan Leighton Patricia Amanda John Grant ChapmanMesler Pincher Amanda Mesler Amanda Mesler Mike Pulli Audit & Risk Committee Chairman Audit & Risk Committee member Chief Executive Officer Remuneration Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee member Mike was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 14 December 2011, after nearly eight years as President of Pace Americas.
In his role asCEO, Nomination Committee Chairman Nomination Committee member Mike is responsible for leading Paces global strategy.
As President of Pace Americas, Mike was responsible for the Companys businesses in the USA, Canada and Latin America LatAm.
Mike is also a Non-executive Director of Itron NASDAQ:ITRI, atechnology company that provides solutions that help utilities measure, monitor and manage electricity, natural gas and water, having been appointed in January 2014.
Prior to joining Pace in 2004, Mike was CEO of broadcasting company Digital Latin America DLA.
Previously Mike spent eight years at Motorola in various senior management positions, including Vice President of International Operations, and served in a variety offinancial positions at Allied-Signal, Inc. Mike holds a bachelors degree in accounting from Rider University and an MBA from Farleigh Dickinson University.
24 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 1 PIC ar13 Front [SM MR].
indd 24 20 03 2014 12:22:24 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Roddy Murray John Grant Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director John was appointed a Non-executive Director in August 2008.
Roddy was appointed an Executive Director on 25 February 2012 John spent his executive career in a variety of senior international and became Chief Financial Officer on 6 March 2012. roles within the automotive industry and other engineering businesses.
Roddy was previously CFO of The BSS Group Plc and CFO of He was Chief Executive of Ascot plc between 1997 and 2000.
Prior to that he held a number of financial Priorto that, hewas Group Finance Director of Lucas Industries plc roles in MacKays Stores, United Distillers and British Airways.
subsequently Lucas Varity plc between 1992 and 1996.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant at the Scottish Institute He previously held a number of senior positions within Ford Motor before joining Price Waterhouse.
He holds a bachelors degree Company in Europe and the USA.
John is a Non-executive Director inadministration from Dundee University.
of Melrose plc, MHP S. A. and Wolfson Microelectronics plc.
Patricia Chapman-Pincher Amanda Mesler Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Pat was appointed a Non-executive Director in February 2005 Amanda was appointed a Non-executive Director in September 2012. andbecame Senior Independent Director in May 2006.
She is a US citizen and is also a Non-executive Director of Ensygnia, a technology start-up.
She has over 35 years experience in the communications industry from senior roles in multinational internet and telecoms companies Previously she was the CEO of Business Consulting and an to participating in technology company start-ups.
Executive Committee member of Logica plc.
Prior to joining Logica, Amanda was a corporate officer and VP of Strategy A founding partner and Chairman of the Cavell Group, which andOrganisation Design for Fortune 100, SYSCO.
specialises in operational consultancy IP and wireless technologies, she is also Chairman of Penzias Ltd, a Board Adviser to the British Prior to this Amanda was a senior partner at Bearing Point Consulting Standards Institute and a CEOMentor with Merryck and Co. Pat is formerly KPMG Consulting working out of Houston where she led a also a trustee of Finding Rhythms, a charity that works with music client portfolio including many leading oil companies and spent time in prisons.
as the Global Leader for Energy for EDS.
Her early career was with GE as the Asia Pacific Market Manager.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 25 1 PIC ar13 Front [SM MR].
