KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs In order to realise its strategic aims, PayPoint has identified areas of strategic focus and records a number of KPIs to measure progress against them.
Whilst these KPIs are helpful in measuring the groups performance, they are not exhaustive and the group uses many other measures to monitor progress.
Measuring our performance Strategic focus KPI Description 2013 2012 Shareholder return Earnings per share Profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the 45.3p 39.8p diluted parent divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period including the impact of shares which are likely to be issued under share schemes.
Dividends per share Proposed final dividend and interim dividend divided 30.4p 26.5p by the number of fully paid shares at the end of the period excludes special dividend in 2013.
Economic profit Operating profit including PayPoints share of joint 24.0 20.4 venture results after tax and a charge for capital million million employed, excluding cash, based upon the groups cost of capital.
Growth Retail networks Number of transactions processed in the period 625 569 transactions on our terminals, ATMs and on our retailers million million EPoS systems.
Internet transactions Number of transactions processed in the period by 92 73 PayPoint.
million million PayByPhone Number of PayByPhone transactions processed in 22 17 the period.
million million Transaction value The value of transactions processed via our 14.1 12.1 terminals, retailers EPoS systems, internet billion billion merchants, ATMs, PayByPhone and the sale of other retail services.
Net revenue Revenue less: commissions paid to retail agents: 106 90 the cost of mobile top-ups and SIM cards where million million PayPoint is principal: acquiring bank charges and call centre costs recharged to clients.
Operating margin Operating profit including our share of joint 38.8% 41.0% venture results as a percentage of net revenue.
Asset optimisation Return on capital Total operating profit for the period divided by 61% 58% employed average month end capital employed net assets excluding cash.
People Labour turnover Number of permanent employees who left during the period divided by average total permanent employees: UK & Ireland 23% 26% Rest of world 17% 28% 6 PayPoint plc annual report 2013
