DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their annual report on the affairs of association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies the company and of the group, together with the financial House or by writing to the Company Secretary.
statements and independent auditors report, for the 53 weeks ended 31 March 2013.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the company.
The Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review, operating No person holds securities in the company carrying special and financial review and corporate governance statement form rights with regard to control of the company.
The company is part of this directors report.
not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Principal activity articles of association of the company, the companys articles The company is a holding company and its subsidiaries are of association may be amended by a special resolution of the engaged in providing clients with specialist consumer payment and companys shareholders.
other services and products, transaction processing and settlement.
At the annual general meeting on 27 July 2012, the directors PayPoint UK & Ireland processes transactions for payments were given authority to purchase 14.99% of its issued share products and services and collects payments on behalf of the UK capital, allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal and Irelands leading utility and customer service organisations, amount of 67,824 and to disapply pre-emption rights in and there are 25,070 convenience retail outlets using PayPoints respect of allotments of relevant securities up to an aggregate terminals.
On average, over 11 million consumer transactions nominal amount of 10,174.
Resolutions to renew these are processed weekly by PayPoint.
At a PayPoint outlet, authorities will be proposed at the 2013 annual general consumers are provided with a one stop shop for making cash meeting, details of which are set out in the notice of meeting on payments for the wide range of PayPoints clients.
PayPoint provides other services to retail outlets.
The companys authorised and issued share capital as at PayPoint.
net provides secure credit and debit card payments 31 March 2013, together with details of purchases of own services for web merchants.
shares during the period, are set out in note 23.
PayPoint Romania provides electronic mobile top-ups, scratch cards, money transfer and a bill payment service to consumers.
Directors The names of the directors at the date of this report and their PayByPhone allows consumers to pay for their car parking by biographical details are given on page 20 and their interests in credit or debit card from their mobile phones and provides other the ordinary shares of the company are given on page 35. services such as text reminders to consumers to warn them of parking session expiry, bike rental and toll payments.
Results for the period The consolidated income statement, statement of financial PayPoint has a 50% interest in Drop and Collect Limited which position and cash flow statement for the 53 weeks ended trades as Collect, a joint venture with Yodel, which provides a 31 March 2013 are set out on pages 38 to 41.
The business parcel service through selected PayPoint outlets.
review of the group for the 53 weeks ended 31 March 2013, which complies with the Accounting Standards Boards 2006 Substantial shareholdings Statement on Operating and Financial Reviews, including an On 31 March 2013, the company had been notified of the analysis of the groups key performance indicators and financing following disclosable interests in the voting rights of the and treasury policy, is set out on pages 6 to 11 and forms part company as required by provision 5.1.
2 of the FSAs Disclosure of the directors report.
An analysis of risk is set out on pages and Transparency Rules: 12 to 13 and of risk management on page 19.
The statement of financial position and cash flow statement of the holding No.
of Percentage company for the 53 weeks ended 31 March 2013 are set out on ordinary of issued pages 42 and 43.
Since 1 April 2013, there have been no material Name of holder shares capital events likely to impact the future development of the company.
Invesco Limited 19,109,440 28.15% Liontrust Asset Management Plc 4,614,362 6.80% Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for Troy Asset Management UK 4,514,008 6.65% the benefits of directors Under sections 236 1 a and b of the Companies Act 2006, Standard Life 4,488,183 6.61% companies are obliged to disclose any indemnities which are Legal & General Investment in force in favour of their directors.
The current articles of Management Limited UK 3,457,341 5.09% association of the company contain an indemnity in favour RIT Capital Partners Plc 2,896,057 4.27% of the directors of the company which indemnifies them in respect of certain liabilities and costs that they might incur Share Capital in the execution of duties as directors.
Copies of the articles As at the date of this report, 67,881,683 ordinary shares of of association can be obtained from Companies House or by 1 3p each have been issued and fully paid up and are quoted writing to the Company Secretary and will be available at the on the London Stock Exchange.
During the 53 weeks ended venue of the annual general meeting from 15 minutes before 31 March 2013, 59,886 ordinary shares were issued under the the meeting until it ends.
The rights and obligations attaching to the companys ordinary shares, as well as the powers of the companys directors, are set out in the companys articles of PayPoint plc annual report 2013 21 DIRECTORS REPORT continued The groups liquidity review and commentary on the current Change of control economic climate are shown on page 11 of the operating and All of the companys share schemes contain provisions relating to financial review and commentary on financial risk management a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would be is shown in note 26. prorated for time and normally vest on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Independent auditor The company has a revolving term credit facility for 35 million Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue as the with a remaining term of over three years.
The terms of the companys auditor and a resolution for its re-appointment will facility allow for termination on a change of control, subject to be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
With the exception of the Simple Payment notice of the annual general meeting can be found on pages service contract, which allows for termination on change of 60 to 64. control, there are no other significant contracts in place that would take effect, alter or terminate on the change of control Directors report of the company, including compensation for loss of office as a Pages 2 to 22, inclusive, of this annual report comprise a report result of a takeover bid.
of the directors that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with English company law and the liabilities of the Suppliers payment policy directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the Terms of payment are agreed with individual suppliers prior limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
The group aims to pay its creditors promptly, in directors would be liable to the company but not to any third accordance with terms agreed for payment, provided the supplier party if the directors report contains errors as a result of has provided the goods or services in accordance with the recklessness or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment agreed terms and conditions.
The group had 32 days purchases of a material fact, but would not otherwise be liable.
outstanding at 31 March 2013 2012: 33 days, based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the period.
Statement as to disclosure of information to auditor Charitable and political donations Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of The group made no political donations during the period 2012: this report confirms that: nil.
Details of the charitable donations policy can be found within the operating and financial review on page 11.
1. so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is unaware: Employee matters and environmental issues and Employee matters and environmental issues are discussed in the 2. the director has taken all the steps that he ought reasonably corporate social responsibility report on pages 14 to 16. to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
Future developments Future developments are discussed in the operating and This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance financial review on pages 7 to 11. with the provisions of S. 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Dividends Annual general meeting The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of The annual general meeting will be held at the offices of 20.2p 2012: 17.8p together with a special dividend of 15p PayPoint, 1 The Boulevard, Shire Park, Welwyn Garden City, 2012: nil per ordinary share amounting to 23,910,000 2012: AL7 1EL, on 24 July 2013.
The notice of meeting and 12,074,000 to be paid on 25 July 2013 to members on the explanatory information on the resolutions to be passed at the register on 28 June 2013.
An interim dividend was declared and annual general meeting can be found on pages 60 to 64 of the paid during the period of 10.2p per share 2011: 8.7p per share annual report.
Approved by the board of directors and signed on behalf of Related party transactions the board.
Related party transactions that took place during the period can be found in note 27.
Going concern Susan Court At the end of the period, the group had cash of 46.6 million, Company Secretary and had an undrawn, unsecured loan facility of 35.0 million, 23 May 2013 expiring in May 2016.
The companys cash and borrowing capacity is adequate to meet the foreseeable needs of the group, taking into account any risks see pages 12 to 13.
The directors are satisfied that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months from the date of this report.
Therefore, the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
