34 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Penguin Random House The merger of Penguin and Random House was completed on 1 July 2013.
Bertelsmann owns 53% andPearson owns 47% of Penguin Random House, the first truly global consumer publishing company.
Penguin Random House traded well in the second DK performed well, boosted by the exceptional halfof the year, with a strong bestseller performance performance of Brady Games GTA V Strategy in all major territories.
Penguin Random House was Guide, which sold over 800,000 copies, and the reported post-tax following completion of the merger ongoing success of the DK LEGO properties, which on 1 July 2013 and resulted in a 23m reduction in the sold almost 10 million units in 2013. contribution to our operating income with an equal The pro forma ebook share of Penguin Random House benefit to our tax charge.
Market share normalised, global revenue is 20%.
Ebook growth for Penguin following the unprecedented success of E L James continued but at a slower rate, while Random House 50Shades of Grey trilogy for Random House in 2012. ebook sales declined significantly year-on-year due The integration of the two companies has commenced tomuch lower sales for the Fifty Shades trilogy.
in each of its territories.
Divisional structures are Digital innovations included the launch of Bookscout, being combined, systems integration is underway, adedicated app created for and with Facebook which andthe US business has announced a plan to enables sharing personalised reading recommendations consolidate distribution operations.
among friends and online communities.
Penguin Random Houses authors won numerous Key highlights in 2013 include: major literary prizes around the world, including the In Australia, where market conditions remain 2013 Nobel Prize for Literature Alice Munro : The challenging, we had four out of the top five bestsellers National Book Award for Fiction in the US James for the year: Jeff Kinneys Hard Luck: Diary of a Wimpy McBrides The Good Lord Bird : and an unprecedented Kid: Jamie Olivers Jamies 15 Minute Meals and Save four US Pulitzer Prizes.
with Jamie: and Dan Browns Inferno.
In self-publishing, Author Solutions performed well, In Brazil, Companhia das Letras 45% stake posted growing significantly over 2012, and continuing to strong revenue growth driven by an expanded launch and plan for self-publishing imprints in publishing program.
In a challenging market, Penguin conjunction with Penguin in such territories as India Random House India had more than 40 titles pro and South Africa.
forma on the 2013 Hindustan Times Nielsen top ten in combined categories.
In China, our local-publishing For 2014, Penguin Random House has a strong programme continued to grow, with notable publishing list with major new books from authors such bestsellers, including My Life by Li Na.
DK achieved as: Isabel Allende, Martin Amis, Lee Child, John significant growth through its co-edition model with Cleese, Harlan Coben, Steve Coogan, Lena Dunham, Chinese publishers.
In South Africa, Penguin Random Janet Evanovich, Ken Follett, Stephen Fry, Robert House completed the purchase of the Times Media Gates, Ina Garten, John Grisham, Deborah Harkness, Groups majority stake in Random House Struik, Carl Hiaasen, Jan Karon, Sue Monk Kidd, Jeff Kinney, cementing our market leading position, but lost a Michael Lewis, David Mitchell, Haruki Murakami, Jamie significant agency contract during the year.
Oliver, James Patterson, Jodi Picoult, Nora Roberts, Danielle Steel, Colm Toibin, Jacqueline Wilson: and movie tie-in paperbacks of John Greens The Fault in Our Stars: Gillian Flynns Gone Girl: and Laura Hillenbrands Unbroken.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 2 Our performance 35 CASE STUDY Bestsellers in 2013 In the US, on a pro forma basis, Penguin and Random In the UK, on a pro forma basis, Penguin and Random House published 480 New York Times bestsellers, House published 102 Bookscan bestsellers including: including three out of the top five Bookscan adult Dan Browns Inferno: David Jasons My Life: Jamie ction bestsellers for the year: DanBrowns Inferno, Olivers Save with Jamie: Rachel Joyces The Unlikely John Grishams Sycamore Row and Khaled Hosseinis Pilgrimage of Harold Fry: Helen Fieldings Bridget Jones: And The Mountains Echoed.
Other New York Times Mad About the Boy: and a strong ongoing overall bestsellers included, in adult nonction: Sheryl performance from Jeff Kinneys Diary of a Wimpy Kid Sandbergs Lean in: Charles Krauthammers Things series, and from its newest volume Hard Luck.
That Matter: and in childrens ction: John Greens #1 bestselling The Fault in Our Stars.
36 36 P Pe ea ar rso son n p pllc c A An nn nu ua all r re ep po or rt t a an nd d a ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 13 3 More and more people want a better education and new ways of learning
