OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 91 Individual service agreements COMPENSATION ON TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT BY THE COMPANY POSITION DATE OF AGREEMENT NOTICE PERIODS WITHOUT NOTICE OR CAUSE Chairman 29 July 2005 12 months from Payment-in-lieu of notice of 100% of the director: annual fees at the date of termination 12 months from the company Executive directors 31 December 2012 Six months from Payment-in-lieu of notice of 100% John Fallon the director: of annual salary at the date of 17 December 2012 12 months from termination and the annual cost Robin Freestone the company of pension and all other benets Note Under pay-in-lieu of notice, the annual cost of pension for executive directors is normally calculated as the sum, where applicable, of: an amount equal to the companys cost of providing the executives pension under the pension plan based on the Future Service Company Contribution Rate for the relevant section of the pension plan as stated in the most recent actuarial valuation as at the date of termination of employment as limited by the earnings cap: and any cash allowance in lieu of pension or to take account of fact that pension benets and life assurance cover are restricted by the earnings cap.
It is the companys intention to continue to engage Executive directors non-executive directorships with employees and employee representatives in this The committees policy is that executive directors way in the future.
may, by agreement with the board, serve as nonThe committee has not consulted directly with executives of other companies and retain any fees employees on the setting of the directors payable for theirservices.
Employment conditions Shareholder views In accordance with the committees charter and terms The company consults regularly with shareholders of reference, the committees remit does not include onall matters affecting its strategy and business remuneration matters below that of the chief operations.
As part of that process, we also engage executive, the other executive directors and other with shareholders on matters relating to executive members of the Pearson Executive.
the remuneration packages for the Pearson Executive are set for the year ahead, the committee considers The committee continues to be aware of and respond areport from the chief executive and chief human to best practice guidelines of shareholders and their resources officer on general pay trends in the market representative bodies.
and the level of pay increases across the company The committee actively consulted with the companys as a whole.
This helps to ensure that executive major shareholders and their representative bodies remuneration packages are reviewed inthe context on the directors remuneration policy set out in this ofthe wider organisation.
The consultation provided some valuable The company consults with various employee feedback relating to remuneration policy, company representative bodies including trade unions and performance and business strategy.
specifically, works councils in some jurisdictions about the shareholders commented on the operation of the companys strategy, competitiveness and performance long-term incentive plan, the use of exibility and of the business and other matters affecting employees.
discretion, and the policy on recruitment.
They The company also conducts an employee engagement supported the committees proposals on deferral survey to nd out how people feel about working for holding periods for vested shares and shareholding Pearson, what they think about the work they do, guidelines.
And, on incentive pay-outs, they requested theopportunities they have and the rewards they get clarification of our arrangements for adjustments for including a section on pay and benets.
The company malus and the strengthening of our clawback uses all of this feedback to inform decisions on peopleprovisions.
related activities, resources and investment, local These matters have been addressed in this policyreport.
management action plans and wider business unit and organisational strategies.
