OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 3 Responsible business 53 External benchmarks One way we assess how we are doing as a responsible business is to maintain our position in key indices and benchmarks of social responsibility.
2013 2012 2011 2010 Dow Jones Silver class Gold class Global sector leader Sustainability Indexes BITC Corporate Platinum Platinum retained Platinum Platinum retained Responsibility Index Inclusion in Yes FTSE4Good Gold class is within 1% of the sector leader, silver class is within 2% of the sector leader.
Our values, principles and behaviour Pearson has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and corruption.
Our policy introduced in 2011 sets out Although the structure and culture of the company is our standards: we carry out risk assessments and have changing, values are what define us.
Our values to be a network of designated managers across the business brave, imaginative and decent in everything we do are responsible for compliance with our policy.
the foundation of the company.
We are committed to making sure our people Our values are underpinned by our Code of Conduct understand how we are doing as a company, including that covers, among other things, individual conduct, how worldtrends might affect them and the business.
learners, employees, community, the environment Weprovide comprehensive, relevant information in and society.
avariety of ways, including regular presentations from We make sure everyone is aware of and understands senior executives and consulting where appropriate the code and this forms part of our induction for new sothat we can learn and take account of the views of employees.
Once a year, everyone working for our people.
Pearson gets a copy either electronically or on paper, and is asked to read it: to confirm to the Pearson CEO thatthey have read it and understood it: and in doing so, toprovide a check that the company complies with it.
If anyone has concerns, these can beraised with a line manager or through a free, condential telephone line website.
