OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 3 Responsible business 47 Responsible business Our purpose as a company is to help people all over the world make progress in their lives through learning.
In 2010, we identied three key issues as the focus As our work on the global education strategy ofthe responsibility strategy for our company: raising progressed, so a clear priority emerged to literacy levels: improving learning outcomes and deliverfor the learner is the single most important contributing to competitiveness.
contribution that Pearson can make to social and economic wellbeing.
The tools and means by which Last year, we signalled that 2013 would be a year of we will deliver for the learner has become the significant change for Pearson as we developed our efficacyagenda and this is central to our global global educational strategy and looked forward to the education strategy.
creation of Penguin Random House.
We also made a commitment to look at our responsibility framework To reect the importance of learning outcomes, we using four questions to guide us: have introduced a new efficacy section in our annual report page 14.
In that section we describe our Are the three key issues still the right ones for us?
commitments and targets on measurement and How should we measure and report the educational reporting as we go down the path towards efficacy.
impact of our products and services?
Our vision is that by 2018, we will report on learning outcomes alongside our financial results.
What commitments and targets should we set ourselves?
This section will now report on our wider responsible business agenda.
What are the big unmet educational needs that wecanhelp tackle?
We welcome feedback on this aspect of the company as we do on any other.
Please email our director of corporate responsibility at peter.
com with any questions or comments you may have.
Together with sections one and two of this document, this section forms our strategic report, which was approved for issue by the board of directors on 10 March 2014 and signed on its behalf by: Robin Freestone Chief financial officer and board member responsible for corporate responsibility
