OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 55 Board of directors Pearsons board brings a wide range of experience, skills and backgrounds.
CHAIRMAN EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Glen Moreno Chairman John Fallon Chief executive Robin Freestone Chief financial officer aged 70, appointed 1 October 2005 aged 51, appointed 3 October 2012 aged 55, appointed 12 June 2006 Robins experience in management and Chairman of the nomination Member of the nomination committee accounting includes a previous role as committee and member of the John became Pearsons chief executive groupnancial controller of Amersham plc remuneration committee on1January 2013.
Since 2008 he had been now part of General Electric and senior responsible for the companys education Glen has more than four decades of financial positions with ICI plc, Zeneca and businesses outside North America, and experience in business and finance, Henkel UK.
He joined Pearson in 2004 as amember of the Pearson management andiscurrently deputy chairman of deputy chief financial officer and became committee.
He joined Pearson in 1997 TheFinancial Reporting Council Limited chief financial officer in June 2006. asdirector of communications and was inthe UK and non-executive director Robin qualied as a chartered accountant appointed president of Pearson Inc. arole ofFidelity International Limited.
Previously, with Touche Ross now Deloitte, and is he combined with his communications Glen was deputy chairman andsenior currentlya non-executive director and responsibilities, in 2000.
In 2003, he was independent director at Lloyds Banking founder shareholder of eChem Limited.
appointed CEO of Pearsons educational Group plc, senior independent director Robin sits on the Advisory Group of the publishing businesses for Europe, ofMan Group plc and acting chairman ICAEWs Financial Reporting Faculty and MiddleEast & Africa EMA and gradually ofUK Financial Investments Limited, ischairman of The Hundred Group of took onabroader international education thecompany set up by HMTreasury to Finance Directors.
Prior to joining Pearson, John was manage the governments shareholdings CBIsEconomic Growth Board.
director of corporate affairs at Powergen inUKbanks.
plc, where he was also a member of thecompanys executive committee.
Earlierin his career, John held senior publicpolicy and communications roles inUK local government.
56 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Board of directors continued NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS David Arculus Non-executive director Vivienne Cox Senior independent director Linda Lorimer Non-executive director aged 67, appointed 28 February 2006 aged 54, appointed 1 January 2012 aged61, appointed 1 July 2013 Chairman of the remuneration Member of the audit, remuneration Member of the audit and committeeand member of the audit andnomination committees nomination committees andnomination committees Vivienne has wide experience in energy, Linda has a deep background in education natural resources and business innovation.
strategy, administration and public affairs.
David has experience in banking, She worked for BP plc for 28 years, in Britain She is vice president for Global & Strategic telecommunications and publishing in a long and Continental Europe, in posts including Initiatives at Yale University in New Haven, career in business.
Currently he is chairman of Numis Corporation plc and the Advisory executive vice president and chief executive Connecticut, where her duties include of BPs Gas, Power & Renewables business oversight of Yales Office of International Board of the British Library and is a member and its Alternative Energy unit.
She is nonAffairs and Office of Digital Dissemination.
of council of Craneld University.
Davids previous roles include the chairmanship of executive director of mining company Rio Over a 30-year career in higher education, Tinto plc and energy company BG Group she has been responsible for many of Yales Aldermore Bank plc, O2 plc, Severn Trent plc, and chairman of the supervisory board administrative services including the plc and IPC Group, as well as chief operating of Vallourec, which supplies tubular systems universitys public communications, alumni officer of United Business Media plc, group managing director of EMAP plc and a nonfor the energy industry.
She is also lead relations and Office of Sustainability.
independent director at the UK Department Previously, Linda served as president of executive director of Telefonica S. A. for International Development.
Vivienne is a Randolph-Macon Womans College in David served from 2002 to 2006 as commissioner of the Airports Commission, Virginia, and had earlier worked at Yale in chairman of the UK governments Better Regulation Task Force, which worked on which was set up by the UK government several senior roles including associate toexamine any requirements for additional provost.
She is a non-executive director of reducing burdens on business.
Save the Children US and was chair of the board of the Association of American Colleges and Universities.
Ken Hydon Non-executive director Josh Lewis Non-executive director Harish Manwani Non-executive director aged 69, appointed 28 February 2006 aged 51, appointed 1 March 2011 aged 60, appointed 1 October 2013 Chairman of the audit committee Member of the remuneration and Member of the nomination committee andmember of the remuneration nomination committees Harish has an extensive background in andnomination committees Joshs experience spans finance, education emerging markets and senior experience Kens experience in finance and business and the development of digital enterprises.
includes working in the electronics, retail, He is the founder of Salmon River Capital Heischiefoperating officer of consumer consumer products and healthcare LLC, aNew York-based private equity productscompany Unilever, and serves sectors.
He is a non-executive director venture capital rm focused on technologyonthe companys executive board.
ofReckitt Benckiser Group plc, one of the enabled businesses in education, financial Harish joined Unilever in 1976 as a worlds leading branded consumer goods services and other sectors.
Over a 25-year marketing management trainee in India, and companiesin health, hygiene and home.
career inactive, principal investing, he has has held senior management roles around Heis also a non-executive director of been involved in a broad range of successful the world, including North America, Latin MerlinEntertainments plc, the worlds companies, including several pioneering America, Europe, Africa and Asia.
He is second largest visitor attraction operator.
enterprises in the education sector.
non-executive chairman of Hindustan From 2004 to 2013 he was anon-executive In addition, he has long been active in Unilever Limited in India, and serves on the director of Tesco plc.
Previously, Ken was the non-profit education sector, with board of Whirlpool Corporation in the US.
chief financial officer ofVodafone Group plc, associations including New Leaders, New He is also on the board of the Indian School the multinational telecommunications Classrooms, and the Bill & Melinda Gates of Business, theEconomic Development company, and financial director of Foundation.
Heis also a non-executive Board EDB ofSingapore, and The Human subsidiaries of Racal Electronics.
director of eVestment and Axioma, both Capital Leadership Institute in Singapore.
financial data technology companies, and Parchment, an education credentials management company.
