OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 3 Responsible business 49 CASE STUDY Disability forms a part of our wider commitment toequal opportunity.
We work to ensure that Gender diversity appropriate policies, procedures, training and support are available for disabled colleagues and During 2013, we continued with the development of their managers.
A recent example is a guide on how the gender diversity strategy at Pearson.
Pearson is to develop corporate videos, so that all our people, a supporter of the 30% Club which brings together including those with disabilities, can access and chairs and CEOs to work to encourage better benefit from these lms.
gender balance across their companies.
There was continued progress in advancing women and people Partnering and investing to extend access tolearning from diverse backgrounds.
An example of our work is the diversity toolkit introduced in the UK in 2012, Extending access to quality education is a big and launched in the United States and made challenge, particularly in the poorest countries available globally in 2013.
Designed for managers in the world.
Meeting the challenge requires a and business leaders across Pearson, it is made up sustained commitment to partnership international of guides, tips, advice and employment law, to organisations like the UN and the World Bank, enable our leaders to successfully build, manage, national governments, donor agencies and charities, and develop their diversity management skills.
businesses such as Pearson, education providers and suppliers all working together.
We introduced a single global data collection process based on our new operating structure to We are committed to playing our part.
We do this help inform people management.
This includes our through being active in helping shape and inform the first global view on the gender balance within the global debate around education and learning policy company.
More work remains, in particular to aswell as investing in projects that explore possible incorporate gender data from countries with solutions to the most intractable learning needs.
The gender balance based on In 2013, we: the introduction ofour new organisational structure was: Joined the board of the Global Partnership for Education GPE representing the private sector MEN WOMEN andprivate foundations.
GPE brings together Board of directors 7 78% 2 22% representatives from nearly 60 developing countries, Senior managers donor governments, charitable foundations and excluding executive private businesses to work together to help board directors 61 69% 28 31% developing countries strengthen their education All employees 17,190 43% 22,774 57% systems.
org For the purposes of this report, senior managers at Pearson are dened as the senior leadership team, namely those up to and including two Championed the role of the private sector in reporting lines from the CEO.
We believe this is the most meaningful education and learning in developing countries as a wayto illustrate the senior leaders and decision-makers at Pearson.
founding member of the Global Business Coalition Data for over 2,000 employees predominantly from China and Indonesia is not included in the all employees numbers above.
org Employee information can be found on page 142.
Made a series of commitments during the UN General Assembly including to: invest $30m in innovative education solutions: establish a multi-year flagship In the United States, Pearson received a perfect score partnership to help overcome barriers to learning for of 100% in the 2014 Corporate Equality Index CEI, marginalised children: work with the GPE to develop a benchmarking survey and report on corporate a private sector strategy that meets the goals of its policies and practices related to LGBT workplace strategic focus on fragile states: and by 2018, to help equality, administered by the Human Rights Campaign 20,000 new graduates from across sub-Saharan Africa HRC Foundation.
We were also named as one of to transition into employment.
the 100 Best Adoption Friendly Workplaces by the Dave Thomas Foundation for Adoption.
50 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Responsible business continued CASE STUDY Continued to invest in models that provide access to affordable education through low-cost private schools.
The $15m Pearson Affordable Learning Fund Pearson Foundation has invested in projects in Ghana, Kenya and India.
The Pearson Foundation is an independent charity www.
com that aims to make a difference by promoting Continued to support the Education Zone on the literacy, learning and great teaching.
Its programmes Business Fights Poverty network.
The zone is a in 2013 included: platform for debate on the role of business in global Helping Jumpstarts Read for the Record to set a education.
org page new world record for reading the same book on education-zone one day as 2,462,860 adults and children read Launched Pearson Catalyst, a new incubator Otis, by Loren Long, in classrooms, libraries, and programme to identify and back the most promising community centres across the United States.
Pearson provides Strong Performers and Successful Reformers in mentors, seedcorn funding and access to resources Education, developed in partnership with the and insight.
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD helps inform what works Our communities ineducation globally.
Not-for-profit partners help us extend our reach BridgeIT has reached over one million children andimpact in ways that have a real impact on and their teachers using mobile technology to learning especially for the most disadvantaged deliver professional development materials and andare complementary to our business objectives.
educational resources to remote and underserved We alsobelieve that our stakeholders expect and classrooms in ten countries around the world.
value our efforts to work in partnership with charitable organisations.
In 2011, the Pearson Foundation faced criticism on some of its programmes and the New York State We therefore partner and fund a number of charitable Attorney General announced an investigation into organisations with the Pearson Foundation being the the Foundations governance, administration, and largest of these.
In 2013, our worldwide charitable relationship with Pearson.
We co-operated fully giving was 11.8m or 1.5% of pre-tax profits.
A settlement agreement with the Pearson Foundation and Pearson, Inc.
Highlights this year include: has been concluded.
Booktime gave its ten millionth book.
Booktime sees every child starting school in England and Wales Pearson and the Foundation maintain we have receive a book pack containing two free books to always acted with the best intentions and complied takehome and keep.
However, we recognise there were times when the governance of the Foundation could We were the largest book donor to Book Aid have been clearer and more transparent.
We have given 1.2 million past two years, the Foundation has takenseveral booksto the charity to support the development steps to strengthen its governance, beginning with oflibraries in schools and communities across subthe addition of independent directors to the board Saharan Africa.
andthe adoption of stronger operational systems.
The Financial Times seasonal appeal raised 1.4m for Under the settlement, these efforts will be further World Child Cancer, a charity helping treat sick enhanced by the creation of a three-person children in some of the poorest countries.
FT appeals have raised 14m for charity partners.
The Foundation has also agreed to pay $7.5m For 2014, we will look more broadly at our approach to intoafund managed by the Attorney General community partnerships including the metrics weuse.
thatwill support the work of 100Kin10, an organisation committed to placing 100,000 science and mathematics teachers into US schools in the nextten years.
