72 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Board governance continued An enterprise risk management ERM framework is in Treasury management place to identify, evaluate and manage risks, including The treasury department operates within policies key financial reporting risks.
Business areas undertake approved by the board and its procedures are semi-annual risk reviews to identify new or potentially reviewed regularly by the audit committee.
Throughout the year, risk transactions are authorised outside the department discussions are facilitated by the risk assurance team at the requisite level, and there is an appropriate with Group and business area management to identify segregation of duties.
Frequent reports are made the key risks the company faces in achieving its to the chief financial officer and regular reports are objectives, to assess the probability and impact of prepared for the audit committee and the board.
those risks and to document the actions being taken to Insurance manage those risks.
The Pearson Executive reviews the Pearson purchases comprehensive insurance coverage output of these sessions, focusing on the key risks where this is available on a cost-effective basis.
Management has the responsibility Pearsons insurance subsidiary, Spear Insurance to consider and execute appropriate action to mitigate Company Limited, is used to leverage the risk these risks whenever possible.
The results of these retention capability of the Group and to achieve a reviews are reported to the audit committee and the balance between retaining insurance risk and board in detail.
transferring it to external insurers.
Group internal audit Going concern The Group internal audit function is responsible for providing independent assurance to management and Having reviewed the Groups liquid resources and the audit committee on the design and effectiveness of borrowing facilities and the Groups 2014 and 2015 internal controls to mitigate strategic, financial, cash flow forecasts, the directors believe that the operational and compliance risks.
The risk-based Group has adequate resources to continue as a going annual internal audit plan is approved by the audit concern.
For this reason, the financial statements have, committee.
Management action plans to improve as usual, been prepared on that basis.
Information internal controls and to mitigate risks, or both, are regarding the Groups borrowing liabilities and financial agreed with each business area after each audit.
Formal risk management can be found in notes 18 and 19 on follow-up procedures allow Group internal audit to pages 164 to 172. monitor business areas progress in implementing its Share capital recommendations and to resolve any control deficiencies.
Group internal audit has a formal Details of share issues are given in note 27 to the collaboration process in place with the external accounts on page 185.
The company has a single class auditors to ensure efficient coverage of internal of shares which is divided into ordinary shares of 25p controls.
Regular reports on the work of Group each.
The ordinary shares are in registered form.
internal audit are provided to executive management As at 31 December 2013, 818,580,447 ordinary shares and, via the audit committee, to the board.
At the AGM held on 26 April 2013, the company was authorised, subject to certain conditions, The SVP internal audit and compliance oversees to acquire up to 81,746,807 ordinary shares by market compliance with our code of conduct and works with purchase.
Shareholders will be asked to renew this senior legal and human resources personnel to authority at the AGM on 25 April 2014. investigate any reported incidents including ethical, corruption and fraud allegations.
The Pearson antiInformation provided to the company pursuant to bribery and corruption programme provides the the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and framework to support our compliance with various Transparency Rules DTR is published on a Regulatory anti-bribery and corruption regulations such as the Information Service and on the companys website.
UK Bribery Act 2010 and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
