06 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Our business models Whether its through new digital learning products Pearson is the worlds inthe US, developing qualications and assessments inthe UK, training school leaders in the Middle East, leading learning company, teaching English in China, or educating professionals through content from the Financial Times, were working to support helping people make measurable progress in their learners and teachers in lives through learning.
Our products and services may be provided and used over 80countries around in a standalone way, but are increasingly integrated and customised to meet the needs of individual the world.
education systems, customers and learners.
We have identied four major market opportunities for our products and so we create value for our customers infour different, but related ways, outlined below.
BUSINESS MODEL BUSINESS MODEL Inside services Direct delivery Where we provide a set of integrated services Where we own and operate the learning institution toinstitutions public and private that have physical, virtual and or blended, providing an aninstitution-wide impact on improved learning integrated learning environment direct to the outcomes often at lower cost.
learner rather than through other parties.
Includes: Includes: CTI is a private higher education Sistema COC provides a complete institution in South Africa, offering full solution, from digital and traditional and part-time studies in Information learning to assessment tools and Technology, Psychology and Counselling, pedagogical support, for preCreative Arts and Graphic Design, K12 schools in Brazil, reaching Commerce and Law, on campuses 160,000 students.
Wall Street English is among the largest Emabnet is the leading provider of online providers of English language instruction learning services for the worlds premier for adults and corporate clients around Embanet schools, colleges and universities.
the world, operating over 450 centres in 28 countries.
We provide technology and Connections Academy offers a variety management services to support ASUs of accredited virtual school options for online students.
ASU is the largest public stude studen nt ts s in in g gr rad ades es K K- -12 12 in in t the he U US.
S. univ unive er rsit sity y in in t the he U US S b by y e en nrolm rolme en nt t.. OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 1 Overview 07 Underpinning the effectiveness of each of these Associates and joint ventures fourmodels, from design through to delivery, is the We have a 47% stake in Penguin Random House, Efficacy Framework, a tool we have devised to help the worlds first truly global trade book publisher.
understand how our products or services can achieve Penguin Random House was formed on 1July 2013, the best possible outcomes or results.
You can read upon the completion of an agreement between more about our commitment to efficacy from page 14, Bertelsmann and Pearson to merge their respective and online at efficacy.
com trade publishing companies, Random House and Like any business, we understand that there are Penguin.
Other associates and joint ventures certain risks associated with each model.
Read more includeVedomosti in Russia and a 50% stake in about how we are managing and mitigating these TheEconomist Group.
onpages 41 to 45. BUSINESS MODEL BUSINESS MODEL Learning services Assessment The individual elements of our products, including Where we provide services that enable an learning materials, that are increasingly digital in institution or system to measure and validate nature and operating as part of an integrated learner progress towards relevant standards learning ecosystem.
Includes: Includes: enVisionMATH is designed for students Pearson VUE is the worlds leading in grades K6 and seeks to help students computer-based testing and assessment develop an understanding of maths business, working with organisations PEARSON VUE concepts through problem-based of all sizes to create exible, custominstruction, small-group interaction, built assessment solutions and andvisual learning with a focus on delivering them in a secure and reliable reasoning and modelling.
MyLab & Mastering is the worlds leading BTEC vocational qualications are collection of online homework, tutorial, recognised in more than 80 countries MyLab & and assessment products, creates worldwide, and in 2011 2012, over 2m personalised and continuously adaptive learners registered for BTECs, including Mastering learning experiences.
Speakout is an award-winning English course for adults used around the world.
We create, deliver and process state and In partnership with the BBC, it includes national assessments in the US.
In 2013 exercises, small-group work, audio we administered nearly 50m online and clips and video clips from well-known pape paper r te test sts.
08 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 We have a remarkable opportunity to make an impact on some of the biggest and toughest challenges in education
