OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 2 Our performance 31 Professional Education KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Sales Adjusted operating profit Our Professional Education 2013 410m 2013 57m business is focused on 2012 390m 2012 37m Headline growth 5% Headline growth 54% publishing, training, CER growth 4% CER growth 51% testing andcertication Underlying growth 8% Underlying growth 7 % forprofessionals.
Our Professional Education business is focused on CASE STUDY publishing, training, testing and certication for professionals.
The Professional division performed well, with good revenue and profit growth in testing and training partly offset by declines in publishing.
Key highlights in 2013 include: Professional publishing revenues and profits declined, with good profit growth in the US, underpinned by a strong performance in our direct ecommerce sales and at Safari Books Online, our joint-venture with OReilly Media, offset by exiting some of our professional publishing businesses in Continental Europe.
Vocational training in Professional testing continued to see good revenue Saudi Arabia and profit growth test volumes at Pearson VUE up 25% on 2012 to almost 12 million.
Key contract renewals In Professional training, TQ grew strongly and was included tests for the American Board of Internal awarded a five-year contract by Saudi Arabias Medicine, the Association of Social Work Boards and Colleges of Excellence to develop and operate the Pharmacy Technician Certification Board.
We will threevocational colleges in Saudi Arabia, providing continue to deliver our UK contract to administer the high quality vocational skills and qualications.
Driving Theory test for the DVSAuntil September The three colleges opened in the second half of 2013 2016.
We won a number ofnew contracts for w wiit th h an an n e exp xpe ec ct ted ed init initial ial int inta ak ke e o of f 1 1, 1 10 00 0 s studen tudent ts, s, computer-based testing including the Charter of r riising sing to t to 8, 8,000 000 studen student ts s o ov five er r t tiime.
Financial Analysts, Saudi Commission ofHealth Specialties and the Korean Productivity Centre.
