14 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Pearsons commitment to efficacy This new and transparent approach to efficacy is In November 2013, central to our purpose and also makes good business sense.
We hope that by demonstrating the evidence Pearson announced a new base that supports our products we will encourage a deeper engagement with learning outcomes across commitment to report the education sector and at the same time clearly demonstrate the benets of using those products.
on learning outcomes We are now dening the practical approach that we across its product portfolio will take to reporting publicly on learning outcomes in2018, and how we will demonstrate and report from 2018.
This new and onour progress along the Path to Efficacy.
transparent approach Below, we summarise our work to date and share our priorities for 2014.
Our approach will continue to be toefficacy is central to our rened in the coming years as we work towards our goal, and we will consult upon it within and outside purpose to help people ofPearson through 2014 and beyond.
Our vision is make progress in their that by 2018, we will report on learning outcomes alongside our financial results.
We welcome comments, feedback and support aswetake our next steps.
Please email our We want Pearsons customers to be confident that seniorvice-president of efficacy, Saad Rizvi working with us will help them to achieve their longsaad.
com with any questions term learning goals and enable them to make progress orcomments that you may have.
In November 2013, Pearson announced a new Pearsons Efficacy Framework and Review Process commitment to report on learning outcomes across Pearson has developed an Efficacy Framework to its product portfolio from 2018.
We also published support our product development and management The Incomplete Guide to Delivering Learning Outcomes, teams to define measurable learning outcomes for sharing the actions we have taken over the last two Pearson products and services, and progressively years to prepare our company to meet this unique toimprove the likelihood of achieving them.
challenge and demonstrate the efficacy of our products.
The Framework is a tool of systematic discovery that helps us to ask key questions about our solutions, andevaluate the likelihood that they will deliver their intended learner outcomes.
A standardised Efficacy Review process accompanies the Framework to ensure its wide and consistent use across the organisation.
More detail on the Framework, review process and scoring system can be found at efficacy.
com OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 1 Overview 15 THE EFFICACY FRAMEWORK RATIONALE CRITERIA AREA RATING SUMMARY How it works OUTCOMES Using this Framework we assess Intended outcomes thepotential efficacy of a product or programme against 12 criteria.
By giving Overall design each criteria a rating on the four point scale green to red we gauge the likely Value for money overall effectiveness of a product.
The Framework serves to identify specic EVIDENCE areas which, if improved, will increase our likelihood of intended impact.
Teams are Comprehensiveness of evidence able focus their activity on taking these Quality of evidence steps before theproduct is assessed again.
Application of evidence KEY PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION Green: Requires small number Action plan of minor actions.
Governance Amber green: Requires some actions some urgent and some Monitoring and reporting non-urgent.
CAPACITY TO DELIVER Amber red: Requires large number Pearson capacity and culture of urgent actions.
Customer capacity and culture Red: Highly problematic requiring substantial Stakeholder relationships number of urgent actions.
EMBEDDING THE EFFICACY FRAMEWORK Our progress Our plans in 2014 In 2012, we began using the Efficacy Framework to A standardised Pearson Product Lifecycle will be introduced, reviewallinvestments above $3m in value, and in 2014 ensuring that the principles which support greater efficacy allinvestments above $1m will undergo a review.
are embedded consistently in all new product investments.
Products andprogrammes are repeatedly reviewed over We will increase the number of repeat Reviews on single time to ensure progress and improvements are being made.
products, and increase the percentage of products showing Pearson acquisition opportunities are reviewed using the an improved score between Reviews.
Framework to evaluate the opportunity to improve learning Pearsons Lines of Business and Geographies will be outcomes through Pearson ownership.
reviewed against Key Performance Indicators which address We will now focus on securing the consistency with which the implementation of Pearsons Efficacy Framework and the Framework is applied by clarifying our definitions and Review processes.
expectations of research, efficacy and quality standards.
At least 40 of our top products will have in place the detailed targets, measures and systems necessary to track learner Key statistics at year end 2013 outcomes over time.
All new product developments will have defined and measurable learner outcomes.
12 3 33% We will have at least three products which are already in Reviews completed, Showed progress aposition to report on learning outcomes, covering the including nine potential inrepeat reviews rangg ge of learner ages and stag ges.
acquisitions and 14internal functions 16 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Pearsons commitment to efficacy continued Towards reporting on outcomes Improving outcomes, in partnership The Efficacy Framework and Review process ensures By using the Efficacy Framework and committing that all Pearson products and programmes address tohigh standards of evidence, we will be better the factors that could affect the learning outcomes ableto anticipate and mitigate potential challenges that they are ultimately able to produce, in a toour products efficacy, and to report back clear consistent way.
evidence as to their success in improving dened learning outcomes.
Scores on the Framework do not in themselves represent evidence of impact.
Pearsons ultimate goal We are acutely aware that our efficacy challenge is not is to produce evidence of impact against dened one we can meet alone.
We rely on guidance, support learning outcomes for all of our products.
and insights of our colleagues and partners across the education community.
We see a significant opportunity Evidence will take a variety of forms depending on to work in collaboration to debate and address the where a product is within its lifecycle.
Efficacy broad educational research questions that will inform evidence tends to be a longitudinal measure requiring and improve our contribution to learning worldwide, multiple measurements over the lifecycle of a product.
and drive continuous improvement across education.
The standard of evidence that is available will vary by product according to the specic learning outcome As part of our commitment to efficacy in November, targets for that product and its maturity.
we brought together experts from inside and outside of education to share their perspectives on the We anticipate therefore, that the nature of evidence opportunity ahead to improve learning outcomes will vary by product and time.
We will be transparent globally through the paper Asking More: The Path to about the standard for each of our products.
We also began a series of public engagements on the topic of efficacy, bringing together experts in TOWARDS REPORTING OUTCOMES dedicated events at the National Institute of Education Our plans in 2014 in Singapore, and the MIT Media Lab in Boston.
We will investigate and consult on how best to define our We also discussed the challenges around efficacy evidence standards, working with an independent partner.
atimportant global events such as the Education We will complete and share efficacy studies that WorldForum in London and the World Economic demonstrate learner outcomes for several Forum in Davos.
As we move towards 2018 We will be able to make available increasing detail about the standard of evidence that exists for each of our products, in support of its stated intended outcome, and the estimated number of learners reached by that product.
Our goal is to continually improve the standard of evidence available.
Executives will be measured on learner outcome-oriented KPIs, including the quality of evidence available across their product portfolios, along with financial returns.
KPIs will be updated and refined to include targets which capture Pearsons aggregated impact on agreed learning outcomes.
Areas addressed may include academic quality, e emp mplo lo oy yabilit ability y, lear learne ner r progre progression, ssion, ac acc ce ess ss or or af aff fo ordabilit rdability y.. OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 1 Overview 17 PROGRESS IN 201314 An Avalanche is Coming Alive in the Swamp Sir Michael Barber, Saad Rizvi, Katelyn Professor Michael Fullan, Katelyn Donnelly: published with think tank IPPR, Donnelly: published with Nesta, this this report explores the challenges and report addresses the impact of digital opportunities for higher education in an innovation in education.
age of MOOCs, lifelong learning and www.
uk publications alivestudents as consumers.
org publication 55 10432 education  Learning Metrics Task Force Asking More: The Path to Efficacy Pearson co-chaired this Brookings This pamphlet shares insights from some Foundation initiative which sought input of the worlds leading education from more than 1,700 individuals in 118 practitioners and business people to countries to make a series of highlight the urgent need for a global recommendations on improving learning focus on outcomes in education.
opportunities and outcomes for children efficacy.
com and young people worldwide.
edu research reports 2013 09  A Rich Seam: How New Pedagogies Find Deep Learning Published in partnership with ITSE, MaRS Discovery District and Nesta, Professor Michael Fullan and Maria Langworthys report asks how technology in schools is chang ging g the student-teacher relationship p. re res searc earch h.. pear pears son.
c com om We will continue and extend this programme of research, dialogue and engagement in 2014 and 2015, working with partners to pursue and share research outputs around eight key questions which webelieve will shape the effectiveness of education inthe future, through our new Global Research Function.
This includes exploring educator quality andpedagogy, system reform and the future role oflearning technologies and learning science in improving outcomes.
Our research is now shared at research.
com 18 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Putting the learner at the heart of everything we do
