OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 2 Our performance 25 CASE STUDY Online learning programmes Enterprise-wide partnerships with Arizona State Pearson Embanet increased new student enrolments University Online, Ocean Community College, by 8% to almost 12,000 and total student enrolment Indiana Wesleyan University and Rutgers, where by 6.5% to more than 27,000: adding 16 new werun fully online learning programmes and earn programmes, launching three new key academic revenues based on the success of the students and partners with Adelphi University, Villanova University the institution, gained more than 64,000 student and University of Maryland: and expanding registrations, up 45% on 2012.
In January 2014, partnerships with existing customers such as weextended our partnership with the University Maryville and Northeastern.
More than 200 colleges ofFlorida to include both its graduate and under are working with Pearson to build online learning graduate programmes providing technology, programmes that improve access to high quality e-Textbooks, recruitment marketing, enrolment undergraduate and graduate degree programmes.
m ma an na ag g ge em me en nt t, s, stude tuden nt t suppor support a t and nd r re ete ten nt tiio on n s se er rv vic ice es.
s. 26 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 North American Education continued The Partnership for Assessment of Readiness for ACT Aspire, a college and career readiness assessment College and Careers PARCC, a consortium of aligned to the Common Core State Standards, 18states, awarded Pearson several contracts to deliver successfully launched its first field test on the new test item tryouts, develop field tests and to provide TestNav 8 assessment system.
ACT Aspire is a joint theonline delivery platform using our cloud-based, venture between Pearson and ACT, Inc. Alabama is mobile-ready TestNav 8 system for new English and the first state to adopt the ACT Aspire system for mathematics assessments.
The assessments will be measuring the Common Core State Standards.
based on what students need to be ready for college Connections Education, which operates K-12 managed and careers, and will measure and track their progress virtual public schools, managed blended public schools, along the way.
We helped Kentucky and New York and a private school, served almost 51,000 students in deliver the first Common Core aligned state December 2013, up more than 20% from 2012, and assessments, and we won new online assessment now operates 33 managed public schools in 23 states programmes in Colorado, Minnesota and Mississippi.
and an international private virtual school.
We continued to produce strong growth in secure Connections Education also provides virtual and online testing.
We delivered almost 12 million secure blended services to school districts and other schools online tests, up 33% on 2012.
Legislative changes in seeking to incorporate virtual learning into their Texas and California reduced the scope of assessments programmes.
Connections Academy Schools have ahead of Common Core implementation.
consistently high performance ratings, particularly in We renewed our contract with the US Department states focused on measuring growth in student learning.
ofEducation to administer the National Assessment of Educational Progress NAEP for the 20132017 assessment cycles and won a number of state contract extensions in Georgia, Puerto Rico, Tennessee, Maryland, Arizona, South Dakota and Oklahoma.
We were selected by the National Board of Professional Teaching Standards NBPTS as their partner to develop their next-generation programmes, and deliver and support NBPTS through 2025.
CASE STUDY Mental health administration Pearson Clinical Assessment launched Q-interactive, a portable digital tool that enables mental health professionals to automatically manage the administration of clinical assessments, digital stimuli, response recording through stylus notes and audio.
It serves 1,500 users within hospitals, private practice, and schools in five countries US, UK, Australia, Canada and Netherlands.
Paid test administrations have increased ten-fold since launch.
