82 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Report on directors remuneration continued Future policy table for executive directors Total remuneration is made up of xed and performance-linked elements, with each element supporting different strategic objectives.
Total remuneration is normally reviewed annually and benchmarked against total remuneration for similar positions in comparable companies.
Base salary PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY takes this variation in size into account.
We also look at publicly disclosed and proxy data for global media Helps to recruit, reward and retain.
convergence comparators with a focus on media and Reflects competitive market level, role, skills, technology.
We use these companies because they experience and individual contribution.
represent the wider executive talent pool from OPERATION which we might expect to recruit externally and the pay market to which we might be vulnerable if our Base salaries are set to provide the appropriate rate remuneration was not competitive.
of remuneration for the job, taking into account relevant recruitment markets, business sectors and Base salaries are paid in cash via the regular employee geographic regions.
Base salaries may be set in payroll monthly in the UK and every two weeks in sterling or the local currency of the country in which the US and are subject to all necessary withholdings.
No malus or clawback provisions apply to base Base salaries are normally reviewed annually for the salary.
following year taking into account: general economic OPPORTUNITY and market conditions: the level of increases made Base salary increases for executive directors will across the company as a whole: particular notordinarily exceed 10% per annum and will take circumstances such as changes in role, responsibilities account of the base salary increases elsewhere or organisation: the remuneration and level of within the company.
increases for executives in similar positions in comparable companies: and individual performance.
The committee will retain the discretion to deliver base salary increases in excess of 10% per annum For benchmarking purposes, we review inspecic individual situations including internal remuneration by reference to different comparator promotions and material changes to the business groups.
We look at survey data from: FTSE 100 or the role.
companies with significant international exposure, excluding financial services: the FTSE 20-50, PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS excluding financial services: a broad media industry None, although performance of both the company group of US companies: select UK human capitaland the individual are taken into account when intensive businesses: and UK and US so-called media determining an appropriate level of base salary convergence companies with a focus on media, increase each year.
These companies are of a range of sizes relative to Pearson, PERFORMANCE PERIOD but the method our independent advisers, Towers None.
Watson, use to make comparisons on remuneration
