OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 2 Our performance 27 CASE STUDY Learning Services In Learning Services, we performed well in new innovative next generation digital learning Common adoptions, taking a market leading 33% of the total Core System of Courses across K-12 Mathematics new adoption market $390m, with #1 positions in and English Language Arts, initially to 30,000 maths, science and social studies and a #2 position in students.
In both districts, we are providing Reading Language Arts.
We were selected by the professional development to thousands of two largest school districts in the US, Los Angeles teachers.
Learners using our OnRamp to Algebra Unied School District and New York City, to supplemental programme, which targets struggling implement Common Core instructional maths students, signicantly out-gained peers using programmes.
New York City adopted our new K-5 other supplemental maths programmes, achieving Common Core English Language Arts programme, 20% increase in their percentile rank while their Ready Gen, and our middle school math offering, peers increased by only 3%.
In addition, students of Connected Math.
In Los Angeles Unied School all ability levels using OnRamp to Algebra exceeded Dist Distr riic c ct t, w we e par part tnered nered w wiit th h A Apple pple to to fide deliv live er r ou our r the the gains gains o of f thei their r p pe eer ers s.. 28 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 International Education KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Sales Adjusted operating profit Our International Education 2013 1,539m 2013 140m business achieved 2012 1,568m 2012 214m Headline growth 2 % Headline growth 35 % another strong underlying CER growth 0% CER growth 29 % performance in emerging Underlying growth 1% Underlying growth 30 % markets, particularly in South Africa and China.
CASE STUDY China In China, student enrolments at Wall Street English franchised learning centres with investment in increased 7% to 65,000, boosted by good underlying learning centres and digital learning platforms demand.
Our students rapidly acquire high-level enabling us to better meet learner demands and be English skills with average grade levels achieved rising apremier brand in test preparation.
Enrolments at Global Education, ofthe high-end course students achieve IELTS 7.0 our test preparation services for English language which demonstrates a high level of proficiency in and vocational qualications, increased 24% to more English and a key grade when studying abroad.
than 1.3 million, through 82 owned and 426 Wall Street English student enrolments in China 65,000 2013 61,000 2012 OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 2 Our performance 29 Our International education business achieved another CASE STUDY strong underlying performance in emerging markets, particularly in South Africa and China.
This growth was offset by weak textbook sales in developed markets: currency weakness against sterling: the exit from certain publishing businesses primarily in Australia, Japan, Germany, France and the UK: increased customisation resulting from the Kirtsaeng ruling in theUS: and policy changes affecting qualications andtextbook publishing in the UK.
Although margins South before restructuring charges were similar to 2012, reported margins fell due to 69m of net restructuring Africa charges expensed during the year.
More than 1.3 million students registered for our MyLab digital In South Africa our market leading school learning, homework and assessment programmes, publishing brands, Maskew Miller Longman and anincrease of 17%, with good growth in school, Heinemann, performed strongly in a year of ELTand institutional selling in higher education.
Student enrolments grew strongly at CTI MGI, our universities, up 15% Key highlights in 2013 include: to 11,700 across 13 campuses.
Our Growth market revenues expanded strongly, boosted by curriculum change in South Africa, strong enrolment growth at CTI MGI, and continued good growth in China: partly offset by weaker currencies Our Core market revenues declined significantly, against sterling, particularly in South Africa and affected by curriculum change in the UK and the exit enrolment declines in our public sistemas in Brazil.
from publishing operations in Australia, Japan and Continental Europe.
In Mexico, our fully accredited online university partnership, UTEL, reached 6,000 active students in In the UK, revenues declined due to a softer school 20 undergraduate and two graduate programmes and curriculum and vocational qualifications BTEC through its services arm, Scala, signed its first three market anticipating curriculum change.
This was partly agreements to help campus-based universities make offset by a strong performance in the GCSE and A AS the transition to online.
5,400 students have level qualifications market.
In higher education, we completed short duration courses in programmes partnered with Leeds Metropolitan University to developed to address corporate and government develop a suite of online learning business education workforce training needs.
In assessment, we marked almost six million GCSE, A AS Level and other examinations with more In the Middle East, we won a five-year contract with than 93% using onscreen technology.
We marked the UAEs Ministry of Education to provide leadership 2.7 million test scripts for over half a million pupils training and professional development for 700 current taking National Curriculum Tests at Key Stage Two and future Emirati school principals, in partnership in2013 and were selected to administer the test until with the UKs National College for Teaching and 2016.
2013 also saw the first delivery of the Next Leadership.
We partnered with: Taibah University in generation BTEC qualifications to over 100,000 Saudi Arabia to implement Foundation Level students, with a further 365,000 students to date MyLabsPlus across four subjects for 16,000 students: enrolled for 2014 15 delivery.
Riyadhs Princess Noura University in Saudi Arabia, the worlds largest female university, to provide 12,000 new students with IT course content through our MyLabs e-learning technology for tablets: and Qatar University to implement MyLabsPlus for 5,000 students.
30 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 International Education continued In Italy, revenues declined, with market conditions In English Language Learning, Wall Street English tough due to a one-year government mandated pause WSE, Pearsons worldwide chain of English language in new adoptions.
centres for professionals, opened a new centre in HoChi Minh City in Vietnam and is now present in In Japan, GlobalEnglish and the FT partnered with 28countries, and has 107 owned and 338 franchised Nikkei Inc on a GlobalEnglish Nikkei edition, an centres.
Our students rapidly acquire high-level English language learning service to serve English English skills with average grade levels achieved rising students in the Japanese business community.
Student numbers grew slightly to our school textbook publishing business, Kirihara 192,000.
Registered users for ELL digital products Shoten, to management.
grew 45% to 610,000 with MyEnglishLabs registrations In Australia, market conditions were very tough, up 51% to 400,000 and Our Discovery Island particularly in higher education where we exited the registrations, an online adventure aimed at Primary vocational publishing market.
We continue to make education, up almost 77% to 104,000. good progress developing our digital and services business including significant sales of Secondary School Australian Curriculum ebooks.
In higher education, we partnered with Monash University with an enterprise implementation of the MyLab suite of products for 6,500 students including faculty training, and to provide learning services and solutions for online graduate programmes including course development, marketing, student recruitment and retention, and faculty training.
CASE STUDY Brazil In Brazil, we ended 2013 with 497,000 students 533,000 in 2012 in our public and private sistemas or learning systems.
In 2013, we added 24,000 net students in our three private sistemas, COC, Dom Bosco and Pueri Domus, up 7% on 2012.
Tough market conditions for public sistemas resulted in lower enrolments in this post-election year but our NAME sistema includes the #1 performing lower secondary school in Brazil basedon the 2011 IDEB national public test scores of 3,067 municipalities.
90% of our municipal customers tested 20% above thenational standard and 70% of the municipalities that adopted NAME showed improvement in their IDEB scores.
On 11 February 2014 we completed the acquisition of Grupo Multi, the largest provider of private language schools in Brazil serving over 800,000 students across more than 2,600 franchised schools.
