OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 2 Our performance 23 N No or rt th h Amer Ameriic ca an n E Ed du uc ca ati tio on n KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Sales Adjusted operating profit North American 2013 2,779m 2013 406m Education is Pearsons 2012 2,658m 2012 536m Headline growth 5% Headline growth 24 % largest business, with CER growth 3% CER growth 25 % 2013 sales of 2.8bn and Underlying growth 0% Underlying growth 30 % operating profit of 406m.
CASE STUDY Online learning We introduced adaptive learning capabilities in can signicantly improve student test scores and over200 MyLab and Mastering products across institutional efficiency http: bit.
Student registrations in North America We acquired Learning Catalytics, which allows grew 9% to almost 11 million.
Usage continues faculty to obtain real-time responses to open-ended togrow strongly with graded submissions up or critical thinking questions, to determine which 15%toalmost 370 million across the globe.
areas require further explanation, and enables Evaluation studies show that the use of MyLab earlier intervention to help improve retention programmes, as part of a broader course redesign, and outcomes.
Total number of MyLab registrations 11m 2013 9.9m 2012 24 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Nor Nort th h A Am me er rican ican E Ed duca ucat tiion on co con nt tiin nu ue ed d In 2013, we generated good growth in our digital and School highlights in 2013 include: services businesses, where we continue to invest to For our School businesses, state funding pressures, build scale and volume and solid growth in our school the Federal sequester and the transition to Common curriculum business, which benefited from Common Core assessments continued to make market Core curriculum purchasing.
Revenues grew modestly in 2013 remained tough, with ongoing state budget pressures with declines in state assessment contracts and and the transition to the Common Core affecting our learning assessments more than offset by gains in School assessment business.
Lower enrolments national assessment contracts for the PARCC affected Higher Education with the career college consortium and the federal governments NAEP enrolments, where we have a strong market position, programme, as well as demand for Connections being particularly weak.
In addition to these market Educations virtual charter schools and Common pressures, our North American margins were further Corereading language arts and math programmes.
affected by 49m of net restructuring charges, reduced Actionable data is critical to personalising learning and demand in our assessment business as states prepared boosting achievement.
Our Schoolnet business aligns for new Common Core testing and curriculum related assessment, curriculum and other services to help investment and amortisation, the launch costs related individualise instruction and improve teacher to major multi-year service-based contracts in higher effectiveness.
PowerSchool helps teachers automate education, and increased returns provisions.
and manage student attendance records, gradebooks and timetables.
Higher Education highlights in 2013 include: In Higher Education, total enrolments fell 1.9%, with Schoolnet won significant contracts including two career enrolments in two-year public community newRace to the Top State Instructional Improvement and four-year for-profit declining 4.4%, affected by System contracts in New York and New Jersey, which rising employment rates, state budget pressures takes the total number of state system contracts to andregulatory change affecting the for-profit and seven: and new district contracts for Schoolnet developmental learning sectors.
The publishing assessment, educator development and learning market was broadly level with 2012 on a gross basis, management solutions in Dallas, Texas: Palm Beach, according to the Association of American Publishers, Florida: Philadelphia, Pennsylvania: and New York while our higher education revenues grew 5% with City.
PowerSchool won new contracts in  decline more than offset by the Mecklenberg, North Carolina: Grand Erie DSB, contribution from Embanet.
Ontario: and San Diego, California.
Its mobile app connecting teachers, students and parents was We partnered with West Virginia University downloaded by almost 3.4 million users.
PowerSchool Parkersburg Online to redesign its Developmental now supports almost 13 million students in 70 Education curriculum using Competency-Based countries, up more than 5% on 2012 while Schoolnet Education CBE modules.
Our CourseConnect CBE supports more than nine million students, up 7% products will enhance up to 220 existing courses and on2012.
will be delivered through OpenClass where we will also provide access to eTextbooks, tutoring and media resources.
Other CBE partnerships include Texas A&M University-Commerce, South Texas College, Kentucky Community & Technical College System andNorthern Arizona University.
