Directors report - Business review - Group overview Strategic Q&A Delivering on our strategy 2012 13 was a challenging 12 months for Pennon.
Group Director of Finance David Dupont, South West Water Chief Executive Chris Loughlin and Viridor Chief Executive Colin Drummond discuss performance and outline their strategic approach to the main challenges they face.
143 million restricted cash with 782 million Our PUROS project, which uses remote technologies to manage processes of new renewed facilities secured during the year.
The construction phase of Viridors and operational staff from a central hub, The Group policy is to grow continues to help us improve our efficiency.
committed EfW plants is now substantially funded and we are continuing to talk Meanwhile our investment in renewable the dividend by 4% above RPI energy is also bearing fruit with the amount to a wide range of finance providers up to the end of 2014 15. to source the remaining funding required of energy generated through renewable David Dupont, Group Director of Finance sources most notably our hydro turbines on a timely basis.
Pennon Group reaching its highest ever level.
South West Water achieved a strong What were the highlights of the year 2012 started with environmental drought operational performance last year.
and how do they reflect Group strategy?
What were the key highlights conditions, but for most of the year David Dupont the South West experienced extreme and how did you achieve them?
South West Water continued to perform Chris Loughlin wet weather.
How did this impact strongly both operationally and financially on South West Waters operations Through our ongoing investment towards achieving its target for the K5 period, in our assets and networks we continued and how were they managed?
which is in line with its strategy.
While Viridors CL to deliver outstanding drinking water quality, results were impacted by the significant meet our leakage target and reduce Thanks to the use of pumped storage reduction in recyclate prices, reflecting world during the prior winter, investment the average length of water supply economic conditions, it has made substantial interruptions per customer.
in the supply system in 2011 and careful progress in pursuing strategic development resource management, South West Water of its energy from waste EfW Public Private On the waste water side of the business was able to avoid any water restrictions Partnership PPP pipeline.
a targeted programme of investment for the 16th consecutive year.
This was at 96 sites meant we achieved our despite the environmental drought To support this investment, the Group best ever compliance rates for waste that was declared in April 2012 raised a record amount of new funding during water treatment.
Also, whilst there was by the Environment Agency.
the year 782 million in total including an increase in Category 3 or minor a 300 million hybrid capital instrument incidents, improvements in our monitoring In stark contrast April 2012 through which strengthens the Groups balance systems and response times helped to March 2013 has been classified as sheet as well as providing additional funding.
us to successfully avoid any Category 1 a one in one hundred years wet weather The Group ended the year with a record level or serious pollution incidents and we event.
This had various implications for of cash and facilities totalling 1.15 billion.
also saw a reduction in the number our operations including increased energy of Category 2 or significant incidents.
usage due to the need for more waste water pumping activity and an increase Your dividend continues to be very Phased Utilisation of Remote Operating Systems.
in the number of sewer flooding incidents.
How long can you sustain this performance?
DD The Group policy is to grow the dividend by 4% above RPI up to the end of 2014 15.
This policy reflects the actual and expected financial performance of both South West Water and Viridor.
As usual the Board expects to review the dividend policy at the start of the next South West Water regulatory review period taking account of Ofwats Price Determination and projected growth from Viridors long-term contracts and EfW plants which are expected to come on stream around this time.
There is very substantial investment going into Viridor.
DD At the year-end the Group had cash and facilities of 1.15 billion including David Dupont, Group Director of Finance, Pennon Group 12 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Spillway at Roadford Reservoir, Devon Chris Loughlin, Chief Executive, South West Water In the case of the latter South West So the aim of our reinvestment programme Consultation is ongoing and our business Water worked alongside partner agencies, is to protect bathing water quality at key plan is being developed further in time for including councils and emergency tourist beaches, maintain nearly six submission to Ofwat in December 2013. services, to minimise any disruption caused.
thousand kilometres of former private In the long term it is our intention to invest sewers and help customers in the most We are also targeting a holistic in a holistic approach to the management need.
This investment initially will be funded approach to the prevention of pollution of waste water and flooding.
This will include from the efficiency savings that South West and sewer flooding.
traditional engineering-based solutions Water has made in the current regulatory alongside cost effective steps to manage period, having no impact on the average excess surface water or rain water through household bill, which is reduced in 2013 14 How is South West Water responding innovation in areas such as sustainable urban following the implementation in April to the points raised by Jonson Cox, drainage and ecosystem management.
of the Governments 50 reduction the new Chairman of Ofwat, in his on household bills.
lecture Observations on the regulation The wet weather also highlighted the of the water sector?
importance of investment in resilience, CL such as flood defences.
In 2011 we installed How are you preparing for the price Mr Coxs particular focus was on corporate flood protection measures at Pynes Water review which takes effect from 2015?
governance and transparency in respect Treatment Works which serves Exeter.
What do you expect to be the key of companies in the private sector.
South This proved invaluable during the deluge investment drivers for the five-year West Water is one of only a few listed water in the run-up to Christmas 2012 which saw period from 2015-2020?
companies and, as such is already subject the closure of the adjacent railway mainline.
CL to disclosure on corporate governance Extensive customer and stakeholder through, and in close operation with, research and a range of on and offline the Pennon Group Board.
To further promote Why has South West Water engagement activity has been carried out good governance and transparency, South decided to embark on a 60 million as part of South West Waters WaterFuture West Water has established its own audit reinvestment programme to fund campaign in order to find out their priorities committee of the South West Water Board further improvements to services for the future.
This helped inform our and is reviewing in detail the points raised for customers?
What will it involve 25-year WaterFuture outlook which was by Mr Cox in his lecture to ascertain whether and where will the company get the published in December 2012 to outline the company needs to undertake any further money from to fund this investment?
our long-term aims and some of the steps actions to address the issues raised.
CL we plan on taking during the next K period We want to share the benefits of our good 2015-2020. financial performance with our customers by investing more where it is most needed.
The main investment drivers for that period Investing now in our network and treatment arise from further improvements to and works to protect bathing water quality, protection of bathing waters: the revised will help minimise the risk of these vital Water Framework Directive legislation: South West Water was able beaches losing their status, which would the adaptation to and mitigation of extreme have a serious knock-on effect on one weather and climate change: the need to avoid any water restrictions of the regions main industries tourism.
to maintain our asset base: and the supply for the 16th consecutive year.
and demand pressures from the population Chris Loughlin, Chief Executive growth forecast for our region.
South West Water Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 13 Directors report - Business review - Group overview Strategic Q&A Continued Colin Drummond, Chief Executive, Viridor Trident Park EfW, Cardiff, under construction You have indicated that the long-term There were significant exceptional Viridor has made significant progress growth from Viridors EfW PPP charges in respect of Viridor in 2012 13. in growing its pipeline of energy from pipeline is expected to start to flow Does this imply that there is a change waste projects.
Do you see a danger in from 2014 15.
What do you expect in strategy or that the previous strategy of over-capacity in the UK?
for 2013 14 given the ongoing trend was wrong?
CD decline in profits from landfill and the CD We have carefully evaluated projected current uncertainties in recycling?
The exceptional charges primarily demand and competing capacity for Colin Drummond flow from our strategy and also reflect our each of our planned EfW facilities and are Trading conditions for Viridor between speedy response to greater than expected confident that we will fill them profitably.
October to December 2012 were particularly weakness in UK and world economic With landfill tax set to reach 80 per tonne tough and results for the second half conditions.
Our strategy recognises that in April 2014, large scale EfW facilities of 2012 13 were down on the first half.
landfill is a declining business: this is the of the type we are building will be the low Whilst recyclate prices have recovered basis for our growth in recycling, where we cost way of disposing of residual waste.
somewhat from the lows of October are now the UK leading operator of materials They will also be the UKs lowest cost source to December we remain cautious about recycling facilities MRFs, and in EfW of base-load distributed renewable energy any further substantial increase.
projects, where our pipeline of projects which will assist in addressing the UKs is expected to make us a UK market leader increasing energy shortage.
We believe we have faced up to the situation with over 15% market share by 2020. head on and undertaken the necessary In total we estimate that, on the basis actions to ensure that we are well placed As a result we have recognised a non of government policies and trends to manage future challenges to the business cash impairment to reflect declining landfill in recycling, there will be a need for around going forward.
Our 2013 14 results will volumes and the fact that some of our 20 million tonnes of EfW capacity in the UK progressively show the benefit of the cost landfills will not now be filled to the degree by 2020.
When we review current competing reductions we have implemented in recycling, previously envisaged indeed on three projects and take account of planning whilst our landfill gas power generation of them Ardley, Beddington and Dunbar barriers, financing difficulties and the lack business will benefit in the second half we plan to build EfW facilities.
We have of further large base-load municipal from the transfer of more of our historic also increased our landfill provisions contracts, we calculate that there will Non Fossil Fuel Obligation NFFO contracts to reflect both the revised final landforms be a capacity shortfall of up to 25%.
to higher priced Renewables Obligation now projected and the latest Environment Of the 2.5 million tonnes capacity we RO contracts.
In addition, though are committed to operating by 2020, we had expected a decline in commodity more than half 1.3 million tonnes is already prices, the actual fall was much more severe backed by long-term municipal contracts.
than we and perhaps many others had expected.
This has necessitated closure of certain uneconomic MRFs, redundancies and non cash asset impairment in our recycling business.
Viridors EfW PPP pipeline is expected to drive the companys long-term profit growth.
Colin Drummond, Chief Executive Viridor 14 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Do you see risks in delivering What have been the major changes This is illustrated by our obtaining the large energy from waste pipeline?
in Viridor over the past 20 years?
ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 CD CD accreditations and in 2012 13 achieving We have an enviable pipeline of EfW PPP Viridor has been transformed from a local ISO 50001 energy management contracts.
The main challenge is delivery.
South West waste collection and landfill accreditation and being ranked Bronze Our policy is to have well protected company to one of the UKs leading in the Business in the Community BitC and carefully constructed, fixed-price recycling, renewable energy and waste annual Corporate Responsibility Index.
contracts with established contractors management companies.
During the first providing proven technology.
We recognise ten years we established and capitalised We have created jobs, increasing that as our pipeline increases so does on our position as a leading player in from around 200 employees to over the absolute level of risk and we have grown the landfill market in key regions of the UK.
3,000 in addition to the substantial our organisation accordingly, including From 2002, whilst landfill remained a very numbers employed by our contractors the appointment in 2012 13 of a Capital profitable business, we were able to achieve and subcontractors in our 1.5 billion Projects and Engineering Director significant further profit growth from the sale capital investment programme, though previously a director in the nuclear industry.
of renewable energy generated from we have had to implement some painful The main risk we see is delay on the part the gas produced by our landfills, growing redundancies over the past year.
of our contractors, against which we have our associated generation capacity from contractual protection which we will call 28MW to a current 107MW.
In 2005, Our health and safety performance has upon if we have to.
with projected steep rises in landfill tax, generally improved but more is still to be we recognised the commercial opportunity done to achieve our goal of zero accidents.
represented by the UKs move towards We have made significant progress Are you sorry to be retiring greater recycling and gradually established in employee development with our extensive as Chief Executive and why now?
ourselves as the UKs leading operator apprenticeships, a very successful graduate CD of MRFs.
programme and most recently the Viridor I am sorry to be retiring but now is the right in-house degree inconceivable in the waste time for me and for the company.
Over More recently we have focused on providing industry a few years ago.
However, together the past few years Viridor has won the an alternative to landfill for final disposal with the rest of our sector, we lag behind major EfW PPP contracts and achieved of residual waste which cannot be in gender diversity with few women the associated planning permissions which recycled: this is the basis of our investment employed at senior levels in the company are expected to grow its EBITDA by 100 programme which will see Viridor become and none on the Viridor Board.
We have million over the next four years.
At the one of the largest operators of EfW facilities plans in place to address this.
same time we have been implementing in the UK and a major supplier of renewable a management succession plan to manage energy with a total capacity of over 300MW.
the retirement of a number of highly skilled and long serving directors: Viridor now We have become a more sustainable has a new team of five experienced business in environmental, social executive directors in addition to myself, and economic terms, embedding alongside three non-executive directors the care and enhancement of the with significant relevant skills.
I am two environment and community benefit years beyond my normal retirement date into our business.
and therefore my retirement is now appropriate.
However, I am delighted and privileged to be able to continue to contribute to Viridor in the different role of chairman of the Viridor Board.
EfW Combined Heat and Power CHP facility, Runcorn, under construction Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 15
