Directors report - Business review - Viridor Business review Strategy and UK context European and UK waste and resource management strategies and policies are focused on the principles of resource efficiency, maximising recycling and recovery, and landfill diversion.
EU member countries have increasingly tough targets for the diversion of biodegradable municipal waste from landfill sites.
This will be achieved in the UK by continued increases in local authority and commercial and industrial recycling rates and by energy recovery from residual waste.
The latter is predominantly a form of biomass and is a significant form of renewable energy.
Waste already accounts for approaching 2% of total UK electricity production through landfill gas power generation and energy from waste facilities.
The UK Governments main mechanism Viridors clearly stated strategy within this for diverting both municipal and commercial context is to add value by transforming and industrial wastes from landfill waste through recycling and waste-based and incentivising recycling and energy renewable energy generation.
Viridor has Viridor believes that up to 6% recovery, remains Landfill Tax.
The Government substantially increased its recycling business of UK electricity could come has confirmed the continuation of the increase over the past five years to a total of around from waste sources by 2020. in landfill tax of 8 a year, rising to a total two million tonnes per annum.
The next Colin Drummond, Chief Executive of 80 per tonne from 1 April 2014. phase of its strategy involves substantial Viridor This increase will further enhance the longgrowth in EfW capacity.
Viridor is targeting term economics of recycling and energy over 15% market share by 2020 with recovery and is supported by a range a network of strategic facilities in operation, of other policy and legislative measures.
At present there is about six million tonnes of EfW Within the wider sustainability agenda, capacity in the UK and it is estimated that many businesses and other organisations are 20 million tonnes of capacity will be required also looking to improve their environmental by 2020 to meet the Governments landfill and business performance through increased diversion targets.
There is likely to be recycling and resource efficiency.
significant under capacity in the UK by 2020 compared with projected demand.
Viridor All of these elements underline the key service believes that up to 6% of UK electricity objectives and long-term trends in the UK could come from waste sources by 2020. resource and waste management sector and the clear customer demand that Viridor has been anticipating, upon which it has proactively strengthened its business strategy and services.
EfW facility, Exeter, under construction Viridor Polymers recycling facility, Skelmersdale 24 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Business performance Revenue was down 7.5% to 704 million.
It will also be one of the UKs lowest cost Exceptional charges and most effective sources of base-load, As a result of the continued weakness Before exceptional charges Viridors distributed renewable energy at a time in recyclate prices and the continuing earnings before interest, tax, depreciation when the UK is facing an increasing energy reduction in landfill volumes Viridor has and amortisation EBITDA for the year shortage and projected long-term energy reviewed the carrying values of some decreased by 32.4 million 29.4% to 77.9 price rises.
During the year major new of its assets.
The company has also million.
PBIT fell 32.9 million to 30.8 contracts were signed for South London, re-assessed the expected costs million.
PBIT plus joint ventures decreased Glasgow and Peterborough and Viridor of landfill provisions.
by 29.3 million 39.0% to 45.9 million was appointed as preferred bidder for as the increased contribution from joint the South East Wales PPP.
Six EfW projects In response to landfill trends and its own ventures was more than offset by the decline are currently under construction and a new EfW development programme including in landfill and recycling.
Profit before tax Capital Projects and Engineering Director EfW plants at its Ardley, Beddington and exceptional charges decreased 21.1 has been appointed to lead the delivery and Dunbar landfills, Viridor reviewed million to 36.5 million, including the benefit of the programme.
Post 2020 it expects of reduced interest from intra group funding.
to have a network of three strategically Capital expenditure for the year, including located landfills.
Of the current 61.5 million 3 From 2007 08 until the first half of 2011 12, construction spend on service concession cubic metres m of landfill void, it is expected 3 the fast growth in profits from recycling arrangements, was 323 million 2011 12: that around 39 million m including Ardley, had more than offset the decline in annual 143 million of which 292 million was Beddington and Dunbar will no longer landfill profits.
As noted previously, however, for Viridor growth projects largely EfW be filled.
recyclate prices have fallen back sharply with the balance being maintenance from the peak reached in the first half of existing assets.
An exceptional charge of 99 million of 2011 12 reflecting world economic has been recognised to write-down conditions including weakness in the PPP and EfW projects already enhance the carrying values of property, plant Eurozone economies and uncertainty the bottom line and committed projects and equipment, primarily in landfill, but about the speed of growth in China.
are expected to contribute more than 100 also reflecting the companys expectations million to Viridors EBITDA within four years.
on recyclate prices and the impact Viridor responded swiftly with an aggressive of onerous contracts.
This charge has restructuring programme particularly in its Despite the continuing challenging UK no cash impact.
recycling business and in 2012 13 closed and global economic conditions, Viridor mothballed six of its facilities and made remains convinced that embracing the The company has also reviewed its landfill 152 redundancies.
This and other items sustainability agenda is an effective driver aftercare and restoration provisioning costs generated savings of about 13 million for long-term growth.
The company to reflect revised final land forms and has across all recycling operations which were is confident that its strategy will continue made a re-assessment of the aftercare enough to offset about 35% of the price to drive long-term growth and produce value period increased from 30 to 60 years decline.
In tandem with the significant for Viridor and its stakeholders.
Recycling based upon independent external advice.
downturn in recycling profits UK landfill will be key to Viridors profits in the next This resulted in an increase in provisions volumes continue to decline, in line with couple of years, with long-term growth of 90 million, which has no immediate the ongoing trend, as a result of Government expected to be driven by a growing PPP cash impact.
policy and a weak UK economy.
Recycling contract and EfW pipeline.
revenues per tonne have recovered a little The exceptional charges above totalled from their lows of October to December 150 million net of tax.
2012: however they remain significantly below the first half of 2011 12 levels.
On the positive side Viridor has continued to make very strong progress on its strategic expansion into the energy from waste EfW and Public Private Partnership PPP market.
EfW will represent the low-cost solution for disposing of residual waste which is currently landfilled when landfill tax reaches 80 per tonne in April 2014.
Ardley EfW, Oxfordshire, under construction Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 25 Directors report - Business review - Viridor Business review Continued Investment Contracts and collection In addition to the above operational projects, Investments in the future capabilities Profits were stable across the 16 Viridor is pursuing a number of other and strength of Viridors business included municipal contracts the more significant EfW opportunities to provide a long-term capital expenditure of 323 million, of which ones include Lancashire, Glasgow, Lakeside, alternative to landfill disposal of residual 292 million was for growth projects largely Manchester, Somerset, West Sussex waste as noted above.
This investment is part of the ongoing and Bedfordshire last full year and the provide significant amounts of renewable 1.5 billion programme committed to Thames Water contract.
Six EfW plants are already under delivering essential infrastructure which construction on fixed price contracts will make a substantial contribution Profits in the collection business were Runcorn Phases 1 and 2, Cardiff, Exeter, to energy and resource security in the UK.
down reflecting reduced volumes and price Ardley, Oxfordshire and Glasgow: and one is pressure due to current market conditions.
due to start imminently in Peterborough.
Viridor continued to invest in targeted Viridors commercial and industrial collection acquisitions in 2012 13 and purchased fleet plays an increasing role in feeding Viridor and its partners have a total two companies, JWT Holdings Limited the companys recycling and EfW plants.
operational, under construction and Pulp Friction Limited, for a combined and committed capacity of 2.5 million tonnes, value of around 15.0 million.
These Renewable energy of which 1.3 million tonnes is backed by acquisitions will add value and support the Energy can be viably recovered from waste long-term base-load municipal contracts.
companys recycling and EfW strategies.
in two ways, either via gas utilisation notably It has a further 0.6 million tonnes of capacity landfill gas and through anaerobic digestion with planning permission.
Recycling AD or controlled combustion in EfW plants The recycling market in the UK is reaching and similar facilities, some of which may be Since the start of 2012 13 Viridor has made maturity and is affected by world commodity a part of combined heat and power CHP significant further progress in developing its prices.
Difficult trading conditions are resulting schemes.
Energy recovery from waste pipeline of long-term PPP and EfW projects: in a competitive shake-out taking place and currently accounts for around 20% of total financial close achieved for the Viridor is well positioned to benefit from this.
UK renewable energy the bulk from landfill Glasgow Design Build Finance Operate gas and the balance from combustion project July 2012 and planning During the year recycling volumes equating to approaching 2% of total UK application for the associated Recycling traded increased by 5.6% to 1.9 million electricity production.
and Renewable Energy Centre approved tonnes 71,000 tonnes of the increase January 2013 - construction commenced from acquisitions.
The average recycling Viridors landfill gas power generation output financial close achieved for the South revenue of 99 per tonne from gate fees increased by a further 7% to 618 Gigawatt London Waste Partnership PPP and recyclate sales in 2012 13 was hours GWh 2011 12 576GWh, reflecting November 2012 and planning significantly down on last years figure intensive management focus and is now permission achieved for the associated of 118 per tonne which benefited at its peak.
Average prices fell slightly Beddington EfW facility May 2013 particularly from last years strong first half.
reflecting the reduced Renewables Obligation planning approval January 2013 Recyclate revenues per tonne appear Buyout Recycle ROBOR fund payment and financial close February 2013 to have stabilised, having recovered element of Renewables Obligation Certificate achieved for the Peterborough PPP: a little from their lows of October to ROC prices.
Total landfill gas power construction of the EfW facility December 2012, but remain significantly generation operational capacity remained to start imminently below first half 2011 12 levels.
unchanged at 107MW, excluding 3MW preferred bidder achieved for the South capacity at sub-contract sites in Suffolk.
The East Wales residual waste project Prosiect The outcome of a recent judicial review proportion of operational capacity eligible for Gwrydd March 2013 confirms DEFRAs interpretation of EU ROCs remained at 74% with the remaining Dunbar EfW planning enhanced to cover recycling regulatory requirements, supporting 26% being on lower priced NFFO contracts.
all of Scotland October 2012. commingled collection and centralised Viridors NFFO contracts end in tranches processing at materials recycling facilities after which the capacity for all Viridors sites MRFs where most practicable and where will transfer to ROCs about 60% will move there are the appropriate quality controls.
across in 2013 14 with the balance in the This is in line with the predominant Viridor period up to 2016 17. service model.
Viridor now has the largest MRF capacity in the UK.
As well as the 107MW of landfill gas capacity, Viridor has a further 30MW of renewable energy capacity across its Bolton EfW facility and its share of the Lakeside EfW facility and Greater Manchester AD operations.
26 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Trio recycling collection vehicle, Salford Landfill gas power plant, Dorset Joint ventures Landfill Total joint ventures contribution comprising Phase 1 is being built primarily for the Greater The landfill market is being replaced by both Lakeside and Viridor Laing Greater Manchester Waste PFI contract by TPSCo, recycling and EfW as local capacity becomes Manchester VLGM, which consists a joint venture between Ineos, John Laing available, in line with government policies.
of interest on shareholder loans and share Infrastructure and Viridor.
Phase 2 is 100% Reflecting this trend, Viridors landfill disposal of profit after tax, rose 31% to 15.1 million owned by Viridor and will be available for volumes decreased by 0.4 million tonnes 2011 12: 11.5 million.
the market generally as steeply rising landfill 12.7% to 2.7 million tonnes in 2012 13 tax drives residual waste disposal away from in line with the market more generally.
Lakeside landfill towards recycling and EfW.
Average gate fees increased by 8.1% to 25 The first of Viridors EfW projects continues per tonne but costs also increased by 8.1% to perform very strongly and is ahead of The ongoing delays in takeover of the reflecting the impact of reduced volumes on management expectations.
The 2012 13 remaining mechanical biological treatment fixed costs.
Consented landfill void reduced 3 contribution was 7.2 million 2011 12 5.1 MBT plant and the delay in completing from 65.4 million m at 31 March 2012 to 3 million : interest receivable on shareholder the Runcorn Phase 1 EfW facility could 61.5 million m at 31 March 2013 reflecting loans was unchanged at 1.4 million: have the potential to impact the VLGM usage during the period.
and the share of profit after tax from and also the TPSCo credit agreements.
Lakeside was 5.8 million up 2.1 million on Runcorn is around nine months behind the previous year reflecting strong schedule, but TPSCo and Viridor have waste inputs and electricity generation.
contractual protection, including via liquidated damages.
Viridor is continuing commercial Viridor Laing Greater Manchester discussions with its joint venture partners The 25-year Greater Manchester Waste and the contractors to resolve the PFI contract being delivered through construction issues and protect its VLGM is the UKs largest ever combined and TPSCos financial position.
At this point waste and renewable energy project.
in time, based on available information, The company is a joint venture between Viridor does not expect this matter to have Viridor and John Laing Infrastructure.
a material impact on the completion and As part of the VLGM contract a separate operation of the Greater Manchester PFI contractor was mandated to construct 43 or TPSCo.
Operation of the associated facilities both existing facilities and those which Interest receivable on shareholder loans are to be developed is being carried out from the VLGM joint venture was 7.9 million, on a sub-contract basis by Viridor.
At 31 up 1.8 million due to the increased average March 2013, 41 of the 43 facilities planned balance on shareholder loans loans fully had been formally taken over by Viridor.
Share of profit after tax from VLGM on an IFRIC 12 basis was Solid recovered fuel produced from the waste nil, down 0.3 million 4.4 million profit UK will be used to generate heat and power GAAP, down 0.2 million.
at a plant being built at the Runcorn Phase 1 EfW facility in Cheshire.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 27 Directors report - Business review - Viridor Business review Continued Key relationships People All recycling and waste management With regard to Viridors largest customer The achievements, commitment operations in England and Wales require groups, local authorities account for 31% and professionalism of its employees, Environmental Permits issued and regulated of the companys revenue, although no particularly in the ongoing challenging by the Environment Agency EA and Natural individual authority accounts for more market conditions, remains a source of pride Resources Wales.
In Scotland the Scottish than 12%.
Viridors ROC energy contracts to Viridor.
The company values and thanks Environmental Protection Agency issues account for 7% of revenue, primarily with them all for their contributions and continued and regulates similar waste management one customer.
licences or pollution, prevention and control PPC permits.
Viridor maintains a positive No supplier accounts for more than 5% A safe, healthy workforce and the continued working relationship with these and other of the companys revenue and the company professional development of employees, relevant regulatory bodies by means sources from competitive markets.
remain the top operational priorities for of proactive liaison and management Viridor.
Whilst there was a disappointing of any issues at both site and strategic levels.
increase in the RIDDOR incidence rate over the previous year 45 reportable incidents, Viridor has pioneered an innovative giving a rate of 1,429 per 100,000 employees online data sharing portal, known as compared with 1,238 in 2011 12, OpenSpace, with the EA, embracing a reduction of 42% in the rolling three-year latest data management practice to supply incidence rate confirms progress is being environmental monitoring data effectively made in this vital area.
live online to the regulator.
This replaces the need to supply huge volumes of written Almost 4,000 training days were delivered quarterly and annual reports, thus saving across Viridor during the year, underlining significant time and resources for all parties.
the companys commitment to the training OpenSpace has been further developed and development of employees throughout during the year between Viridor and the EA the business.
Around 200 employees to explore the application of such systems are participating in apprenticeship in other regulated sectors.
programmes and 40 managers are enrolled on the innovative Viridor Foundation Degree course, developed and delivered in partnership with Edge Hill University.
1 Viridor and Metal Matters recycling campaign partnership 2 Viridor and West Sussex partnership waste, electrical and electronic equipment WEEE recycling campaign 3 Materials recycling facility MRF, Trafford Park, Manchester 4 EfW facility, Runcorn, under construction Change in RIDDOR reporting criteria 5 Viridor support services see page 53 for details.
1 2 28 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements 4 3 5 Outlook for Viridor Viridor has successfully transformed itself over the last decade to be one of the UKs leading recycling, renewable energy and waste management companies.
The company continues to face near-term headwinds in recycling and the ongoing trend decline in landfill.
Although recyclate levels per tonne appear to have stabilised, and indeed have recovered a little from their lows of October to December 2012, they remain significantly below the first half of 2011 12 levels.
The company remains cautious about the prospects for further recovery in prices in the short-term.
Strong progress has been made on Viridors PPP EfW pipeline this year and these projects are already making a significant contribution to Viridors bottom line.
The growing pipeline of current and future projects is expected to drive the companys long-term profit growth.
The UK Government has set out guidance Within this policy framework and changing for local authorities on the infrastructure market demands, Viridor continues to focus required to meet the requirements on delivering vital infrastructure and quality of the revised EU Waste Framework services to provide essential renewable Directive.
It has also published its Waste energy, resource recovery and waste and Resources Evidence Plan setting out management for its customers across policy priorities and how the sector can all sectors.
contribute to sustainable economic growth, alongside new regulations and guidance on recycling quality and the important contribution of EfW.
2 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 29
