Directors report - Business review - South West Water Business review Business performance Against a backdrop of extreme weather events ranging from environmental drought to flooding, South West Water continued to deliver solid operational performance and strong financial results in the year while raising its standards of customer service.
Increased revenue and rigorous cost Capital expenditure for the year was In previous K periods South West Water control were underpinned by the continued 116.5 million compared with 130.8 has historically shared the benefits of financial delivery of efficiencies resulting in operating million in 2011 12. outperformance with customers through profit increasing by 10.5 million to 215.2 reinvestment of efficiencies and accelerating million.
An overall reduction in demand Major investments were made in the capital expenditure.
The companys strong of almost 3% and the effect of customers improvement of waste water treatment operational and financial outperformance switching to a metered tariff was offset works in order to achieve compliance, in K5 to date will enable it to reinvest by tariff increases and new connections sewer rehabilitation, and clean water network around 60 million on improving services to with revenue rising by 5.2% to 498.6 million.
improvements targeting reliability, water customers through: Profit before tax excluding exceptional net quality and security of supply.
The private upgrading assets in key bathing waters income increased by 7.5% to 152.1 million.
sewer adoption in October 2011 which by accelerating capital investment increased South West Waters sewer maintaining and enhancing sewers The company has front-end loaded delivery network by 50% also necessitated that were adopted as part of the private of the required 2.8% per annum average 6.7 million of additional expenditure.
sewer transfer in October 2011 cost efficiencies with an average 4.1% tackling customer affordability through per annum delivered in the first three years South West Waters main investment debt initiatives.
The K5 focus continues to be on the maintenance efficiencies to date total 18.6 million of existing assets alongside improvements with 3.5 million of that total delivered in the necessary to: year through a combination of the following: enhance high standards of water improved operational ways of working and sewerage services that meet customer expectations from the integration of customer services management and asset improvements increase the resilience of the infrastructure through the PUROS programme deliver environmental improvements energy procurement and usage meet emerging legislative energy efficiency schemes alongside South West Water continued and regulatory obligations additional power generation through enhance sustainability its upward trend of customer renewable sources of water resources.
service improvement rationalising administration as measured by Ofwats and support services right-sourcing and innovative Service Incentive Mechanism.
contracting continued tendering Chris Loughlin, Chief Executive to achieve the right price.
Phased Utilisation of Remote Operating Systems South West Water UV treatment at Waste Water Treatment Works, Brokenbury Construction of storm storage tank at Lostwithiel, Cornwall 18 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Operational performance Pure Water Upstream Thinking: Metering sustainable water management During the year South West Water Drinking water quality South West Waters flagship programme installed over 12,800 meters, taking In 2012 South West Water once again to improve raw water quality and natural the total percentage of domestic customers achieved a near perfect standard water storage in the landscape continued who are metered to over 75%.
99.97% for the quality of its drinking in the year.
The Upstream Thinking water as measured by the Drinking Water initiatives, which target a reduction in water As part of its metering strategy South West Inspectorates Mean Zonal Compliance treatment costs, include the restoration Water began a programme of SMART MZC measure.
This success can be of wetland areas on the regions moors metering in 2012 13.
These transmit realattributed to the companys ongoing and schemes to reduce the impact time information about water usage, thereby investment in the maintenance and of farming and industrial activity on specific improving the accuracy and efficiency improvement of both drinking water catchment areas.
The actions delivered of the billing system while also giving treatment processes and the mains network.
by the programme in K5 to date include: customers a better understanding South West Water is also committed to of how much water they are using.
over 300 hectares of land restored addressing any taste, odour or discolouration working with farmers across the issues in 2012 13 this included pioneering The 50 Government Payment catchments, supporting investment at steps taken to utilise advanced oxidisation First announced in autumn 2011 161 farms processes at Drift Water Treatment Works and implemented for 2013 14 charges, 17 studies investigations in West Cornwall, a first in the UK.
the 50 Government Payment an annual completed on further catchment areas bill reduction of 50 for all eligible household to inform future investments at 2014 Water resources customers is a recognition of the historic Periodic Review.
Despite some of the driest conditions in unfairness to customers associated decades a state of environmental drought with the bill impact of South West Waters The project has won several awards was declared in mid April 2012 by the environmental clean-up over the past since its inception.
In 2012 these included Environment Agency, South West Water two decades in a region that has one third an inaugural Institute of Chartered was able to continue delivering unrestricted of the UKs beaches but only around 3% Accountants in England and Wales supplies to its customers for the 16th of its resident population.
ICAEW Finance for the Future Award consecutive year.
large business category and the The announcement was welcomed Environmental Award at the Utility Reservoir levels remained healthy by customers, regional media and MPs, Industry Achievement Awards.
throughout the dry period as a result many of whom had actively campaigned, of pumped storage during winter 2011 12, alongside South West Water, for Government investment in the supply system in 2011 action on this issue.
Pure Service and careful resource management.
Business customers Customer satisfaction The extreme wet weather that followed South West Water continued to expand South West Water continued its upward from April 2012 to early 2013 resulted its relationships with commercial and trend of customer service improvement in reservoir storage levels subsequently other non-domestic customers e. g. local as measured by Ofwats Service Incentive reaching near full capacity.
South West councils, hospitals and other public bodies.
Mechanism SIM with a 5% increase Water is therefore confident that no water Against the backdrop of difficult economic on the previous year 2011 12: 66.9, restrictions will need to be put in place circumstances, the advice and assistance 2012 13: 70.5.
SIM takes into account during 2013 14. provided by South West Water available a range of customer service aspects through its Source for Business initiative including the number of written complaints Leakage control has been well received by the regions received and the results of customer South West Waters performance in business community.
This years score minimising leakage remained on target.
represents an 88% improvement since The company expanded its pressure The Source for Business services include the start of K5.
management activity to reduce the risk dedicated contact routes to business of failures in the network, increased its use customer specialists: bill validation: The number of written complaints has halved of remote technologies to improve a named account manager for larger during K5 and the number of escalated the efficiency of its leak detection teams organisations: project management: complaints has been reduced by 84%.
and took steps to improve the analysis laboratory and analytical services: water The results reflect both improvements of flow data in order that potential problems and process efficiency advice: and advice made at an operational level and steps could be identified more quickly.
taken to improve customers experience in July 2012 South West Water introduced a new Customer Management System to enhance customer satisfaction.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 19 Directors report - Business review - South West Water Business review Continued Pure Environment Pollution People The impact of flooding and extreme Waste water treatment wet weather contributed to an increase Once again the dedication, professionalism In 2012 South West Waters longin the total number of pollution incidents and support of all South West Waters standing endeavours to raise compared with the previous year.
However, employees has been vital in achieving the standard of the waste water it while there was a rise in the number of Ofwat a successful outcome in a challenging returns to the environment were reflected minor Category 3 incidents, South West year.
The company expresses its gratitude in its best ever compliance score of 99.98% Water saw a significant reduction in the to every employee for their contribution for the percentage of population served number of significant Category 2 incidents to the business during the year.
by waste water treatment works meeting compared with the previous calendar year the required criteria Population Equivalent 2012: 4, 2011: 15.
South West Water developed a new Sanitary Compliance.
People Strategy, focused on attracting, It is South West Waters aim to ensure retaining and developing its workforce.
Another Ofwat measure that looks that no harmful pollution incidents occur.
The companys aim is to be the Employer at a much wider range of compliance It therefore continues to invest in the of Choice in the South West and it provides parameters is Numeric Compliance maintenance and improvements employees with the opportunity to develop of waste water treatment works necessary to reduce the risk of pollution.
their careers through a number of schemes.
which gives equal weighting to small These include supplementary training through and large treatment works.
Flooding its Management Academy, customer In a year of abnormally wet weather, service skills training, NVQ programmes South West Water performed similarly river flows and groundwater levels both and a development programme for well against this compliance measure, reached exceptionally high levels, increasing the senior management group.
the likelihood of flooding for many homes and businesses.
Eight new apprentices were recruited This improvement in performance can through South West Waters apprenticeship be attributed to a programme of targeted The number of internal sewer flooding programme, developed in partnership investment in waste water treatment incidents an incident in which sewage with South Devon College.
processes at 98 of the companys enters a property totalled 266.
Inevitably operational sites over the past 18 months.
a high proportion of these incidents were The company also made headway with caused by the sewerage system becoming improving its health and safety record, Bathing waters overwhelmed by the sheer volume achieving its lowest ever RIDDOR incidence Despite the extreme wet weather of rain water.
rate Reporting of Injuries, Diseases, and its associated run-off and floodings, and Dangerous Occurrences of 568 133 out of 146 bathing waters 91% Renewable energy per 100,000 employees for 2012 achieved the European mandatory In 2012 13 excellent progress was made compared with 1,628 for 2011. or good standard and 88 bathing waters towards increasing renewable energy 60% achieved the guideline or excellent generation, with more power from renewable standard for the 2012 bathing season.
sources generated than ever before.
Key relationships South West Water is committed In total, 19.3GWh was harnessed from to delivering sustainable environmental a combination of solar, wind, hydro Regulators and others improvements to the regions bathing waters.
and combined heat and power CHP In 2012 13 investments in this area included from waste.
South West Water actively engages with a wide range of environmental storm tanks, filtration improvements and cleaning process enhancements.
The extreme wet weather, while serving and regulatory stakeholders.
It takes steps to ensure that communication is handled to increase energy demand, was highly advantageous for South West Waters in the most appropriate way and that the information the company provides hydro power sites.
The company continues to invest in renewable technology.
is high quality and consistent.
It uses a range of commercial channels including traditional and online platforms to communicate with its stakeholders.
The company contributes to developing In 2012 South West Waters issues through its membership of Water UK, the industry trade body, and works long-standing endeavours with the Consumer Council for Water to to raise the standard of the waste ensure that customers issues and concerns water it returns to the environment are addressed and a full understanding were reflected in its best ever of the companys activities is achieved.
Chris Loughlin, Chief Executive South West Water Change in RIDDOR reporting criteria see page 53 for details.
20 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements South West Water apprentice, Joe Farrant Meldon Reservoir, Devon WaterFuture customer panel Looking ahead As part of the 2014 Periodic Review process, following guidance from Ofwat, South West Water is well placed The 25-year outlook statement reflects the South West Water has created an to continue delivering improvements results of the research to date on customer independent WaterFuture customer in operational efficiency and customer and stakeholder priorities.
It also explores challenge panel, comprising a group service for the remainder of the K5 period.
key investment drivers for the 2015-2020 of representatives from various regulatory, period.
These include: stakeholder and public bodies.
Its role The company is currently preparing for responding to changes in legislation, in the coming year will be to ensure the 2014 Price Review which will determine including improvements to protect key the companys business plan adequately the investment programme and associated bathing waters in the region and meeting reflects an understanding of customers charges for 2015-2020. the required standards of the Water priorities and that its planned activities Framework Directive are socially, economically and In December 2012 the company published the importance of ensuring assets environmentally sustainable.
its 25-year outlook statement which was and networks can cope with extreme designed to provide context to the steps weather and climate change Procurement and suppliers it plans to take in 2015-2020.
Published the need to maintain and replace assets, South West Waters procurement online and widely distributed to customers where necessary, to prevent fault or failure strategy is focused on partnering and stakeholder groups, it was published the need for a holistic approach and strategic alliances with 60 key in two formats Whats in the Pipeline 2015- to the prevention of pollution suppliers who account for the large majority 2040 a consumer-orientated overview and sewer flooding of expenditure.
The company includes all and WaterFuture: Our Vision 2015-2040 aspects of sustainability in its procurement future supply and demand needs.
an extended version for audiences requiring processes and this is a central theme more specific detail.
of its procurement strategy for its supply chains and support of the regional economy.
An  WaterFuture South West Waters 2015-2020 With the start of the K5 regulatory period business plan will be submitted Customer Challenge Panel is also being the company introduced an innovative consulted on South West Waters 25-year to Ofwat in December 2013. mixed economy model to source its capital For further information visit: outlook statement.
This means using a significant consumer representatives and customer www.
co. uk waterfuture number of smaller local contractors and community stakeholders.
Its role to provide specialised services as well is to ensure that the companys final business as developing long-term relationships plan reflects a sound understanding with larger supply chain partners.
of customer and stakeholder opinion No supplier revenue accounts for more and that the proposals for the 2015-2020 than 5% of the companys revenue period are economically, socially and South West Water sources all its and environmentally sustainable.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 21
