Directors report - Other statutory information Other statutory information Principal activities and business review 2013, making a total dividend for the year Formal resolutions for the above Directors The principal activities of the Company and of 28.46p, the cost of which will be 103.8 re-election or election, as appropriate, will its subsidiaries the Group are the provision million, leaving a transfer from reserves be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
of water and sewerage services, recycling, of 76.9 million.
The business review The Directors biographies are set out renewable energy and waste management.
on pages 30 to 35 analyses the Groups on pages 62 and 63.
Information regarding the Group, including financial results in more detail and sets events and its progress during the year, out other financial information.
No Director has, or has had, a material events since the year-end and likely future interest, directly or indirectly, at any time developments, is contained in the business Directors during the year under review in any contract review set out on pages 4 to 57 of this In accordance with the provisions of the significant to the Companys business.
UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 A list of all the Directors during the year Edition the Code all Directors are offering is set out in the emoluments table on page In addition, the business review themselves up for re-election or, in respect 78.
Further details relating to the Directors contains a fair and balanced review of Gill Rider, election at this years Annual and their service agreements or contracts of the business of the Group, including General Meeting AGM with the exception for services are set out on pages 76 its position and prospects, Key Performance of Dinah Nichols who will be retiring as and 77 and details of the Directors Indicators and a description of the principal a Non-executive Director at the end interests in shares of the Company risks and uncertainties facing the Group in of the AGM having completed in excess are given on pages 79 to 82. accordance with the requirements of the UK of nine years as a Director.
Corporate Governance Code 2010 Edition Directors insurance and indemnities and Section 417 of the Companies Act The Board continues to believe that each The Directors have the benefit of the 2006.
In addition, in accordance with the ABI Director standing for re-election or election indemnity provisions contained in the Corporate Social Responsibility Guidelines, makes an effective and valuable contribution Companys Articles and the Company statements are included on any significant to the Board, demonstrating continued has maintained throughout the year environmental, social and governance ESG commitment to his or her role.
The NonDirectors and Officers liability insurance risks and the actions taken in mitigating executive Directors, Martin Angle and Gill for the benefit of the Company, the Directors these risks within the business review on Rider, are considered to be independent in and its Officers.
Further information accordance with the provisions of the Code.
has entered into qualifying third party on ESG aspects of the Groups business are Gerard Connell, subject to his re-election at indemnity arrangements for the benefit included in the Group sustainability report this years Annual General Meeting, will have of all its Directors in a form and scope on pages 48 to 57.
The principal subsidiaries served as a Non-executive Director for more which comply with the requirements of the Company are listed in note 41 to the than nine years.
The Board has determined of the Companies Act 2006 and which financial statements on pages 139 to 140. that Gerard remains independent as he were in force throughout the year demonstrates independence of character and remain in force.
Corporate governance and Directors and judgement in his conduct of matters responsibilities statements with the Board.
The Non-executive Directors Statement as to disclosure The Directors responsibilities statements, do not have service contracts: they have of information to auditors a report on the review of, and a statement contracts for services terminable upon a So far as each of the Directors in office on, the Groups system of internal controls three months notice.
at the date of the signing of the report and the disclosures required by Part 6 of is aware, there is no relevant audit Schedule 7 of the Large and MediumThe Chairman, Ken Harvey, similarly has information of which the Companys sized Companies and Groups Accounts a contract for services, which is terminable auditors are unaware: and & Reports Regulations 2008 and FSA upon 12 months notice.
David Dupont, b each of the Directors has taken Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2 Executive Director, has a service contract all the steps each Director ought are set out in the Companys corporate which is due to expire when he reaches to have taken individually as a director governance and internal control report age 60 June 2014.
Davids contract is in order to make himself or herself aware on pages 60, 61 and 64 to 71 of this Annual expected to continue subject to 12 months of any relevant audit information and to Report which are hereby included within notice when he reaches age 60.
In respect establish that the Companys auditors this Directors report by reference.
of Chris Loughlin, who has reached age 60, are aware of that information.
his contract now continues subject to 12 Financial results and dividend months notice and Colin Drummond who Financial instruments Group profit after taxation and exceptional had previously reached age 60 and had a Details of the financial risk management items on ordinary activities after taxation contract continuing subject to 12 months objectives and policies of the Group was 26.9 million.
The Directors recommend notice will now retire from being an Executive and the exposure of the Group to price, a final dividend of 19.70p per Ordinary Director when a successor is appointed, credit, liquidity and cash flow risks are set share to be paid on 4 October 2013 currently expected to be by the end of out in the financial statements on pages to shareholders on the register on 9 August September 2013.
58 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Employment policies subsidiaries made charitable donations of with the Instrument of Appointment from and employee involvement 83,301 2011 12 73,992 divided between the Secretary of State for the Environment.
The Group has a culture of continuous environmental purposes 3,700 and A copy of this information is available improvement through investment in people social and community purposes 79,601. on the website southwestwater.
co. uk at all levels within the Group.
The Group In addition some 10.5 million was provided or upon application to the Group Company is committed to pursuing equality via the Landfill Communities Fund for Secretary at Peninsula House, Rydon Lane, and diversity in all its employment activities environmental and community projects.
including recruitment, training, career Further details are included on page 49 of development and promotion and ensuring the Group sustainability report.
No political Annual General Meeting there is no bias or discrimination in the donations were made or political expenditure The twenty-fourth Annual General Meeting treatment of people.
In particular, applications incurred and no contributions were made of the Company will be held at the Sandy for employment are welcomed from persons to a non-EU political party 2011 12 nil.
Park Conference Centre, Sandy Park Way, with disabilities and special arrangements Exeter, Devon EX2 7NN on 1 August 2013 and adjustments as necessary are made Tax status at 11.00am.
Details of the resolutions to ensure that applicants are treated fairly The Company is not a close company within are summarised below and set out in the when attending for interview or for the meaning of the Income and Corporation separate Notice of Annual General Meeting pre-employment aptitude tests.
Taxes Act 1988. which is circulated to shareholders with Wherever possible the opportunity is taken this Annual Report or provided by electronic to retrain people who become disabled Payments to suppliers communication via the Companys website during their employment in order to maintain It is the Groups payment policy for the year pennon-group.
co. uk Information required their employment within the Group.
The ending 31 March 2014 to follow the Code by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 Group also has a Boardroom Diversity Policy of The Better Payment Practice Group is also on the Companys website.
and encourages gender diversity in particular.
Information about Further details are set out in the report the Code can be obtained from the website By Order of the Board of the Nomination Committee on page 69. payontime.
The Company will agree Ken Woodier payment terms with individual suppliers in Group General Counsel Employees are consulted regularly about advance and abide by such terms.
The ratio, & Company Secretary changes which may affect them either expressed in days, between the amount 25 June 2013 through their trade union appointed invoiced to the Company by its suppliers representatives or by means of the elected during 2012 13 and the amount owed 2013 Annual General Meeting business Staff Council which operates in South West to its trade creditors at 31 March 2013, Water for staff employees.
In addition to routine business, resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General These forums, together with regular meetings Purchase of own Ordinary shares Meeting to: with particular groups of employees, The Company has authority from renew the existing authorities to issue are used to ensure that employees are kept shareholders to purchase up to 10% of its a limited number of shares and to up to date with the operating and financial own Ordinary shares as renewed at the purchase up to 10% of the issued share performance of their employer.
Annual General Meeting in 2012 which capital of the Company was valid as at 31 March 2013 and remains seek authority to make political donations The Group also cascades information currently valid.
Of the 3,632,705 shares held under the Political Parties, Elections monthly to all employees to provide them in Treasury at 31 March 2012, 1,526,869 and Referendums Act 2000, as amended.
with important and up to date information were subsequently re-issued under the It is not the Groups policy to make political about key events and to obtain feedback Companys employee share schemes donations.
This is a precautionary measure from them.
which is followed by many companies to ensure that there is no inadvertent Further information about employment Major shareholdings breach of the law matters relating to the Group are set out Details of major shareholdings notified on pages 20, 28 and 54 of the business re-elect Mr K G Harvey, Mr M D Angle, to the Company in accordance with FSA review.
Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5 are set Mr G D Connell, Mr C I J H Drummond, Mr D J Dupont and Mr C Loughlin out on page 144 Shareholder information.
The Group encourages share ownership and elect Ms G A Rider, as Directors amongst its employees by operating an HM of the Company Independent auditors Revenue & Customs approved Sharesave  LLP were seek authority to continue to call Scheme and Share Incentive Plan.
At 31 appointed auditors until the conclusion general meetings, other than an annual March 2013 around one-third of the Groups of the twenty-fourth Annual General Meeting.
general meeting, on not less than 14 employees was participating in these plans.
A resolution for their re-appointment upon clear days notice.
Pursuant to the EU the recommendation of the Audit Committee Shareholder Rights Directive shareholder Research and development of the Board will be proposed at the Annual authority is required to continue to call Research and development within the General Meeting.
meetings on at least 14 clear days notice.
Group involving water and waste treatment Such authority would only be exercised processes amounted to 0.2 million during Appointed business by the Directors in exceptional the year 2011 12 0.2 million.
South West Water Limited is required circumstances and if they considered to publish additional financial information that it was in the best interests Pennon Group donations relating to the appointed business as water of shareholders and the Company During the year the Company and its and sewerage undertaker in accordance as a whole to do so.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 59
