Directors report - Business review - Group overview Our business model How we generate and preserve value Pennons business model is driven by its strategy of promoting the success of the Group for the benefit of shareholders, customers and other stakeholders through its focus on the business areas of water and sewerage services, recycling, renewable energy generation and waste management.
We aim to be a pre-eminent provider of customer services to high standards of quality, efficiency and reliability, and to provide value for our shareholders.
Shareholder returns Pennon Group Strong governance South West Water Viridor Customer Financial Employee satisfaction performance engagement How we create value We create value for our shareholders by developing our two environmental utility infrastructure businesses, South West Water and Viridor, and by efficient financing and strong management of the Group as a whole.
Viridor South West Water Focused on transforming waste into a resource, having The water and sewerage services provider for Devon, Cornwall developed from being a traditional waste management company and parts of Dorset and Somerset, is focused on delivering to a leading UK recycling, renewable energy and waste further efficiencies, improving operating standards and providing management business.
a high quality service to its customers.
Viridors business model is based on growing and adding South West Waters business model is based on delivering value by maximising sale of high quality recyclate, growing its EfW its Pure Water, Pure Service and Pure Environment strategy, and PPP operations and exploiting the huge potential inherent while ensuring long-term profitability, resilience and sustainability.
in waste-based renewable energy generation.
10 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements How we manage our businesses to create value Customer Financial Shareholder Strong Employee satisfaction performance returns governance engagement Both South West Our Group has set We are committed to We are aware that We know that Water and Viridor challenging financial delivering sustainable our businesses can, the success of our are fully committed targets against which shareholder returns.
and do, have a Group is due to the to meeting the needs performance is An example of this material impact talent, commitment of their customers.
measured through is our policy to grow on the environment and hard work This is key to the a range of key the Group dividend and communities of our employees success of each performance indicators by 4% above inflation in which they operate.
These KPIs per annum up to the To address this be a responsible include profit before tax end of 2014 15. we take a responsible employer.
How we respond before exceptional items, and transparent to our customers earnings per share approach to We are focused on needs and assess before exceptional environmental, social ensuring employee customer satisfaction items and deferred tax, and governance well-being, retention, is set out on pages dividend per share ESG matters.
efficiency and 19, 20, 21, 24 and 28 and the interest rate productivity.
Our sustainable practices not only More information Our focus in setting benefit communities, on the initiatives such targets is to but enable our we have introduced achieve sustainable businesses to be to improve employee performance over the more successful.
engagement in each short and long-term.
of our businesses More information is set out on pages 15, Our financial on our sustainability 20, 28, 54 and 59. performance is set activities are set out out in more detail on pages 48-57. on pages 30-35.
How we operate and manage risks Essential to achieving our strategic aims and creating value within our businesses is our operating framework which is based on the principles of good governance.
Our operating framework includes a comprehensive and fully Further information on our control and risk management embedded risk management process which assists us in managing environment is described on page 70 and our principal risks our risks and opportunities to deliver the Groups strategy and uncertainties and how we mitigate them are set out and the other essential elements of our business model.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 11
