Growth strategy page 20 Vision and growth strategy The Groups vision is to become the worlds leading global digital sports media company.
The growth strategy to achieve this vision is as follows: Strategic drivers 1 2 3 4 5 Enhance digital sports Expand geographically Grow the audience Pursue complementary Launch on new rights portfolio strategic acquisitions digitalplatforms Compelling content is at the heart of Since 2008 the Groups strategy With its wholly and majority owned The Group has three categories of The Groups strategy is to develop the Groups products and services has been to expand its business websites, including Goal, Sporting target acquisition: products and delivery solutions and ultimately drives the Groups geographically both organically News and Mackolik, and its ePlayer Local Champions: strong single for all digital platforms including revenues and profitability.
The Groups and through acquisition, reducing network the Group has actively territory digital sports media smartphones, tablets, personal rights buying strategy is to expand its the Groups dependence on a small sought to grow its audience and businesses that are similar in their computers, gaming consoles and rights portfolio by securing exclusive number of territories, in particular the increase the size of its Direct to product or service offering to connected TVs.
The increased live video rights to distribute on the United Kingdom, and being able to Consumer sourced revenues.
This theGroup: market penetration of such devices Watch&Bet service, by securing take advantage of opportunities in direct access to consumers allows Direct to Consumer platforms: local or and the increased consumption exclusive live video rights in selected new markets.
In 2013 this strategy has improved engagement, better global sports portals and destination of media on such devices allow markets and across selected platforms involved the continued expansion of product development and improved sports websites: and consumers better and easier access for exploitation via Livesport.
tv and ePlayer territories, with the ePlayer and more targeted monetisation.
Complementary Products: digital to the Groups content and products.
acquiring video-on-demand clip rights being launched in Mexico and Brazil, In 2013, advertising became even sports products such as sports data, In 2013 the Group launched its for distribution across the ePlayer and significant investment in rights more of a significant part of the social gaming and fantasy.
products on a range of new digital and Omnisport suite of products.
In and advertising sales teams in the US Groups business.
The driver to platforms and devices including addition, the Group also acquires data through the acquisition of Sporting advertising growth is audience In2013 the Group acquired: Samsung connected TVs, Twitter rights from football leagues such as the News and the Netherlands through the growth.
Anumber of key tactics Sporting News creating a top seven andFacebook.
English Premier League and German acquisition of Voetbalzone.
In 2014 the are used to deliver audience growth digital sports media group in the very Bundesliga to exploit across the Opta Group will look to launch the ePlayer including search engine optimisation, important US market: In 2014, the Group will continue and RunningBall data services.
in Russia and expand its own in-house social marketing and integration, new Opta significantly strengthening to launch Goal and Livesport.
tv advertising sales teams across a range languages, new platforms and user its position in the provision of sports across a range of new connected of territories.
A dedicated content to the media sector: and platforms and build audiences across team of digital market analysts is Voetbalzone creating a leading socialplatforms.
charged with continuing to deliver player in the Dutch digital sports audiencegrowth.
The Group has a strong balance sheet with cash of 101 million and net funds of 53 million at the year end and will continue to consider strategic acquisition opportunities.
16 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Financial Governance Statements Strategic Report Strategic drivers 1 2 3 4 5 Enhance digital sports Expand geographically Grow the audience Pursue complementary Launch on new rights portfolio strategic acquisitions digitalplatforms The acquisition of Sporting Compelling content is at the heart of Since 2008 the Groups strategy With its wholly and majority owned The Group has three categories of The Groups strategy is to develop News created a top seven the Groups products and services has been to expand its business websites, including Goal, Sporting target acquisition: products and delivery solutions player in the digital US sports media market.
and ultimately drives the Groups geographically both organically News and Mackolik, and its ePlayer Local Champions: strong single for all digital platforms including revenues and profitability.
In 2014 the are used to deliver audience growth digital sports media group in the very Bundesliga to exploit across the Opta Group will look to launch the ePlayer including search engine optimisation, important US market: In 2014, the Group will continue Goal, the Groups flagship and RunningBall data services.
tv Direct to Consumer advertising sales teams across a range languages, new platforms and user its position in the provision of sports across a range of new connected site, is available across a growing number of of territories.
A dedicated content to the media sector: and platforms and build audiences across digitalplatforms.
team of digital market analysts is Voetbalzone creating a leading socialplatforms.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17
