Corporate Financial Governance Statements Strategic Report Growth strategy: Pursue complementary 4 strategic acquisitions The Group acquired four businesses in 2013.
The Group has three categories of March also saw the Group take a major target acquisition: step into the US sports media space Strategy in action with the acquisition of Sporting News.
Local Champions: strong single The combination of SportingNews.
territory digital sports media com, Goal.
com and the US ePlayer businesses that are similar in their positioned the Group as a top seven product or service offering to multi-platform sports media business In July 2013 Perform acquired the Group: in the US and importantly added an Opta and strengthened its Direct to Consumer platforms: local or experienced and well-connected sales position as a leading player in global sports portals and destination team.
Since acquisition the Group has the provision of sports content sports websites: and moved advertising sales in-house, to the media sector.
Complementary Products: digital appointed a highly experienced Chief sports products such as sports data, Revenue Officer and re-launched social gaming and fantasy.
the Sporting News iOS tablet and .
For all acquisitions, by leveraging the Groups content portfolio, international In June 2013, the Group acquired the sales teams and technology platform, assets of Ad Networks KK which had revenue growth and profitability can been the Japanese advertising sales bemaximised.
agent for the Group in Japan.
In March 2013, the Group announced In July 2013, Perform completed the the acquisition of Voetbalzone, the acquisition of Opta, a market leader in number one independent football site collecting, packaging, analysing and in the Netherlands.
The acquisition distributing sports data in digital format complemented the Dutch launch of to the media, betting and professional ePlayer in 2012 and Perform is now sports sectors.
The acquisition the number one digital sports media complements Performs existing content network according to comScore.
Since distribution business and in particular launch the Group has put in place a strengths the Groups position in the sales team and secured content deals provision of sports content to the media with Ajax, FC Twente, NEC Nijmegen sector.
Since acquisition, Performs and Ado Den Haag.
global sales team are now selling Opta and there has been a significant commercial integration and marketing push to promote Opta and Omnisports joint World Cup offering.
The Directors are satisfied with the financial performance of theacquisitions.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25
