Business reviews from page 28 Industry leading approach The Group creates and distributes sports content that millions of fans around the world interact with everymonth.
Through unrivalled content collection, production and distribution capabilities alongside industry leading digital products, the Group generates revenues through a mix of licencing content, advertising, subscription and technology and production service fees.
every relevant sporting fixture and schedule the most Plan effective coverage strategy content using a global network of content collators, news Collect crews, outside broadcast and third-party feeds this content through a team of content producers that Produce create quality outputs in multiple formats and languages content via a range of dynamic solutions with embedded Distribute rights management the content through a portfolio of world-class business to Productise business and direct to consumer products these products to ensure they are relevant and enhanced Regionalise for local markets these products via licence fees, advertising and Monetise subscription revenues 6 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Financial Governance Statements Strategic Report Advertising & sponsorship Advertising & sponsorship Content distribution display video 133m 28m 20m YOY growth of 43% YOY growth of 54% YOY growth of 48% 2012: 93 million 2012: 18 million 2012: 13 million Subscription Technology & production 14m 13m YOY growth of 15% YOY decline of 10% 2012: 12 million 2012: 15 million Content distribution The Group owns digital sports media rights to over 200leagues, tournaments and events and utilises this rights portfolio alongside the Groups own video, data, editorial and audio content to deliver a range of B2B products which are licensed to betting and media clients around theworld.
Advertising & sponsorship display Advertising & sponsorship video The Group generates advertising and sponsorship revenues The Group generates video advertising and sponsorship through the sale of display advertisements on the Groups revenues through the sale of pre-roll video advertisements own branded websites and mobile products including Goal, on its video-on-demand VOD broadcast platform, the the worlds largest football website, Sporting News and ePlayer.
The ePlayer is embedded on the websites of over Mackolik.
In 2013, the Group had an average of 90million 1,500 leading publishers and sports portals in 26territories.
monthly unique users across its owned direct to consumer In 2013, five billion videos were streamed and 2.4billion predigital sports products.
The Group also sells advertising for roll adverts were sold.
The Groups VOD content portfolio a network of third-party digital sports products including included some of the leading sports properties around the Premier Leagues officialwebsite.
the world including: National Football League NFL, Major League Baseball MLB and the National Hockey League NHL in the US, Serie A in Italy and La Liga in Spain.
Subscription Technology & production The Group generates subscription revenues from The Group generates technology and production consumers paying monthly or annual fees to watch internet revenues from a range of clients by: designing, building delivered live video and video-on-demand sports content and managing websites and mobile products on behalf of via Livesport.
tv and a range of third-party subscription sports rights holders: ingesting, encoding and streaming products that the Group powers on behalf of football clubs, live and on demand content on behalf of sports rights sports bodies andbroadcasters.
holders and broadcasters and by filming and editing sports matches for rights holders.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 7
