Vision and growth strategy page 16 Growth strategy: Grow the audience 3 The Group seeks to grow its audience direct access to consumers allows improved engagement, better product development and more targeted monetisation.
With its wholly and majority owned Mackolik delivered 27 million average websites, including Goal, Sporting monthly unique users, whilst in Germany Strategy in action News and Mackolik, and its ePlayer the audience grew by two million to network the Group has actively fivemillion on Spox.
fide, sought to grow its audience and with Soccerways audience growing by increase the size of its direct to 34%.
In Holland we grew our audience consumer D2C sourced revenues.
by two million monthly unique users Perform is either the This direct access to consumers allows through the acquisition of Voetbalzone.
number one or number two improved engagement, better product sports video network in development and improved and more Video remains an important part of the thefollowingmarkets.
Groups audience growth strategy and 2013 saw the launch of ePlayer into two The Groups own display network new territories including Mexico and Argentina had 90 million average monthly Brazil.
Key content deals were either unique users in 2013 2012: 54 million.
newly secured or renewed in the US Brazil Following a significant re-development NFL, MLB and NHL, Italy Serie A and re-brand in preparation for the 2014 and Mexico Primera Liga.
The ePlayer World Cup, Goal increased its audience now sits on over 1,500 publisher sites Canada to 43million in 2013 compared to and will undergo a significant technical 37million in2012.
re-development and re-launch in 2014 France in order to enhance its functionality 2013 also saw Perform take a major step forpublishers.
into the US market with the acquisition Italy of Sporting News, one of Americas oldest sports media brands and a Japan leading online and mobile player in the sports display space.
The acquisition of Sporting News combined with ePlayer Malaysia meant that Perform attracts an average of 18 million US unique users per month Netherlands in 2013, up from six million in2012.
Spain UK USA Source: comScore, January 2014 24 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
