Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 24 Creating homes for all lifestyles Isis, Portishead, Somerset Charles Church Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 25 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 26 Operational performance review continued provision of 102.8m 2012: 151.3m which we Balance sheet consider appropriate given our assessment of The total net assets of the Group increased by 671.4p the land and work in progress carrying values 52m during 2013 to 2,046m 2012: 1,994m.
in the context of current market uncertainties This 3% increase largely reflects the capital Net assets per share and their potential impact on both future discipline which lies at the heart of the Groups revenues and direct costs.
The Notes to 2012: 658.2p long term strategy, with the bulk of the Groups the Accounts in our Accounting Policies at after tax earnings of 257.2m being returned Note 2, our Critical Accounting Judgements to shareholders by way of the first payment of at Note 3, Exceptional Items at Note 6 and surplus capital under the Capital Return Plan.
Inventories at Note 18, include further details of our approach to inventory impairment.
This payment was made via a B C share plan.
This share plan allowed each shareholder to At 31 December 2013 the value of our elect to receive the payment of 75 pence per investment in work in progress totalled share either as income as a dividend or as 463.5m 2012: 443.1m.
This level of work capital as an allotment and redemption of B in progress represented just 22% of 2013 shares.
Shareholders elected to take 151.2m revenues 2012: 26% reflecting the strong level as dividends and 76.7m in cash redeemed B of control exercised by management over site shares as capital, a total Capital Return Plan activity against a backdrop of a large step up payment of 227.9m.
The retained earnings in construction activity.
This industry leading were added to by an after tax remeasurement asset turn performance is a key ingredient gain of 5.8m associated with the pension in supporting superior cash generation and scheme surplus of 23.5m and share-based return on capital.
Management will continue payments of 17.0m.
to use strong production control to minimise operational and financial risk.
This capital discipline, together with the strong improvement in operating profit, The Groups Available for sale financial resulted in the underlying return on capital assets represent deferred receivables from employed for 2013 improving by 44% to 17.6% shared equity loans provided to our customers.
The carrying value of this receivables portfolio was 215.4m at 31 December 2013 Net assets per share increased to 2012: 202.9m.
With the introduction of 671.4pence, an increase of 2% year on the Government sponsored Help to Buy year 2012: 658.2pence.
measures across the market in 2013 the At 31 December 2013 the carrying value Group anticipates a much reduced need from of the Groups land assets was 1,637m, customers for this Persimmon sponsored an increase of 141m over the prior year support.
This reflects further strong assets are disclosed in Notes 17 and 22 to investment in acquiring over 17,700 consented the Accounts.
plots during the year and the net write back During 2012 and 2013 the Group executed of a stock impairment provision by 14.1m a number of pension scheme liability 2012: 2.8m.
management measures as well as undertaking The Board has reviewed the carrying value an asset backed funding transaction on of land and work in progress for impairment 21 December 2012.
In addition to the at the year end adopting identical principles contributions paid into the scheme, these to prior years.
With stability of selling prices measures have provided additional security experienced throughout 2013, the Board to all members of the Groups defined benefit concluded that the element of provision which pension schemes.
The Group has adopted the was being held to cover potential future price Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits weakness of 6% should be released now that from 1 January 2013 as explained in Note 1 conditions have provided greater confidence to the Accounts.
At 31 December 2013 the in current pricing.
The net exceptional Group had a net pension asset of 23.5m 2012: credit on the face of the income statement of net pension liability 4.1m.
The Groups 14.1m reflects a gross reversal of provision liability associated with the asset backed no longer required of 22.0m and additional funding transaction undertaken in late 2012 requirement of 7.9m.
Of the 22.0m gross is 55.4m 2012: 57.8m and is recognised as reversal, 13.3m is in relation to provision a Partnership Liability in the Group balance for future price weakness no longer required.
Further details are disclosed at Note 30 At the year end we retained an impairment to the Accounts.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 27 operate within the context of our longer term Treasury policy and business modelling which sets the longer related risks 235.5m term parameters by which our strategy will The long term strategy of the Group be delivered.
requires management to maintain flexibility Free cash generation The Group employs dedicated risk between investment in the asset base of the 2012: 178.0m management resources within a well business and the delivery of cash returns to developed risk management programme Net cash flow before financing activities.
The requirement for flexibility which targets the strengthening of key controls recognises the cyclicality of the UK housing in the business to mitigate the impact of risk market.
We believe this will support the on the operational and financial performance successful development of the business of the Group.
Operational management are at through the market cycle over the long term, the forefront of the Groups processes which whilst ensuring the financial position of the address the risks the business faces daily.
Group remains strong and superior returns are delivered for our shareholders.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The disciplined approach to risk mitigation Details of the Groups financial instruments and strong cash flow management will ensure and financial risk management are included in the Group is able to pay its liabilities as they fall Notes 20 and 22 to the financial statements.
due securing the Groups strength as a going concern, underpinning its ability to deliver the Summary planned shareholder returns.
The Group has performed strongly in 2013.
The long term strategy announced in early Management increased build rates rapidly 2012 which undertakes to return 1.9bn of from the second quarter of the year to levels surplus capital to shareholders demonstrates that satisfied the significant increase in the Boards commitment to capital discipline customer demand and accelerated the Groups through the housing cycle.
We remain firmly of the opinion acceleration of these payments underlines that so long as our customers receive the the Boards commitment to remain flexible appropriate level of lending support then we in striking the appropriate balance over will be able to deliver the new homes they wish time as the business and markets develop.
to buy in high quality locations.
The generation of increased annual earnings, adjustments to the Groups equity and The growth in output and substantial new debt and cash management facilities, and land investment committed in 2013 for the changes to the planned shareholder capital future demonstrates the ambition of the returns provides flexibility which will allow Group for the further successful development management the appropriate level of capital of Persimmon over future years.
The Group support through the housing cycle to execute enjoys a very strong financial position its operational programmes.
with excellent strategic land holdings with improving prospects of planning success, and The Group faces a number of financial risks generates significant free cash inflows with including credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate which to successfully develop this land in the volatility and debt capital market pricing risk.
This will deliver superior cash returns The Board remains focused on maintaining to our shareholders over the long term.
strong liquidity with gearing being used only to support short term working capital needs The rapid rate of growth achieved in 2013 has as determined by the Groups annual trading been secured whilst overcoming a number of pattern.
A small group of banks with whom important challenges.
These challenges have we have long term relationships provide only been addressed by each of our businesses the Group with a 300 million revolving remaining firmly focused on the customer credit facility for working capital purposes.
We are particularly This facility is available for a five year term pleased with the strength of team spirit maturing 31 March 2016. across our business, with colleagues working hard to support each other effectively and The Groups disciplined approach to risk efficiently in delivering new homes to our management is supported by strong internal customers promptly.
reporting procedures which are structured for the early identification of potential risks On behalf of the Board we thank all the as they arise.
Monitoring and forecasting Persimmon team for all their hard work and processes enable management to take prompt look forward to their continued success in action to control and mitigate risks as the future.
These shorter term measures Mike Killoran Group Finance Director 24 February 2014
