Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Directors statements Directors responsibilities Going concern The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
affect its future development, performance and position are set out The Directors have chosen to prepare the financial statements in in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 65.
The financial position of the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Company, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are The Directors are also responsible for the preparation of the Directors described in the financial review on pages 47 to 49.
In addition, note 29 remuneration report, which they have chosen to prepare, being to the financial statements include the Companys objectives, policies under no obligation to do so under Jersey law.
The Directors are also and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management responsible for the preparation of the corporate governance report objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and under the Listing Rules.
its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Jersey Company law the Law requires the Directors to prepare The Company has considerable financial resources together with financial statements for each financial period in accordance with long-term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers generally accepted accounting principles.
The financial statements across different geographic areas and industries.
As a consequence, are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage the Company at the period end and the profit or loss of the Company its business risks successfully.
The Directors have a reasonable for the period then ended.
In preparing these financial statements, the expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in Directors should: operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual t TFMFDU TVJUBCMF BDDPVOUJOH QPMJDJFT BOE UIFO BQQMZ UIFN DPOTJTUFOUMZ financial statements.
"t NBLF KVEHFNFOUT BOE FTUJNBUFT UIBU BSF SFBTPOBCMF Responsibility statement under the Disclosure and t TQFDJGZ XIJDI HFOFSBMMZ BDDFQUFE BDDPVOUJOH QSJODJQMFT IBWF CFFO Transparency Rules adopted in their preparation Each of the Directors listed on pages 68 and 69 confirms that, to the t QSFQBSF UIF mOBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT PO B HPJOH DPODFSO CBTJT VOMFTT JU JT best of their knowledge: inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business t UIF ""OOVBM 3FQPSU BOE ""DDPVOUT UBLFO BT B XIPMF JT GBJS CBMBODFE and understandable and provides the information necessary for The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy."
and as such as to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the t UIF mOBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT QSFQBSFE JO BDDPSEBODF XJUI '34 HJWF B financial statements prepared by the Company comply with the Law.
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and taken as a whole: and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
t UIF 4USBUFHJD 3FQPSU DPOUBJOFE PO QBHFT UP JODMVEFT B GBJS The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of view of the development and performance of the business and the corporate and financial information included on the Companys the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the website.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board Directors approach The Boards objective is to present a fair, balanced and understandable Tim Weller assessment of the Companys position and prospects, particularly Chief Financial officer in the annual report, half year report formerly the interim report and other published documents and reports to regulators.
The Board has established an Audit Committee to assist with this obligation.
