Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Our global presence Today our projects span 29 countries and we continue to extend our footprint.
Careful geographic expansion is one of our strategic priorities helping us to engage with more customers, develop new capabilities, establish additional teams, and diversify our business.
Our marketplace Despite continuing economic uncertainty, USA Training at NASAs Johnson Space Center global demand for oil and gas remains strong.
In partnership with Raytheon Company, we And, as long-term energy consumption deliver survival training to the oil and gas continues to escalate, hydrocarbons are set industry at NASAs Johnson Space Center tocontinue to play a significant role.
This level of long-term demand, coupled with the natural decline in existing production, creates a need for large-scale investment in oil and gas infrastructure.
As a result, commercially innovative, integrated oileld services will become more sought after which promises to build long-term sustainable Mexico earnings for our Group.
Magallanes and Santuario oil elds Since we took over the blocks in February The 11 highlighted projects showcase some 2012, production levels have increased by of our successes as well as our distinctive 45%.
Building on this success we took over delivery-focused culture.
operations on two more contract areas in2013.
For more information on For more information see: our market outlook see: page 32 pages 24 to 27 Algeria Alrar project In 2013 we were awarded a 32-month EPC contract with Italian contractor Bonatti.
Together, we will extend the life of the Alrar gas eld in southeast Algeria for Sonatrach.
For more information see: page 38 Nigeria OML119 In December 2013, together with Taleveras, we established a risk-based support agreement to provide financial, technical, and capacity and capability building support for NPDCs offshore block OML119.
For more information see: page 46 04 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 UK North Sea Kittiwake production platform For more than a decade we have been the Duty Holder at Kittiwake.
Since taking over, we have increased production, improved safety and enhanced asset integrity.
German North Sea Offshore wind commissioning support In July 2013, we secured a contract from For more information see: page 39 Siemens Energy to provide support during the commissioning phase of two offshore wind converter station platforms.
For more information see: page 40 Turkmenistan Galkynysh gas eld development The Galkynysh gas eld development is Petrofacs largest engineering, procurement and construction project to date.
For more information see: page 23 Iraq Maintenance services In August 2013, Gazprom Neft Badra B. V. awarded us the contract to provide maintenance engineering and execution plus support services on the Badra oil eld.
For more information see: page 41 Oman Sohar renery improvement project In November 2013, in a joint venture with Daelim Industrial, we were awarded a US$2.1 billion contract for engineering, procurement, construction, start-up and commissioning services at the Sohar renery.
For more information see: page 38 Abu Dhabi Malaysia SARB3 project Block PM304 In April 2013, we won the tender for anew Block PM304 was originally classed as a US$500 million engineering, procurement, marginal resource that was too challenging construction and installation EPCI contract.
We took control in 2004, and it Onbehalf of the Abu Dhabi Marine Operating is now among Malaysias largest oil elds.
Company ADMA-OPCO, we will develop a new eld off the northwest coast of Abu Dhabi.
For more information see: For more information see: page 44 page 40 05
