Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Our business model Petrofac is an oileld Our main commercial models services company.
Engineering, Construction, Operations &Maintenance Reimbursable services Cost plus KPIs Working across the international oil and gas Where the cost of our services is reimbursed Often our reimbursable contracts will include industry, we help our customers unlock the full by the customer plus a margin.
The majority incentive income linked to the successful value of their energy assets.
of services provided by Engineering & delivery of key performance indicators KPIs, We design and build new oil and gas facilities.
Consulting Services and Offshore Projects for example, Duty Holder projects like the We manage and maintain existing facilities.
& Operations are remunerated on this basis.
Kittiwake Platform in the UK North Sea We also enhance the performance of more for EnQuest.
And we develop Lump-sum turnkey and train our customers people to work Onshore Engineering & Construction more effectively.
and Offshore Capital Projects undertake Operating onshore or offshore, our service engineering, procurement and construction lines can be delivered on a stand-alone basis EPC projects predominantly on a lumpor integrated, under a range of commercial sum or xed-price basis, for example the models so that our own interests are aligned Galkynysh project in Turkmenistan.
It is our people that make Petrofac.
We aim to attract, develop and retain the very best talent in the industry.
And, guided by a clear set of Petrofac values, we nurture a distinctive, delivery-focused culture.
Our vision is to be the worlds most admired oileld services company.
Engineering & Consulting Services Petrofacs centre of technical engineering and including conceptual studies, front-end engineering excellence.
From ofces across the Middle East and design FEED and detailed design work, for and North Africa, CIS, Asia-Pacic, Europe and onshore and offshore oil and gas elds and facilities.
The Americas, we provide engineering services Commercial model across the life cycle of oil and gas assets.
Our teams execute all aspects of engineering, Onshore Engineering & Construction Onshore Engineering & Construction delivers Commercial model onshore engineering, procurement and construction Lump-sum turnkey.
We are focused Project examples: Badra oileld development, predominately in the Middle East, Africa and the Iraq: ASAB onshore oileld development, Abu Caspian region of the CIS.
Dhabi: Galkynysh gas plant, Turkmenistan.
Offshore Projects & Operations Offshore Projects & Operations specialises in both Commercial models offshore engineering and construction services, Reimbursable services and Cost plus KPIs.
for greeneld and browneld oil and gas projects, Project examples: Bekok-C platform and the provision of operations and maintenance refurbishment, Malaysia: inspection, support, onshore and offshore.
maintenance and repair contract, Iraq: Apache engineering and construction services, UK.
Training Services Our global training business manages and operates Commercial models on behalf of our customers, 14 training facilities in Reimbursable services.
six countries and delivers around 250,000 training Project examples: Hi-Con survival training days annually.
We work with customers to assess at NASAs Johnson Space Center, Houston: capability needs and build programmes to develop Petrofacs Survival and Marine training centres competent, safe and efficient workforces.
08 Train Operate Build Design Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Integrated Energy Services Risk Service Contracts RSC Production Enhancement Contracts PEC Equity Upstream Investments We develop, operate and maintain a eld, We are paid a tariff per barrel for the Upstream Investments through Production while the resource holder retains ownership enhancement of oil and gas production above Sharing Contracts PSC, Concession and control of their reserves.
Often, we will an agreed baseline and therefore have no Agreements and Equity, of which Block co-invest in the development and will be direct commodity price exposure.
PECs are PM304, the Chergui eld and the Greater reimbursed based upon our performance.
appropriate for mature elds which have a Stella Area development are examples.
An example is the Berantai project in long production history.
Our contracts are We will typically have some production and Malaysia.
RSCs typically have low exposure to long-term, for example, 15 years on the Ticleni commodity price exposure.
commodity prices and reservoir performance.
contract in Romania and 25 years for the Magallanes and Santuario blocks in Mexico.
Project examples: In Salah Gas and In Amenas consultancy, design and procurement services, Algeria: Lakach project management contract, Mexico.
Commercial models Offshore Capital Projects Developments Risk Service Contracts RSC and Equity Offshore Capital Project focuses on executing Integrates our engineering, project management Upstream Investments.
engineering, procurement, construction and and operating capability to lead the development installation EPCI projects offshore.
of customers assets working under commercial Project examples: Berantai development, models which align us with resource holdersneeds.
Commercial model Malaysia RSC : Greater Stella Area, UK Equity Lump-sum turnkey.
Project example: SARB3 project, Abu Dhabi.
Production Solutions Provides customers with a wide range of services Commercial model to help improve production, operational efficiency, Production Enhancement Contracts PEC.
asset integrity and the ultimate recovery of reserves Project examples: Magallanes and Santuario, from their assets.
09 r i s k E m f f a e n c a t g i v e s e e m i t e i l n i t b a d p n a a c p g e e n i D n e d i w d L e o l i c v Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Our business model continued Why our customers work with us Deep and widening Guided by a clear set of values, Petrofac has capabilities adistinctive, delivery-focused culture.
The Petrofac story is We are a exible, entrepreneurial,  by the steady, centric business.
And we always look for disciplined expansion of our innovative ways to meet customers needs capabilities enabling us to by sharing and managing their risk, aligning access new markets and our performance with their goals, enhancing meet the evolving needs of asset performance and developing their own our customers.
Operating onshore or Its all about understanding our customers, offshore, across a range drawing on our breadth of capabilities, and of geographies, we have adapting our approach.
amassed a full range of skills and capabilities including At the heart of everything we do, the design, engineering, six Petrofac values guide our decisions construction, consulting, and behaviour: procurement, project Safe management, operation, maintenance and training, Ethical as well as drilling and Innovative subsurface expertise.
Responsive Any of our service lines can Quality and cost conscious be offered on its own or we Driven to deliver can integrate them enabling us to design and build oil and gas facilities or operate and manage assets fully on our customers behalf.
See our case study on A distinctive, Berantai Malaysia one example of an integrated delivery-focused culture delivery, involving aspects from the initial design through to training the local workforce.
page 13 10 e a r l y h c a o r p e p v i a t l a a v i o c n r n e I m m O o e p x c e c r e a l l t e i n o c n e a l Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Operational excellence Local delivery Effective risk Innovative commercial At Petrofac we have Wherever possible, we deliver management approach a relentless focus on locally by employing local Risk management is We offer a range of operational excellence.
people, working with local fundamental to the Petrofac commercial models each of partners and suppliers, and proposition by working to which is designed to recognise From the moment we decide developing local capabilities.
reduce risk in our customers our customers commercial to bid on a project, the projects, and effectively goals and reward Petrofac for discipline begins.
A team is This commitment to local managing risk within our the value we bring.
assembled, a tailor-made delivery and development is own operations.
execution plan is developed, a key consideration for many Depending on customer risks are identied, suppliers customers.
It also enables us For customers, we fide-risk needs, we can operate are sourced, and a member of to work more cost-effectively.
From the moment on a xed price lump-sum the management team takes As we establish footholds we choose to bid on a basis.
We can also link our full responsibility.
in new markets, it supports project, we look for ways to remuneration to certain goals.
provide greater certainty, In the case of a Production With a clear understanding of share financial risks, Enhancement Contract, we cost and complexity, we can Our training business is and align our respective can collect a tariff on the then bring best-in-class, oncore to our strategy and commercial interests.
production improvements we time delivery.
At every step of our capability facilitating make.
Or, where we can draw the way, formal reviews bring our entry into new markets, Within our own business, we on our full range of capabilities, incremental improvements cementing long-term customer seek to ensure that risks are we can co-invest in upstream to our overall approach.
relationships, and earning trust anticipated and addressed or infrastructure projects.
Every time we identify a better from the communities in which thanks to pre-investment way of doing things, we aim to we operate.
in the quality of our bids, a We are also innovative in implement it across the Group.
commitment to efficient and keeping our own costs down effective project delivery, and a with disciplined procurement This level of rigour is reected hands-on management team.
practices, for example, in everything we do.
We have or smart ways of phasing never lost money on a lumpPetrofacs management and our projects.
sum engineering, procurement employees hold a significant and construction project, shareholding in the business which we believe speaks for which means we think like our track record.
shareholders, with a focus on the long-term success of the business.
See our case study on See our case studies on See our case study on See our case study on Galkynysh Turkmenistan Berantai Malaysia, El Berantai Malaysia to Magallanes and Santuario at US$3.4 billion, our Merk Algeria, Galkynysh get a feel for how we Mexico to appreciate largest ever EPC project, Turkmenistan and minimised execution risk, how our commercial delivered against the Magallanes and Santuario and nanced the project models have contributed most aggressive of Mexico each of which via an innovative Risk to around 45% increase in schedules.
relied on us nurturing Service Contract.
production since we took page 23 local capabilities and page 13 over operations of the training thousands of blocks in February 2012. local employees.
page 32 pages 13, 23, 32 and 51 See our case study on ElMerk Algeria to get asense of our disciplined procurement practices.
page 51 11 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Our business model in action 12 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Integrated service delivery showcasing Fully integrated capabilities from across Petrofac our range of capabilities really fast-track delivery.
And first gas was Berantai gas eld development, 21 months produced just 21 months after the final Malaysia investment decision.
to produce the first gas The Berantai project is an offshore gas eld development involving investment of around We also devised an innovative commercial US$1 billion.
Risk Service Contract approach, which takes the form of a Risk Service Contract.
Our customer, PETRONAS, aligning our respective interests For the first time, our Integrated Energy retains full ownership of its resources, and Services IES division and our Engineering, Petrofacs returns are directly linked to project Construction, Operations & Maintenance delivery.
So our respective interests are ECOM division deployed their respective perfectly aligned.
US$1bn capabilities on a single integrated project.
This enabled us to do everything from the a significant development The success has reinforced our credentials in initial conceptual engineering right through to programme the Asia-Pacic region and we are working the commissioning and ongoing management with PETRONAS on plans to continue to of the facility.
invest in the Berantai eld.
One of the things that set the project apart was the customers tight timescales.
With a full range of in-house capabilities we could 13 13
