ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2013 enterpriSe inFraStructure increaSing eFFiciency in netWOrK inFraStructure anD Data centreS The growth of smart devices and the desire for users to access information anywhere at any time is increasing the amount and richness of content that is transmitted, processed and stored.
Over the next five years we estimate a 12-fold increase in mobile data traffic.
cHarlene marini increasing capability within the ARMs Cortex-A9 was our first processor vice President of Embedded Segments enterprise, without increasing to offer the performance and sustained energyuse throughput to be suitable in networking Charlene joined ARM in 2004 and has held multiple equipment or servers.
Platforms based on marketing roles in the Group.
Today, Charlene When combined with the emergence Cortex-A9 started shipping in 2012 and the leadsa team that is focused on enabling the ARM of other intelligent devices wearables partnership and ecosystem across multiple momentum has continued with Cortex-A15 computers and machine-to-machine embedded verticals including networking, based devices that started shipping in communications becoming connected to the automotive, home, general embedded and the 2013, demonstrating the performance, network, we expect that the total amount Internet of Things.
functionality and system reliability required of data transferred and stored will continue for these markets.
The arrival of chips based to grow.
on the ARMv8 architecture broadens the An increase in data requires more networking use of ARM technology into even more capacity and more capable networking enterprise applications.
functionality across carriers, operators and Over the last few years, most of the major enterprises.
More data also requires more chip providers for enterprise networking servers in data centres, especially cloudandcarrier equipment have announced based providers for storage and social ARM-based chips for this market, including networking sites.
Altera, Broadcom, Cavium, Freescale, IBM, If the technology used in current infrastructure HiSilicon, LSI, Texas Instruments and Xilinx.
were to remain the same, then an increase In February 2013 several leading carrier in capacity would require a similar increase equipment providers announced ARM-based in energy consumption.
The electricity bill solutions for base stations including Huawei for carriers is already amongst their biggest and Nokia Solutions Networks.
These companies are therefore not ARMs market share in carrier and enterprise just looking for more performance but also networking was 5%, with two companies improved energy efficiency.
However, based on design wins and the plans of OEMs to ramp production of low-power equipment over the next few years, we estimate that ARMs share in 2018 will be in the range of 25-35%, as outlined opposite.
34 Our Vision Our performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report 15 LICENCES SIGNED BY ARM FOR ENTERPRISE NETWORkING ANDSERvERS IN 2013.
Several leading OEMs who develop servers, have already announced that they are working on ARM-based servers including Dell and HP.
By identifying a specific server workload, it is For ARM technology to gain share in the 2018 Chip T AM Chip value Target opportunity m $bn penetration possible to integrate many of the companion server market some critical software needs to chips into a single chip, creating a System-onbe ported to support the ARM architecture.
Replacing data transfers In several segments many of the applications Infrastructure 80 $4.5 60% between different chips to transfers within run on Linux, or Java which ARM and its Wireline an integrated chip and adding designed-forpartners have already optimised.
As ARMInfrastructure 60 $2.5 30% purpose hardware functions dramatically based chips become available, other software Corporate reduces power consumption and equipment applications will be ported and optimised.
In some applications more than Several leading OEMs who develop servers Cable 90% of the energy can be saved.
For the have already announced that they are working Broadband companies ARM is targeting, this approach on ARM-based servers, including Dell and HP.
WLAN 260 $2.0 30% delivers savings in terms of acquisition and Other 60 $3.0 20% This development will enable ARM Partners running costs.
to start to gain share in 2014, and by 2018 we Total 1,400 $18 25-35% During 2013, Applied Micro Circuits expect to have more than a 10% share of the Corporation announced that it had server market.
ARM-based chips for the server market are manufactured the first ARMv8 architecturealso in development.
ARM and its Partners based chip for servers, and Advanced Micro are initially focusing on companies with Devices and Cavium, Inc. announced that hyperscale deployments where the server they would have ARMv8-based chips in is a critical business asset.
Baidu, Inc. a leading Chinese web providing cloud infrastructure as a service services company, announced that they were and web services, the server can be both a deploying the first ARM-based storage server revenue driver and a major source of costs.
in their data centre, and that the low-energy For many social networking sites, the server is chips would enable higher storage density and just a cost: they make their revenues through reduce their total running costs by 25%.
For both types of companies reducing the cost of owning a server is key to improving their profitability.
As some of the servers within these companies have become dedicated to smaller set of workloads, it has enabled opportunities for semiconductor companies to develop workload-specific chips.
