ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2013 mOBile cOmputing Better mOBile experienceS Smart mobile devices are making the world a more connected place.
Smartphones and tablets are becoming more affordable, and wireless high-speed networks are covering the majority of the global population, connecting us all to each other, to our lives at work, school and play, and to our digital lives.
This is enabling innovation as entrepreneurs create new products andservices, new ways of working and new business models.
The mobile revolution is connecting a changing world.
JameS Bruce Smartphones and new mobile Mid-range smartphones are also forecast to Director of Mobile Solutions computing devices are creating grow rapidly with a cumulative total of opportunities for innovators and two billion devices sold over the next five James has led ARMs Mobile Segment Marketing entrepreneurs years.
A mid-range smartphone needs to have team since 2013.
He and his team maintain the same functionality as the most advanced relationships throughout the mobile value chain, In many developed countries the penetration including influential handset OEMs, network devices launched 1-2 years previously.
rate of smartphones and mobile computers operators and major software developers for Premium mobile devices are still forecast is already very high, and replacement rates mobiledevices.
to grow at about a 5% CAGR, and will still are typically 24 years.
In many fast-growing make up about 20% of the market in 2018. and emerging economies the smartphone Here competition will be based on the most penetration rate is much lower and advanced technology, giving consumers growing rapidly.
2013 was the first year that amazing experiences with new features smartphones outsold feature phones, and and capabilities.
there are now over 2 billion people using smart mobile devices.
To meet the needs of such a diverse market, ARM has developed a family of processors Many of the next billion people to connect and graphics technology that provides tothe internet will live in Asia.
Already different levels of capability and performance, entry-level smartphones, which includes all whilst minimising size which reduces chip cost smartphones costing less than $150 without and improves battery life.
subsidy, have reached price points as low as $35, and tablets can be purchased for ARMs Cortex-A family of processors is less than $50.
Over the next five years, it is used in almost every smartphone and tablet estimated that entry-level smartphones will computer.
This includes the tiny Cortex-A5, grow at about a 20% CAGR with over which is used in some Android phones and one billion forecast to be sold in 2018. provides sufficient computing for entryLower cost handsets require lower cost level smartphones costing as little as $35.
components, so ARM has developed very In premium mobile computers you may find small processors that balance the need for a high-performance Cortex-A15 processor, capability with cost.
which provides a complete computing experience in products such as the Samsung Galaxy Note 3 and the HP Chromebook.
32 Our Vision Our performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report Entry-level smartphones, costing less IN 2013 WE SAW than $150, are expected to grow to over half the market by 2018.
THE FIRST MOBILE COMPuTING DEvICES BASED Mix of smartphones in 2018 ON ARMS NExT Entry-level 1,050 GENERATION ARMv8 Mid-range 500 Premium 350 ARCHITECTuRE.
THIS INTRODuCES EvEN BETTER HIGHPERFORMANCE AND POWER EFFICIENCY.
Yulong Coolpad 7231 Source: Gartner, January 2014, and ARM forecasts entry-level smartphone In 2013 we saw the first mobile computing As with ARMs processor, Mali offers a The opportunities are huge, especially when devices based on ARMs next generation range of scalable solutions that are being mobile technology is combined with smart ARMv8 architecture.
This introduces even used in $35 smartphones all the way to sensors embedded into the fabric of the higher performance and greater power- $500 smartphones and tablets.
Many of world around us, creating an Internet of efficiency, as well as adding faster multimedia the companies that license a Cortex-A class Things.
These new businesses and business and improved security.
We also saw the first processor also use our physical IP models will generate jobs and wealth, helping consumer products based on ARMs new big.
technology to help create the most efficient to make the world a more creative and LITTLE technology.
LITTLE system implementation, and so get the most out of productive place.
we have combined a big high-performance their processor investment.
Mobile computing via smartphone and processor with our most power-efficient The increasing penetration of smartphones tablet is helping to connect everybody and LITTLE processor.
By ensuring that each and tablets is creating new opportunities for everything together, which is generating task or application is run on the correct innovators and entrepreneurs.
Other devices new opportunities for businesses all over processor, devices can deliver both improved can now be connected and controlled via the world.
ARMs broad range of highperformance and even lower power.
A fitness application such as performance and low-power technologies we think that many smartphones and mobile the Fitbit or Pebble smart watch can connect will provide a common platform for much computers will adopt both big.
LITTLE to the internet via a smartphone.
use our tablets to control the thermostat in ARMs Mali graphics and physical IP is also rooms throughout the house, and check the being used in many mobile computing performance of solar panels on the roof, devices.
Semiconductor companies in China even when travelling home.
New businesses already use Mali graphics processors in and business models are being created to about 75% oftheir chips for mobile devices.
offer us information whenever we need it.
Beyond China, both Mediatek and Samsung Streetline directs car drivers to the locations announced that they were using Mali graphics of available parking spaces across a city.
in their chips for high-end mobile applications.
Farmers and fishermen can get local market information to get the best price for their produce, which is especially useful in rural or developing regions.
Smartphones and tablets are helping us effortlessly to connect and control the digital world around us.
