ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2013 Our BuSineSS mODel HOW anD WHere We maKe mOney ARM is the worlds leading semiconductor intellectual property IP supplier.
The technology we design is at the heart of many ofthe digital electronic products sold in the world.
ARM has an innovative business model.
We license our technology to a network of Partners, mainly leading semiconductor companies.
Our Partners incorporate ourdesigns alongside their own technology tocreate smart, energy-efficient chips.
ARM designs technology ARM licenses technology for energy-efficient chips to SemiCo Partner Licence fee 1.
ARM designs technology to go into 2.
The semiconductor company will energy-efficient chips for a broad range of incorporate the ARM technology design into end markets.
ARM licenses each design their chip.
It can take 23 years to build a to multiple semiconductor companies.
chip and a further year for an OEM to build Every company pays an upfront licence fee their product, such as a digital TV or mobile to gain access to the design.
When the chip starts to ship, ARM receives a royalty on every chip that uses the design.
Typically our royalty is based on the price of the chip.
16 Our Vision Our performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report Why semiconductor companies technologies that are suitable How arm creates value use arm technology for the arm business model ARM endeavours to recover its costs from ARM designs technology that would be ARMs licensing business started in the early the licence revenues of each technology, difficult and expensive for our Partners R&D 1990s with the development of our first leaving the majority of royalties to be teams to develop for themselves.
The processor is like the brain of reinvested back into the business or to cost effective for our Partners to license the chip: it is where the software runs and be returned to shareholders.
Over the the technology from ARM than to develop it controls the functionality of the product.
medium term, we expect ARM to become it internally.
The design of a processor ARM designs each processor to be applicable more profitable as our partners design our or a library of physical IP requires a large to a broad range of end markets to maximise technology into a broader range of end amount of R&D investment and expertise.
the number of Partners that can license each markets.
As our customers include the We estimate that a major semiconductor processor and to maximise the number of worlds largest semiconductor companies, company would need to spend over markets in which the Partner can deploy their regular royalty payments have become $100 million every year to develop their that technology.
This represents more than In most years ARM introduces 23 new $20 billion of annual costs for the industry.
Over the past ten years, By designing once and licensing many times, ARM has developed other technologies ARM spreads the R&D costs over the whole suitable for our licensing and royalty business industry, making digital electronics affordable model, such as graphics processors and and therefore available to more and more physical IP components.
Both of these people across the world.
technologies are now licensed widely and aregenerating royalty revenues.
Business development Partner develops chips OEM customer builds ARM technology in the using ARMs designs consumer products hands of millions Per chip royalty 3.
Each ARM design is suitable for a wide range 4.
ARMs flexible business model has proven of end applications and so can be re-used to be suitable for different technologies, in different chip families addressing multiple end products, licensing strategies and a markets.
Each new chip family generates a broad range of ecosystem Partners.
An ARM design may be used in many different chips and mayship for over 20 years.
