Strategic report ouR StRatEgy Playtechs strategy of organic development, targeted acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures has enabled it to maximise opportunities created by the significant changes in the online gambling industry.
The industry is moving towards locally regulated markets as governments see the implementation of gambling taxes and the sale of regulatory licenses as significant revenue streams.
Land-based and digital channels are converging as regulatory authorities issue gambling licenses to land-based operators for both traditional and online offerings.
Through being able to offer a full turnkey solution, Playtech is able to partner with established operators and new entrants to take advantage of these opportunities.
Mobile gambling is one of the most significant growth drivers of the global online gambling industry.
Playtechs mobile hub has combined the established Mobenga mobile sports betting solution with other gambling products.
This combination uniquely positions the Company to capitalise on further developments in this sector.
Mobile gambling is essential to Playtechs future success and we have invested heavily to develop the next generation of products, maximising new functionality on tablets and smartphones, while continuing to roll out products across all mobile platforms, including Android, Apple iOS and HTML5.
OUR PROgRess AgAinst OuR stRAtegic ObjectiVes in 2013 Support organic growth Enhance the Companys leading position: In 2013, Playtechs licensees achieved like for like growth of 7%, in line increase product, service and distribution with the growth of the underlying global market.
The breadth and depth of capability Playtechs offering enables Playtechs licensees to run some of the most Playtechs strategy as the leading technology provider in the online successful online gambling businesses.
gambling industry, is to offer all product verticals across all distribution channels.
Playtech invests to expand its offering to support its licensees Cross sell products and services with new technologies, avenues to market and products e. g. the mobile On average, Playtechs licensees take a limited number of products.
hub, virtual racing, binary options, social gaming.
There is a trend for larger licensees e. g. Gala Coral, Ladbrokes and Paddy Power to leverage Playtechs IMS and take more products from Playtechs improve quality of earnings through greater product suite, enhancing their cross sell ability.
Playtech also supports its regulated market penetration licensees as they enter new markets.
Playtech is focussed on growing its presence in regulated markets, attract new licensees inoreasing the proportion of regulated revenue to 36% in 2013 from 34% in 2012.
Future regulation will provide an opportunity to increase this Playtech has enjoyed a successful track record of attracting proportion further and the Group continues to work on progressing in approximately5-10 new licensees every year, attracted by our regulated markets such as our recent agreement with Holland Casino.
market-leading product and service offering, the unique capabilities of theIMS and support for both establlshed and new operators in acquisitions remain key regulatingmarkets.
Playtech has an outstanding acquisition track record, investing in new technology, exciting content, and new products.
Companies have mostly been acquired on an earn-out basis, enabling Playtech to leverage its existing business and licensee base to create strong synergies.
Playtech is focused on making further, similar bolt-on acquisitions.
Given the Groups ability to generate cash and strength of its balance sheet following the sale of its stake in William Hill Online, the Board is seeking transformational M & A opportuinities to take the business to the next level.
see pages to 22 27 for more detail Playtech plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The biggest prize in Gladiator Jackpot history of 2,374,847.22 to a lucky winner from the United Kingdom.
Amir Askarov, Playtechs Head of Casino, commented, I congratulate the lucky player on this astonishing jackpot win on Gladiator Jackpot.
We take pride in the strong content and features of our slots and jackpots and are delighted to enable licensees to offer players the opportunity to win huge prizes through an expanding games portfolio.
LARGEST PROGRESSIVE GLADIATOR JACKPOT OF 2.37 mIllIOn Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17 financial statements governance strategic report
