Strategic report ouR maRkEtPlaCE Online gAmbling deVelOPment The market continues to benefit from Playtechs presence as a sport betting regulation, improved broadband systems provider is in its infancy, having The online gambling market developed in penetration and capacity, mobile launched its first licensee in late 2012. the mid-1990s, first with online casinos penetration, a growing number of market However, over 2013 it grew 61%, driven and then with poker from 1998.
In 2004 participants, and greater acceptance of by the launch of a further four licensees.
the gambling market, which includes online gambling as a mainstream leisure This product vertical presents a significant casino, poker, bingo, sports betting, pastime.
Since the passing of the Unlawful opportunity for Playtech given that sports skill based gaming and lotteries, was Internet Gambling Enforcement Act in betting represents over 40% of the total estimated by H2 Gambling Capital as 2006, which outlawed online gambling interactive gambling market, and sports generating gross gambling revenues of in the US, the main focus of established betting isoften the first product to be approximately 8.4 billion.
This value has operators has been on Europe and in regulated.
Playtechs offering is recognised almost tripled since then, to an estimated particular on markets where legislation as being superior to that of many of its total of 26.2 billion in 2013.
The online allows various forms of online gambling on competitors or in-house built products, market represents around 8% of overall a locally regulated basis.
due to its flexibility, speed to market, gambling including land based operations.
connectivity to the best back-end platform The average gross win per adult in the and tools and multi-channel capabilities.
interactive space is 75, which has mARket grown by 35% since 2004, mainly due to For 2014, H2 Gambling Capital estimates The largest interactive market by player increased popularity, the introduction of that the global online gambling market location is currently the United Kingdom, cross sell enhancements and increased will grow by approximately 12% to which accounts for over 15% of the overall accessibility supported by new technology.
This compares favourably interactive market.
to the rate of growth in the land-based Playtech has limited penetration in sport, gambling market which is forecast to grow lottery and skill-based gaming, which at approximately 4%.
It is estimated that make up a significant proportion of the onshore market will increase by 24% the market.
Factors driving expected online gambling growth in 2014 include further market regulation, the football World Cup and further shifts in revenue from land based operations to online.
Global Online Gambling market Fy13 6 5 1 Europe 47.6% 2 Asia Middle East 28.8% 4 3 North America 14.9% 3 4 Oceania 6.0% 1 5 Latin America Caribbean 2.0% 26.2bn 6 Africa 0.7% 2 2 Source: H2 Gambling capital Playtech plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Universal Studios.
1 3 4 5 6 RegulAted mARkets regulated and soon to be regulated uk tAxAtiOn markets are substantial as a broad range The regulation of online gambling can be The UK is Playtechs largest single market of operators look to participate.
a catalyst for market growth, depending by revenue earned.
At the end of 2014, on how regulation is introduced, what The tax regime within a jurisdiction and the the UK government is expected to product verticals the regulator allows and products that are permitted are material introduce a new taxation regime, moving the tax rate applied.
Once regulated, new factors in determining whether online from a domicile of operations basis to operators are attracted to the market.
gambling is likely to be commercially a place of consumption POC basis.
These include retail gambling outlets, attractive in the longer term.
The UK is a highly fragmented market lotteries and land-based operators place with the six largest gambling The implementation of regulation is who have historically been unwilling to operators all of which are Playtech expected to remain a key focus for market operate online in an unregulated format.
licensees enjoying a significant market participants and an important driver of Many online operators may decide to share, with the remainder of the market online gambling revenue growth over establish themselves onshore, further being shared by a large number of smaller the medium term.
Opportunities exist leveraging their market exposure, creating operators.
Many smaller operators are as markets move from a dot.
com to significant opportunities for Playtech.
understood to generate operating margins a dot.
national regime, although some lower than the expected tax rate of 15% uncertainties through the transition period The ability to advertise more freely across and in the view of industry experts, will are expected.
a broad range of media formats, such as struggle to compete.
Larger operators TV and online, raises awareness of online Over recent years there has been can rely on economies of scale and their gambling as a leisure activity and drives considerable momentum in countries leading brands to remain competitive.
an increase in player interest, which is also regulating or looking to become regulated Analysts expect that in 2015 the UK underpinned by a perceived safer player in online gambling, and in 2013 regulation market will undergo significant change led environment.
It is the combination of these was introduced in various new markets as by consolidation, as those operators with factors that have led to growth in players part of a very clear trend of new regulation.
the strongest brands, best technology and and revenues in markets such as the UK Countries around the world continue to means to invest in marketing will prevail.
For Playtech with its unique, regulate, using as a model, the experience comprehensive, multi-channel offering, of other countries that have already the opportunities across a range of newly undergone regulation.
Onshore versus offshore gambling 2018e 2017e 2016e 2015e 2014e 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Onshore Offshore Source: H2 Gambling capital Source: H2 Gambling capital Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19 Financial statements Governance strategic report Strategic report ouR maRkEtPlaCE CONTINUED cOmPetitiVe lAndscAPe Gtech G2 and IGT interactive.
Playtechs R&D costs these suppliers have the breadth or depth vary from year to year, but are generally The most prevalent single alternative of Playtechs offering.
in the region of 17% of overall software to outsourcing to specialist technology revenue.
This development investment is providers such as Playtech, is for Most B2B software suppliers offer content financed by revenue generated from 120 operators to use their own proprietary across a limited number of product licensees, making the cost of development software and platform, which while verticals, including Net Entertainment, much lower for licensees than trying to do currently accounting for around 30% Blueprint Gaming and Evolution Gaming.
Operators also benefit from of the total online gambling market, Recognising that around 50% of Playtechs product development through two way management believe is an increasingly operators have migrated across from feedback with Playtech.
another supplier, Playtech enables third Playtech enjoys significant scale parties to supply game content through Experience advantages by being able to deploy its GTS platform, benefitting operators by As Playtechs scale has increased over significant operating and development enabling them to continue to offer their the 14 years since its incorporation, its expertise in a flexible manner to its 120 most profitable games and derive the knowledge, expertise in regulated markets, licensees, including the top-10 European benefits of Playtechs IMS platform.
and operating platform have enabled and UK online gambling operators.
operators to make the transition into new Playtechs aim is to offer all product markets more quickly.
PlAytechs cOmPetitiVe AdVAntAges verticals across all distribution channels on Scale Liquidity an integrated platform that offers a single wallet and sign-on.
Playtech is also the One of the most significant barriers to entry The increased scale of Playtech has only supplier that can offer sophisticated into the B2B market is scale.
New B2B allowed it to develop superior software marketing and operational services to drive operators or licensees are not able to to its competitors, offer greater liquidity player acquisition and retention via a range undertake significant product development in the bingo and poker markets, provide of flexible and modular approaches from a as they lack economies of scale.
This is higher progressive jackpots for players and turnkey solution to an equity joint venture even more apparent in new channels supply its operators with a more powerful to a structured agreement.
This enables coming to market such as mobile, or new proposition through its IMS platform.
operators to offer their players a true products such as virtual racing.
Other competitive barriers around multi-channel approach across landTechnology Playtechs business include expertise in the based digital mobile creating the ultimate services environment marketing, hosting The Playtech operating system allows player journey.
and affiliates management, long term upgrades and new features to be rolled out There are a limited number of other B2B contracts and established relationships to every operator from a single platform, so software suppliers that offer a platform with licensees.
allowing all operators the benefit of a more solution including Microgaming, Amaya, Global Online Gambling market split Fy13 6 1 Sport Betting 5 2 Casino 4 3 Poker 1 3 4 Bingo 5 Skill 6 Lotteries 2 Source: H2 Gambling capital 2 Playtech plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 1 3 4 5 6 tRends Convergence of Online and Land-Based Playtech has focused much of its recent development efforts on ensuring that A significant industry trend is the growing Mobile it is able to deliver functionality, player convergence of land-based and online The number of mobile devices in use management and content across the market segments.
This is principally as a grows every day, and increasing numbers full range of distribution channels, and to result of many new entrants in regulated of players are choosing mobile sports both drive and benefit from this trend of online markets being existing land-based betting and gaming for the convenience convergence.
It has proactively developed gaming, betting and lottery operators, who it brings.
the most sophisticated server-based already have a substantial local presence, Playtech launched its mobile sport offering gambling systems: created unique well-recognised brands, existing player in 2011, following the acquisition of capabilities in TV and broadcast: and databases and familiarity with the local Mobenga and it has grown to become cutting-edge mobile and online products.
market leader in the UK, Europe All managed by a single operator platform Historically separate in their philosophy and Australia.
with a single player wallet across all and systems, there has been a formats.
During 2013, Playtech launched In 2012, Playtech launched the Mobile fundamental shift in both market segments its first licensee with a unified offering Hub, a customisable open framework towards common techniques for player across its entire player estate and looks designed to integrate content and provide attraction and retention, such as VIP to extend that offering to further operators players with a seamless user experience levels and loyalty schemes.
Operators are in 2014. on mobile devices.
Players can access an becoming more aware of the importance operators full gambling offering on their The gambling industry is undergoing of player retention and of incentivising the smartphones or tablets through a single fundamental structural changes and player on an individual basis regardless branded interface.
It can also be managed Playtech is determined to remain a of channel.
The retention of players and via a centralised management system.
market leader in providing technology the ability to cross sell them onto other and services to the broadest range of With over 300 mobile developers, Playtech products provides an opportunity for industry participants with a strong focus on is at the forefront of mobile development.
operators, but also presents substantial regulated business.
In 2013, only 7% of revenue was technical challenges for them.
generated by mobile, presenting a major future growth opportunity.
It is forecast by H2 Gambling Capital that mobile interactive gambling will grow at 38% in 2014, and this growth is estimated to continue at above 25% for the next three years.
Mobile gambling continues to be one of the most significant growth drivers of the industry.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21 Financial statements Governance strategic report
