governance REmunERation REPoRt Hilary Stewart-Jones, On behalf of the Remuneration Committee dear shareholder I am pleased to present the directors remuneration report for the year to 31 December 2013 to shareholders on behalf of the Board.
This is my first report to shareholders as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, having taken over from Alan Jackson on 9 October 2013 and I would like to thank him for his contribution and for his support since stepping down.
Business Performance This has been another important year in the development of Playtech, with the Group receiving approximately 424 million for the Groups stake in William Hill Online, following completion of a valuation process.
This outcome delivered a cash-on-cash return of more than 3.5 times including the share of profits received and excluding software royalties.
In recognition of the significant value created by this transaction, the Board announced a special dividend to shareholders on 20 February 2014.
The underlying performance of the business has also been very strong in the year, with revenues increasing 16% and adjusted EBITDA for the year, excluding the contribution from William Hill Online, increasing by 17%, well ahead of the targets set by the Board at the outset of the financial year.
This exceptional outcome has been achieved through the efforts of a talented leadership team.
Philosophy Our remuneration policy, which is set out in more detail in this report, is designed to reward the contributions of senior management but also to incentivise them to maintain Playtechs position as the software and services provider of choice to the gambling sector.
As a company operating in the gambling sector, Playtech takes its social responsibilities seriously and our remuneration policies reflect a continued commitment to responsible gambling through our own and industry initiatives.
Remuneration is delivered via modest fixed remuneration and incentive-based remuneration enabling the executives to be rewarded for delivering superior financial performance and returns to shareholders.
The Committee believes these measures reinforce the Companys strategy to create a business with significant scale and a full product and service capability, underpinned by a pre-eminent technology platform.
In common with many remuneration committees, we have been particularly conscious of the environment for pay in listed companies.
We have monitored closely the policy statements received from our shareholders and have sought to respond to the Governments consultations on executive pay.
This report, as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code introduced by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 the Code, describes how the Board has applied the principle of the Code to directors remuneration.
On 1 October 2013, the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills implemented new Directors Remuneration Regulations in the UK, which require companies incorporated in the UK to disclose additional information surrounding remuneration.
Although Playtech is an Isle of Man incorporated entity and as such is not required to comply with the new UK regulations, we recognise the importance of shareholder transparency.
In that regard, the Company intends to comply with the new UK regulations and the report below is divided into a section that reports on the implementation of the Companys stated remuneration policy and a section setting out the Companys remuneration policy for approval.
Given the strong financial performance of the business, the delivery of a substantial return on investment from William Hill Online and the other important strategic steps that the Group has taken through the year, the Remuneration Committee considered that the executive directors had satisfied both the financial targets and the other strategic objectives given to them for the year, including strengthening the Groups regulatory functions and ethical policies.
Accordingly, a maximum bonus has been approved by the committee.
No material changes are proposed to the remuneration policy from that presented last year.
Further details of the Companys remuneration policy and structure are provided in the report.
We believe that the remuneration policy and incentive framework we are putting in place is working well to support the Companys strategy in the current economic environment, is helping to retain and motivate our management team and is helping to drive strong returns for our shareholders.
Separate resolutions will be put to shareholders at the annual general meeting on 21 May 2014 inviting them to approve the remuneration policy and the implementation report.
Hilary Stewart-Jones Playtech plc On behalf of the Remuneration Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
