governance diRECtoRS REPoRt The directors are pleased to present to shareholders their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013.
PRinciPAl ActiVities & business ReVieW The Groups principal activities are the development and licensing of software and the provision of ancillary services for the online and land-based gambling industries.
The Company changed its name from Playtech Limited to Playtech plc on 8 May 2013 following a special resolution passed at the annual general meeting on that date.
Playtech plc is a public listed company, listed on the London Stock Exchange: it is incorporated and domiciled in the Isle of Man.
The information that fulfils the requirement for a management report as required by Rule 4.1.
5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules applicable to the Company can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 41, which also includes an analysis, using financial key performance indicators, of the development, performance and position of the Companys business.
A statement of the key risks and uncertainties facing the business of the Company at the end of the year is found on pages 34 and 35 of this report & accounts and details of the Companys risk management objectives and policies and the use of financial instruments is set out in Note 29 to of the financial statements.
Details of all important post-balance sheet events affecting the Company and its subsidiaries are set out in Note 30 to the financial statements.
cORPORAte gOVeRnAnce stAtement The Disclosure and Transparency Rules require certain information to be included in a corporate governance statement in the Directors report.
Information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate governance statement can be found in the Corporate Governance report on pages 44 to 53 and is incorporated into this report by reference.
disclAimeR The purpose of these financial statements including this report is to provide information to the members of the Company.
The financial statements have been prepared for, and only for, the members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
The Company, its directors and employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
The financial statements contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of these financial statements and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this document should be construed as a profit forecast.
Results And diVidend The results of the Company and the Group for the year ended 31 December 2013 are set out on pages 79 to 110.
On 20 February 2014, the Board declared a second interim dividend of 34.1 pence sterling per share, equivalent on that date to 41.1cents per share as a special dividend and recommended the payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 15.4 cents per share which were both paid to shareholders on the register as at 28 February 2014.
The payment of the final dividend requires shareholder approval which will be sought at the Companys annual general meeting to be held at the Sefton Hotel, Loch Promenade, Douglas, Isle of Man on 21 May 2014.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 23 May 2014 and together with the interim dividend of 7.8 cents per share paid on 28 October 2013 and the special dividends of 34.1 pence sterling per share paid on 11 March 2014 makes a total dividend expressed in euros of 64.3 cents per share for the year.
Shareholders who wish to receive their final dividend in a currency other than euros will be required to return currency election forms to the Companys registrars by 2 May 2014.
Currency election forms are contained with the notice of annual general meeting that accompanies the Annual Report and further copies available from the Companys website www.
Playtech plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 gOing cOnceRn The following statement has been included in accordance with the Listing Rules: Based on the Groups cash balances and normal business planning and control procedures, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
diRectORs And diRectORs inteRests The directors of the Company who held office during the 2013 year and to date are: Appointed Resigned Roger Withers 28.03.2006 09.10.2013 Alan Jackson 28.03.2006 Mor Weizer 02.05.2007 Andrew Thomas 19.06 2012 Ron Hoffman 31.12.2012 Hilary Stewart-Jones 09.10.2013 The interests of the Directors who held office during 2013 and to date, in the share capital of the Company are set out below: Ordinary shares As at 31.12.13 As at 31.12.12 2 3 no.
Shares Percentage Mor Weizer nil nil Ron Hoffman nil nil 1 Roger Withers 19,333 0.008% 19,333 0.008% Alan Jackson 5,000 0.002% 5,000 0.002% Andrew Thomas 7,500 0.003% 7,500 0.003% Hilary Stewart-Jones nil n a 1 Roger Withers resigned from the board on 9 October 2013.
2 Based on 290,236,870 ordinary shares in issue on 31 December 2012.
3 Based on 293,189,408 ordinary shares in issue on 31 December 2013.
Details of the service agreements of the directors are shown in the remuneration committee report on pages 60 and 61.
No director had a material interest in any significant contract, other than a service contract or contract for services, with the Company or any of its operating companies at any time during the year.
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in place under which the Company has agreed to indemnify Alan Jackson and Roger Withers who held office during the year ended 31 December 2013, to the extent permitted by law and by the Companys articles of association, in respect of all liabilities incurred in connection with the performance of their duties as a director of the Company or its subsidiaries.
Copies of these indemnities are available for review at the Companys registered office.
significAnt shARehOldings As of 20 February 2014 the Company had been advised of the following significant shareholders each holding more than 3% of the Companys issued share capital: 1 Shareholders % no.
of ordinary shares Brickington Trading Limited 48.99 143,645,782 Capital Research 6.05 17,751,675 Greenlight Capital 3.76 11,029,476 Standard Life Investments 3.09 9,049,943 Legal and General 3.06 8,984,257 1 Based on 293,198,111 ordinary shares in issue on 31 January 2014.
The persons set out in the table above have notified the Company pursuant to Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of their interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 71 Financial statements Governance Strategic report governance diRECtoRS REPoRt CONTINUED cAPitAl stRuctuRe As at 31 December 2013 and 31 January 2014, the Company had 293,189,408 and 293,198,111 respectively issued shares of no par value.
The Company has one class of ordinary share and each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company and to participate in any dividends declared in accordance with the articles of association.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital.
The authorities under the Companys articles of association granted at the last annual general meeting for the directors to issue new shares for cash remains valid until the forthcoming annual general meeting when it is intended that a resolution will be put forward to shareholders to renew the authority to issue shares for cash.
The Company did not acquire any of its shares during the year.
ARticles Of AssOciAtiOn The Companys articles of association do not contain any specific restrictions on the size of a shareholders holding.
Voting rights Subject to any special rights or restrictions as to voting attached to any shares by or in accordance with the articles of association, on a show of hands every member who is present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote and on a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
Restrictions on voting No member shall, unless the Board otherwise determines, be entitled to vote at a general meeting or at any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares, either in person or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him or to exercise any right as a member unless all calls or other sums presently payable by him in respect of that share have been paid to the Company.
In addition, any member who having been served with a notice by the Company requiring such member to disclose to the Board in writing within such reasonable period as may be specified in such notice, details of any past or present beneficial interest of any third party in the shares or any other interest of any kind whatsoever which a third party may have in the shares and the identity of the third party having or having had any such interest, fails to do so may be disenfranchised by service of a notice by the Board.
Transfer Subject to the articles of association, any member may transfer all or any of his or her certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The Board may, in its absolute discretion, decline to register any instrument of transfer of a certificated share which is not a fully paid share or on which the Company has a lien.
The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: i it is delivered for registration to the registered agent, or at such other place as the Board may decide, for registration: and ii accompanied by the certificate for the shares to be transferred except in the case of a transfer where a certificate has not been required to be issued by the certificate for the shares to which it relates and or such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to prove the title of the transferor and the due execution by him of the transferor, if the transfer is executed by some other person on his behalf, the authority of that person to do so, provided that where any such shares are admitted to AIM, the Official List maintained by the UK Listing Authority or another recognised investment exchange.
Amendment of the Companys articles of association Any amendments to the Companys articles of association may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution.
Appointment and removal of directors Unless and until otherwise determined by the Company by ordinary resolution, the number of directors other than any alternate directors shall not be less than two and there shall be no maximum number of directors.
Powers of Directors Subject to the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006, the memorandum and articles of association of the Company and to any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Playtech plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Appointment of Directors Subject to the articles of association, the Company may by ordinary resolution appoint a person who is willing to act to be a Director, either to fill a vacancy, or as an addition to the existing Board, and may also determine the rotation in which any directors are to retire.
Without prejudice to the power of the Company to appoint any person to be a Director pursuant to the articles of association, the Board shall have power at any time to appoint any person who is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board, but the total number of directors shall not exceed any maximum number fixed in accordance with the articles of association.
Any Director so appointed shall hold office only until the next annual general meeting of the Company following such appointment and shall then be eligible for re-election but shall not be taken into account in determining the number of directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
Retirement of Directors At each annual general meeting one-third of the directors excluding any director who has been appointed by the Board since the previous annual general meeting or, if their number is not an integral multiple of three, the number nearest to one-third but not exceeding one-third shall retire from office but so that if there are fewer than three directors who are subject to retirement by rotation under this Article one shall retire.
Removal of Directors The Company may by ordinary resolution passed at a meeting called for such purpose or by written resolution consented to by members holding at least 75 per cent.
of the voting rights in relation thereto, remove any director before the expiration of his period of office notwithstanding anything in the articles of association or in any agreement between the Company and such director and, without prejudice to any claim for damages which he may have for breach of any contract of service between him and the Company, may subject to the articles by ordinary resolution, appoint another person who is willing to act as a director in his place.
A director may also be removed from office by the service on him of a notice to that effect signed by all the other directors.
significAnt AgReements There are no agreements or arrangements to which the Company is a party that are affected by a change in control of the Company following a take-over bid, and which are considered individually significant in terms of their impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
RelAted PARty tRAnsActiOns Details of all related party transactions are set out in Note 27 to the Financial Statements.
POliticAl And chARitAble dOnAtiOns During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Company made a charitable donation of 100,000 to the Great Foundation and a donation of 70,000 to GamCare, charities that fund research into and treatment of problem gambling, and made further, smaller donations to a variety of charities operating in countries in which the Companys subsidiaries are based.
The Company made no political donations during this period 2012: nil.
emPlOyees Information with respect to the Groups impact on the environment and other matters concerning sustainability can be found on pages 36 to 41.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully and fairly considered, bearing in mind the aptitude and ability of the applicant concerned.
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to keep them informed of matters affecting them as employees and on the performance of the Group and has run information days for employees in different locations across the Group during the year.
Many employees are stakeholders in the Company through participation in share option plans.
Information provided by the Company pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules is publically available via the regulatory information services and the Companys website, www.
gReenhOuse gAs emissiOns All disclosures concerning the Groups greenhouse gas emissions are contained in the Corporate responsibility report forming part of the Strategic report on pages 36 to 41.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 73 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
