governance boaRd oF diRECtoRS alan Jackson aged 70 mor Weizer aged 38 Ron hoffman aged 37 Chairman Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer appointment to the board: appointment to the board: appointment to the board: Alan was appointed to the Board in Mor was appointed as Playtechs Chief Ron was appointed as Playtechs Chief 2006 on the Companys flotation on the Executive Officer in May 2007.
Financial Officer on 1 January 2013, having Alternative Investment Market and became joined the Group in 2004.
Career: Chairman in October 2013 following the Prior to being appointed CEO, Mor was Career: retirement of Roger Withers.
the chief executive officer of one of the Ron is a qualified accountant and worked Career: Groups subsidiaries, Techplay Marketing at Ernst & Young where he rose to the Alan has over 30 years experience in Ltd. which required him to oversee the position of Senior Manager.
Ron joined the leisure industry.
From 1973 to 1991, Groups licensee relationship management, Playtech shortly after its formation.
he occupied a number of positions at product management for new licensees He spent eight years at Playtech as Whitbread, principally as managing and the Groups marketing activities.
Vice President of Finance, managing director of Beefeater steakhouse and also Before joining Playtech, Mor worked for the finance department, including its the Whitbread restaurant division where Oracle for over four years, initially as a listing on AIM in 2006, the transition to he was responsible for the creation and development consultant and then as a the Main Market in 2012 and supporting development of the Beefeater, Travel product manager, which involved creating the growth of the business through its Inn and TGI Friday brands and was sales and consulting channels on behalf operations, acquisitions, financial planning responsible for Whitbreads international of Oracle Israel and Oracle Europe, the and reporting.
In 1991, he Middle East and Africa.
Earlier in his career, Skills, competences and experience: founded Inn Business Group plc, which he worked in a variety of roles, including Ron brings over ten years experience was acquired by Punch Taverns plc in as an auditor and financial consultant for and expertise in relation to the online 1999.
He has been Chairman of The  and a system gambling industry.
He is responsible for Restaurant Group plc since 2001.
He is analyst for Tadiran Electronic Systems the finance, tax, treasury and accounting also Deputy Chairman and Senior NonLimited, an Israeli company that designed teams at Playtech and provides strategic executive Director at Redrow plc.
and operational financial experience Skills, competences and experience: Skills, competences and experience: to the Group including in relation to Having held several board positions in both Mor is a qualified accountant and brings investment arrangements.
an executive and non-executive capacity in considerable international sales and board committees: a variety of listed companies in the UK, he management experience in a hi-tech Ron sits on the Management Board brings substantial experience of working in environment and extensive knowledge of and attends meetings of the Audit public and private companies, along with the online gambling industry.
Until June Committee and the Risk & Compliance strategic and leadership experience.
2013 he was a non-executive director Committees at the invitation of the chairs board committees: of Sportech PLC as the Companys of those committees.
He is chairman of the Nominations representative, and resigned when Committee and a member of the Playtech disposed of its shareholding.
Remuneration, Audit and Risk & board committees: Compliance Committees.
He chairs the Management Board and attends the Remuneration, Risk & Compliance and Nominations Committees at the invitation of the chairs of those committees.
Playtech plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 hilary Stewart-Jones aged 52 andrew thomas, aged 71 non-executive director Senior non-executive director appointment to the board: appointment to the board: Hilary was appointed to the Board in Andrew was appointed to the board in June October 2013.
2012, shortly before the companys admission to the main list.
Career: Hilary is a qualified solicitor, and worked Career: in-house at Labrokes plc becoming head Andrew has enjoyed a career as an of the in-house gambling division before accountant and businessman, much of joining the law firm Berwin Leighton which within the leisure industry.
Andrew is Paisner LLP as a Partner in 2000. currently chairman of Randalls Limited, a She joined DLA Piper in 2011, and will family owned pub company in Jersey, where remain a consultant with the firm when he lives.
Andrew previously served as sheleaves the partnership in May 2014.
Chairman of the The Greenalls Group plc Ms. Stewart-Jones is recognised as a and as a Non-executive Director of a number leading international expert in gambling of private and public companies.
He is the law and has over 15 years experience founding partner of the Cheshire-based advising companies on gambling accounting firm, Moors Andrew Thomas & related issues.
Andrew is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales Skills, competences and experience: and a member of the Institute of Taxation.
Hilary brings considerable expertise in the regulation of online gambling around Skills, competences and experience: the world, having advised many leading Andrew combines many years detailed companies in the sector, as well as in legal experience of advising on taxation matters generally.
She enjoys an excellent matters, with financial expertise both as a relationship with many of the key industry Chartered Accountant and sitting as a nonregulators and is a regular speaker on executive director of a number of publically gambling law and regulation.
board committees: board committees: Hilary is chair of the Remuneration Andrew chairs the Audit Committee, which Committee and of the Risk & Compliance oversees the work of the internal auditors and Committee and sits on the Audit sits on the Remuneration, Nomination and Committee and Nominations Committee.
He is also the Senior Independent NonExecutive Director.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
