Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Governance 80 81 Governance Corporate Governance Audit and Risk Committee report continued Upon appointment, Directors receive a full induction, including: Full terms of reference of the Nomination Committee reviewed and recommended for approval Polymetals information about the Company: an outline of the role of are available at the Companys website: results for the six months to 30 June 2013: a Director and a summary of his or her responsibilities and www.
discussed and approved the Committee work plan: ongoing obligations under legislation, regulation and best supervised compliance with the Companys anti-bribery practice: a copy of the Memorandum on Inside Information, The Board considers that the composition of the Board and and corruption policy: Insider Lists and Code of Practice on Dealing in Securities.
the Nomination Committee complies with the requirements reviewed the treasury policy and recommended its approval Directors also receive the Companys guidelines on matters of the UK Code.
by the Board: reserved to the Board, terms of reference of the Board Committees and other governing documents of the Company.
Board evaluation reviewed the Groups internal audit plan and monitored Directors and chairmen of the Board Committees regularly Polymetal is committed to best practice in corporate the effectiveness of internal audit: receive updates on changes to corporate governance governance and commissioned its first  reviewed the Groups external audit plan and recommended and regulatory requirements and other changes affecting Board review in 2013.
This was performed by Lintstock Ltd. for approval the interim and year end audit fees: the Company.
The Board is kept informed of relevant an independent advisor with no other connection to the reviewed the actual audit fee in 2013 compared developments in the Company by way of monthly management Company.
The Board carried out a performance evaluation to the authorised amount: reports, including comprehensive information on operating of itself, its Committees, the Chairman and each individual approved the terms of engagement, including the and financial performance and the progress of capital Director.
In accordance with the UK Code, it is the Boards engagement letter issued at the start of each audit projects.
A field trip to the Amursk POX plant and Albazino policy that the evaluation process will be externally facilitated Dear Shareholders and the scope of the audit: for non-executive Directors took place in August 2013. every three years.
In 2013 the regulatory environment became more reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the external demanding and the Committees approach reflected this, There were two meetings of the Nomination Committee in The evaluation process consisted of the Board reviewing its auditor: reviewed non-audit work performed by the auditors: with its ongoing focus on active management of risks and 2013.
In 2013 the Nomination Committee organised a full own performance, the performance of each Committee of the robust internal control.
During the year, a new effectiveness recommended the reappointment of Deloitte LLP externally facilitated Board evaluation, full details of which Board, individual Directors and the Chairman.
All Directors and as external auditor: framework for the assessment of the Committees work are set out further on this page.
the Company Secretary completed detailed questionnaires was implemented.
reviewed the critical risks and exposures of the Group, on the basis of which a report was produced for the Boards including significant judgements, impairments and tax risks: At its meetings the Committee continued discussing diversity review.
In-depth discussion of the results took place at the Negative market movements prompted a more rigorous and ways of helping to promote women in the Company.
meetings of the Committees of the Board and subsequently reviewed the capability of the Groups finance team: and approach towards key financial statements risks, namely The Board welcomes diversity at all levels: it believes that at a Board meeting.
Each individual director including the performed an  assessment of the impairments and underlying assumptions.
We also the right way to approach diversity is not to introduce fixed Chairman and the CEO, did not fill in questionnaires on their Committees effectiveness.
strengthened our financial internal controls team, with quotas, but to seek the right qualities in every appointment, own performance and were not present at the subsequent the aim of enhancing the quality of the reporting function where competence comes first.
Diversity becomes an discussion of their performance.
Areas of review included: In line with the Companys overall approach to governance, to the Committee and the Board.
additional advantage of such an approach and is in line with Board composition, Board expertise, Board dynamics, time we have instilled a strong culture of discipline throughout our the Companys objective of promoting women at all levels management, Board support, Board Committees, strategic business, and are confident that we have a strong system In addition, the Committee has an ongoing responsibility of the Group.
Despite challenges presented by the industry oversight, risk management and internal control, succession of flexible processes which enable the Committee for the review, evaluation and stewardship of the Companys the Company operates in, it takes steps to promote women, planning and human resource management and priorities to operate effectively.
risk management processes to minimise the strategic risks including hiring women in positions traditionally held by men.
to the business identified by the Board, of which market risk In 2013, the proportion of women working in the Group We as a Committee remain fully focused on being an effective is currently our top priority.
Women represent 11% of Board members: The majority of areas were rated very highly with all areas key body scrutinising the reporting, internal control and risk 22% of senior management positions: and 44% of qualified receiving at least adequate feedback.
Top priorities for the management processes in order to ensure transparency The Audit and Risk Committee is a fully independent body, employees.
The audit under taken in 2013 by the HR Board over the coming year were identified as: focusing and objectivity of the Companys financial statements.
consisting only of independent non-executive Directors Department revealed no instances of discrimination towards on strategy: understanding the views of investors and with relevant skills and experience in financial reporting employees of the Company.
All candidates and employees shareholders: and succession planning.
The top strategic and risk management.
have equal opportunities regardless of gender, age, race, issues facing the Company were identified as: replacing and nationality, language, origin, wealth, residence, religion growing reserves: M&A: commodity prices: cost control: In 2013 six meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee were and other beliefs, social membership or other the investor base: and maintaining the dividend.
held and further business conducted by the Committee was personal circumstances.
approved by written resolutions on five additional occasions.
Jonathan Best The Board will continue to perform an annual Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee During the year the Nomination Committee reviewed existing self-evaluation to assess its effectiveness and identify The Audit and Risk Committee dealt with the succession planning arrangements in the Company and held development requirements.
following matters: interviews with senior managers to discuss matters that reviewed and recommended for approval financial and needed to be addressed to ensure continued effective risk information included in the Annual Report 2012: performance through leadership continuity.
Methods of building up the leadership pipeline were discussed including whether stronger candidates for senior management positions should be those with fluent English and some experience and or education outside Russia along with experience of working in Russia and the CIS.
The Nomination Committee acknowledges that a deeper and more rigorous approach to succession planning is vital for the Companys continuing success so that leadership is fully aligned to corporate strategy, both at Board and senior management levels, and will continue addressing this matter in the future.
Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Governance 82 83 Governance Audit and Risk Committee report continued Audit and Risk Committee The Audit and Risk Committee monitors the Companys An auditor assessment tool is completed each year by each The Chairman of the Audit Committee makes himself available The Audit and Risk Committee is chaired by Mr Best and relationship with its external auditor relating to the provision member of the Audit Committee and by the CFO.
Feedback to major institutional shareholders annually to discuss the its other members are Mr Skirrow and Mr Balfour, both of non-audit services to ensure that auditor objectivity and is also sought from the CEO, other members of the finance Companys annual reporting to shareholders as part of the independent non-executive Directors.
The Directors consider independence are safeguarded.
This is achieved by disclosure team, divisional management and the head of internal audit.
He is also available for one-on-one that Mr Best has recent and relevant financial experience of the extent and nature of non-audit services see Note 14 The assessment tool adopted is comprehensive and includes meetings with key shareholders on their request.
refer to page 75 for details of Mr Bests experience.
In addition, to the consolidated financial statements and the prohibition detailed questions which are completed by way of a formal the other members of the Committee have a wide range questionnaire every three years, with the key areas being The re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Groups external against selected services being provided by the external auditor.
of financial and other relevant experience.
As a result performed every year.
The feedback from this process is auditor is reviewed annually by the Audit and Risk Committee.
of Mr Balfours decision not to offer himself for re-election considered by the Audit Committee and is provided both Deloitte LLP was appointed auditor in 2011, with Deloitte CIS The policy governing the provision of non-audit services by the as a Director, a replacement member of the Audit and external auditor approved by the Committee defines permitted to the auditors and to management.
Action plans arising are having been auditor of JSC Polymetal since the last tendering Risk Committee will be appointed following the AGM.
also reviewed by the Committee.
The Group has a policy of tendering the audit and non-audit services.
external audit at least every ten years.
The Committees The responsibilities of the Audit and Risk Committee comprise: The effectiveness of management in the external audit process assessment of the external auditors performance and Pre-approval thresholds are in place for the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor, being: pre-approval is assessed principally in relation to the timely identification independence underpins its recommendation to the Board monitoring the integrity of the Groups consolidated financial and resolution of areas of accounting judgement, the quality to propose to shareholders the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP by the CFO if below US$5,000 : by the Chairman of the Audit statements and reviewing its annual and interim financial and Risk Committee if between US$5,000 and US$20,000 : and timeliness of papers analysing those judgements, as auditor until the conclusion of the AGM in 2015.
Resolutions statements, including, but not limited to: the consistency of, managements approach to the value of independent audit, to authorise the Board to re-appoint and determine the or by the Audit and Risk Committee if above US$20,000.
and any changes to, accounting and treasury policies across the booking of audit adjustments arising if any and the timely auditors remuneration will be proposed at the AGM the Company and the Group: the methods used to account provision of draft public documents for review by the auditor on 21 May 2014.
Above a certain threshold, if it is determined that the external for significant or unusual transactions: the reasonableness auditor has no obvious competitive advantage in the and the Audit Committee.
of significant estimates and judgements, taking into account The Board considers that the Audit and Risk Committee performance of proposed non-audit services, then the provider the views of the external auditor: and the clarity and of those services must be chosen by way of a competitive Every three years, the Audit Committee requests that a partner complies with the requirements of the UK Code.
completeness of disclosure in the consolidated independent of the audit engagement team discusses the tender.
Certain types of non-audit work may be undertaken financial statements: by the auditor without prior referral to the Audit and Risk quality of the external audit process with the Audit Committee Internal control and risk management considering and making recommendations to the Board, chairman and the CFO using this evaluation framework.
The Company aims to ensure that all its activities are Committee up to a cumulative annual value of US$100,000.
to be put to shareholders to consider at the AGM, in relation Any further non-audit work is subject to approval by the adequately controlled, to mitigate risk and support the to the appointment, reappointment, resignation or removal During this year, the Audit Committees focus was on: achievement of its objectives, while avoiding the creation Audit and Risk Committee in further tranches of US$100,000.
of the Groups external auditor: In the event that the cumulative value of non-audit fees exceeds of excessive bureaucracy.
The system of internal controls Testing the recoverability of goodwill and PPE.
overseeing the Groups relationship with its external auditor is designed to manage rather than completely eliminate risk, US$500,000 in any given year, separate approval of the The Committee examined the potential indicators of and reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit process, Audit and Risk Committee is required explaining why there to achieve the Companys business objectives whilst bringing impairment for each of the cash-generating units and taking into account relevant UK professional and regulatory residual risk to an acceptable level, and can only provide is no threat to independence.
A copy of the policy is available the life-of-mine financial models used for assessing the fair requirements: the Committee meets with the external on the Companys website: www.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material value less costs to sell of the individual CGUs tested for auditors at least once a year, without management being misstatement or loss.
The Committee examined and challenged present, to discuss their remit and any issues arising The Audit and Risk Committee has considered information the commodity price, discount rate and exchange rate from the audit: In conducting its annual review of the effectiveness of risk pertaining to the balance between fees for audit and non-audit assumptions used by management in its impairment tests.
work for the Group in 2013 and concluded that the nature and management and internal control including financial, operating reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external Testing the existence and recoverability of metal and compliance controls, the Board considers the key auditor and the appropriateness of the provision of any extent of non-audit services provided do not present a threat inventories.
The Committee examined the price to the external auditors objectivity or independence.
findings from the ongoing monitoring and reporting processes, non-audit services by the external auditor, taking into assumptions used by management as well as unit costs management assertions and independent assurance reports.
account relevant ethical guidance: and other internal assumptions used in determining the net Review of the effectiveness of the external audit The Board also takes account of material changes and trends reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system realisable value of unfinished goods within metal inventories in the risk profile and considers whether the control system, process and audit quality of internal controls and risk management systems: ore and concentrate stockpiles.
The Audit Committee has adopted a formal framework in its including reporting, adequately supports the Board in achieving monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups Testing the recoverability of exploration and its risk management objectives.
review of the effectiveness of the external audit process and internal audit function in the context of the Groups overall development assets.
The Committee evaluated audit quality which includes the following areas: risk management system: managements approach to determine whether the existing During the course of the year the Board considered the the audit partners, with particular focus on the lead audit exploration and development asset are likely to generate reviewing the Groups policies and procedures for preventing Groups responsiveness to changes within its business engagement partner: future economic benefits, reviewing prior exploration results and detecting fraud, the systems and controls in place for environment.
The Board is satisfied that there is an ongoing the audit team: and future development plans.
preventing bribery, and its policies for ensuring that the Group process, which has been operational during the year, and complies with relevant regulatory and legal requirements: and planning and scope of the audit and identification of areas up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, for identifying, Provisioning and disclosure of tax exposures.
of audit risk: evaluating and managing the significant risks faced approving significant transactions.
The Committee assessed the existing and potential tax by the Group.
execution of the audit: exposures of the Group in Russia and Kazakhstan and Full terms of reference of the Audit and Risk Committee the developments of the related court cases since the the role of management in an effective audit process: Internal audit last reporting date, and evaluated whether the amount are available at the Companys website: communications by the auditor with the Audit Committee, The internal audit function supports this aim by providing of provisions recognised in the financial statements www.
and how the auditor supports the work of the Audit the Directors, through the Audit and Risk Committee, with continued to be the best estimate for probable exposures.
Committee: an objective evaluation of the Companys and the Groups Ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the interim Other items: the Committee examined the impact of the how the audit contributes insights and adds value: governance framework.
The internal audit function also aims and annual financial statements remains with the Board.
implementation of IFRIC 20 Stripping costs, a new to raise levels of understanding and awareness of risk and The Committee gives due consideration to applicable laws the independence and objectivity of the audit firm regulation covering accounting for stripping costs, and control throughout the Group.
and regulations, the provisions of the UK Code and the and the quality of the formal audit report to shareholders.
the related impact on current and prior period financial requirements of the Listing Rules.
The Committee also evaluated the accounting policies adopted by management, internal controls and the risk of misstatement.
