Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Strategic report 12 13 Strategic report Financial focus Free cash flow US$m 138 138 cApitAl -260 2011 2012 2013 Discipline Dividends declared US$ share 0.70 0.32 0.00 2011 2012 2013 Net debt adjusted EBITDA 1.75 1.41 1.11 2011 2012 2013 in focus This was largely achieved due commitment to generating to lower operating and capital sustainable value expenditure levels, increased production and major fide-stockpiling.
Commitment to capital discipline is the key characteristic of our As a result, the Groups liquidity investment and funding policy.
profile remained comfortable, with net debt almost flat at US$1,045 million Capital discipline drives the use 2012: US$1,037 million and 93% of the return on invested capital of debt being long-term.
This has as the key metric for project allowed us to retain dividend levels, development decisions.
It also with US$316 million being paid underpins our commitment to in during 2013 and a final dividend generate significant dividend streams of US$31 million proposed in respect for our shareholders while maintaining of this financial year.
comfortable leverage levels and a conservative debt structure.
Despite challenging market conditions, in 2013 we were able to stick to all 7.2% of these core principles.
Free cash dividend yield in 2013 flow for the year was US$138 million, remaining flat year-on-year despite a substantial decline in revenues.
Read more on pages 14, 56-69 Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Strategic report 14 15 Strategic report Chairmans statement Market conditions during the year proved challenging, with During 2013, Polymetal achieved full compliance with gold and silver prices experiencing their sharpest drop in the the UK Corporate Governance Code during the year, Resilient last decade.
However, thanks to a strong culture of delivering building on our established governance track record.
on our commitments, I am pleased to report on Polymetals We made advances in our executive remuneration and resilient performance against this background.
The high significant progress in sustainability governance and reporting, peRfoRmAnce quality of our assets and a responsive team was instrumental gaining ISO certification and upgrading our sustainability in helping us achieve both our production targets and the disclosure to the exacting standards of the Global Reporting planned asset ramp-up.
We were also quick to respond Initiative GRI.
in 2013 to market challenges, taking timely and appropriate decisions on production, capital expenditure and funding and thus However, we regard strong governance as a dynamic ensuring sustainable cash flow generation and profitability process, in which continuous improvement is key.
In 2013, at the new commodity price levels.
we instigated the first formal evaluation of the Boards performance, undertaken by an independent external advisor.
Polymetal has continued to build For the second year in a row, we exceeded our original annual This enabled us to review the Boards effectiveness and production guidance and produced 1.28 Moz 2012: 1.06 Moz identify areas for improvement.
The majority of areas were a business that has clear strategic of gold equivalent in 2013, up 21% year-on-year and 7% above rated very highly and we have pinpointed key priorities principles and a commitment to best original expectations.
This achievement was driven by the for the coming year along with strategic issues on which business and governance practices.
successful ramp-up of our key growth projects, Amursk POX we need to focus.
Open-pit mining at Varvara and Mayskoye, and exceptional operational delivery at the Dukat hub.
We continue to strengthen and improve our business, both operationally and financially, but never lose sight of the Boards the year.
Our outlook for 2014 remains unchanged with Dividends and value creation responsibility for ensuring that the Company is run in the a 1.3 Moz annual gold equivalent production target, which Delivering meaningful dividend yield to the Companys best interests of all its stakeholders through our commitment is set to reach a further 1.4 Moz level by 2016 with the current shareholders is central to our strategy focused on capital to the highest levels of ethical and responsible behaviour.
Meanwhile, we will continue to prepare our third discipline.
Polymetal has consistently implemented its dividend generation of assets for development decisions in 2014-2015 policy, with a payout totalling US$316 million in dividends Our people in order to ensure growth beyond 2016.
We will also look for in 2013 representing a 7.2% dividend yield to shareholders.
A strong leadership team can only achieve its goals with strategic acquisition opportunities, and continue to streamline This was underpinned by strong free cash flow generation the collaboration and commitment of a strong and capable our current asset portfolio performance all driven by the core in both 2012 and 2013, and by our commitment to deliver workforce.
At Polymetal, we have talented, dedicated and objective of creating long-term value for our stakeholders.
hardworking employees and it is their efforts that are the bedrock of our success now and in the future.
On behalf Although the Company itself performed in line with the of the Board and the leadership team, I would like to thank Boards expectations, sustaining the same level of cash flow everyone for their support and I look forward to working and profitability was clearly difficult in the significantly lower together with them for the long-term prosperity commodity price environment.
Given current trends in the gold of the business.
Bobby Godsell and silver market, with prices set to remain under pressure, Chairman Confident outlook for 2014 the Board has rightly taken a conservative approach in order The Board is pleased to be able to report a robust operating to preserve the Companys current balance sheet strength, performance and resilient financial results for 2013, particularly and has decided not to pay a special dividend for 2013. given the vagaries of the commodity market trading throughout However, in line with our dividend policy and on the back of strong cash flow generation in 2013, the Board proposes a final dividend of US$0.08 per share for 2013 and this will be paid, subject to approval at the AGM, in May 2014. stRuctuRe 316 Bobby Godsell Building on strong corporate governance board of Directors and committees Dividend payout in 2013, US$ million The Board is committed to open and constructive dialogue.
Chairman Effective corporate stewardship and strong corporate Member of the governance are particularly important for the wellbeing Board of Directors of the business in the current challenging market environment, Bobby Godsell and we believe that we have the right balance of skills, Vitaly Nesis experience, independence and knowledge of the Company Jonathan Best amongst the Boards Directors to tackle these challenges.
Marina Grnberg Leonard Homeniuk Russell Skirrow Konstantin Yanakov Jean-Pascal Duvieusart Charles Balfour Chairman Executive Director Non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Read more on pages 74-101
