Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Strategic report 50 51 Strategic report Sustainability continued Contributing to employees wellbeing Suppliers and contractors and professional development According to the current health and safety management The Company also focuses on creating and constantly system, all contractors working on site at our operations enhancing social and living conditions, improving our must comply with Polymetals health and safety requirements.
operating culture, maintaining employees health, preventing These obligations, and penalties for non-compliance, work-related diseases, boosting productivity and looking are stipulated within all our contracts.
at ways to both motivate current employees and attract additional skilled workers.
2013 2012 Indicators Accidents 7 4 In 2013 the Company spent over US$4.5 million implementing Incidents 22 22 these measures and covering a range of activities.
Injury frequency coefficient 2.4 1.7 Lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR 1.17 0.8 The Training Centre at the Dukat operations Magadan Fatal injury frequency rate FIFR 0 0.2 is certified to carry out internal training and educational activities for 23 professions, and during the year trained Quality control at Lunnoye The landscape in the Khabarovsk region 546 employees for 14 professions.
In future, we plan to replace 2014 priorities external training with internal training as much as possible.
In 2014, our focus will be on improving the efficiency of the risk Last year, eight employees of Polymetal Management and assessment performed on a shift-by-shift basis, emphasising As at 31 December 2013, the Company operates 91 hazardous The Company initiated a number of projects during 2013: Polymetal Engineering qualified as Competent Persons in the key role played by each employee.
Before and during the production facilities.
This has reduced since our last report due purchase of wastewater treatment plants for Mayskoye IMMM the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining.
This shift, each worker assesses the safety of his her workplace, to changes in the classification and registration of hazardous to provide the workers accommodation camp with expands their opportunities and enables them to communicate entering the results into a personal risk assessment map facilities under Russian industrial safety legislation.
Despite clean water: effectively with colleagues from other international mining as well as any suggestions on improving working conditions.
the overall reduction of hazardous facilities included in the construction of solid waste and industrial waste landfill companies.
It also expands the Companys ability to prepare The map is analysed by section managers and provides state register, our operations are no less dangerous and every sites in remote areas at Goltsovoye and Mayskoye: public exploration, mineral resources and ore reserves reports.
more accurate information about working conditions, operation provides its workers with safety-at-work training, construction of a first-stage sewage system at Mayskoye: enabling the response and risk to be managed in a timely protective clothing and equipment, and has controls and Diversity in the workplace manner.
We will also be developing hazards visualisation, processes in place to ensure safety in the workplace reconstruction of ventilation systems at the Omsukchan We believe in nurturing skills and talent regardless of gender.
on-site and distance training and automated production by identifying, analysing and eliminating hazardous processing plant and at Lunnoye: We have been actively recruiting and encouraging women and harmful factors.
modernisation of the cyanide solutions cleaning system within the business and, in 2013, the total number of women for the Kubaka plant: employed across Polymetal increased by 3.8% from 1,794 Unfortunately, in 2013 there were 11 incidents at operations environmental performance construction of hydraulic structures for stormwater in 2012 to 1,862.
We have also seen a rise in the number within the Group.
In eight of these cases the workers had drainage at Varvara: and of women in managerial positions to 285 in total 2012: 250, One of Polymetals key priorities is to reduce the environmental minor injuries and in two cases were severely injured.
impact of our production processes.
In 2013 we updated completion of an audit carried out by the federal eleventh, Polymetal deeply regrets the death at Ozerny open-pit our Environmental Policy to ensure improved efficiency environmental prosecutors office confirmed that there mine Khakanja hub, where a serious violation of internal and in environmental management systems and continuous had been no violations, following an enquiry from local statutory safety rules by a blastman resulted in his fatal injury.
Health and safety improvement across all stages of the Companys exploration, residents and state inspection bodies about possible Safe working conditions are the principal right of all employees mining and processing activities: wherever possible using environmental contamination at the Amursk POX plant.
The Company has investigated the case and has already and an indicator of efficient management of an operation.
modern technology, equipment and working practices implemented an increase in training, a number of additional to minimise our impact on the environment.
The Company We also commenced a programme that requires safety measures and enforcements to the existing safety Polymetals policy for ensuring a healthy and safe working complies with all regulatory requirements and systematically our contractors to comply with our EMS requirements.
rules across its operating mines.
The following procedures environment is implemented through the current health and monitors safety and management issues to ensure the will be reinforced throughout the Group: safety management system.
This was developed using the business meets environmental objectives and targets.
In 2013 the Companys expenditure for the implementation on-site and distance training for employees: fundamentals of international standards, contains advanced of environmental protection measures, along with construction risk assessment during each shift: managerial techniques and distributes responsibility across As part of this, we have been working towards and reconstruction of facilities with environmental relevance, all levels in order to ensure industrial safety and enable each hazards visualisation: and international certification of our environmental management amounted to US$8.1 million.
Our environmental payments employee to participate in risk management processes.
We are pleased to report that, in 2013, to regional budgets for the year totalled US$3.6 million.
The system complies with the  Polymetals environmental management system EMS OHSAS 18001 and all the appropriate Russian was independently certified by Bureau Veritas Certification, In February 2014 we began the first stage of a supervisory Health and safety indicators occupational health and safety standards.
in line with international standard ISO 14001-2004. audit to assess the effectiveness of our Company-wide Companys operations The system supports our commitment and desire to ensure system.
This is designed to assess performance against 2013 2012 Indicators In 2013, we continued to improve the health and safety the effectiveness of processes, environmental protection and environmental indicators across the Group and also assess Accidents 11 11 management system, adding new techniques to identify, resource management as well as providing a foundation implementation of the EMS.
It will determine the effectiveness manage and visualise operational risks and engender Incidents 0 0 for continuous monitoring and improvement.
We also achieved of measures aimed at reducing environmental impacts and a safety culture amongst employees by giving them key roles Emergencies 24 20 an additional certification audit for Mayskoye, which was will put in place plans to correct any inconsistencies identified in assessing the safety and equipment of their workplaces.
launched later during the year.
Injury frequency coefficient 1.2 1,2 during internal audit.
Injury gravity coefficient 23.5 36 Lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR 0.57 0.59 Fatal injury frequency rate FIFR 0.06 0 Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Strategic report 52 53 Strategic report Sustainability continued Greenhouse gas emissions Environmental training Our performance As a UK listed company, Polymetal is required to report We invest significant resources into the education and training GHG emissions The use of diesel generators to power our plants, natural gas its greenhouse gas GHG emissions, a requirement which of Polymetal employees to raise awareness of and increase COequivalent tonnes and coal for heating and diesel fuel for vehicles accounts for 2 699 came into force on 1 October 2013.
While we already monitor, knowledge about managing and mitigating the environmental per 10 Kt of ore mined the bulk of our GHG emissions.
manage and aim to minimise our environmental impacts, impacts of the Company.
In particular, during 2013 many 542 The increased figures for 2013 are largely due to increased production including GHG emissions, we are now reporting these of our engineers and technicians received training about how at the Amursk plant and the recently launched Mayskoye plant, which according to the new GHG Protocol Corporate Standard to run and audit our environmental management system as both rely significantly on purchased electricity with a higher GHG guidelines, under the following headings: part of our ISO 14001 accreditation.
Employees also attended intensity ratio.
a number of regional and national external courses, ensuring direct GHG emissions: that as a Company we are well informed about industry-wide indirect power COequivalent emissions related 2 2012 2013 developments, and were also involved in internal training to the generation of power purchased imported sessions which supplement ongoing personal development.
1 All air emissions Stripping, mined waste storage, ore processing and the use of energy Our plans for 2014 tonnes per 10 Kt generate air emissions including carbon dioxide and oxides of nitrogen The Company used ISO 14064 as a framework for defining 7.5 of ore mined and sulphur.
Our 2014 action plan will focus on continuous improvement its methodology for GHG reporting.
of our environmental management system, including We saw an increase in all air emissions intensity in 2013 as emissions enhancing our efficiency in respect of the most important from heat power plants increased while the stripping volumes remained 4.6 GHG emissions aspects of the environmental impact at each operation the same as last year but the amount of ore mined decreased compared 2013 2012 to 2012. and the implementation of these priorities in our standard 1, 2 Direct GHG emissions, t 327,222 345,130 operating procedures.
3 Indirect emissions, t 398,144 337,401 2012 2013 The top-priority tasks aimed at reducing our environmental Total GHG emissions 725,366 682,531 impact have been identified as: 4 Emissions intensity, t 10Kt 699 542 Waste We operate to a set of procedures that are designed to minimise the upgrading of the water treatment station at Lunnoye plant, 1 CO emissions were calculated according to the reference book International Greenhouse 2 tonnes per tonne amount of waste produced, maximise the volumes recycled and refining wastewater treatment technologies to reduce the Gases Emissions Inventory Methodology developed by A. Zinchenko from the scientific 8,598 of ore mined minimise the potential impacts on people and the environment.
and production corporation Atmosphere in St. Petersburg in 2003. negative impact on the river Levy Bulur: 2 Direct emissions include: direct COequivalent greenhouse gas methane CH 2 4 6,581 During 2013, we have performed several stripping and pushback emissions 536.8 tonnes: direct CO emissions produced by combustion of fuel 2 waste compaction at Albazino to reduce volume campaigns at Omolon, Varvara and Khakanja which increased the diesel fuel, petrol, gas, coal when operating own power-generating facilities, automobile for distribution: transport, main and auxiliary mining equipment 325,560.5 tonnes: direct COequivalent average stripping ratio for the Group as a whole, and, correspondingly, 2 emissions produced by combustion of fuel diesel fuel, petrol, gas, coal when operating the amounts of waste mined.
tailings ponds rehabilitation at the Kubaka plant: own power-generating facilities, automobile transport, main and auxiliary mining equipment 1,124.3 tonnes.
replacement of the gas cleaning section in the CIP section 3 To calculate indirect power CO emissions, the Company applies principles stipulated 2 at Voro to enhance the removal of hydrocyanides from gas: in the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change signed in more than 180 countries, 2012 2013 including the Russian Federation and the Republic of Kazakhstan and also assumes detoxification of technological solutions at the Voro plant, that power purchased was generated in the region where the Companys operations are present.
The specific indicators of the indirect power COequivalent emissions that relate 2 aimed at a sustainable use of natural resources and Discharges to The discharge intensity reflects the work done relating to the efficiency to the generation of power purchased imported by the Companys operations were taken a reduced impact on water resources: surface water of our water use and to increase recycling.
from the reference data of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development entitled Development of electricity carbon emission factors for Russia.
Baseline study for Russia 4.44 tonnes per 10 Kt design solutions for expansion of stormwater treatment The indicator remained stable.
4.17 2010 and Development of electricity carbon emission factors for Kazakhstan.
Baseline of ore processed study for the Republic of Kazakhstan 2012.
COequivalent emissions related to the 2 facilities at Voro to increase the volume of sewage treatment: generation of power purchased imported by the Companys operations are calculated according to formula 3 : Eelectr, CO EC EF, 3 : where: Eelectr, CO the amount commissioning of a household sewage system in order 2 2 of indirect power COequivalent emissions related to the generation of power purchased 2 to increase sewage efficiency and commissioning imported by the Companys operations, t year: EC power purchased imported by the Companys operations, MW h year: EF specific regional carbon emissions of a solid waste and industrial waste landfill at Birkachan ratio for power consumers, tonnes of 2 MW h. for appropriate storage of these types of waste.
2012 2013 Water resources Energy use Group companies operate in remote areas, subject to extremes of During 2013, we recorded positive trends in water use: both gigajoules per 100 Kt weather and far from centralised power sources.
They must generate 76.5 a 10% reduction in per unit water consumption, and a 30% 74.1 of ore processed their own sources of electricity and heat, which currently necessitates increase in the use of recycled water.
The Company now uses significant use of diesel generators.
Costs, environmental impacts and alternatives are constantly reviewed.
twice the amount of recycled water as it does of fresh water.
In order to reduce any negative impact on water resources, we instigated a number of projects, including: the purchase of devices to purify water used for non-industrial purposes at a number of our sites: construction of hydraulic engineering 2012 2013 facilities to aid stormwater drainage at Varvara: modernisation of the cyanide solutions cleaning system at our Kubaka plant: 1 All air emissions are calculated in accordance with Russian and Kazakh environmental legislation.
COequivalent GHG emissions are calculated separately, as according 2 to Russian and Kazakh legislation they are not air pollutants.
and an extensive programme of works at the Amursk plant to prevent pollution of surface water.
Air quality testing at Voro Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Strategic report 54 55 Strategic report Sustainability continued They focus on support for traditional activities, provision of fuel, community food, vehicles and building materials, educational and cultural At Polymetal, we aim to contribute positively to the economic programmes designed to preserve language and traditions, and social fabric of the communities, regions and countries maintaining and restoring festival and holiday traditions, in which we operate.
In fostering mutually sustainable learning about local ecosystems, exchanging knowledge development, we invest substantially in local infrastructure on environmental protection and facilitating exchanges and in enhancing social and cultural welfare.
between others in the local area and IMN representatives.
In 2013 we continued to implement our major IMN assistance programmes in areas such as deer farming, and preservation of native language and culture in all operating regions in the Far East, including organisation of traditional ethnic IMN festivals in the Magadan Region and Khabarovsk Territory.
To identify relevant targeted social investments in the One of Russias top 100 kindegartens at Dukat The Panther youth ice hockey club in the blue strip Khabarovsk Territory, in 2013 we introduced a competition asking public initiative groups to put forward possible social and cultural projects.
The winners were the IMN Long-term commitment representatives and their suggestions have been included As a taxpayer and employer in the areas in which we operate, we provide valuable financial stability to local economies.
in Polymetals 2014 social investment programme.
We are also committed to our community investment programme, which is driven by our desire to improve the quality of life of local communities and indigenous people.
This is a long-term programme, developed in consultation with local communities, We have also focused on projects related to increasing the which enables us to maintain and enhance local infrastructure and services, retain and increase employment opportunities environmental awareness of the public, involving young people A traditional Festival of the North celebration at Arka village and provide relevant training and education for local people.
in activities and undertaking programmes with the population of Khabarovsk Territory and Chukotka.
We responded Our goals and achievements in the media and at public meetings to questions raised We recognise that our operations often impact upon local Goals Main achievements in 2013 in 130 applications from the local population during 2013. communities and indigenous people in the areas where Strengthen social partnerships We invested US$5.3 million in social and charitable programmes in all areas and paid more than we operate.
Our Code of Corporate Governance and Policy with local communities, including US$320.7 million in regional and local taxes.
Regular charitable assistance and targeted support Investing in communities on Social Investments formally set our commitment to respect IMN communities was provided to war veterans and large families.
Our investment priorities have been determined through and promote fundamental human rights and the value of Following a competition for social and cultural projects in three districts, the best projects have feedback from local populations and our experience cultural heritage.
We are committed to operating in accordance been included in our social programme for 2014. of working with communities and indigenous people over with the UN Global Compact and the UN Declaration on the many years.
At least once a year, we evaluate local community Provide comfortable living Construction of a residential house for employees was completed in Amursk.
The Code is implemented conditions and improve quality requirements through public meetings, questionnaires, by the management teams in each of our Group companies.
A number of programmes for the population of certain territories are ongoing: improving the of life for the population surveys and one-to-one dialogue.
This allows us to identify quality of childrens facilities: repairing, insulating and equipping 13 childrens facilities: building and Our operations and the populations with which we interact in areas where we work equipping childrens playgrounds: management of health services and equipping local hospitals: key investment targets and assess the impact of existing are numerous and widespread, including Russias Far East, and improving living conditions in remote villages.
In the main, these investments focus on the Northern Urals, Chaun district in Chukotka Autonomous following activities: Territory and Taranovka district in Kazakhstan.
Improve the quality of feedback We were very proactive during 2013: holding 15 open meetings with and providing feedback and co-operation with local to local populations: holding public hearings on new mining activities and environmental issues: education and healthcare: communities and IMN groups conducting public surveys in the Far East: and organising 15 visits to our production sites The principles that we adhere to when engaging with local infrastructure: by members of the public, local schoolchildren, representatives of environmental protection communities and indigenous people in these locations are: bodies, IMN and veterans.
sports facilities and healthy lifestyle initiatives: and to be open to ideas and comments from those living Company representatives regularly take part in the work of local commissions on social and indigenous peoples cultural development.
and working close to our operations: working partnerships.
to be transparent in our dealings by providing timely, Facilitate public access Work on the building, renovation, repairs and equipping of five sporting facilities has been In 2013, these investments totalled about US$5.3 million.
relevant and accurate information on the progress in remote areas to physical completed, as well as three sports grounds for children.
Regular support is provided to childrens of corporate and community investment projects: training and sporting events, sport clubs and sport teams.
Sporting events bringing together employees and the local population and support childrens sports were organised.
New sports equipment was supplied to local schools and sport clubs.
Social investments in 2013 % to take a long-term view of interaction and investment, Provide residents of remote Ongoing support is provided to childrens ecological clubs and scientific research expeditions, and put in place systems for identifying investment priorities areas, including IMN, with ecological events and volunteering on Saturdays.
and monitoring progress: opportunities for cultural We have funded the repair and equipment of local cultural centres.
Cultural educational projects 42 6 to identify and act on the most significant issues for local and creative development included: publishing books about the traditions and culture of IMN: a competition with a cash prize 7 communities and indigenous people entailing open and for success in learning an indigenous language: and support for local festivals and exhibitions regular dialogue: and of IMN communities.
Sport Education and health to provide real and tangible benefits to local communities 1 Regular tax payments for 2013, not including additional payments for previous tax periods, paid by Polymetal companies excluding the Head office.
Cultural and creative potential and indigenous people.
16 Infrastructure IMN Community engagement Our relationship with local communities is based upon 29 16 agreements relating to socio-economic co-operation with local authorities.
In line with our own codes and policies, we also have six agreements in place with Indigenous Minorities of the North IMN communities in our Russian Far East operations.
These agreements are drawn up in consultation with IMN and local authority representatives.
