Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Governance 76 77 Governance Corporate Governance Dear Shareholders Statement of compliance with the reappointment is subject to particularly rigorous review.
We remain committed to upholding good governance UK Corporate Governance Code The Board believes that Mr Best continues to display all of the throughout every strand of our organisation.
Effective corporate The Directors are committed to maintaining high standards qualities of independence pursuant to the criteria set out in the stewardship is essential in good times, but in the current of corporate governance.
As a premium UK listed company, Code.
In 2012 the Company sold 100% of Amikan Holdings difficult market environment, its importance as the key during the year ended 31 December 2013 Polymetal Limited, which owns the Veduga gold deposit Veduga to timely and effective decision-making is vital.
International was required to comply with the UK Code in the Krasnoyarsk region of the Russian Federation, to of Corporate Governance the UK Code published in Polygon Gold Inc. Polygon.
Mr Homeniuk serves as During 2013, the Polymetal Board has faced and been equal September 2012 and available through the UK Financial Polygons Executive Chairman and CEO.
Polygon operates to the challenges it has met, achieving full compliance with Reporting Councils website or, where the provisions of the as a standalone company with independent management and the UK Code during the year and enabling us to build upon our UK Code have not been complied with, to provide appropriate Polymetal provides certain technical and regulatory assistance track record of strong governance.
We made advances in our explanations.
During 2013, the Company achieved compliance to Polygon on an ongoing basis.
Polymetal currently holds executive remuneration, with our best practice scheme being with all provisions of the UK Code.
a 42.6% equity ownership in Polygon and one of the four board fully endorsed by shareholders.
We have maintained a sound seats and therefore has significant influence, but does not have system of internal control and risk management with regular As well as complying with the UK Code, the Company has control over its activities.
The Board continues to consider internal audits, risk assessment and reporting, and have complied with all applicable regulations of the Moscow Stock Mr Homeniuk to be an independent non-executive Director.
in place robust anti-corruption procedures including antiExchange and Russian securities laws since admission of its The Board concluded that the relationship between Polymetal corruption training of all employees.
We also made significant shares to secondary trading on the Moscow Exchange and Polygon is not material, given the carrying value of its progress in sustainability governance and reporting, gaining in June 2013. interest in Veduga, which is US$15.6 million and represents ISO certification and producing a comprehensive report, approximately 0.5% of the Groups total assets as compliant with the exacting standards of the Global Role and structure of the Board at 31 December 2013.
The Companys Board comprises one executive Director, the non-executive Chairman and seven non-executive Directors.
The Company considers that the Board and its Committees We regard strong governance as a dynamic process, in which Excluding the Chairman, four members of the Board are have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, continuous improvement is paramount.
In 2013, a full formal independent non-executive Directors.
Refer to the schedule independence and knowledge of the Company to enable Board evaluation was conducted by an independent external below for the structure of the Board and its Committees, them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities advisor, enabling us to review the Boards effectiveness and showing the status of each Director.
All Directors have access to the advice and services identify areas for improvement.
of the Company Secretary, and are able to take independent The independent non-executive Directors are those determined professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Board is continuously focused on providing effective by the Board to be independent in character and judgement strategic leadership to the Company both in the best interests and to be free from relationships or circumstances which may Charles Balfour has informed the Board of his intention of its stakeholders and in order to ensure full accountability affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
not to offer himself for re-election at the upcoming AGM of the Companys management to the Board.
This process The role of independent Directors on the Board is: to challenge of the Company and to retire as a Director at the conclusion is supported by a robust internal control system embedded the strategy and scrutinise the performance of management of the AGM in order to pursue other opportunities.
Further in all areas, including most importantly operations, finance, in meeting agreed goals and objectives: to monitor the to Mr Balfours decision not to offer himself for re-election and sustainability.
This robust system ensures delivery reporting of performance of the Company: to review the at the AGM, the Board has appointed Spencer Stuart on the Companys strategic objectives and appropriate risk integrity of financial information: and that the Companys as an international search firm to assist with the search management.
A rigorous approach to succession planning internal financial controls and system of risk management are for a replacement independent non-executive Director.
will ensure that leadership is aligned to corporate strategy, robust and defensible.
They are responsible for determining both at Board and senior management levels, to help bolster appropriate level of remuneration for the CEO and have a Board meetings the long-term success of the business.
primary role in appointing and, when necessary, removing him.
In 2013, the Board met nine times.
One of the meetings, held by way of a conference call between Messrs Godsell Our resilient financial performance is underpinned by Directors interests are disclosed in annual declarations and and Nesis, approved an administrative matter previously a conservative approach to funding, aimed at striking the Company Secretary is notified promptly of any changes agreed by the whole Board.
Further business was approved the right balance between equity and debt, and maintaining to those interests.
Before each Board meeting, independent by a committee of the Board on two occasions.
Polymetal was successful non-executive Directors reconfirm their independence and all in further extending the maturity profile of its debt during the Directors disclose whether they hold any interests in any Role of the Board year while maintaining a safe gearing ratio and a low cost matters to be reviewed at the Board meeting.
The Board is responsible for: of debt, as well as securing substantial additional unused defining the commercial strategy and long-term objectives credit facilities.
The significant shareholders of the Company are represented of the Group: on the Board by Mr Yanakov who is a representative of approving annual operating and capital expenditure budgets We continue to strengthen and improve our business, both Powerboom Investments Limited : Ms Grnberg who is and any material changes to them: operationally and financially, but never lose sight of the Boards a representative of Vitalbond Limited, A&NN and Capital overseeing the Groups operations, ensuring: competent responsibility of ensuring that the Company is run in the best Management Fund Limited and Mr Duvieusart who is a and prudent management: sound planning: a strong system interests of all its stakeholders through our commitment representative of PPF Group BV.
Mr Nesis is the brother of the of internal control: and compliance with all statutory and to the highest levels of ethical and responsible behaviour.
beneficial owner of Powerboom Investments Limited.
Save for regulatory obligations: the potential conflicts inherent in these relationships, there are no potential conflicts of interest between the duties owed by reviewing the performance of the Group in the light of its the Directors or senior management to the Company and their business strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets private interests or other duties.
and ensuring that any necessary corrective action is taken: approving any material extension of the Groups activities The Board has determined Charles Balfour, Jonathan Best, into new businesses or geographic areas and any decision Russell Skirrow and Leonard Homeniuk to be independent Bobby Godsell to cease to operate all or any material part of the Groups non-executive directors.
Bobby Godsell met the independence Chairman business: and criteria on appointment.
Jonathan Best has been on the Board ensuring a mutual understanding of objectives and of the Company since September 2011 and on the Board maintaining constructive dialogue with shareholders.
of JSC Polymetal since December 2006, and his Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Governance 78 79 Governance Corporate Governance continued The schedule of matters reserved to the Board is reviewed reporting on items of the agenda and participating Further to Mr Balfours decision not to offer himself Evaluation and re-election policies at least annually.
All members of executive management for re-election as a Director, the Board will appoint Nomination Committee report directly to the CEO.
a new SID following the AGM.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr Godsell Roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and its other members are Mr Homeniuk and Mr Balfour.
and Senior Independent Director His responsibilities include: Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting The Committee has responsibility for making recommendations The Board has approved the division of responsibilities The Board uses the Annual General Meeting AGM to the Board on the composition of the Board and its development and proposal of Group strategy, including between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer CEO to communicate with investors and to encourage their Committees, including appointments of additional and communicating annual plans and commercial objectives and the role of the Senior Independent Director SID.
To ensure the Companys shareholders have replacement Directors.
The Committee: to the Board: time to consider our Annual Report and Notice of AGM leads the process for Board appointments and makes upholding the Groups responsibilities to its shareholders, The Chairman reports to the Board and is responsible for and lodge their proxy votes in good time, all meeting materials recommendations to the Board: customers, employees and other stakeholders: the leadership and overall effectiveness of the Board and are made available more than 20 working days prior to the regularly reviews the Board structure, size and composition identifying and executing strategic opportunities: for setting the Boards agenda.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially including skills, knowledge, independence, experience and separate subject and all resolutions are put to a poll.
regularly reviewing the operational performance and effective running of the Board: diversity and makes recommendations to the Board about The Company also offers shareholders the option to abstain.
strategic direction of the Group: ensuring there is appropriate delegation of authority any changes that the Committee considers necessary: making recommendations on remuneration policies, from the Board to executive management: considers plans and makes recommendations to the Shareholders who are not able to attend the AGM are executive remuneration and terms of employment promoting a culture of openness and debate by facilitating Board for orderly succession to the Board and to senior encouraged to submit proxy votes either electronically or in for senior employees: the effective contribution of non-executive Directors in management, so as to maintain an appropriate balance paper format.
At the Companys 2013 AGM we received votes ensuring the development needs of the executive Directors particular and ensuring constructive relations between of skills and experience within the Company and on the representing approximately 82% of our issued share capital.
and senior management are identified and met and ensuring executive and non-executive Directors: Board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board, The results of the proxy vote are read at the meeting with the effective succession planning: and taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing final results announced via the London Stock Exchange and encouraging active engagement by all members of the the Company: ensuring effective communication with shareholders and that Board and ensuring that the directors receive accurate, available on the website.
appropriate, timely and accurate information is disclosed to timely and clear information: and keeps under review the leadership needs of the Group, the market, with issues escalated promptly to the executive In addition, our AGM provides a valuable opportunity for both executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring ensuring that the views of the shareholders are management and the Board.
shareholders to meet with and put questions to the Directors the continued ability of the Group to compete effectively in communicated to the Board as a whole.
The 2013 AGM was attended by all Directors, the marketplace: Senior Independent Director SID including the Chairmen of the Audit and Risk, Remuneration Mr Godsell is able to commit sufficient time to his role as before any appointment is made by the Board, evaluates Charles Balfour acts as the Boards SID.
Mr Balfour is available and Nomination Committees.
Live webcast and conference non-executive Chairman of Polymetal International and the the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, independence to shareholders and as an intermediary for the other Directors call facilities are available for shareholders unable to be present Board believes that other commitments do not adversely affect and diversity of the Board, and in the light of this evaluation if necessary.
He attends meetings with major shareholders in person and a recording of the AGM webcast is made his contribution to the Company.
Mr Godsells other significant prepares a description of the role and capabilities required to listen to their views in order to help develop a balanced available on the Companys website.
commitments are membership of the South African National for a particular appointment and the expected time understanding of the issues and concerns of major Planning Commission, and a non-executive directorship in the commitment: and shareholders.
Meetings between independent Directors, The primary means of communication with the majority South African Industrial Development Corporation.
He is also reviews the results of the Boards performance evaluation including Mr Balfour, and major institutional shareholders of our shareholders, who have not requested paper copies Chairman of Business Leadership South Africa and a Director process that relates to the composition of the Board and took place in 2013 as part of the Companys investor day.
of our documentation, is through our corporate website of Platmin Limited and Solar Capital.
whether non-executive Directors are spending enough The Board is regularly updated on shareholders opinions www.
time to discharge their duties.
following meetings with the Companys management.
The CEO is responsible for the day-to-day management Board and Committee meeting attendance of the Group and for developing the Groups business There were no changes to the Board structure in 2013 Separate meetings are held between the non-executive Audit and strategy, objectives, budget and forecasts and, once approved and the Company has not employed external search Directors without the Chairman or the CEO being present and Risk Remuneration Nomination by the Board, overseeing their successful implementation.
The Company has appointed Spencer Stuart Board Committee Committee Committee between non-executive directors without the Chairman, led 1 2 3 The CEO reports to the Chairman and the Board directly.
meetings meetings meetings meetings as an international search firm to search for a further by the SID, to appraise his performance annually and on such nine six two two The Board interacts with the executive management on a independent non-executive Director to replace Mr Balfour, other occasions as appropriate: and between the independent regular basis.
Directors invite senior executives to attend Bobby and a replacement member of the Nomination Committee non-executive Directors without the other non-executive relevant parts of the Board and committee meetings for Godsell all NA NA all will be appointed following the AGM.
This includes both formal and Vitaly informal meetings between Directors.
Nesis all NA NA NA In accordance with the UK Code, all Directors are subject Board composition Jonathan to annual re-election.
Audit & Risk Remuneration Nomination Best 8 all all NA Committee Committee Committee Russell Full terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive member member member Skirrow 8 all NA NA Appointed Executive Non-executive Independent chairman chairman chairman Board member Directors are available for inspection at the Companys Leonard registered office.
Bobby Godsell 29 September 2011 Chairman Homeniuk 8 NA all all 1 Vitaly Nesis 29 September 2011 Charles The Directors biographical details are set out on pages 2 Jonathan Best 29 September 2011 Chairman Member Balfour 8 all all all 74 to 75 and the Board considers that each of the Directors 3 Russell Skirrow 29 September 2011 Member Konstantin standing for re-election will be an effective contributor 4 Leonard Homeniuk 29 September 2011 Chairman Member Yanakov 8 NA NA NA to the success of the Group.
Following their performance 5 Charles Balfour 29 September 2011 Member Member Member Marina evaluations, the Chairman believes that each Director standing 6 Grnberg 8 NA NA NA Konstantin Yanakov 29 September 2011 for re-election continues to be effective and to demonstrate 7 Jean-Pascal commitment to his or her role.
A performance evaluation Marina Grnberg 29 September 2011 Duvieusart 8 NA NA NA of the Chairman including externally facilitated evaluation was Jean-Pascal Duvieusart 29 September 2011 1 Further business conducted by the Board was approved by a committee of the Board conducted by the Board in 2013, and the Board believes that 1 Mr Nesis was appointed CEO of JSC Polymetal, the previous parent and reporting entity of the Group, on 30 June 2004. on two further occasions.
One of the meetings, held by way of a conference call between 2 the Chairman continues to be effective and to demonstrate Mr Best was appointed non-executive Director of JSC Polymetal on 28 December 2006.
Messrs Godsell and Nesis, approved an administrative matter previously agreed by the 3 Dr Skirrow was appointed non-executive Director of JSC Polymetal on 25 September 2008. whole Board.
4 2 Mr Homeniuk was appointed non-executive Director of JSC Polymetal on 29 June 2010.
Further business conducted by the Audit and Risk Committee was approved by written 5 Senior Independent Director.
A replacement Senior Independent Director will be appointed following the AGM.
resolutions on five further occasions.
6 3 Mr Yanakov was appointed non-executive Director of JSC Polymetal on 25 September 2008.
Further business conducted by the Remuneration Committee was approved by written 7 Ms Grnberg was appointed non-executive Director of JSC Polymetal on 25 September 2008. resolutions on two further occasions.
