Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Governance 84 85 Governance Audit and Risk Committee report continued The head of internal audit reports to the CEO and, through the This has involved considering the matters reported to it Controls over IT systems used in financial accounting Audit and Risk Committee, to the Board of Directors.
Where and developing plans and programmes that it considers and reporting relevant, the internal audit function will additionally report its are reasonable in the circumstances.
Based on the results The Group uses a 1C: Enterprise 8 ERP system for automation findings to members of the Companys executive management.
of the review of risk management and internal control activities, of everyday enterprise activities.
These include various undertaken by the Board and the Audit and Risk Committee business tasks of the economic and management functions, The internal audit functions annual work plan is designed to the Board considers that the risk management and internal such as management accounting, business accounting, focus on matters arising from the operational risk matrix and control systems are in accordance with the Revised Guidance HR management, supplier relationship management SRM is approved by the Audit and Risk Committee in advance.
for Directors on the UK Code.
and material requirements planning MRP.
Polymetal also uses the ERP system for budgeting, accounting, The internal audit function uses an annual self-certification Financial reporting systems HR record-keeping and payroll, supply chain management, process, which requires managers throughout the Group The quality of financial accounting and reporting is ensured operational reporting and procurement.
The Group operates to personally confirm the testing of internal controls and through a set of control procedures in the following areas: an IT management framework based on COBIT Control compliance with Group policies within their business accounting methodology, preliminary review of new Objectives for Information and Related Technology, which or function and the steps taken to address actual transactions, documentation, accounting techniques provides a complete set of high-level requirements to be or potential issues that are identified.
considered for effective control of each IT process.
Management provides a timely response to issues raised Accounting policies are developed centrally for each of the UK Bribery Act 2010 by internal audit.
Where possible, the issues are resolved Groups subsidiaries and are adapted for the peculiarities The Company and its Directors are committed to ensuring within one reporting period.
of each entity and Group-wide policies.
Employees responsible adherence to the highest legal and ethical standards.
for accounting and reporting functions have powers to review This must be reflected in every aspect of the way of the Internal control framework and activities upcoming transactions and propose adjustments, where Group operates.
Bribery is a criminal offence in the countries The management structure of the Group and internal policies necessary, to ensure proper accounting and tax treatments.
in which the Group operates.
Corrupt acts expose the and procedures are aimed at maintaining a robust control Group and its employees to the risk of prosecution, fines framework within the Group which will result in the The use of a centralised ERP system in each of the Group and imprisonment, as well as endangering the Companys achievement of strategic objectives within the set risk companies ensures unification of the business and accounting reputation.
The Group has a Code of Conduct in place, tolerance levels.
The Group implements a multi-level set of controls which refers to anti-bribery and corruption policy.
The Policy over financial and accounting data recorded in the system.
extends across all the Groups business dealings in all This framework includes: These controls involve the accounting department of each countries and territories in which the Group operates and subsidiary, senior management of the subsidiary and controls applies to all employees of the Group, as well as relevant an appropriate tone set from the top Board level, at the head office level.
In addition, the accounting and business partners and other relevant individuals and entities.
aimed at building the appropriate control environment: reporting data are regularly audited by internal and The Board attaches the utmost importance to this policy and a proper risk identification and management system external auditors.
applies a zero tolerance approach to acts of bribery and for more detail please refer to page 70-71 : corruption by any of the Groups employees or by business a strict division of responsibilities and adequate delegation Procedures for approval of capital and partners working on the Groups behalf.
The Policy prohibits of authority: current expenditures the payment, offer or authorisation of bribes, the receipt or specific control activities implemented at all levels of the The Company prepares annual operating and capital acceptance of a bribe, or the payment, offer or promise to pay expenditure budgets based on its current and strategic goals any facilitating payments.
Any breach of this policy is regarded Group: and and objectives.
In addition to periodic control of actual financial as a serious matter by the Company and is likely to result a periodic review of the effectiveness of internal controls.
performance versus budgeted, a procedure of ongoing in disciplinary action.
control and authorisation of expenses is in place.
The current The governance framework reflects the specific structure and system of pre-approval of significant transactions, along with As part of its implementation of internal procedures to comply management of the Group, where authority and control are accounting procedures in the ERP system, achieves a level with the UK Bribery Act, the Group has in place a formalised delegated by the Board to different levels, from the CEO to the of control over the amount and appropriateness of expenses.
whistle-blowing policy which describes processes in place for managers of the Groups operating entities and then downward staff to communicate, in confidence, concerns about possible to business and project managers as appropriate.
Treasury operations improprieties, unethical or illegal activities and ensures that The Group operates a centralised treasury function, which arrangements are in place for independent investigation Within this framework, authority is delegated within clearly is responsible for payments on behalf of all subsidiaries of the of such matters.
prescribed limits and decisions are escalated where either Group.
Use of such a centralised system achieves the best level project size or risk profile require a higher level of authority.
of control over the payments function without compromising the The Company affirms that it has not denied any personnel speed and reliability of payments.
All transactions with banks access to the Audit and Risk Committee and that it has In addition to controls operating in specific areas production, on accounts maintenance, deposits and borrowings and provided protection to whistle-blowers from adverse exploration, construction, procurement, the control framework foreign currency transactions are also performed at head personnel action.
also includes a set of common procedures for financial office level in compliance with the treasury policy approved accounting, reporting and budgeting see details below.
The Code of Conduct is available on the website.
Copies of the anti-bribery and corruption policy and the whistle-blowing The Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary policy are available on request from the Companys offices.
have been or are being taken to remedy any failings or weaknesses in the Groups system of internal controls.
Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Governance 86 87 Governance Directors report The Directors submit the Annual Report of Polymetal Directors interests The Articles of the Company can be altered by a special Dividends International Plc together with the audited financial Information on Directors interests in shares of the Company resolution of the Company.
A resolution is a special resolution The Groups loss for the year ended 31 December 2013 statements of Polymetal International Plc for the year is set out in the Remuneration report on page 98. when it is passed by three-quarters of the members attributable to equity holders of the Company was ended 31 December 2013. who being entitled to do so vote in person, or by proxy, US$198 million 2012: profit US$428 million.
Underlying Directors indemnities at a general meeting of the Company.
net earnings adjusted for the after-tax amount of Corporate governance To the extent permitted by the Companies Jersey Law 1991, impairment charges in 2013 were US$117 million Refer to pages 77 to 80 for a description of the Groups the Company has indemnified every Director and other officer Pursuant to the Companys Articles, the Directors have the 2012: US$431 million.
In August 2013 the Company corporate governance structure and policies.
of the Company other than any person whether an officer power to allot Equity Securities as defined in the Articles.
declared an interim dividend of US$0.01 per share which or not engaged by the Company as auditor out of the assets At the AGM of the Company held in 2013, the power to allot was paid in September 2013.
The Directors have proposed Going concern of the Company against any liability incurred by him or her Equity Securities was renewed up to an aggregate number the payment of a final dividend of US$0.08 per share In assessing its going concern status, the Group has taken for negligence, default, breach of duty, breach of trust of 129,824,288 ordinary shares, provided that the Directors 2012: US$0.31 per share.
In addition, a special dividend account of its financial position, anticipated future trading or otherwise in relation to the affairs of the Company.
power in respect of such an amount may only be used in of US$0.50 per share was declared by the Company performance, its borrowings and other available credit facilities, This provision does not affect any indemnity that a Director connection with a pre-emptive issue as defined in the Articles.
in December 2012 and paid in January 2013. and its forecast compliance with covenants on those or officer is otherwise entitled to.
The Directors are further empowered pursuant to Article 12.4 borrowings and its capital expenditure commitments and of the Companys Articles to allot Equity Securities for cash Annual General Meeting plans.
As at 31 December 2013, the Group held US$66 million Political donations as if Article 13 of the Articles Pre-emptive rights did not apply The AGM of shareholders of the Company will take place of cash and had net debt of US$1,045 million, with US$1,324 The Company may not make a political donation to a political and for the purposes of paragraph b of Article 12.4 of the on 21 May 2014 at 11.00 am BST in Le Hocq Suite, Radisson million of undrawn but committed facilities available subject party or other political organisation, or to an independent Articles, the Non Pre-emptive Shares as defined in the Blu Waterfront Hotel, Rue fide letau, St Helier, Jersey JE2 3WF, to the Net debt Adjusted EBITDA covenant compliance.
election candidate, or incur any political expenditure, unless Articles are an aggregate number of up to 19,473,643 Channel Islands.
A webcast will be available for shareholders such donation or expenditure is authorised by an ordinary ordinary shares.
In 2013, the Company used the above who will not be able to attend the meeting in person.
The Board is satisfied that the Groups forecasts and resolution of shareholders passed before the donation is made powers to allot 5,491,661 new ordinary shares relating projections, having taken account of reasonably possible or the expenditure incurred.
No such donations were made to the Maminskoye acquisition.
Auditors changes in trading performance, show that the Group has in 2013 2012: none.
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval adequate resources to continue in operational existence for Pursuant to Article 57 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991, of this Annual Report confirms that: at least the next 12 months from the date of this report and that Capital structure the Company is authorised to make market purchases so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing The structure of the Companys share capital is detailed of ordinary shares of the Company, provided that: information of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and the consolidated financial statements for the year ended in Note 32 to the financial statements.
the maximum number of ordinary shares to be the Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have 31 December 2013. purchased is 38,947,286 ordinary shares: taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding the minimum price excluding expenses which of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Financial and business reporting or on the transfer of shares, which are both regulated may be paid for each ordinary share is 1 penny: Groups auditor is aware of that information.
The Board believes that the disclosures set out in the Strategic by the Articles of the Company and applicable legislation.
the maximum price excluding expenses which may report on pages 1 to 73 of this Annual Report provide the The Directors are not aware of any agreements between Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office be paid for each ordinary share is the higher of: information necessary for shareholders to assess the holders of the Companys shares that may result as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed Companys performance, business model and strategy.
in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
a. an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle at the forthcoming AGM.
The Audit and Risk Committee market quotations of an ordinary share in the Company reviews both the level of the audit fee and the level and nature Directors There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official of non-audit fees as part of its review of the adequacy and The Directors, their status and Board Committee memberships or terminate upon a change of control of the Company, List for the five business days immediately preceding the objectivity of the audit process.
are set out on pages 74-75 and 78 of the Report.
such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements and day on which the ordinary share is contracted to be employees share plans.
None of these is considered to be purchased: and Having taken all matters considered by the Board and brought Appointment and replacement of Directors significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the b. an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last to the attention of the Board during the year into account, The Board may appoint a person who is willing to act to be Group as a whole.
Furthermore, the Directors are not aware independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest we are satisfied that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director of any agreements between the Company and its Directors current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the and in either case whether or not for a fixed term.
Irrespective or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office from the London Stock Exchange Trading System: information necessary for shareholders to assess the of the terms of his or her appointment, a Director so appointed or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
pursuant to Article 58A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991, Companys performance, business model and strategy.
shall hold office only until the next following AGM.
If not the Company may hold as treasury shares any ordinary reappointed at such Annual General Meeting, he or she shall Substantial shareholdings in the Company are disclosed shares purchased pursuant to the authority conferred On behalf of the Board vacate office at its conclusion.
on page 162. in this Resolution.
The Company may by ordinary resolution remove any Director Details of employee option schemes are set out in the The authorities above shall, unless previously revoked or from office notwithstanding any provision of the Companys Remuneration report on pages 90 to 100. varied, expire at the conclusion of the Companys next Articles or of any agreement between the Company and such AGM or, if earlier, at the close of business on the date which Director, but without prejudice to any claim he or she may have There were no acquisitions of the Companys own shares in is 15 months after the date of the resolution, which granted for damages for breach of any such agreement.
At 31 December 2013, the Group and its subsidiaries them, being 12 December 2014.
Bobby Godsell notice needs to be given of any resolution to remove a Director held no treasury shares 31 December 2012: no shares.
As at Chairman and no Director proposed to be removed has any special right 31 December 2013, the Company had shareholders authority Approval of share issues, consideration for which does not 30 March 2014 to protest against his or her removal.
The Company may, to purchase up to 38,947,286 of its own ordinary shares.
exceed US$15 million, is delegated to a committee of the CEO, by ordinary resolution, appoint another person in place the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and the SID.
of a Director removed from office.
If the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and or the SID are not available, then any independent non-executive Director s may act as their alternates on the Committee.
