Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Strategic report 68 69 Strategic report Financial review continued Cash flows The Group continues to maintain a comfortable liquidity and funding profile in the current turbulent market environment.
The Groups net debt was almost flat and comprised US$1,045 million as of 31 December 2013, representing a net debt 2013 2012 % change US$m adjusted EBITDA ratio of 1.75.
Operating cash flows before changes in working capital 450 724 -38% Changes in working capital 12 184 NM The Group maintains a healthy debt structure, which is comfortable from both the liquidity and cost standpoints.
In the second Total operating cash flows 462 541 -15% half of the year, the Group refinanced a total of US$400 million of its short-term borrowings into long-term facilities.
As a result, Capital expenditure 319 397 -20% the proportion of long-term borrowings increased from 48% as at 30 June 2013 to 93% as at 31 December 2013.
This new Other 5 6 -16% borrowing facility led to a significant improvement of the Groups debt maturity profile now extending to more than three years.
Investing cash flows 324 403 -19% In addition, as at 31 December 2013 the Group had US$1.6 billion of available undrawn facilities from a wide range of lenders, Financing cash flows which maintains its operational flexibility in the current environment.
Net increase in borrowings 213 149 -243% MTO and squeeze-out obligation repayment 569 -100% The average cost of debt remained low at 2.99% in 2013 2012: 3.06%, supported by low base interest rates and the ability Dividends paid 316 77 313% to negotiate competitive premiums on the back of the solid financial position of the Company and Polymetals excellent Total financing cash flows 104 794 -87% credit history.
Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 34 656 NM 2014 year outlook Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 19 659 -97% While we recognise that our financial performance will significantly depend on commodity price movements in the year ahead, Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 13 16 -20% Polymetal expects to deliver a resilient financial performance at the current price levels which will be driven by the Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 66 19 252% following factors: the Company is fully equipped to deliver on its production guidance of 1.3 Moz of gold equivalent for 2014: Operating cash flows in 2013 were under pressure from declining commodities prices.
Operating cash flows before changes in 2014, Polymetal expects total cash costs of US$700-750 GE oz and all-in sustaining cash costs of US$975-1,025 GE oz, in working capital decreased by 38% year-on-year to US$450 million as a result of adjusted EBITDA decrease.
Net operating which will be supported by the ongoing devaluation of the Russian Rouble and Kazakh Tenge: cash flows were US$462 million, compared to US$541 million in 2012, and were almost unaffected by changes in working capital in 2013 the increase in working capital in 2012 was US$184 million despite a meaningful increase in production capital expenditure will decline further to US$250 million including exploration and capitalised stripping as there will be volumes and scope of operations.
no major investment in growth projects before project development decisions are taken closer to the end of the financial year.
Total cash and cash equivalents increased from US$19 million as at 31 December 2012 to US$66 million as at 31 December 2013, with the following items affecting the cash position of the Group: operating cash flows of US$462 million: investment cash outflows of US$324 million, down 19% year-on-year and mainly represented by capital expenditure down 20% year-on-year to US$319 million : payment of special and regular dividends for 2012 amounting to US$316 million: and an increase in borrowings of US$213 million.
Balance sheet, liquidity and funding 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 % change Net debt Short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt 81 244 -67% Long-term debt 1,030 620 66% Dividends payable 191 -100% Gross debt 1,111 1,055 5% Less: cash and cash equivalents 66 19 252% Net debt 1,045 1,037 1% Net debt adjusted EBITDA 1.75 1.11 59% Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Strategic report 70 71 Strategic report Risks and risk management is driven by the Companys Board of Directors and runs through all our management, employee and connected impAct finAnciAl consequences effective Risk stakeholder activities from developing strategy US$0.1m US$0.1m-US$5m US$5m-US$10m US$10m-US$50m US$50m to day-to-day operations.
Insignificant Minor Moderate Major Catastrophic iDentificAtion Risk management is one of the key functions of the Audit Minor impact on strategy Major impact on strategy Significant impact Minimal impact on Serious impact on and Risk Committee.
Strategic risks are identified by the strategy or operational or operational activities strategy or operational or operational activities on strategy or operational activities activities activities Board based on a detailed understanding of the Company, Limited stakeholder Major stakeholder Low stakeholder concern Moderate stakeholder concern Multiple significant AnD its markets and the legal, social, political, economic, concern concern stakeholder concerns technological, environmental and cultural environments in which we operate.
Our risk identification system considers mAnAGement not only single, mutually exclusive risks, but also multiple likelihood probability linked and correlated risks.
Almost certain Likely Possible Unlikely Rare Occurs one or more times Occurs less than once Could occur or may Has happened at some Is highly unlikely Risk matrices and assurance maps are used to record, per year and is likely to a year and is likely to reoccur at some point time or could happen that it would occur reoccur within one year reoccur within five years within ten years within 20 years in the next 20 years prioritise and track each risk through the risk management Robust risk management systems are process.
These are regularly reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee.
critical to the long-term success of the Risk category Risk description and potential effect Risk response Company.
We believe that the creation Risk assessment Gold and silver price volatility may result in In the light of the recent decline in commodity prices, the Company 1 of sustainable value for our stakeholders Once identified, potential risk factors are assessed to consider material adverse movement in the Companys has implemented a number of measures to maintain profitability Market risk operating results, revenues and cash flows.
and cash flow, including: the impact and consequences that the event or events may have should be firmly based on effective risk redistribution of ore mined volumes between deposits to achieve on achieving objectives, and the likelihood and probability of the a better cost profile due to better logistics and less expensive identification and an appropriate response event see table on top of page 71.
Together these create mining methods: a risk profile.
suspension of high-cost operations: deferral of certain marginal growth projects: Risk response Risk management process staffing level review and hiring freeze: When the appropriate ranking has been identified, a response Polymetals risk management process is designed to minimise asset-level cost-cutting.
to each risk is formulated and implemented.
This is tracked the potential threats to achieving our strategic objectives.
Key capital expenditure savings include: through a comprehensive risk assurance map.
Management deferral of certain marginal growth projects: assesses the effects of a risks likelihood and impact, as well Internal control and risk management systems are continuously greenfield brownfield exploration budget reviewed and re-prioritised: as costs and benefits of a particular risk mitigation method.
improved to add value to the business.
The number of KPIs certain non-core maintenance projects mining equipment purchases The degree to which the response brings the risk within at operating mines cancelled delayed.
used to assess the qualitative measures of the key business acceptable tolerance levels is then evaluated and corrective activities performance has significantly increased over the Conservative commodity price assumptions are used for future actions are taken where necessary.
period budgets and life-of-mine models to ensure viability of the past years.
plans in the event of a sustained weakness in precious metals prices.
Monitoring and reporting The Company has also developed action plans to address The process incorporates the following stages: any further severe price reduction scenario.
Ongoing monitoring processes are embedded in Polymetals identification and documentation of risks: business operations.
These track the effective application of Currently the Company does not hedge as its strategy is to offer assessment, qualification and quantification of each risk: stakeholders full exposure to potential gold and silver price internal control and risk management policies and procedures, upside potential.
including internal audit and specific management reviews.
development and implementation of risk mitigation control strategies: Risk matrices and assurance maps are used to re-evaluate The risk of failure to meet the planned production Annual, quarterly and monthly production budgeting and subsequent 2.1 and adjust controls in response to changes in the Companys programme.
Failure to meet production targets monthly control against budget is designed to mitigate the risk.
monitoring, reporting and reviewing risks: and Production risks objectives, the business and the external environment.
may adversely affect the operating performance The effectiveness and efficiency of the production process is ensured mining plans input of effective internal control procedures.
and financial results of the Group.
The risk of by the Groups senior engineering team.
The approved production lower than expected metal grades or dilution programme includes an increased volume of on-mine exploration Management is responsible for the implementation of effective is caused by complex mining and geological works, such as in-fill drilling and grade control sampling.
The Audit and Risk Committee of the Board sets the agenda follow-up procedures to ensure appropriate actions occur conditions, mainly at underground mines.
for the risk management policies and procedures of the To mitigate the risk the Group invests considerable resources in response to changes in risk and control assessments.
Recoveries at the Groups processing plants may in ore quality assessment procedures and seeks to control ore quality Group including the treasury policy governing management not reach planned levels due to the complex by the formation of ore stacks with the required characteristics.
of financial risks and is responsible for reviewing their technological properties of the ore processed.
Its duties include the review of: The Groups production activity depends heavily The Group has implemented and constantly improves its supply 2.2 policies and overall processes to identify and assess on the effectiveness of its supply chains.
These chain system to closely link the production demand of resources with monitor, report Production risks business risks and manage their impact on the Company might be negatively affected by complex logistics inventory levels, optimise the number of order placements and ensure and review risk 1 procurement to remote locations and delays in construction in-time inventory and equipment delivery to production sites.
and the Group: identify and and delivery of purchased mining and processing document risks 4 regular assurance reports from management, internal equipment or spare parts.
audit, external audit and others on matters related to risk Failure to retain key employees or to recruit A working conditions improvement programme is in place.
and control: 2.3 new staff, mainly at the Groups mining and Production risks Remuneration policies are designed to incentivise, motivate periodic deep dives in significant risks: and processing facilities, may lead to increased staff Develop and qualified labour and retain key employees.
costs, interruptions to existing operations and 2 the timeliness of, and reports on, the effectiveness implement availability delays in new projects.
There is an increased focus on health and safety refer to pages 50-51 risk mitigation of corrective action taken by management.
Assess, quantify of this report and there is active promotion of a positive corporate strategies 3 Lack of skilled and knowledgeable staff and classify culture within the Group.
at remote locations may occur due to extreme each risk Risk identification weather conditions.
Risk awareness is embedded within the Group and is grounded in our strong ethical values and proactive Residual risk level corporate culture.
Our risk management philosophy High Medium Low Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Strategic report 72 73 Strategic report Risks and risk management continued Risk category Risk description and potential effect Risk response Risk category Risk description and potential effect Risk response Risk of underperformance against production A contractors performance control system is designed, implemented Major pollution arising from operations could The Company has implemented an eco-management system 2.4 8 plan, of exceeding available resources: budget and applied.
include deforestation, air and water pollution with meets international standards, and compliance certificates Production risks Environmental risk overspending, delayed results.
Potential impacts have been received.
reliance on include fines and penalties, statutory liability for contractors The Company implements a number of initiatives to monitor and limit environmental redemption and other financial the impact of its operations on the environment, including external consequences, which may be significant.
Due to frequent changes in tax legislation in The Companys policy is to comply fully with the requirements expert assessment of pollution generated and adopting best practice 3 Russia and Kazakhstan, a lack of established of applicable tax laws, providing adequate controls over tax accounting in the industry for its corporate policies and procedures.
Tax risk practices in tax law means that additional costs and tax reporting.
such as taxes or penalties may arise.
The Group invests considerable resources in gold Rigorous due diligence procedures are applied to the evaluation 9 Given the prevailing practice accepted by arbitration courts when mining assets and operations in the Russian and execution of all acquisitions to assess the consequences of the The most recent Russian government initiatives deciding on certain cases in tax disputes in 2012-13, as well as Mergers and Federation and Kazakhstan.
There is a risk acquisition, based on economic, ecological, political and social factors.
include significant amendments to tax law particular outcomes of tax disputes involving Kazakh and Russian acquisitions risks of failure to achieve the expected benefits from governing operations with entities from subsidiaries of the Group, the tax risk is assessed as High.
Board and or shareholder approval is required for any acquisition.
any acquisition in the case of adverse changes off-shore jurisdictions.
The consolidated financial statements reflect provisions booked in assumptions or any inaccuracy of estimates The taxation risk level correlates with legal and in connection with the Companys evaluation of tax risks.
made, or where the information used for political risks levels.
decision-making was incomplete or inaccurate.
To date the Company is not aware of any significant outstanding tax claims which could lead to additional taxes accruing in the future Failure to deliver expected benefits from an except for amounts already booked or disclosed in the Groups acquisition can results in adverse financial financial statements.
performance, lower planned production volumes or problems with product quality.
Exploration and development are timeand Risk and uncertainty are inherent in exploration and 4 capital-intensive activities and may involve a high development activities.
Operating in developing countries such as Russia Polymetal has a successful track record of operating in both the 10 Exploration risks degree of risk, but are necessary for future and Kazakhstan involves the risk that changes Russian and Kazakh jurisdictions, having developed its own expertise The Group invests considerable amounts in focused exploration Legal risk growth.
Failure to discover new reserves of in tax and other legislation may occur from time in corporate, tax, licensing and other legal areas.
projects to obtain sufficient information about the quantity and sufficient magnitude could adversely affect the to time.
The most sensitive areas are regulation quality of expected reserves and to estimate expected cash flows.
The Groups financial and legal teams monitor current legislation Companys results.
of foreign investments, private property, The Groups team of geologists and engineering specialists has and proposed changes and incorporate these into their practice.
Exploration risks include exploration site a track record of successful greenfield and brownfield exploration Corporate and operational management teams are responsible for selection, defining the optimal method of leading to subsequent development of exploration fields for In recent years, however, the governments meeting legal requirements in their operating activities.
Head office exploration, licensing and permits, exploration commercial production.
of both Russia and Kazakhstan have become and on-site legal teams ensure appropriate controls over process supply staff, equipment etc.
exploration more consistent regarding the introduction compliance issues.
contractors performance control and reporting.
of new regulations and taxes, demonstrating an awareness of investment climate issues.
The Group takes into account the results of tax audits and court rulings Potential effects include financial losses due to However, in the application of existing legislation when interpreting taxation rules and determining future tax positions.
poor exploration results on selected properties, requiring interpretation, courts often uphold the financial losses or unreliable exploration results more assertive position of the tax authorities, due to use of incorrect exploration methods, which does not always coincide with the inefficient use of the resources available or and Companys position.
not achieving the reserve resource targets set.
Operating in Russia and Kazakhstan involves The Group actively monitors political developments on an ongoing basis.
11 Failure to achieve the return required from major The Company implements global best practice in project management.
5 some risk of political instability, which may include capital expenditure projects, such as building The Groups engineering team is responsible for the oversight of capital Political risk We aim to maintain open working relationships with local authorities Construction and changes in government, negative policy shifts, new mines and processing facilities or production expenditure projects, including project support, co-ordination of service in the countries where we operate.
development risk international sanctions and civil unrest.
These may capacity increase renovation at existing mines, organisations, contractors, constructors and co-operation with have an adverse effect on the Groups market as a result of failure to meet project delivery regulatory bodies.
timeline and budgets, could adversely affect the Significant elements of our exploration and development projects Groups financial results, cash flow position and are performed by the Group in-house by Polymetal Engineering, The inability to raise sufficient funds to meet The Groups treasury function is responsible for ensuring that there 12.1 increase capital costs.
a subsidiary company with significant expertise and a strong track current operating or ongoing financial needs, are sufficient funds in place, including loan facilities, cash flow from Financial risks record of designing and commissioning mines and processing plants.
to develop new projects and fund growth.
operating activities and cash on hand, to meet short-term business cash and requirements.
Long-term credit lines are used to finance new projects Our techniques for construction risk management are constantly liquidity risk Inadequate cash management in terms of cash and organic growth.
improved including the employment of world-class consultants with flow forecast, available resources and future recognised international experience.
The Company operates in remote locations that To improve procurement management, in 2013 the Group restructured Currency risk arises from the Companys Natural hedging is used to reduce the risk exposure: revenue 6 12.2 require complex and significant transportation of the procurement function by creating regional branches.
receipts from metal sales and foreign is matched with US Dollar-denominated debt.
Logistics and Financial risks ore and gold silver concentrates, most of which is currency-denominated debt, as well as the supply chain risk To mitigate the logistics risk the Group invests considerable resources currency risk Flexible budgeting is used to monitor the effect of exchange rate conducted by third-party contractors.
Production foreign currency-denominated cost of imported in the construction and maintenance of permanent and temporary fluctuations on the Groups financial results.
targets may not be reached if any element of the capital goods and consumables.
winter roads at exploration and production sites.
The Group exercises logistics chain is disrupted.
effective control over the whole logistics chain, including selection and The Group is exposed to interest rate risk, Based on analysis of the current economic situation, the Group has 12.3 operation of contractors.
as a significant part of the Groups debt portfolio decided to accept the risk of floating interest rates rather than hedge Financial risks is US Dollar and Euro-denominated floating it or borrow at fixed rates.
Health, safety and environment risk includes There is labour and industrial safety control system in place that interest rate risk 7 rate borrowings.
regulatory compliance, environmental pollution includes risk assessment of individual workplaces functions, protection However the Group does not rule out the possibility of fixing the Health and and damage, and personal safety.
of personnel with safety equipment etc.
interest rate on its borrowings in the future, should assessment safety risk of the ongoing economic situation suggest this may be profitable.
The Company has tightened responsibility for implementation of safety procedures by raising employees awareness of risk, and has developed A higher rate of inflation may increase future As part of the budgeting process, the Group estimates possible 12.4 additional safety measures in relation to any identified weaknesses.
operational costs and have a negative impact on inflation levels and incorporates them into its cost planning.
Financial risks the Companys financial results if there is no inflation rate risk related depreciation of the local currency against the US Dollar, or an increase in LBMA gold and silver fixings.
Residual risk level Residual risk level High Medium Low High Medium Low Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Governance 74 75 Chairman Governance Chief Executive Officer Board of Directors Non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director 07 Jonathan Best senior management 01 02 03 Independent non-executive Director Appointed 29 September 2011.
Vitaly Savchenko Valery Tsyplakov Experience More than 30 years experience Chief Operating Officer Managing Director, in the mining industry.
Board member of JSC Polymetal Engineering Appointed 2009.
Polymetal since December 2006: Chairman Appointed 2004. of the Audit Committee of Gulf Industrials: Experience Director of the Production Interim CEO of Trans-Siberian Gold in 2006: Department, 2007-2009, senior production, Experience Previous roles in Polymetal: CFO and Executive Director of AngloGold Ashanti.
technical and mining positions since 2004.
Deputy General Director for Mineral Resources, Chief engineer at Priargunskoye Mining and Design and Technology and senior roles in the Qualifications MBA from the University of the Chemical Company, 1994-2003.
Recipient Production and Technology and Technological Witwatersrand, Johannesburg.
Chartered 04 05 06 of a third-category Miners Glory Medal.
Associate Head at the Soviet Union Research Institute of the Chartered Institute of Secretaries Qualifications Degree with Honours in of Aeronautical Automation and prior to this and Administrators.
underground mineral mining engineering, at Orhus Universitys Physics Institute Denmark.
Kyrgyz Mining Institute: completed Strategy Other roles Non-executive Director of AngloGold Research Fellow in the Plasma Physics course of the MBA programme at the UKs Ashanti Holdings plc and member of its Audit Department of the Moscow Physics and Open University Business School and Committee: Chairman of Sentula Mining and Engineering Institute.
Professional Member of the is currently undertaking the final stage.
Bauba Platinum and Member of their nomination Institute of Materials, Minerals & Mining London.
and remuneration committees: Chairman Qualifications Degree in Experimental Nuclear of GoldStone Resources: Non-executive Physics, the Moscow Physics and Engineering Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Sergey Cherkashin Institute.
PhD in Physics and Mathematics.
07 08 09 Chief Financial Officer Committees Chairman of the Audit Appointed 2005. and Risk Committee: member of the Pavel Danilin Remuneration Committee.
Experience CFO of the Timashevsk Dairy Plant.
Sales Director of the Ulyanovsk Deputy CEO, Strategic Development Automotive Plant.
Deputy CEO of Development Appointed 2009.
08 Russell Skirrow at the Volgograd Dairy Plant.
Consultant for AT Kearney in Moscow.
Experience Previous role in Polymetal: Director Independent non-executive Director of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations, Qualifications MBA from the University Appointed 29 September 2011.
Head of Corporate of Hartford.
Degree in Applied Mathematics from Finance at CJSC ICT, 2002 and 2003.
Deputy Experience Board member of JSC Polymetal the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology.
01 Bobby Godsell 02 Vitaly Nesis 03 Konstantin Yanakov Head of Currency Department and Head since September 2008.
Total of 34 years work of Financial Resources Department at the Chairman of the Board of Directors Chief Executive Officer Non-executive Director experience in the global mining industry and Kaliningrad branch of Bank Petrocommerce, investment banking, including ten years at Merrill Sergey Trushin Appointed 29 September 2011.
Lynch in London as Head of Global Metals, Deputy CEO, Mineral Resources Experience President of the South African Experience JSC Polymetals Chief Experience Member of JSC Polymetals Qualifications MBA from the University Mining & Steel Research and subsequently Chamber of Mines, Chairman of Eskom, Executive from 2003, Member of its Board Board of Directors since September of California at Berkeley, Haas School of Business.
as Global Chairman of the Metals Mining team, Appointed 2010.
Chief Executive of AngloGold Ashanti, since June 2004.
CEO of Vostsibugol, 2008, member of its Audit Committee Degree in Economics and Management, and 12 years in Gold Fields Ltd South Africa Experience Chief Geologist at the Khabarovsk Director of African Barrick Gold and Chair 2002-2003.
Various positions at MDM Bank.
and Western Mining Corporation in Australia, Exploration Company, 2008-2010.
Chief of the Board of Optimum Coal Holdings, at the Ulyanovsk Automobile Plant in 2000.
CFO of JSC Polymetal until 2004. and the USA.
Chairman of Dampier Gold Ltd Geologist at Albazino Resources 2006-2008 acquired by Glencore plc.
Head of the Investment Planning Department 2010-2013.
Qualifications MBA from the London Business and various positions at Albazino Resources at SUAL-Holding, 2001-2002.
McKinsey Igor Kapshuk Qualifications BA from the University of Natal School: PhD in Economics from the Russian Qualifications BSc with Honours in Geology since 1998.
Geologist with Dalnevostochnie in Moscow, 1999-2000.
Merrill Lynch and MA from the University of Cape Town.
State University of Management: degree from Durham University and a PhD from the Resources, 1997.
Geologist with the Production Chief Legal Officer in New York, 1997-1999. in Global Economics from the Government Royal School of Mines, Imperial College, London.
Geological Association Dalgeology and the Other roles Chairman of Business Leadership Appointed 2009.
Qualifications BA in Economics of Russias Finance Academy.
Member of the Institute of Materials, Minerals Nizhne-Amursk exploration expedition in the South Africa, Director of Platmin Limited and from Yale University.
& Mining with Chartered Engineer status, preceding six years.
Experience Previously worked in Polymetal Solar Capital, Member of the South African Other roles Chief Financial Officer and Fellow of the Financial Services Institute as Head of the Legal Department since 2005 National Planning Commission and co-Chairman of ICT Group, Director of LLC ICT-Capital, Qualifications Degree in Geological Surveying of Australasia.
Deputy General of the South African Millennium Labour Council.
Director of Greek organisation of Football and Mining Engineering Exploration from the 05 Marina Grnberg Counsel, Head of the Department for Legal Non-executive Director of the South African Prognostics SA OPAP S. A..
Member of the Committee Member of the Audit and Novocherkassk State Polytechnic Institute.
Matters and Head of Claims Department at the Industrial Development Corporation.
Supervisory Board of Rigensis Bank AS, Non-executive Director Risk Committee.
branch of Siberia Energy Coal Company and at Board member at Piraeus Bank.
Committees Chairman of the Appointed 29 September 2011.
Legal advisor Roman Shestakov Nomination Committee.
Legal advisor Experience Board member of JSC Polymetal 09 Leonard Homeniuk and acting Head of the Legal Department Deputy CEO, Project Development since September 2008.
Various positions 06 Charles Balfour Independent non-executive Director at the Irkutsk Tea-Packing Factory, 1997-1998. and Construction in banks and private equity firms.
04 Jean-Pascal Duvieusart Senior Independent Legal adviser at an insurance company Irkutsk, Appointed 29 September 2011.
Qualifications Degrees in Economics and non-executive Director 1994-1997.
Non-executive Director Finance, and in Law from Moscow State Experience Board member of JSC Polymetal Experience Chief Engineer at Gold of Northern Appointed 29 September 2011.
Qualifications Degree from the Law School Appointed 29 September 2011.
Law Academy and in Applied Mathematics since June 2010.
President, CEO and member Urals, 2007-2009, and a pit superintendent from of Irkutsk State University.
Experience Over 40 years experience in the of the Board of Directors of Centerra Gold, 2006.
Mine superintendent at the Okhotsk Experience Managing Partner for Central investment banking industry in the USA, UK, 2004-2008.
Held executive positions Mining and Exploration Company, 2004-2005.
Europe and the CIS at McKinsey: joined Other roles Board member of Waterstones France and Hong Kong working for Dillon Read, with Centerra Gold, Kumtor Gold and Mining engineer in the Production and Technical McKinsey in 1992 and worked in Brussels, Holding, Hachette-Atticus, MIG Credit, Banque Paribas, Durlacher and Fleming Family Cameco Corporation.
Department of JSC Polymetal Management New York and Central Europe before Marenco Swiss Helicopters, SPAR-Retail, Partners.
Executive of Nasdaq International, in the preceding two years.
becoming Managing Partner in Prague.
A&NN Capital Management Fund: Qualifications MSc from the University 19932004, and its Chairman in 2000-2004: Advisor to banks, insurers and industrial Managing Director of A&NN Schweiz, of Manitoba.
Member of the Ontario Society Qualifications Honours degree in Open-pit Director of Humber Power and Humber Energy.
companies in Russia and Central Europe.
member of management committee of Professional Engineers, the Canadian Mining from the Mining Department of Board member of Nomos Bank and Fesco.
of A&NN Capital Management Fund: Qualifications Educated at Eton in the UK Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and the the St. Petersburg State Mining Institute.
President of the Nadezhda charity fund.
and the Sorbonne in France.
Prospectors and Developers Association Qualifications MBA from the of Canada.
Honorary Professor at the University of Chicago: Masters degree Other roles Trustee of the Bawdsey Estates.
in Commercial Engineering, Catholic Committees Member of the Audit and Risk, University of Louvain, Belgium.
Other roles Director of Trade Ideas LLC.
Chair, President and Chief Executive Officer Other roles Director of PPF Advisory Russia, of Polygon Gold Inc. PPF B. V. PPF Group N. V. Flowervale Ltd and HC B. V. Member of the Supervisory Committees Chairman of the Board of PPF since 2010.
Remuneration Committee, member of the Nomination Committee.
