Strong business fundamentals Business Model allow us to focus on growth Our business is financially well positioned Our objective is to deliver long term sustainable to grow.
We operate within an expandable value in all we do.
To do this, the building blocks are: consumption market with powerful brands, differentiated products and important positions within our core consumers repertoires.
Our business model allows us to focus on f Understanding real consumer needs and tastes such that creating and delivering value in all we do.
we build brands and develop innovations to satisfy them By owning our brands, being asset backed, f Focusing on our core brands with multiple routes to market, and having f Delivering excellence in execution a strong execution culture, we seek to outgrow f Driving efficiency across the supply chain the market as well as build our business.
Consumer insight drives our business.
Our f Developing the team aim is to understand real consumer needs f Building long lasting customer relationships and tastes.
Our consumer base is growing f We do the right thing in number, location and diversity.
We aim to build long term relationships with all our Building brands that consumers love.
consumers through our brands by appealing to both traditional and new tastes as well as by bringing exciting innovation to the market.
We believe people want choice and we aim to build brands and develop innovation which meets this need.
Focus on core brands Excellence in execution efficiency across the supply chain We have developed a wide brand portfolio Turning plans into actions as efficiently and To ensure we can compete in todays and believe in offering choice.
We have effectively as possible is a key factor in our marketplace we must strive for efficiency across our full supply chain.
We invest in directed much of our efforts to focus on success.
From factory operations to activity our core brand offerings IRN-BRU, BARR, at the point of consumer purchase we aim to all areas of efficiency from the sourcing our exotic brands Rubicon and KA and excel in the execution of our plans.
We have of materials across the globe, the design our franchise partner brand Rockstar.
invested significantly in our customer facing of our packaging materials through to our teams to ensure our brand led activity is manufacturing and distribution facilities By focusing our efforts on these core activated in all channels creating interest, across the U. K. brands, we have been able to speed up excitement and visibility in our brands and the development of this group of brands helping to leverage the consumer marketing with improved sales execution, better campaigns which drive brand awareness.
supported communication and improved innovation to market.
We believe our core brands will drive our long term business growth.
04 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Growing our brands across the U. K. Head Office Factory 01 Cumbernauld 01 Cumbernauld 02 Forfar Regional Office 03 Pitcox 05 Middlebrook 09 Tredegar 10 Wembley 12 Milton Keynes 02 under construction Sales Branch 04 Newcastle Distribution Depot 01 06 Moston 01 Cumbernauld 03 07 Sheffield 08 Wednesbury 11 Walthamstow 04 Our Brands IRN-BRU, Rubicon, Barr Brands, KA, Strathmore, Simply, Tizer, 05 DNB, St. Clements, Findlays, 06 Abbotts.
07 Partnership Brands Orangina, Rockstar, Snapple.
08 12 09 10 11 Envisaged, enabled, energised team Long lasting customer relationships Doing the right thing Throughout our business we rely on both Building long lasting relationships with Our Corporate Responsibility actions individual and team performance: our aim customers in all channels across all our key across the environment, people, consumers and community are a big part of our business.
is to build competency, capability and markets is central to building our business leadership across the business.
The pace of for the long term.
Our aim is to understand We believe that how we act reflects who we growth and change in our markets demands all our customers businesses and work are.
Our aim is to ensure we always Do the much of everyone and we will continue to in collaboration with them to find winning Right Thing across the business.
invest in developing all our people as well consumer propositions but to do so in as encouraging people to successfully use a practical, fun and profitable way.
We are providing support and guidance their initiative.
but also autonomy to individuals, teams and sites across the business to ensure they can Do the Right Thing every day.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 05
