Facts & Figures c. 44m investment 37 week build programme 3 main turnkey contracts for production equipment 120,000 cans per hour 33 cans per second 410,000 floor tiles laid by hand in production hall 135,000 sq.
ft production hall Corporate Governance Rockstar In a significant year of growth, Rockstars revenue almost doubled with a very positive take up of the Rockstar innovation programme across the market.
Board of Directors Ronald G. Hanna, Roger A.
White, Alex B. C. Short, Jonathan D. Kemp, C. A. M. A. Hons B.
A. Hons Biographies Formerly Chief Executive of Bett Brothers Roger is a member of the Board of A member and former Chairman of Jonathan has had a successful plc, joint managing director of Cala plc, Management and Executive Council and the Group of Scottish Finance Directors.
career in various commercial roles director of Scottish Western Trust and past President of the British Soft Drinks Previous appointments include Group within Procter and Gamble.
senior consultant at PA Management Association BSDA.
Roger is also the Finance Director of William Grant & Sons Consultants.
BSDA representative with UNESDA, the Holdings Ltd, Managing Director of European soft drinks trade association.
William Grant & Sons Distillers Ltd, Previously held numerous senior Management Consultant with Coopers positions in food group Rank Hovis & Lybrand and various management McDougall.
Scottish PLC Chief Executive positions within Coca Cola Schweppes of the year in 2010.
Term of Office Joined the Company in 2003 as a Joined the Company in 2002 as Joined the Company as Finance Director Joined the Company in 2003 Non-Executive Director.
Appointed Chief in June 2008. as Commercial Director.
Independent Yes No No No External Appointments Chairman of both Bowleven plc and None.
Non-Executive Director of Goals Soccer None.
Troy Income & Growth Trust plc.
Committee Membership Nomination Committee Chair, Treasury Committee.
Health & Safety Committee Chair, Health & Safety Committee.
40 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Andrew L. Memmott, W. Robin G. Barr, Martin A. Grifths, John R. Nicolson, BSc, MSc.
A. Hons Joined the Company following Former President of the British Soft A Chartered Accountant, Martin Griffiths Johns career has involved positions three years with Co-operative Drinks Association.
is a member and former Chairman of the with ICI, Unilever and Fosters Brewing Wholesale Society.
Group of Scottish Finance Directors and Group.
He was an Executive Director former Director of Troy Income & Growth of Scottish & Newcastle PLC.
Trust plc, Trainline Holdings Limited, RoadKing Infrastructure HK Limited and Citybus HK Limited.
He was young Scottish Finance Director of the year in 2004.
Joined the Companys Project Joined the Company in 1960.
Appointed Joined the Company in 2010 Joined the company in 2013 Engineering Team in June 1990.
Director in 1964 and Chairman in 1978. as a Non-Executive Director.
Retired as Chairman and appointed Non-Executive Director in 2009.
Finance Director of Stagecoach Group Regional President Americas for plc, Senior Independent Non-Executive Heineken and a member of the Heineken Director of Robert Walters plc and NV Executive Committee.
In addition he Co-Chairman of Virgin Rail Group.
serves as Deputy Chairman of CCU SA Chile and Deputy President on CCR SA Costa Rica.
Environmental Committee Chair, Audit Committee, Nomination Audit Committee Chair, Nomination Audit Committee.
Committee, Remuneration Committee, Remuneration Committee.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41
