Premier Farnell 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 DIRECTORS REPORT Principal activities and business review Directors A detailed review of the Groups activities and the development of its The names and biographical details of the Directors who held ofce at the business, together with an indication of likely future developments, the date of this report appear on pages 38 and 39. main trends and factors likely to affect future performance and a The following changes to the membership of the Board took place during description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces, are set out on the financial year: pages 30 to 31 which constitutes the Business Review and forms part of this report.
Information on material sustainability issues appears on pages t Laurence Bain was appointed as Chief Executive officer on 12 June 32 to 34, with more detail provided in the Sustainability section on the 2012 when Harriet Green stepped down from the Board, leaving the Premier Farnell website: http: www.
Laurence has been a member of the Board since1 July 2003 in his former role as Chief Operating officer: and The principal activity of the Group is the provision of electronic, electrical and industrial products and services to the design, maintenance and t Mark Whiteling rejoined the Company as Chief Financial officer, and repairsectors.
wasappointed to the Board on 5 November 2012, following Nicolas Cadburys resignation.
As described in the Business Review, the Group does not have significant reliance on any individual customer or supplier and therefore there are In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code all of our Directors nocontractual or other arrangements that are essential to the will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company and Groupsbusiness.
offer themselves either for election, in the case of Mark, or for re-election, inthe case of all other Directors.
A formal evaluation of the performance of each Director and of the Board has been carried out and the performance profit and dividends of each of them continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment The Groups total operating profit for the financial year was 90.9 million to his or her role.
There is more information on the evaluation and its and includes a net charge of 13.9 million relating to restructuring costs outcome on page 44. and a charge of 0.4 million for business acquisition costs, partly offset The Company provided indemnities to each of its Directors in accordance byan accounting gain of 9.2 million resulting from the Groups offer to with the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association allowing the buy-out the pension rights of the deferred members of its US dened indemnification of Directors out of the assets of the Company to the extent benefit pension plan.
Adjusting for these items, the Groups adjusted permitted by law.
These indemnities constitute qualifying indemnities for operating profit was 96.0 million.
In 2011 12 the Groups operating profit the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and remain in force at the date was 123.4 million and included 18.9 million relating to gains on the ofapproval of this report without any payment having been made disposal of businesses and 2.8 million of restructuring costs.
forthese items, the Groups adjusted operating profit in 2011 12 was 107.3million.
Additional information relating to Directors remuneration, service contracts and interests in the Companys shares is given in the Remuneration Report The Groups profit attributable to owners of the parent for the financial year on pages 55 to 71.
The details of Directors interests in the Companys to 3 February 2013 was 49.6 million 2011 12: 76.9 million.
shares form part of this report.
The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 21.9 million, equivalent to 6.0 pence per ordinary share 2011 12: 21.8 million, equivalent to Share capital and control 6.0pence per ordinary share be paid on 26 June 2013 to those shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 31May 2013.
Details of the Companys issued share capital are set out in notes 15 and Aninterim dividend of 16.1 million, equivalent to 4.4 pence per ordinary 19 to the consolidated financial statements, including any changes which share, was paid on 17 October 2012, making a total for the year of have taken place during the year under review.
The Companys authorised 38.0million or 10.4 pence per ordinary share 2011 12: 37.8 million in share capital comprises ordinary shares of five pence each in nominal totaland 10.4 pence per ordinary share.
The Premier Farnell Executive value and cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares of 1 each Trust holds ordinary shares in the Company acquired in the market in in nominal value.
As at 3 February 2013, the ordinary shares and order to meet obligations under the Premier Farnell Performance Share preference shares represented 82.4% and 17.6% respectively of the Plan or to provide similar employee benets.
The trustees have waived Companys total share capital.
theright to receive dividends in respect of the ordinary shares held by theTrust.
Other than Mark who rejoined the Company after completion of the review.
Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 53 The rights attached to the Companys ordinary shares and its preference Product research and development shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in The Groups product research and development activities are restricted the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, a copy of which can be tothe development of new or enhanced products for Akron Brass.
Akron obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
A summary of the rights Brass is part of the Groups Industrial Products Division.
During the year the attached to the preference shares appears in note 15 to the consolidated Industrial Products Division expensed 3.0 million 2011 12: 2.5 million on financial statements.
The Articles contain certain restrictions on the transfer of ordinary and In addition, the Group is constantly striving to provide new or improved preference shares and on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, levels of customer service.
This is illustrated in the advances in our web including where the Company has exercised its right to prohibit transfer offering: whether through our transactional sites or the further development following the omission of their holder or any person interested in them to of our element14 Community, which offers a source of engineering provide the Company with information requested by it in accordance with knowledge and design solutions as well as access to colleagues, suppliers Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006.
Holders of preference shares are and experts globally.
During the year the Group expensed 5.2 million entitled to receive notice of, but not attend or vote at general meetings of 2011 12: 5.3 million in these areas.
the Company other than in limited circumstances.
The preference shares are not equity for the purposes of financial reporting.
Charitable and political donations At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company in June 2013, In the US, the Group has an ongoing policy of donating certain items of the Company will seek authority from its shareholders to purchase its inventory to charitable organisations.
In addition, during the year the Group ordinary and preference shares.
Authorities were previously granted at the made charitable donations in cash of 56,000 2011 12: 59,000.
Annual General Meeting in 2012 and expire at the close of the forthcoming meeting.
The authorities sought will, if granted, empower the Directors to The Groups policy is not to make contributions to political parties.
exercise the authorities on behalf of the Company.
Rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out in Employment the Articles.
Changes to the Articles may only be made if approved by Information on the Groups policy in relation to employment, performance special resolution of the shareholders.
The Directors powers are granted reviews, feedback, diversity, development and employee communications tothem by UK legislation and by the Articles.
is set out on pages 35 to 36 of the Business Review.
There are no agreements between any Group company and any of its employees or any Director of the Company that provide for compensation Environment to be paid to the employee or Director for termination of employment or The Group recognises the importance of responsible environmental forloss of ofce as a consequence of a takeover of the Company, other management and its obligation to protect the environment.
The Group than provisions that would apply on any termination of employment.
therefore gives high priority to all environmental matters.
Further information The Companys multi-currency bank facilities and its private note appears in the Sustainability section of the Business Review and more placements are subject to provisions allowing the lenders to terminate the detail is provided in the Sustainability section of the Premier Farnell website facilities and demand repayment following a change of control.
The trustees of the Premier Farnell Executive Trust an employee benefit Substantial shareholdings trust may vote or abstain from voting shares held in the trust in any way they see t. The table below shows the position at 3 February 2013 and any changes up to and including 15 April 2013 where the Company had been notied, Financial instruments pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following notiable voting rights in its ordinary share capital: Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies and on the exposure of the Group to relevant risks in respect of % holding as at % holding as at Company Name 03 02 2013 15 04 2013 financial instruments is set out under the heading Treasury Operations onpage 29 and in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
Newton Investment 4.97% 4.97% Legal & General 4.03% 4.03% Supplier payment policy Artemis Investment 4.86% 4.86% Fidelity International FIL 5.06% 5.06% The Groups operating companies are responsible for agreeing terms and Old Mutual Asset Managers UK Ltd 4.60% 4.60% conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
Payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those UBS Global Asset Management 5.04% Below 3% terms, provided that suppliers also comply with all relevant terms and Prudential PLC 7.51% 7.51% conditions.
At 3 February 2013, the amount the Group owed its suppliers Standard Life Investments Ltd 4.43% 4.43% represented 34 working days purchases 2011 12: 34 working days.
The Norge Bank 4.01% 4.01% Company is a holding company and does not have any trade creditors.
Harris Associates 4.73% 4.73% Baillie Gifford & Co 5.12% 5.12% BlackRock Inc 4.98% 5.04% Cazenove Capital Management Limited 4.98% 5.00% Premier Farnell 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 DIRECTORS REPORT Independent auditors Statement of Directors responsibilities Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as auditors and to The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at Directors Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company.
with applicable laws and regulations.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the consolidated financial statements and Annual Report in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Disclosure of information to auditors asadopted by the European Union and the parent company financial Each of the Directors confirms that so far as he or she is aware, there is no statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware Practice UK GAAP.
Under company law the Directors must not approve and that he or she has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and asa Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements the Directors are required to: Annual General Meeting t select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: The notice convening the Companys 2013 Annual General Meeting at t make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: theofces of Premier Farnell plc at 25 28 Old Burlington Street, London t state that the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRSs as W1S 3AN on 18 June 2013 at 10.30 am is set out in a separate document adopted by the European Union and the parent company financial issued to shareholders.
statements comply with UK GAAP: and The Directors Report for the year ended 3 February 2013 comprises these t prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it pages 52 to 54 and the other sections and pages of the Annual Report isinappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
cross-referred to above, which sections and pages are incorporated byreference.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
By order of the Board The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that Steven Webb are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose Secretary with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company Premier Farnell plc and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements Farnell House and the Directors Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act Forge Lane 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, article 4 of the Leeds LS12 2NE IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of 22 April 2013 the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for theprevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The 2013 financial statements will be published on the Companys website in addition to the paper version.
The Directors are responsible for maintenance and integrity of the electronic version of the financial statements to the same extent as for the paper version.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The work carried out by the auditors does not include consideration of the maintenance and integrity of the website.
Directors responsibility statement pursuant to DTR 4 Each of the Directors, as listed on pages 38 and 39, confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: a th e consolidated financial statements in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, and the Company financial statements in this report which have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP give atrue and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group taken as a whole: and b th e management report contained in this Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
