Premier Farnell 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 BUSINESS MODEL In our Marketing and Distribution Division MDD businesses, we purchase electronic components and related products from leading suppliers around the world.
Our customers buy small quantities of components and other related products as well as software and services, attributing significant value to the high level of service and support we provide.
3,500 Trusted suppliers OFFERING OVER 500,000 STOCKED PRODUCTS.
How we add value 1: Stock Working with our suppliers and benefitting from our use of sophisticated web analytics and insights from our element14 Community, we identify the broad range of components including niche technology, and other products and services that our customers require.
South Carolina 2 2: S Support t Customers require detailed information to ensure purchases meet their technical specications.
Our element14 Community allows engineers to share ideas while its online workspace, the Knode, provides information and access to additional Mexico services and solutions.
We further support our customers by providing 24 5 technical support from our 200 technical support engineers.
3: Sell Our multichannel approach allows customers to buy through the channel they prefer.
Premier Farnell has led the industry through eCommerce innovations like our element14 Community, the Knode and our eProcurement tools such as iBuy which combine with our 48 transactional websites.
Through this differentiating AMERICAS eCommerce offering, together with our telesales capability and 620 eld sales resources, we make it easy for customers to do business with us.
NEWARK K ELEMENT14, M M MCM 4 countries 5 websites 4: Deliver 3 warehouses At the core of our customer proposition is fast and reliable distribution of locally 260 sales staff stocked products.
Our seven distribution centres located around the globe ship 290 call centre staff 35,000 packages each day.
With the support of our global logistics partners, such as UPS, this allows us to achieve same or next day shipping for 99.9% of the products we sell.
Together with our linecard of leading supplier partners we bring together the latest products, services and development solutions, 2 MILLION which are all connected to our innovative online engineering community, element14.
Through our community, purchasers Valued customers and engineers can access peers and experts, a wide range ofindependent technical information and proprietary tools.
com Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 3 How we add value to our suppliers By meeting our customers needs for the latest technologies, customer insights.
Combining with our increasing capability in the we can offer suppliers the opportunity to seed new products early stages of the design lifecycle and new product introduction, to an extensive, global customer base across a wide range of such as through Embest Technology, our design services industry segments.
Our multichannel sales strategy, including business, and CadSoft, our software design business, we are a the award-winning element14 Community, provides suppliers valued partner to key suppliers in the global electronics market.
with a differentiating route to market and access to unparalleled Resource 4,400 Group employees 620 MDD eld sales staff 600 MDD Contact Centre staff Leeds 48 transactional websites, Lige 33 in local languages Technical Support Shanghai Tier 1 centres in each region Live chat 24 5 200 global technical support engineers Singapore EUROPE ASIA A P P PACIFIC F F FARNELL ELEMENT T T14, CPC ELEMENT T 14 23 countries 9 countries Sydney 32 websites 11 websites including 3 warehouses Mandarin language 250 sales staff 3 warehouses 250 call centre staff 110 sales staff 70 contact centre staff Our customers Our customers, from over 150 industries, range from of customers from engineers to purchasing design engineers at the beginning of the electronics professionals, educators, students and lifecycle to maintenance and repair engineers at its hobbyists, our proposition adds value through end.
Meeting the distinct, high service requirements the electronics lifecycle.
