Premier Farnell 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 STRATEGIC FOCUS 3 INTERNATIONALISATION In a world of ever greater interconnectivity, where the design andproduction of a single new electronic product frequently takesplace across multiple countries and continents, engineers increasingly expect a global source they can partner with in the high service distribution space.
Customers trust us to ship nine million packages each year with shipping accuracy of 99.7% from our nine distribution centres around the world.
Meanwhile our multichannel model, combining 620 sales staff regional 80% contact centres and an innovative eCommerce offering, has enabled OF SALES FROM salesfrom outside the UK to account for 80% of our global business.
OUTSIDE THE UK Global presence Premier Farnells distribution business has over two million customers spread across the global electronics markets.
The developed economies 9.3% of Europe and North America remain the global centres of the industrial markets and naturally these remain our most important geographies OF Q4 MDD SALES combining to make up over 85% of our MDD revenues.
FROM EMERGING MARKETS Yet, even within these developed economies, the marketplace remains fragmented with an estimated 80% of the global market serviced by small, regional competitors with limited customer propositions.
We have an exciting opportunity to grow our active customer base and increase share of spend through our proposition across electronics, from design engineers to purchasers to maintenance engineers.
Developing markets Electronics today is a global industry.
Emerging economies such as Eastern Europe, South East Asia, China, India and Brazil continue to play agreater role in its development from design to production.
Over the past six years, Premier Farnell has focused on increasing our position in these markets through organic, entrepreneurial growth, supplemented by small strategic acquisitions such as Hynetics in India in 2007 08 and Microdis inEastern Europe in 2008 09.
Following this years acquisition of Embest, the manufacturer of development tools and kits based in China, emerging markets made up 9.3% of MDD sales by the fourth quarter.
As one of just four global high service distributors, Premier Farnell is positioned to capitalise on the potential structural growth opportunities inthese markets.
Two megatrends will help us achieve our objectives: t First, as global electronic component manufacturers look to enter the market they need a trusted partner and an efficient supply chain and withour exciting supplier proposition they increasingly choose to work with us.
t Secondly, as economies develop, they place greater emphasis on quality leading to greater regulation.
This drives a greater need for a trusted source of branded products which Premier Farnell provides.
Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 23 240,000 PRODUCTS We stock over 240,000 products in Asia Pacific, in particular in our regional headquarters in Singapore, which is supported by hubs in Sydney and Shanghai.
Global Business, Local Service Yet our approach is more than just the web.
Customers benefit from our joined up, multichannel approach including eld sales and contact centres Customers want a personal service from a global distributor and through and we tailor our approach to meet the requirement of customers in the our multichannel model we tailor our offering to the local marketplace.
For example, in India, we service customers primarily through Our new web platform will represent an important step forward in online eld sales and our contact centres, with the support of our technical centre capability and provides a foundation for the future.
The platform will enable in Bangalore.
faster roll-out of new functionality, capturing our experience on a global basis and inputs from customers and suppliers.
In addition, the new Focus on Eastern Europe platform will simplify the localisation of content to make user experience Industrial businesses across Europe are relying to an ever increasing extent more tailored to each regions customer base and allow us to roll-out our on Eastern Europe as a manufacturing hub.
The first global, high service web proposition faster in targeted emerging markets.
distributor to focus on this growth market in 2006, Premier Farnell has Our advanced web capability is fundamental to our differentiated benefitted from the growth in electronics across a wide range of end proposition in the developing markets as it enables us to provide customer segments, resulting in a three year CAGR of 43.9%.
customers with a tailored, local language experience in an efficient way.
This year, we have increased the focus in the region by establishing The information that we can supply through the web, including legislative abest-in-class contact centre in Krakow, Poland, to run our outbound and regulatory details increasingly vital to design success, combined telesales and telemarketing activity across Europe in 22 local languages, withour element14 Community, helps us to increase our active customer including the Eastern European languages.
This centre combined with base in our territories and provides a conduit for suppliers to reach out eldsales, customer service support, eCommerce and marketing activity, tocustomers.
plus the ability for customers to buy from us in local currency, creates the ideal platform to build market share in the region.
Asia Pacic Proposition As a high service distributor, our emphasis is on meeting customers requirements through our product portfolio and distribution capability to make their work easier.
Today, we stock over 240,000 products in the region, in particular in our regional headquarters in Singapore, which is supported by hubs in Sydney and Shanghai.
Over the past year, we have continued to develop our proposition in the region by adding in excess of 50,000 new lines and customers in Asia also benefit from our wider global product offering.
We continue to develop the attractiveness of our proposition and customer experience through our multichannel sales strategy, while taking steps to improve our efficiency in the region which will benefit customers through increased reliability and quality.
In China, for example, we are upgrading our systems to bring this territory in line with our other businesses.
As our element14 brand name becomes synonymous with high service, we remain confident that our business remains ideally positioned to leverage the extensive growth opportunities in Asia Pacic and across the wider global electronics markets.
50,000 NEW LINES Over the past year, we have continued to develop our proposition in the region by adding in excess of 50,000 new lines and customers in Asia also benefit from our wider global product offering.
