Premier Farnell 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 STRATEGIC FOCUS 1 ENHANCING OUR CUSTOMERPROPOSITION Premier Farnell has established itself as a key partner for many electronic design engineering customers as they develop the next generation of technology and for Maintenance, Repair and Operations MRO engineers, 99.9% especially in our targeted industry segments such as robotics, oil and OUR DISTRIBUTION gasand 24 7 utilities.
Now we are enhancing our proposition to meet CENTRES SHIP customers requirements across the electronics lifecycle through continued 99.9% OF ORDERS focus on delivering the three fundamental elements of high service SAME OR NEXT DAY product availability, fast delivery and the information to make the right product selection decision and by enhancing our capabilities as we add value to both customers and suppliers through our expertise, new product introductions, additional services and innovative solutions.
Product availability Our customers require a wide range of products from different suppliers to complete their projects.
Our linecard is truly world-class with over 500,000 product lines from 3,500 suppliers in our distribution businesses.
New suppliers include technology leaders such as ARM which this year chose to expand its partnership with us to encompass Europe, Middle East and Africa following the initiation of our successful partnership in North America last year.
We are increasingly working with suppliers at the earliest stages of the design cycle as a strategic partner to launch and seed their latest products.
Meanwhile, our range of over 50,000 own brand products offer customers exceptional quality at value prices in key commodity areas.
Through effective inventory management and by working closely with our supplier partners, our distribution centres are able to ship 99.9% of orders same or next day.
Fast delivery With ever increasing time pressure to deliver their projects, our customers around the world expect fast and reliable delivery of their products.
However, as their purchases are often required in small quantities, it is inefficient for our supplier partners to meet their needs.
Having an efficient distribution capability is at the heart of the high service model and Premier Farnells nine distribution centres spread around the regions combine to ship 35,000 packages per day and through logistics partnerships with companies such as UPS, we achieve 99.7% shipping accuracy.
Trusted product information With hundreds of thousands of products available, customers have a broad 50,000 OWN range ofoptions so it is critical that they make the right, informed decision BRAND PRODUCTS in orderthat their purchases meet the technical specications in their brief.
Our range of over 50,000 own brand products This aspect of the design decision-making process is becoming even more offer customers exceptional quality at value prices in key commodity areas.
vital, especially as the regulatory environment develops across our markets.
For example the Restriction of Hazardous Substances RoHs legislation was extended this year, impacting exporters to European markets.
Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 17 RASPBERRY PI The credit card sized computer developed to put computer programming back at the heart of engineers, launched to phenomenal interest from engineers and hobbyists alike Premier Farnell has been a market leader in providing information and Geoff Lees, Senior Vice President and General Manager Microcontrollers support to customers through innovations such as the element14 at Freescale, said: The launch of the new Kinetis L series microcontrollers Community, the Knode and technical product information sheets available has been a huge success with Premier Farnell and its operating companies on the transactional websites, as well as 24 5 technical support from our across the world.
When you look for a partner it is more than just 200 in-house engineering resources.
straightforward distributions it is all the other add-ons and customer solutions that make Premier Farnell stand out.
At the cutting edge of technology Raspberry Pi We have led the industry with our innovative approach to the design engineering segment.
For example, we launched the first community for The element14 Community played a key role in another very successful design engineers, element14, in 2008 09 and this innovation was further product launch this year.
The Raspberry Pi, the credit card sized computer enhanced by the launch of the Knode in 2011 12 to provide customers with developed to put computer programming back at the heart of engineers, an online workspace and knowledge centre vital in the very early stages launched to phenomenal interest from engineers and hobbyists alike.
In the ofthe design process.
From the Knode, customers can access our ever first 15 minutes after launch our websites received over million hits as increasing range of solutions for embedded system designs such as our customers ocked to order from us and by January 2013, Premier Farnell CadSoft EAGLE Computer Aided Design software, a vast array of had sold 600,000 Raspberry Pi units.
development tools and kits including those manufactured by our latest The Community then provided a nurturing and customer service role over acquisition, Embest, or printed circuit boards PCB from partners such the subsequent months.
There were videos from the popular Ben Heck asScreaming Circuits.
These services make us a strategic partner to show and Raspberry Pi founder, Ebon Upton, while Community members design engineering customers from the earliest stages of their design had over 900 online conversations regarding the product.
This gave us the cycle, facilitating their product development on every step from research platform to continue to interact with our customers in the face of inventory toproduction.
shortages from the products unprecedented demand.
Hobbyists and educational customers the engineers of tomorrow have World-class new product introductions really taken the Raspberry Pi to heart and have loved talking about their Electronic design engineers rely on us to deliver the latest technologies achievements on the Community and a wider social media sphere.
from both established and emerging suppliers.
Suppliers and customers Wehave supported these customers with the launch of a double-memory alike have benefitted from our innovative approach to online channels and version of the Pi, a growing range of accessory products such as the our capability to offer fast, web-based new product introduction initiatives, Gertboard, PiFace, WiPi, Pi-View and beyond the Pi with pre-mounting enabled by our unique, industry leading element14 Community.
services from Adafruit and open-source technologies from Arduino.
Withover 200,000 new customers attracted to Premier Farnells brands Our acquisition of Embest in the second quarter this year has strengthened through the launch of Raspberry Pi, we have an exciting opportunity to our new product introduction offering, allowing us to partner even more leverage our relationships even further in the years ahead.
closely with suppliers as they bring the latest technology to market.
Assuppliers develop their new products, Embest can manufacture the development tools and kits which are critical to the successful product launch while the interest and engagement generated in the element14 Community can ensure its success.
This combination of the element14 Community and Embest makes us uniquely positioned as a partner at theearliest stages of the design cycle.
One such partnership with Freescale in the launch of its Kinetis L microcontrollers was recognised by the supplier through an award for Global Design Engineering Solutions at the bi-annual Electronica Trade Fair this year.
In just the first five months following the launch, over 20,000 customers had viewed the Freedom board content on the element14 Community, leading to over 3,700 sales of the product to customers around the world.
