Premier Farnell 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 OTHER MDD BUSINESSES CPC & MCM Our other distribution businesses, CPC and MCM, supply electrical and electronic ranges, such as audio visual and security products, to a broad range of customers in their home markets of the United Kingdom and the United States, respectively.
Complementing our core brands, CPC and MCM service customers often working in auxiliary roles in the electronics industry, such as in IT departments, or who are technically-minded consumers such as enthusiasts or hobbyists who develop and modify electronics in their spare time.
I have used CPC for Based in the UK, CPC is a leading business-to-business about 15 years now.
Thecatalogue of items, and business-to-consumer distributor of electrical and from tools to electrical related products.
spares, gadgets to ofce equipment is Established in 1967, CPC has over 45 years experience with a multichannel sales and technical support exactly what I need all serving a large and diverse customer base.
leveraging the Groups online capability, catalogues inone place.
Staff on and contact centre resource.
Broad product range: CPC stocks over 90,000 the phones talk to you products from more than 2,100 brands, adding in Our products: CPC stock over 100,000 products as a friend and when I excess of 7,500 new lines in 2012 13.
With its focus to from over 1,200 leading manufacturers.
Adding over use the website to order, provide customers with an outstanding product range 10,000 new lines every year, CPC buyers are constantly all the information combined with exceptional value for money, all searching the globe on our customers behalf to nd I need is there to make delivered by a reliable, efficient and friendly service, the latest products at the very best prices available.
my order simple and CPC customers can satisfy many of their day-to-day See more here: http: cpc.
The goods requirements from a single source.
always arrive properly Value-add service: CPC customers benefit from and safely packed.
more than just a wide range of products and fast, reliable and free UK delivery.
We provide customers Jeff Bull, CPC customer MCM had the items Based in the US, MCM Electronics is a broadline distributor Ineeded and delivered them on time.
of electronic components, equipment and accessories for The website was the consumer electronics industry.
easy to navigate and searching for the right MCM stocks over 33,000 products from more than part was easy.
550 suppliers including computer hardware and peripherals, security and surveillance, wire and cable, audio and video equipment, tools and test equipment.
MCM customer feedback Collaboration with CPC: MCM has benefitted from closer collaboration with CPC, leveraging best working practices and introducing successful new products.
Like CPC, a focus on top-quality customer service, including technical support through a range of channels, helps make MCMs proposition a trusted source for customers across its home market.
