Premier Farnell 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 INDUSTRY MEGATRENDS The global electronics distribution market includes both high service distribution, where Premier Farnell operates, providing a wide range of products with fast delivery, and high volume distributors which service the scheduled manufacturing of electronic components.
The high service distribution market is highly fragmented with around 20% of the total available market served by Premier Farnell and three other global players.
Theremaining 80% of the high service market is served by small and medium-sized local competitors.
The per vasion of electronics leads to structural design 1 engineering market growth As users demand greater functionality, improved aesthetics and both new applications and new versions of existing products, the electronics lifecycle is getting shorter, driving market growth across our industry.
Pervasion of Increased electronics is innovation Increased competition in the marketplace adds to the driving innovation pressure on design engineers to reduce the time and cost to market of their new products.
In addition, new environmental legislation increases 6% long theneed for greener, lower energy products to replace More engineers Increased term the products of the past.
This presents design needed competitiveness growth engineers with new opportunities for innovation but Increasing Reduced number also drives growth across the market as maintenance cost time to of graduates market and repair engineers and purchasing professionals must ensure compliance with the regulations.
New environmental Every year more than a million electronics engineers legislation adds graduate globally, to meet the worlds ever evolving further pressure need for electronics.
But they are not the only new participants fuelling the rate of innovation: enthusiasts and hobbyists are coming together through the web toinvent and modify new applications.
Together these participants increase the pace of electronics innovation and create a greater number ofapplications for electronics, ensuring that the accelerating pervasion of electronics continues.
REDUCING TIME Electronics design and production is increasingly global TO MARKET with emerging markets playing a greater role 2 We add value to customers by providing Premier Farnell is well positioned to benefit from this trend.
"access to a broad range t OWFTUFE JO ""TJB 1BDJmD JOGSBTUSVDUVSF BIFBE PG t 4VQQMJFST MPPLJOH UP FOUFS UIF FNFSHJOH NBSLFUT of products available for the sales curve do so more efficiently through global distributors immediate shipment t, SBLPX DPOUBDU DFOUSF JODSFBTFT PVS GPDVT PO t 0VS USVTUFE IJHI TFSWJDF HMPCBM DVTUPNFS QSPQPTJUJPO which accelerates their Eastern Europe is a competitive advantage over smaller local manufacturing and competitors globally t OOPWBUJWF XFC DBQBCJMJUZ JT BUUSBDUJWF UP UFDIOJDBMMZ design processes and minded customers in fast developing economies reduces their inventory requirements."
In addition we provide the technical information and data Consolidation of the supply chain will favour the larger, customers need to make 3 global high service distributors their purchasing decisions faster, further Premier Farnells offering uniquely positions us as a trusted source for engineers and a truly enabled through our global partner for suppliers.
element14 Community t $VTUPNFST XBOU B TJOHMF TPVSDF PG QSPEVDUT t 4VQQMJFST XBOU BO FGmDJFOU DIBOOFM UP IJHI TFSWJDF and the Knode as we and design solutions markets globally strive to meet the t $VTUPNFST JODSFBTJOHMZ OFFE USVTUFE CSBOEFE t 4VQQMJFST XBOU BDDFTT UP JOTJHIUT GSPN UIF HMPCBM personal needs of products: more stringent regulation in both marketplace individual engineers.
established and emerging markets adds to t 4VQQMJFST XBOU B EJTUSJCVUPS UIBU UIFZ DBO SFMZ PO UP this requirement partner with them from pre-launch to production
