Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 7 INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS DIVISION AKRON BRASS Excellent performance, Akron Brass is a life safety business uncompromising reliability and after sales Akron Brass is a life safety business and a global leader Global reach: Headquartered in Wooster, Ohio, service is why we buy in the sale and manufacture and of high-performance intheUnited States, the Akron Brass footprint Akron Brass products.
The business designs and  facilities in Columbus, develops products and systems that help save lives OhioandWashington, Illinois and sales ofces in and protect assets.
Akron Brass has further diversied Beijing, Chinaand Dubai, UAE.
With customers in 83 Buddy Caldwell in these market segments: Marine, Petrochemical, countries around the world and over 30% of 2012 13 Captain Fleet Manager, Mining, Utility, and Aviation.
sales coming from outside the United States, Akron Charlotte Fire Department Brass has developed into a truly global organisation.
History: Since its inception in 1918, Akron Brass has See more here: www.
com been an industry leader in uid dynamics including handheld nozzles, monitors and valves.
The company has invested in Innovation including new products such as LED lighting products for global applications and new monitors and nozzles for specic applications for customers in fast growing China, India and Middle East markets.
In addition, the Weldon brand provides a complete offering of lighting devices and customised electrical control solutions for specialty vehicle markets including school buses and ambulances.
From warning lights tomultiplexing, Akron Brasss Weldon division offers innovative solutions.
BUS AND PUPIL FIRE AND RESCUE High-performance fire fighting TRANSPORTATION equipment improves the safety and Akron Brass equips buses with efficiency of personnel.
state-of-the-art LED lighting and electronic solutions for student safety.
