Premier Farnell 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Val Gooding, CBE Aged 62 Laurence Bain, CA Aged 59 Role: appointed as Non-Executive Chairman on 15 June 2011.
Role: appointed as Chief Executive officer on 12 June 2012.
Laurence joined the Board as an Executive Director in his former role of Chief Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of Standard Chartered plc, Operating officer on 1 July 2003. the Home Ofce and the Lawn Tennis Association.
Skills and experience: Laurence is a chartered accountant and spent Skills and experience: Val has formerly held a number of senior ten years working in the profession in Scotland.
He has extensive financial operational and strategic roles in businesses with a reputation for high and a wealth of operational management experience which he gained at levels of customer service and brings a wealth of global business the highest level, primarily in electronics manufacturing and distribution.
Val was CEO of BUPA during a ten-year period Before joining Premier Farnell in July 2002 as Chief Operating officer, ofstrong growth and global expansion and was a senior manager at British Laurence was Vice President and Director of Operations for Motorola Airways, serving latterly as Director for Asia Pacic.
Val has also served as inEurope, Middle East and Africa.
a Non-Executive Director of J Sainsbury plc and of the BBC.
Dennis Millard CA SA MBA Aged 64 Andrew Dougal, B Acc, CA Aged 61 Role: appointed as a Non-Executive Director in September 2007 Role: appointed as a Non-Executive Director in September 2006. andasSenior Independent Director in June 2008.
Dennis chairs the Other appointments: Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit AuditCommittee.
Committee of Carillion plc, Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Other appointments: Non-Executive Chairman of Halfords Group plc Audit Committee of Creston Plc and Council Member of the Institute of and of Smiths News Plc, Senior Independent Director and Chairman Chartered Accountants of Scotland ICAS.
oftheRemuneration Committee of Debenhams plc and Chairman of Skills and experience: Andrew is a chartered accountant and has theBoard ofTrustees of the Holy Cross Childrens Trust charity.
considerable leadership experience in finance, operational and strategic Skills and experience: In addition to the extensive experience that roles.
Formerly he served as Chief Executive officer of Hanson plc, the Dennis brings of non-executive Board leadership, Dennis is a chartered international building materials company, following its demerger from accountant and was, for nine years until 2005, Group Finance Director Hanson plc, the Anglo American diversied industrial company where he ofCookson Group plc.
had been Group Finance Director.
Previously Andrew was a Non-Executive Director of Taylor Wimpey plc, Taylor Woodrow plc and BPB plc.
Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 39 Committee Membership at March 2013 Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Dennis Millard Chairman Val Gooding Chairman Paul Withers Chairman Andrew Dougal Andrew Dougal Andrew Dougal Paul Withers Dennis Millard Dennis Millard Laurence Bain Paul Withers Thomas Reddin Mark Whiteling, M. COMM HONS Aged 50 Paul Withers MA Aged 56 Role: appointed as Chief Financial officer on 5 November 2012.
Role: appointed as a Non-Executive Director in September 2007.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of Future plc.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of Hyder Consulting plc, Devro plc, and Senior Independent Director of Keller Group plc.
Skills and experience: Mark is a chartered accountant, with extensive financial and commercial experience in the global distribution and Skills and experience: Paul has a background in engineering and electronics industries.
Mark was Premier Farnells Chief Financial officer hasconsiderable experience of business expansion and operations in and a member of the Board from 2006 to 2011, re-joining the Company in developing markets, particularly Asia.
Paul was formerly Group Managing November 2012 in an expanded role.
From August 2011 to November 2012 Director of BPB plc, where he led their Emerging Markets operations.
he was Chief Financial officer of Autobar Limited.
Before joining Premier Farnell in 2006 Mark was Group Finance Director of Communisis plc and, prior to that, of Tibbett & Britten plc.
Thomas Reddin, BSc, MBA Aged 52 Secretary Role: appointed as a Non-Executive Director in September 2010.
Steven Webb, LLB Solicitor Aged 50 Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of Valassis Role: appointed as Company Secretary and General Counsel in Communications Inc and Tanger Factory Outlet Centers Inc.
He is also December 2000. aManaging Partner of Red Dog Ventures, LLC, a venture capital and Other appointments: Member of the Board of Governors of Leeds advisory rm in the digital arena, and is publisher of MortgageRates.
Skills and experience: Toms expertise ranges from marketing, branding Skills and experience: Steven is a qualied lawyer with a specialism in and innovation to the web.
Tom was formerly Vice President of Consumer company law and has served the boards in a number of regulated and Marketing at Coca-Cola USA and President, COO, and ultimately CEO, non-regulated business and consumer industries.
Before joining Premier ofLendingTree LLC, a market leader in web-based lending.
Farnell, he was the Company Secretary and General Counsel of Kelda Group plc formerly Yorkshire Water and Company Secretary of Kalon Group plc.
