Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 5 PROPOSITION: CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS What makes our customer proposition different?
Our infrastructure and customer offering provides a competitive advantage to drive profitable, organic growth through market share gains.
With the increasing importance customers place on access to the latest technology, a single source of trusted information and a reliable, global supply chain when selecting their distribution partners, our ability to meet customers key requirements is truly differentiating.
Great product Fast delivery Trusted, Support What do availability quality product throughout the customers information design process want?
500,000 99.9% orders Community End-to-End How do we products: 3,500 shipped same or Knode 24 5 Service meet their suppliers next day support team concept to needs?
production World-class Strong local Unique Regional What is global linecard presence: global element14 multichannel differentiating influence Community sales capability about our Embest proposition?
CadSoft Eagle element14 Community The Knode We have been working What makes our supplier proposition different?
very closely with Premier Farnell now for By meeting our customers needs for the latest Asaresult, our design engineering expertise is a number of years and technologies, we offer suppliers the opportunity highlyattractive to them.
Our acquisition of Embest inparticular to promote toseed new products to an extensive customer Technology, our design services subsidiary, has baseacross multiple industry segments with wide enhanced our new product introduction capability and our latest product geographic reach.
Premier Farnell offers suppliers allows us to partner with suppliers even more closely.
ranges into their existing aunique distribution channel which combines Our suppliers appreciate our increasing interaction design engineering multichannel service, including our industry leading withcustomers through the web.
They benefit from customer base and also element14 Community, alongside our increasing insightful data on emerging technologies, evolving to nd new customers offering of design solutions required at the beginning customer trends and our innovative global eSupplier for our products.
strategy that is aligned to engineers needs for rich franchising Newark This unique approach is causing our suppliers to web-centric content.
element14 for the North partner with us ever more closely.
They value our By supporting the high service needs of customers American market in abilityto launch new products to market, ensuring that who often order in relatively small volumes, we offer our December 2012, we their components are specified in the earliest phases suppliers an efficient channel to the global electronics nowtake that mission ofdesign and consequently will be required in large market across a broad range of industry segments.
onto a global framework volumes when that design reaches production.
I have every confidence that we willbuild considerably on the good work already achieved.
Ken Steel Sales Director, Panasonic
