Premier Farnell 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 STRATEGIC FOCUS 2 OUR DIFFERENTIATING MULTICHANNEL PROPOSITION Helping simplify our customers purchasing decisions is central to the high service value-add inherent in our model.
Our multichannel proposition seamlessly combines traditional eld sales and contact centre channels with a leading-edge eCommerce offering.
This means that our customers 48 can choose how they want to interact with us at different points in their TRANSACTIONAL transactional process as we optimise the customer experience by tailoring WEBSITES, 33 our relationship to meet each customers needs.
LOCAL LANGUAGES For our suppliers, our multichannel approach allows them to signicantly expand the footprint of both new and existing products across the breadth of our customer base, while our online channels provide key suppliers with feedback and data from customers.
Our multichannel proposition also has a significant role to play in optimising our operational performance.
Being multichannel enables us to realise the benefit from interacting through more efficient online channels and reduce inefficient practices as we increase our focus on activities that add value to our customers.
The changing nature of traditional channels Globally, we have over 620 eld salespeople who manage relationships with our larger customers and target accounts, providing a local touch point tomeet customers needs.
They help customers to interact with us in a tailored way, including through more efficient channels such as the contact centres and through eCommerce channels to meet their personal needs.
For example, a large customer might have a regular review with a eld sales person, a dedicated contact person at a call centre providing ongoing support, and an integrated eProcurement system for day-to-day orders across the engineering team its this powerful combination of channels that gives us a competitive advantage over an online-only relationship.
TELESALES AND TELEMARKETING CENTRE IN KRAKOW, POLAND Krakow is geographically positioned where Eastern meets Western Europe and has an excellent reputation for customer service.
Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 19 80 MILLION PAGE VIEWS Around the world we have a total of 48 transactional websites, 33 of which are in local languages and these websites receive on average 80 million page views each quarter.
Our contact centres play a critical role in optimising efficiency and A unique combination of innovative, eCommerce interfaces customer service, providing support for electronics professionals around We have led the industry with web innovation, providing great information the world.
The centres are based in each region in Cleveland for North through the combination of the transactional sites, the element14 America, in Shanghai, Singapore and Sydney in Asia Pacic while our Community and our online design workspace, the Knode as well as iBuy, newly established best in class call centre in Krakow, Poland, provides aworkow management tool, and integrated eProcurement solutions Europes outbound telesales and telemarketing activity.
Beyond providing forour larger customers.
acost efficient structure, operating from central call centres enables us todevelop best practice and core skills in our customer facing staff.
Our presence as leading innovator in our industry is an important feature Thisprovides customers with a highly targeted service which is further ofour supplier proposition.
Suppliers value the Community and the enhanced as we leverage the expertise of our 200 technical support opportunity to participate in discussions with customers, and as a way engineers who provide 24 5 support as well as access to industry experts todisseminate relevant, targeted information and a fast route to a global and key suppliers on our element14 Community.
This is only achievable through an offering like ours where commerce, content and community converge.
Krakow contact centre With 56.8% of 2012 13 sales coming via eCommerce channels and 75.5%in our most strategically advanced region, Europe, customers are Customers across Europe have long benefitted from our commitment to increasingly seeking to benefit from the efficiencies and valued information make business easier through our unique multichannel combination of eld that these channels provide.
sales, inbound and outbound contact centre resource and cutting edge eCommerce channels.
But this year, our capability took a significant step Together these elements of our web proposition enable us to provide forward with the opening of our new telesales and telemarketing centre in customers with: Krakow, Poland.
t Easy access to the most up to date and technically advanced design Though it is our most strategically advanced region, the European market data, legislative information and product details is a significant opportunity for Premier Farnell.
The high service electronics t Sophisticated search results for customers to nd what they need, distribution market remains very fragmented and this potential for market quickly and easily share growth combines with the exciting structural development of the industrial markets in Eastern Europe.
Krakow is geographically positioned t Instant access to discussions with engineering experts and industry peers where Eastern meets Western Europe and has an excellent reputation for t An expansive array of tools to simplify engineering and buying processes.
customer service, making it the ideal location to establish a telesales and telemarketing team to reach out to customers across the continent.
Around the world we have a total of 48 transactional websites, 33 of which are in local languages and these websites receive on average 80 million Formally opened in October 2012, Farnell element14 has built a highly page views each quarter.
skilled, 120-strong, multi-cultural team representing 24 different European nationalities.
As a single centre, Krakow delivers greater operational efficiencies and customer service benets due to standardised training anddevelopment programmes.
Yet the teams diversity has meant that wehave retained the local touch as customers in all of our markets across Europe still benefit from a relationship with a local language speaker.
Today, after a transition period which included an intensive training period to ensure that customers across Europe receive an excellent level of service, the Krakow outbound contact centre is fully operational and delivering the expected benets to our customer and supplier proposition.
Premier Farnell 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 STRATEGIC FOCUS 2 OUR MULTICHANNEL PROPOSITION 20m 70 ELEMENT14 RECEIVED CLOSE THE COMMUNITY TO 20 MILLION HOSTED OVER PAGEVIEWS 70 WEBINARS element14 Community: a landmark year Our transactional websites are supported by the element14 Community which itself received close to 20 million page views this year and now has over 150,000 members, with over 5,000 new members joining every month.
Engineers from all over the world interact and innovate on the Community.
This year participation levels increased by more than 60% year-on-year.
The ever popular Ben Heck Expert pages attracted more than 320,000 views, while video content onthe Community had over 130,000 views.
TheCommunity is also contributing to our commercial success with total orders generated byelement14 up by eight times over the prior year.
As an authority for new technology and engineering information, the Community hosted over 70 webinars in 2012 13, double last years number.
These sessions covered a range of topics and were often held in partnership with trusted suppliers, including Analog Devices and Honeywell, while suppliers and engineers alike benefitted from the 23 new product roadtests held on the Community this year.
320,000 VIEWS OF THE BEN HECK SHOW The ever popular Ben Heck Expert pages attracted more than 320,000 views, while video content on the Community had over 130,000 views.
Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 21 European legislation also saw some significant changes in 2012 13 as New global web platform RoHS2 came into force.
The Community once again acted as a central Our innovation on the web continues at pace.
We have invested in hubto support our design engineer customers.
This included a RoHS2 developing our new single, global web platform which we will implement step by step guide, 12 mini CE New Approach guides and 2 CE videos.
inthe year ahead, the next step change in our online proposition.
The Legislation ask the experts have received and answered over Thisplatform gives us the foundation to continue to lead on the web, 330questions via the Community over the year.
In addition to this, withsignicant enhancements in user experience and new customer theCommunity has supported the updating of key legislation content toolswhich will lead to better conversion rates as customers nd the byfunding three new step by step guides RoHS2, REACH and rightproducts quickly and transact more easily.
By moving to a single global platform, our implementation of future web As a result of its progress, the Community received three prestigious enhancements will be more efficient.
This foundation will enable us to awards in 2012 13 recognising its position as a leader in the social media driveour leadership in online innovation faster, providing customers with space.
Forrester Research recognised us with the Forrester Groundswell adifferentiating online experience.
In addition, as we roll-out the platform Award for Business-to-Business Supporting and we picked up the Jive on a global basis, our online customer proposition in emerging markets Award in the Engage Customers category.
Meanwhile, The Make willbe signicantly enhanced.
Magazine awards acknowledged the Communitys success in launching the Raspberry Pi, presenting us with the Makey Award for Best Education Brand journey Outreach ahead of Intel, Autodesk and NASA.
Our journey to become a single global brand for our core MDD businesses continued to pick up pace this year.
In Europe we moved to a dual brand The Knode: an online workspace for design engineers Farnell element14 to build brand recognition before completing our As they work on their new electronic applications, design engineers require transition.
In North America, Newark element14 saw improved awareness technical information to specify the right products for their projects.
and understanding for the brand change among customers and within Launched in June 2011, our knowledge base for design engineers, the themarket.
In Asia Pacic we saw strong improvements in search and Knode, was further improved and integrated into the Community this year.
We have also connected our message globally The Knode allows engineers to work, store key information and provides so that all three of our regional brands use a consistent platform to them with access to our range of services beyond products including describe our value and our evolution.
At its core, the messaging reects Computer Aided Design software such as CadSoft EAGLE or the ourdesire to make doing business easier than ever and drive customer development kits vital in the early stages of an engineers design cycle acquisition through the attractiveness of our proposition.
Through our truly multichannel approach built on the foundation of an innovative eCommerce offering, we are combining commerce and eProcurement solutions community to evolve the shape and economics of our business while Design engineering customers are not the only beneciaries of our online supporting our customers all over the globe in the way they prefer.
proposition: our eProcurement tools such as iBuy, launched in 2010 11, give purchasing professionals a exible and customisable way to make purchasing processes more efficient, from product selection through to approval and placement of orders.
iBuys popularity continues to increase in all regions with growth in Asia Pacic of over 90% as customers benefit from workow management tools and online cost centre and management reporting functionality.
For larger customers who require system to system links, our integrated eProcurement solutions offer a seamless experience and the opportunity for real efficiency savings.
