72 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements COMPANY RISK FACTORS continued Key risk factor Risk detail How is it managed?
Health, safety, Major process safety incident or operational Comprehensive HSES and operations environment and accident, natural disasters, pandemics, social management systems including emergency security HSES unrest, civil war.
response and oil spill response capability and asset integrity.
Consequences may include accidents resulting in loss of life, injury and or Active security monitoring and management and significant pollution of the local environment, regular testing of business continuity plans.
destruction of facilities and disruption to Learning from company and third party incidents.
Production and Uncertain geology and reservoir Geoscience and reservoir engineering development delivery performance leading to lower production management systems, including rigorous and reserves recovery.
Availability of services production forecasting and independent reserves including FPSOs and rigs, availability of auditing processes.
technology and engineering capacity, Operations, development and project execution availability of skilled resources, maintaining management systems and cost controls together project schedules and costs as well as fiscal, with capable project teams.
regulatory, political and other conditions leading to operational problems and Long-term development planning to ensure timely production loss or development delay.
access to FPSOs, rigs and other essential services.
Consequences may include lower production and or recovery of reserves, production delays, cost overruns and or failure to fulfil contractual commitments.
Exploration success Failure to identify and capture acreage and Strong portfolio management and alignment with and reserves addition resource opportunities to provide a portfolio strategic growth targets.
Appropriate balance of drillable exploration prospects and between growth by exploration and acquisition.
sufficient development projects to achieve Exploration management systems including reserves addition targets.
comprehensive peer review with focus on Consequences may be that specific geologies in core areas we know well and in which exploration programmes may fail to add we can build a competitive advantage.
Failure to M&A effort focusing on geographical and technical negotiate access rights or close transactions areas aligned with our strategy.
Diligence in could slow growth of reserves and acquisition process and post-acquisition integration production and lead to loss of competitive to ensure targeted returns.
Host government Premier operates in some countries where Premiers portfolio includes operations in both low political and fiscal risks political, economic and social transition is and higher risk environments.
Premier actively taking place or there are current sovereignty monitors the local situation and has business disputes.
Developments in politics, laws continuity plans in each area which can be and regulations can affect our operations activated depending on predefined levels of alert.
Premier strives to be a good corporate citizen Consequences may include forced globally, and fosters reputation by strong and divestment of assets: limits on production or positive relationships with government and cost recovery: import and export restrictions: communities where we do business.
Premier international conflicts, including war, civil engages in respectful industry-wide lobby and unrest and local security concerns that sustainable corporate responsibility and threaten the safe operation of company community investment programmes.
Rigorous facilities: price controls, tax increases and adherence to Premiers Business Ethics Policy and other retroactive tax claims: expropriation of Code of Conduct.
property: cancellation of contract rights: and Continuous monitoring of the external increase in regulatory burden.
It is difficult to environment for emerging risks to the business.
predict the timing or severity of these occurrences or their potential impact.
Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 73 Key risk factor Risk detail How is it managed?
Commodity price Oil and gas prices are affected by global Oil and gas hedging programmes to underpin our volatility supply and demand and price can be subject financial strength and capacity to fund our future to significant fluctuations.
Factors that developments and operations.
influence these include operational issues, Premiers investment guidelines ensure that our natural disasters, weather, political instability, development programmes are robust to downside or conflicts and economic conditions or sensitivity price scenarios.
actions by major oil-exporting countries.
Price fluctuations can affect our business assumptions and can effect investment decisions and financial capability.
Organisational Risk that the capability of the organisation is Premier has created a competitive remuneration capability not adequate to deliver plans for strategic and retention package including bonus and growth.
The capability of the organisation is long-term incentive plans to incentivise loyalty a function of both the strength of its human and good performance from the existing, highly resources and its Business Management skilled workforce.
Inadequate systems or lack of Premier is continuing to strengthen its compliance may lead to loss of value and organisational capability to achieve strategic failure to achieve growth targets.
This includes resource planning, personnel to competitors, inability to attract competency development, training and and retain quality human resources and development programmes, succession planning competency gaps could affect our including leadership development.
operational performance and delivery of growth strategy.
Continuous strengthening of Business Management Systems and controls as appropriate to the size and market position of the company.
Joint venture partner Global operations in the oil and gas industry Due diligence and continuous and regular alignment are conducted in a joint venture environment.
engagement with partners in joint ventures in both There is a risk that joint venture partners are operated and non-operated projects.
Premier not aligned in their objectives and drivers takes strategic acquisition opportunities where and this may lead to inefficiencies and or appropriate to gain a greater degree of influence delays.
Many of our major projects are and control.
operated by our joint venture partners and our ability to influence our partners is sometimes limited due to our small shares in such ventures.
Financial discipline and Risk that sufficient funds are not available to Strong financial discipline and balance sheet.
Premier has an established financial management system to ensure that it is able to maintain an appropriate level of liquidity and financial capacity and to manage the level of assessed risk associated with the financial instruments.
Premier maintains access to capital markets through the cycle.
The management system includes policies and a delegation of authority manual to reasonably protect against risk of financial fraud in the group.
An insurance programme is put in place to reduce the potential impact of the physical risks associated with exploration and production activities.
In addition, business interruption cover is purchased for a proportion of the cash flow from producing fields.
Cash balances are invested in short-term deposits with minimum A credit rating banks, AAA managed liquidity funds and A1 P1 commercial paper, subject to Board approved limits.
