36 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Board of Directors Independent Nonexecutive Directors: Directors Richard Harvey Executive Directors: Mr Harvey was appointed a Nonexecutive Director of PZ Cussons Alex Kanellis Plc in January 2010 and took up the position of Chairman on 1 July Group Chief Executive 2010.
A Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, Mr Harvey became Mr Kanellis has a Phd in mechanical engineering.
He joined PZ Group Chief Executive of Norwich Union Plc in 1998 and Cussons in 1993.
He was appointed Managing Director of the subsequently Group Chief Executive of Aviva Plc, initially branded Groups business in Thailand in 1998 before becoming Managing CGNU, after the merger of Norwich Union with CGU.
He has worked Director of Indonesia in 2001.
He was appointed to the Board in extensively overseas in both mature and emerging markets and was 2003 as Regional Director of Asia becoming Chief Executive in Chair of the Association of British Insurers from 2003 to 2005.
Mr Kanellis is a member of the Nomination, Group retiring from Aviva Plc in 2007, Mr Harvey has spent time in Africa Riskand CSR Committees.
supporting charitable initiatives and has also worked on other projects to accelerate business development in Africa, including Chris Davis work for the Africa Progress Panel and the World Bank.
He is a Chief Operating Officer Nonexecutive Director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Plc.
Mr Harvey After working in senior Sales & Marketing roles for various Consumer isthe Chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of Goods companies, Mr Davis joined PZ Cussons from the BTR Nylex theCSR and Group Risk Committees.
Group in 1993 and became Managing Director of the Groups business in Australia in 2001.
He was appointed to the Board in 2006 as James Steel Regional Director of Africa and became Group Commercial Director Mr Steel has been a Nonexecutive Director of PZ Cussons Plc in2008.
He was appointed Chief Operating Officer in 2013.
Mr Davis sinceOctober 2005 and was appointed Senior Independent Director is a member of the Group Risk and CSR Committees.
He works in the Cabinet Office Efficiency & Reform Group and is a Trustee of Independent Age.
He was Brandon Leigh previously a Managing Director of Investment Banking at Citigroup Chief Financial Officer and Arbuthnot Securities and started his career at Price Waterhouse Mr Leigh qualified as a chartered accountant with Deloitte & Touche where he qualified as a Chartered Accountant.
He joined PZ Cussons in 1997 and was appointed to the Board of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nomination, in 2006.
Mr Leigh is a member of the Group Risk and CSR Committees.
Audit, Group Risk and CSR Committees.
Professor John Arnold Mr Arnold is Emeritus Professor of Accounting and Financial Management at Manchester Business School and has been a Nonexecutive Director of PZ Cussons Plc since January 2007.
Achartered accountant, his previous experience includes spending 12years as Director and Dean of Manchester Business School.
Professor Arnold is currently Chairman of the Cooperative Performance Committee of Cooperatives UK Limited, a member ofthe Council of the Greater Manchester Chamber of Commerce, Chairman of Feelgood Theatre Productions and an academic advisor to Ashridge and to IBSISCTE Business School in Lisbon.
Professor Arnold is Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Group Risk Committee and a member of the Nomination, Remuneration andCSR Committees.
37 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Helen Owers Ngozi Edozien Ms Edozien was appointed a Nonexecutive Director of PZ Cussons Mrs Owers was appointed a Nonexecutive Director of PZ Cussons Plc in January 2012.
Until recently she was Chief Development Plc in January 2012.
She is Head Chief Executive Officer, Actis West Africa of the firm Actis, LLP, a leading private equity investor in Officer for Thomson Reuters Professional, with responsibility for the companys expansion in Rapidly Developing Economies.
She emerging markets based in the UK.
As Head, West Africa, she is responsible for all aspects of the Companys business in the region.
played an important role in the development of the companys digital strategy and, as President of Global Businesses for Thomson Prior to joining Actis, Ms Edozien was VP Strategic Planning and Business Development for Pfizer Inc based in New York.
She was Reuters Legal, she built new businesses in a number of emerging markets, balancing local consumer insights and needs with the transferred to Nigeria in 2005 to run Pfizers businesses in East, West and Central Africa, before being appointed in 2008 as Chief globalisation of the business and key products.
Before joining Thomson Reuters, Mrs Owers worked as a consultant with Gemini Executive of the Equity Vehicle for Health in Africa, an investment company focused on investing in private healthcare businesses in Consulting, developing and implementing corporate and operational strategies for a number of consumer products clients.
She has a background in management consulting and banking, having spent seven years with McKinsey & Co, working She is a Nonexecutive Director of Wragge & Co LLP and of the Eden principally in the consumer products and healthcare sectors.
Mrs Owers is a member of the Nomination, Remuneration, Nigerian citizen, she was educated in the United States at Harvard Audit, Group Risk and CSR Committees.
University and started her career in corporate finance at JP Morgan.
She is a Nonexecutive Director of Diamond Bank Plc, a company listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange and Vlisco Group, a company based in the Netherlands and a leader in the textile and fashion industry in Africa.
Ms Edozien is a member of the Nomination, Remuneration, Audit, Group Risk and CSR Committees.
Simon Heale Mr Heale was appointed a Nonexecutive Director of PZ Cussons Plc in January 2008 and is Chairman of the CSR Committee and a member of the Nomination, Remuneration, Audit and Group Risk Committees.
A chartered accountant, Mr Heale has worked in a variety of senior positions for multinational companies in America and the Far East and spent five years as Chief Executive of the London Metal Exchange.
Mr Heale is Chairman of Kazakhmys Plc, Senior Nonexecutive Director of Coats Plc, a Nonexecutive Director of The Morgan Crucible Company Limited and Marex Spectron Limited and a trustee and the treasurer of Macmillan Cancer Support.
