06 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business Model We develop innovative leading brands in markets and geographies selected for growth potential.
Ourstrategic pillars are the key enablers to deliverthis model.
Selected geographies We operate in specific geographies through our own infrastructure or inpartnership.
In these geographies we will tailor our channel approach for each category.
Progress and priorities In line with our prior year priorities wehaveexpanded our Beauty division customer base into Germany, Poland and Canada see page 21.
The UK Personal Care division has continued to share best practice across our geographical base and we have grown our core brands of Imperial Leather, Carex and Original Source across our regions.
Our Indonesia team have also successfully expanded distribution CAN DO people intothePhilippines, Vietnam and Myanmar see page 17.
TheGroup structure and systems project willfurther enable We work with people who share our commercial teams who are focused unique CAN DO values.
Our CAN ondelivering sales in their geographic DO culture is the unifying strength endmarkets.
It will also further align that binds together our diverse ourcategory geography strategy.
We are responsible, demanding and have a sense of fun!
Progress and priorities CAN DO continues to be at the heart of our business, demonstrated day in and day out through the passion and commitment of ouremployees.
Our teams in Asia and Poland demonstrated fantastic CAN DO spirit in delivering the transfer of manufacturing fromAustralia to Indonesia and Polish bar soap manufacture to Thailand as part of our Supply Chain optimisation programme.
CAN DO isthecatalyst that sparks some of our best innovations, an example being our digital team working with our teams in Fudge and Horio to create Fudge.
com and the Horio digital village, harnessing and synergising technology platforms to produce innovative and dynamic sites which have greatly enhanced our ecommerce opportunities in these areas.
Wewill continue to recruit the best CAN DO people and support them in achieving throughliving our values.
07 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Selected categories We operate in selected categories where our brands have a strategic advantage and which offer profitable growth opportunities.
We win through understanding local consumer needs, being firstto market and being unconstrained by big company bureaucracy.
Continuous and faster innovation will ensure ourbrands occupy leading positions in these categories.
Progress and priorities As stated as a priority last year we have renovated and innovated our brand delivery across our portfolio.
Highlights include the best ever Imperial Leather formulation see page 19, the Australian Morning Fresh Power Soaker launch see page 16 and the new Core Purpose Beauty division Active Reverse body range see page 20.
We have also made significant Develop leading brands investments in the Food and Nutrition category through continued investment in the in selected markets Nigerian PZ Wilmar joint venture see page 15 and the new Raffertys Garden Australian baby geographies.
Our priorities for next year are to continue with our brand renovation andinnovation strategy and to look for further opportunities to expand where they arise.
TheGroup structure and systems project will enable intercategory brand strategy to be more easily leveraged globally in the future.
Flexible supply chain We operate an ever evolving supplychain designed to service ourcategories.
We deliver innovative products from various sources to our customers quickly and efficiently.
Progress and priorities The supply chain optimisation project hasbeen the focus this year and has seen the closure of the Groups manufacturing facilities in Australia and Ghana as well as other optimisation projects in Africa and Asia.
The project has increased the flexibility and reduced the overhead footprint of our manufacturing facilities within our supply chain and has already benefited margins in this current financial year.
In addition to this a new business planning process was initiated this year with its main benefit being the reduction of inventory holdings.
Future priorities include the continued optimisation of the Global Supply chain function as part of the Group structure and systems project.
