Chief Financial Officers review continued Indicative effect on scheme liabilities Assumption Change in assumption before deferred tax Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.1% Decrease increase by 25m Inflation Increase decrease by 0.1% Increase decrease by 26m Salary increase Increase decrease by 0.1% Increase decrease by 4m Life expectancy Increase by 1 year Increase by 28m Each assumption is selected by the Group in consultation with the Capital risk Company actuary and takes account of industry practice amongst The Group funds its operations through a mixture of equity funding comparator listed companies.
The sensitivity of each of the key and debt financing, including bank and capital market borrowings.
assumptions is shown in the table above.
Net cash as defined by the Group was 74.0m 2012: The market value of the assets at 31 March 2013 was 1,256.5m net debt 122.2m.
The capital structure of the Group reflects the judgement of the Directors of an appropriate balance of funding required.
The The most recent full actuarial valuation of the defined benefit Groups target is to maintain its gearing ratio below 2xEBITDA.
section of the QinetiQ Pension Scheme was undertaken as at 30 June 2011 and resulted in an actuarially assessed deficit of Treasury policy 74.7m.
On the basis of this full valuation, the Trustees of the The Group treasury department works within a framework of scheme and the Company agreed the employer contribution rate policies and procedures approved by the Audit Committee.
As part of 12.7% from 30 June 2011, and past service deficit recovery of these policies and procedures, there is strict control on the use of payments of 10.5m per year for a six-year period from 1 April 2012. financial instruments.
Speculative trading in financial instruments is As part of a package of measures to stabilise the scheme, the not permitted.
The policies are established to manage and control Company has also contributed an asset in the form of an interest risk in the treasury environment and to align the treasury goals, through a Scottish limited partnership in a future income stream objectives and philosophy of the Group.
of approximately 2.5m per annum, increasing in line with the Funding and debt portfolio management Consumer Price Index, for 20 years secured on certain properties The Group seeks to obtain certainty of access to funding in the owned by the Group.
amounts and maturities required to support the Groups medium Finally, the Company and Trustees also agreed the key provision that to long-term forecast financing requirements.
Group borrowings the Trustee will select the Consumer Price Index rather than the are arranged by the Group treasury function.
Retail Price Index as the relevant index for the increase of pensions Interest risk management in payment in respect of service before 1 June 2008 and for the The Group seeks to reduce the volatility in its interest charge caused revaluation of preserved benefit, resulting in the one-off past by rate fluctuations.
A significant portion of the Groups borrowings service credit of 141.4m in the year ended 31 March 2012. are fixed in the short to medium term through fixed-rate debt.
The next scheduled triennial valuation will be performed as at 30 June 2014.
28QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview B Bu us si in ne es ss s r re ev vie iew w Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Foreign exchange risk management The principal exchange rate affecting the Group was the sterling to US dollar exchange rate.
2013 2012 US$ average rate 1.58 1.60 US$ closing rate 1.52 1.60 US$ opening rate 1.60 1.60 The Groups income and expenditure is largely settled in the Insurance functional currency of the relevant Group entity, mainly sterling The Group continually assesses the balance of risk arising from the or US dollar.
The Group has a policy in place to hedge all material operations undertaken against the insurance cover available for transaction exposure at the point of commitment to the underlying such activities and associated premiums payable for such cover.
Uncommitted future transactions are not routinely A prudent and consistent approach to risk retention and scope hedged.
The Group continues its practice of not hedging income of cover is applied across the Group.
The Group has a policy of statement translation exposure.
To minimise the impact of currency self-insurance, through its captive insurance company, on the first depreciation of the net assets on its overseas subsidiaries, the layer of specific risks with insurance cover above these levels placed Group seeks to borrow in the currencies of those subsidiaries, in the external market with third-party insurers.
but only to the extent that its gearing covenant within its loan Employees documentation, as well as its facility headroom, are likely to remain Year-end employee numbers have decreased by 7% to 9,498 at comfortably within limits.
The decline primarily reflects headcount reductions Tax risk management in the US to maintain competitiveness in the challenging market.
QinetiQs tax strategy is to ensure compliance with all relevant tax Accounting standards legislation, wherever we do business, whilst managing our effective As a UK-listed company, the Group is required to adopt EU endorsed and cash tax rates.
Tax is managed in alignment with our corporate IFRSs and comply with the Companies Act 2006.
The effect of responsibility strategy in that we strive to be responsible in all our changes to financial reporting standards in the year is disclosed in business dealings.
These principles are applied in a consistent and note 1 to the financial statements.
transparent manner in pursuing the Groups tax strategy and in all dealings with tax authorities around the world.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies Credit risk A description and consideration of the critical accounting estimates Credit risk arises when a counterparty fails to perform its and judgements made in preparing these financial statements is set obligations.
The Group is exposed to credit risk on financial out in note 1 to the financial statements.
instruments such as liquid assets, derivative assets and trade receivables.
Credit risk is managed by investing liquid assets in, David Mellors and acquiring derivatives from, high-credit quality financial Chief Financial Officer institutions.
Trade receivables are subject to credit limits, control 23 May 2013 and approval procedures across the Group.
The nature of the Groups operations leads to concentrations of credit risk on its trade receivables.
The majority of the Groups credit risk is with the UK and US Governments and is therefore considered minimal.
Employees by sector 2013: 9,498 Employees by sector 2012: 10,180 UK Services 54% UK Services 51% US Services 35% US Services 39% Global Products 11% Global Products 10% Definitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary on page 116.
IAS 19 revised Employee benefits has been adopted for 2013 and the 2012 comparatives have been restated accordingly.
QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201329
