Remuneration report continued The table below shows our overarching policy and framework for Executive Directors remuneration.
The application of this policy is detailed within this report.
Element Purpose Operation and performance measures Opportunity Changes for coming financial year Base salary To attract and retain the talent Executive Directors salaries are reviewed annually, along with those of all Aim to pay base salaries in line with the market median against the comparator groups No changes to policy but details of the salary needed to lead our business.
other members of the executive team by the Remuneration Committee detailed above.
No minimum or maximum increases to base salary are determined.
increases for the coming financial year can and any change is effective 1 July.
Reference is made to both the internal and external environment.
Specifically to the external environment, reference is made to the market data provided by the advisors to the Remuneration Committee which covers all aspects of reward.
Other factors taken into account when considering whether or not to award a base salary increase: The performance of the Executive over the previous twelve months: The business environment for the year ahead: Potential all employee salary review budget for the coming year: All other aspects of remuneration the reward mix : The critical nature of the appointment with respect to delivering business results: An executives position in terms of career development, potential and lifecycle: and Retention risk and the ability to replace higher value skills if needed in the market Annual Cash Bonus To recognise exceptional and Executive Directors participate in an annual bonus plan which For year ended 31 March 2013, the on-target and maximum bonus opportunities were There are no changes to policy for the stretching business performance is non-pensionable.
increased to 75% and 150% of base salary, respectively, to bring QinetiQs Executive coming financial year with exceptional reward.
Bonuses are determined by Group performance targets for operating Directors in line with the market median.
profit: underlying operating cash flow: and underlying EPS.
The bonus accrues on a linear basis between entry, target and maximum performance thresholds The relative performance against financial targets for each measure will trigger a payment which may be adjusted at Remuneration Committee discretion The targets are set at the beginning of each year and amended if applicable to reflect: Acquisitions and disposals Restructuring costs Business structure changes Restated corporate allocations Board approved budget adjustments Final IAS 19 pensions finance cost A percentage of all annual cash bonuses earned are deferred and paid in shares under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DAB as detailed below.
Specifics around the Annual Bonus Plan reward potential for Executive Directors for the coming year can be found on page 56 and the achievement of bonus for year ended 31 March 2013 can also be found here.
Deferred Annual The Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Any deferred bonus will be matched by the Company based on underlying Executive Directors have a mandatory deferral of 50% of any bonus earned.
For others in No changes to policy for the coming Bonus Plan DAB aligns the interests of executives EPS performance up to a maximum match of 100% of the deferred the executive team, the mandatory deferral is 20% with an additional voluntary deferral financial year.
Current with shareholders and contributes element.
In order for the matching shares to vest, underlying EPS growth, of up to 30% 50% total.
to the retention of key individuals measured over three years, must exceed defined targets.
The matching Any deferred bonus will be matched by the Company up to a maximum match of 100%.
by ensuring that executives take element of the DAB begins to vest at 25% once the underlying EPS CAGR part of their annual bonus awards hits 3%, rising on a linear scale until maximising at 100% match for 10% in shares rather than cash.
52QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Business review C Co or rp po or ra at te e g go ov five er rn na an nce ce Financial statements Additional information Element Purpose Operation and performance measures Opportunity Changes for coming financial year Base salary To attract and retain the talent Executive Directors salaries are reviewed annually, along with those of all Aim to pay base salaries in line with the market median against the comparator groups No changes to policy but details of the salary needed to lead our business.
QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201353
