Directors reports Directors reports Extending a golden partnership: The multi-million ounce #4 Gounkoto gold mine, south of the Loulo gold mine, forged yet another link in the profitable partnership between Randgold and the State and people of Mali.
Gounkoto delivered first ore to the Loulo plant in June 2011 and paid its first dividend to shareholders in mid 2012, just 30 months after drilling the first discovery borehole.
Directors reports 124 Corporate governance report 131 Audit committee report 146 Remuneration report 168 Report of the governance and nomination committee Corporate governance report Randgold is incorporated in Jersey.
The company complies with the United Kingdoms Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The company has been in compliance with the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2013 and to the date of this report.
The remuneration paid by the company to members of the board is set out in the remuneration report, which can be found on page 146 of this annual report.
In addition, the audit committee report and the governance and nomination committee report can be found on pages 131 and 168 respectively of this annual report.
The board acknowledges that to continue to be a successful world class gold mining company it must be led by an effective board, with appropriate skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the activities of the company and its industry and environment.
The board has previously adopted a board charter in accordance with the Code which clearly sets out its duties as a board and includes the duties of the chairman, the chief executive officer and the senior independent director.
The board reviewed the board charter at its January 2013 and January 2014 board meetings on each occasion and determined no amendments were necessary.
A copy of the board charter is available on the companys website www.
A copy of the Code is also available on the companys website.
Details of the companys share capital are set out in note 5 of the financial statements of this annual report and details of key shareholders are provided on page 226 of this annual report.
There are no special rights attached to the companys shares or restrictions on voting rights.
Details relating to the powers of directors in respect of share capital are set out in the notice of annual general meeting AGM 2014.
Number of board meetings Director Position attended P Litard Chairman 4 4 DM Bristow Chief executive officer 4 4 GP Shuttleworth Chief financial officer 4 4 NP Cole Jr Senior independent director 4 4 CL Coleman Independent non-executive director 4 4 K Dagdelen Independent non-executive director 4 4 J Kassum Independent non-executive director - J Mabunda Lioko Independent non-executive director 4 4 AJ Quinn Independent non-executive director 4 4 K Voltaire Independent non-executive director 4 4 Mr J Kassum was appointed to the board of Randgold Resources Limited on 31 January 2014.
124 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources may arise.
The executive committee has also proved a vital Corporate governance forum for sharing information concerning the company among The measures taken by the company to satisfy the the management team.
When the need arises the executive requirements of the Code are set out in this report with the committee establishes sub committees to deal with a specific headings below following the Codes Key Principles.
scope of work which it is then tasked with reporting back to Every company should be headed by an effective board the executive committee.
In addition, the CEO chairs the which is collectively responsible for the long term success companys environmental committee, details of which can be of the company.
found in the sustainability report on pages 78 to 121 of this annual report.
The board guides the strategic development of the company and supports the principle of collective responsibility for the Management provides the board, ahead of each quarterly success of the company.
board meeting, with a detailed briefing pack of documents which cover the operations and business of the company, and The board has reserved for its sole discretion: the finalisation includes reports from each mine, major projects and activities and adoption of the companys strategic plan: the approval of along with sections covering health and safety, financial, legal, the annual operating budget, and monitoring its performance technical, human resources, treasury, tax, environmental, against budget: the approval of interim and final financial sustainability and investor relations activities.
statements: the dividend policy: the approval of any significant change in the accounting policies and practices: fiscal policies During the year, the board met four times in person.
Board including treasury and hedging policies: approval of all meetings typically take place over a two day period with the financial, legal, social, environmental and ethical controls of first day allocated to the board committee meetings and the the company to ensure the appropriate procedures are in second day allocated for the board meeting.
The intervening place: significant mergers and acquisitions and other material evening allows the board to engage in informal discussions transactions: approval of all significant mining developments: among themselves to discuss the activities of the company.
new issues of long term debt: capital issues and material changes to the companys capital structure: remuneration In January 2013, the board paid its third visit over three days of executive directors and senior managers: nominating to the Kibali gold mine where it saw the significant progress candidates for election by the annual general meeting of made at the site since its previous visit.
The board was also shareholders to membership of the board: approval of all given an opportunity to discuss the mines progress and the circulars, prospectuses and listing particulars: approval of progress of the mines relocation action programme with the the annual report and accounts, including the directors mines employees, contractors and consultants.
The board remuneration report, audit committee report, report of the intends to visit the Kibali gold mine over three days in May 2014 governance and nomination committee and the corporate where it will hold its second quarter board meeting which will governance report: and the approval of the annual report on coincide with the formal opening of Kibali by His Excellency the the Form 20-F as required by the United States Securities and President of the Democratic Republic of Congo.
This will afford Exchange Commission SEC.
the non-executive directors an opportunity to discuss matters with the President and his advisors.
In order to facilitate its supervision of the company, the board has established three board committees: the The board held its first meeting of 2014 at the Loulo gold mine, audit committee, the remuneration committee and the which took place over two days and enabled board members governance and nomination committee.
Details of the to visit the Loulo-Gounkoto mine complex, including the terms of reference of each committee and the members underground mines.
At this board meeting the board invited of each committee are available on the companys website His Excellency the Minister of Mines of Mali to attend which www.
The members of the allowed the board an opportunity to discuss the companys committees for the year and until 6 May 2014 are set out in the activities in Mali directly with the Minister.
respective committee reports in this annual report.
The boards evaluation session, which was led by the chairman, The day to day management of the company is delegated to the took place at its November 2013 meeting.
The board considers chief executive officer CEO.
An executive committee has been such meetings vital to ensure the board continues to perform established by the CEO and membership of that committee is at the level required of an international mining company.
made up of the CEO as chairman, the chief financial officer Details of attendance at the board meetings are tabled on CFO and senior executives of the company who include the the previous page of this annual report.
The last use of an chief operating officer for West Africa, the chief operating external independent facilitator to assist with the evaluation officer for Central and East Africa, the general counsel and company secretary, the general manager of environment and of the board occurred in January 2012.
It is intended that an sustainability, and the other general managers of each of the evaluation involving an external facilitator will take place no companys operations.
The company regards the executive later than January 2015. committee as a good management tool as it allows senior management to debate on a regular basis the companys Over the course of a typical two day period when the board business and operations together with any other issues that holds its committee and board meetings, the non-executive Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 125 Corporate governance report continued directors will meet without the executive directors being board at the end of the companys next annual general meeting present and throughout the year non-executive directors on 6 May 2014.
Following a rigorous and thorough selection also meet informally to discuss matters without the executive process led by the governance and nomination committee please see page 171 of this annual report for further details of directors being present.
the process involved the board invited Mr CL Coleman to be During the course of the year the company reviewed its the chairman of the board with effect from 6 May 2014.
Following that review, the company is Colemans profile is set out at page 12 of the annual report.
At comfortable with the directors and officers insurance which the date of the board's January 2014 meeting, Mr CL Coleman it has in place.
met the requirement of independence under the United Kingdom's Corporate Governance Code.
There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the company between the running of the board As part of their role as members of a unitary board, nonand the executive responsibility for the running of the executive directors should constructively challenge and companys business.
No one individual should have help develop proposals on strategy.
An atmosphere of open constructive debate exists at the In accordance with clearly defined parameters, the chairman companys board meetings, allowing directors to engage is responsible for the leadership of the board and for ensuring with executive management on key aspects of policy and effective communication exists between the executive and performance.
The non-executive directors believe that the format of the The CEO has been delegated authority to manage the day to board, in conjunction with activities of the three board day administration of the company.
A formal job description committees, is sufficient to allow them to effectively assess has been prepared and this together with the CEOs role and the performance of management in achieving set goals and duties as detailed in the board charter, are reviewed annually objectives.
The members of the audit committee believe that by the board.
their discussions, under the direction of the audit committee terms of reference, provide assurance regarding the integrity of the financial information and that the financial controls The board charter which is available on the companys website www.
com, sets out those powers which and the systems of risk management are robust.
Likewise are reserved solely for its discretion and consideration, while the remuneration committee, comprising three independent listing separately those issues for which the CEO would be non-executive directors during the year but four independent accountable.
non-executive directors with effect from 3 May 2014, has actively been involved in the determination of the levels of The chairman is responsible for the leadership of the remuneration for the executive directors.
The governance board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its and nomination committee has continued its involvement with role.
regards to board and senior manager succession planning.
The chairman, in conjunction with the CEO and the company Issues relating to financial performance of the company are secretary, sets the agenda of each meeting and ensures addressed both by the audit committee and at the board throughout the year that sufficient time is provided for meetings.
discussion regarding key strategic and operational issues of the group.
The practice of the board and committee meetings The company has had a senior independent director since taking place over two days allows for active debate among all October 2003.
Mr NP Cole Jr has served in this role since May members of the board.
He continues to make himself available to shareholders whenever they wish to contact him.
During the fourth As required under the Code, at the time of his appointment as quarter of 2013, Mr NP Cole Jr in his capacity as chairman of chairman in November 2004, Mr P Litard met the requirement the remuneration committee along with Mr CL Coleman in of independence.
Although he has now served on the board his capacity as a member of the remuneration committee, for more than nine years, he continues to demonstrate following the practice instigated in previous years, had several objectivity and independence from executive management.
meetings with representatives of the companys major This, combined with the lack of any other circumstances or investors, shareholders and various voting guidance services where issues concerning general corporate governance and relationships that would call his independence into question, has been considered by the board, which has concluded executive directors remuneration were discussed.
that Mr P Litard remains independent, notwithstanding his period of service.
At the January 2014 meeting of the board, The non-executive directors under the leadership of the Mr P Litard announced he intends to step down from the chairman met without the presence of executive directors.
126 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources The non-executive directors also meet without the chairman.
from time to time to add a fresh perspective.
This is evident In addition, the audit committee has met with the companys with the appointment of Mrs J Mabunda Lioko and Mr J Kassum external audit partner without either the CFO or CEO and to the board in January 2013 and January 2014 respectively.
it has also met the companys internal auditor on several Besides the chairman and the CEO, the remainder of the board occasions again without the CFO or CEO.
The non-executive have served for periods of eight years or less.
Other than the directors find these sessions particularly useful in supporting two executive directors, no other director serves on any of the their assessment of internal controls and financial reporting companys subsidiary boards.
quality and it is their intention to have further sessions without the executive directors being present over the course of the The board monitors compliance with the independence of following year.
character, judgment and relationships criteria included in the Code and that considers all the non-executive directors have The board and its committees should have the appropriate met these criteria and are independent.
Biographies of all the balance of skills, experience, independence and directors are set out on page 12 of this annual report.
knowledge of the company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
The company continually evaluates the composition of the board and the boards succession plans to ensure the board The board currently comprises ten members, two executive members continue to bring objectivity and independent and eight non-executive directors.
All of the non-executive judgment to the role and that a plan is in place for their directors are considered to be independent and have the succession.
necessary balance of skills, experience and knowledge to discharge their duties as directors of the company pursuant Each non-executive director receives, subject to approval of to the terms of the Code.
The governance and nomination the companys shareholders at the companys AGM, 1 200 committee continues to be charged with the duty of identifying ordinary shares in the company which vest on issue.
This suitable candidates to fulfil the role of director of the company.
policy was introduced following shareholder consultation and therefore the non-executive directors are considered to Mr P Litard continues to act as chairman of the governance remain independent.
However, at the January 2014 meeting of the board, Mr P Litard announced he would be Details of the non-executive directors shareholding in the stepping down from the board at the companys next AGM company are provided on page 163 of this annual report.
on 6 May 2014: at that time Mr P Litard would also retire as chairman of the governance and nomination committee to be Disclosures in respect of all related party transactions are replaced by Mr CL Coleman.
Mr CL Colemans profile is set out included in note 20 of the annual financial statements of this on page 12 of this annual report.
The committee continues to consider the optimal balance of The companys policy is for directors to disclose their interests skills as well as an appropriate gender and geographic balance.
pursuant to the Companies Jersey Law 1991 when they are In addition to possessing the expertise required for the appointed to the board and at each subsequent board meeting.
strategic direction of a major international mining company, as The company maintains a register of directors interests at the well as having sufficient time to commit to their responsibilities companys registered office.
There are no interests that have including field visits to the operations, candidates are been disclosed that are considered to impinge on the directors expected to combine a strongly independent perspective independence.
and demonstrate sound judgment with the ability to share a cohesive vision of the companys future.
There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the At the boards January 2014, following a thorough selection board.
process led by the governance and nomination committee and following that committees recommendation, the board The procedure followed when appointing Mr J Kassum to the appointed Mr J Kassum to the board.
The board determined board and the succession of the chairman are detailed in Mr Kassums extensive experience with investment and policy page 171 of this annual report.
management especially working in emerging markets would prove invaluable to the board.
The governance and nomination committee considers that its procedures and policies which it has in place to deal with new The board believes that mining is a long gestation business appointments to the board and succession of the CEO and the and, as such justifies a longer period of service for nonchairman are appropriate.
executive directors than many other industries and that reasonable periods of service are therefore needed for the All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to stability of the board but that new appointments are needed the company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
