Executives Tahirou Ballo Chiaka Berthe Sebastiaan Bock Luiz Correia Mine manager Gounkoto GM Loulo-Gounkoto Group corporate finance GM Tongon manager A mining economist With a masters degree in A metallurgist with 28 engineer with 19 years geological engineering from Responsible for the years experience in the experience, mainly in Mali.
the Malian National School management of the groups gold mining industry, he Started his career as a short of Engineering, he has more financial operations has a BSc Eng as well as a planner with BHP at Syama than 17 years experience functions and the groups BCom degree.
He joined mine and served as mining in the industry.
A member corporate finance Randgold in 2005 and superintendent from 1999 of the Australian Institute of management.
Hes a in 2006 was appointed fro Randgold at Syama.
In Mine and Metallurgy and the chartered accountant with operations manager at 2010, he was promoted to Geostatistical Association, 13 years experience and Loulo.
He was appointed to operations manager for he was appointed to his has been with the group for manage Tongon during the Randgold at Loulo mine and current position in 2012. six years.
construction phase in 2010. then to Gounkoto general manager 2011.
Paul Harbidge Bill Houston Willem Jacobs Adama Kone Group GM exploration Group GM human GM operations Central GM Morila capital and East Africa A geologist with over Joined Randgold in 1996, 21 years experience, Bill has a masters degree With a BPL Hons and responsible for grade mainly in Africa, having in HR management and 33 DCom, he has served as a control at the Syama previously worked for years experience in the director of listed and private mine.
In 2000, he joined Rio Tinto, Anglo American field.
Joined Randgold in companies in the areas of the mineral resources and Ashanti Goldfields, he 1992 as group training and mining, engineering and department at Morila, joined Randgold in 2001. development manager, manufacturing in Southern, becoming manager of the He was appointed group heading the group human Central and Eastern Africa department in 2006.
With exploration manager in resources function from for the past 18 years.
1996 and assumed his joined Randgold in 2010. the Malian National School current position in 2008. of Engineering, he gained early experience as a field geologist for BHP Minerals Exploration.
Mahamadou Sam Ngolo Sanogo John Steele Samba Toure GM Mali Technical and capital GM operations West Samak projects executive Africa Group regional manager Has a masters degree West Africa in economics from Responsible for the Joined the Morila mine the National School of successful construction in 2000 and held various A professor of company Administration of Bamako and commissioning of responsibilities, culminating law at the University of as well as several business Randgolds Morila, Loulo, in his appointment in 2007 Mali, Mahamadou was qualifications.
Joined BHP Tongon and Gounkoto as the mine chief executive.
instrumental in writing the Mali in 1995 and appointed mines and leading the In 2010 he was promoted to Malian mining legislation.
management accountant team developing the new group operations general He is the resident executive at Syama mine in 2001.
He manager for West Africa.
manager in Mali and is 2004 he joined Randgold as also continues to provide responsible for government Mali financial controller and operational and engineering liaison and legal counsel.
was appointed Mali general oversight.
16 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Riaan Grobler Tania fide Welzim Ted fide Villiers Paul Gillot Group GM commercial Group financial manager Group GM mining Group metallurgist, and supply chain deputy GM capital Having served as group A mining engineer, he has projects Riaan holds an honours financial controller, Tania extensive experience in degree in finance with was appointed to her Paul has 24 years mining operations, mining 15 years experience in current position in 2009. operational and contracting and consulting.
A CA with 15 years financial management experience He joined Randgold in Initially appointed financial experience, 13 of these in in the mining industry 2010, with executive projects manager East the mining industry, she is and moved into the responsibility for the Africa in early 2012, he responsible for technical projects arena, with the groups rapidly expanding controlled the construction financial reporting and commissioning of the mining operations, tasked of the Kibali mine before procedures.
Responsible with ensuring a consistent his promotion.
for the groups metallurgical production stream.
Victor Matfield Philip Pretorius Chris Prinsloo Rod Quick Group GM corporate Group human resources Group GM commercial Group GM evaluation finance executive and supply chain A geologist with 20 years A chartered accountant, Joined Randgold in 2008.
Qualified as a chartered experience in the gold he was appointed corporate Has 24 years human secretary and has mining industry.
He joined finance manager in 2001. resources experience, 40 years experience in the Randgold in 1996, and Prior to that he served as the last 18 spent dealing mining industry.
Appointed has been involved in the financial manager of the exclusively with the gold commercial manager in exploration, evaluation and Syama mine and of the mining industry in Sub- 2002, responsible for group production phases of all Morila project.
He has a accounting and supply chain projects since Morila.
He postgraduate diploma in management.
became responsible for all management practice.
project development and Retires April 2014. evaluation in 2009.
Charles Wells Martin Welsh Lois Wark Louis Watum Group GM sustainability General counsel and Group GM corporate GM Kibali gold mine, communications country manager DRC secretary Has an MSc in With Randgold since A metallurgist with 24 years environmental Qualified as a solicitor its inception, assumed experience, he has an MSc biotechnology and in Scotland in 1998, he management of the in chemical engineering.
16 years experience gained experience acting cartography department He joined Randgold in 2009 in environmental on numerous international in 1995.
She is responsible and was appointed general management.
Joined corporate and finance for the coordination of the manager of the Kibali mine Randgold in March 2012 transactions in London.
groups communications development project and and is responsible for He previously acted for and investor relations DRC country manager.
the groups sustainability Randgold before joining programmes and holds a programme.
the company in 2011 diploma in land surveying: and assumed his current Cadastral and topographical.
