The Randgold board of directors photographed inspecting the new heavy fuel oil facility at Loulo mine before the January 2014 board meeting.
Left to right: Kadri Dagdelen, Karl Voltaire, Jeanine Mabunda Lioko, Jamil Kassum, Graham Shuttleworth, Norb Cole, Mark Bristow, Philippe Litard, Andy Quinn and Chris Coleman.
10 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Board of directors Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 11 # 1 6 7 8 Philippe Litard 65 Jemal-ud-din Kassum Jamil Kassum 65 Non-executive chairman Independent non-executive Appointed a Randgold director in 1998 and chairman in 2004, Appointed to the Randgold board with effect from 31 January 2014, his experience in corporate and project finance with UBS, the he is a former World Bank vice-president for the East Asia and Pacific International Finance Corporation and World Bank spans 30 years, region.
Before that, he had a 25-year career with the International mainly in the minerals business and in Africa.
A Tanzanian national based in the USA, he of the Oil, Gas and Mining Department of the IFC, he also served now provides strategic advice to international financial institutions as managing director of the Global Natural Resources Fund from and governments, and sits on the boards of Guardian Holdings, PT 2000 to 2003.
Now an independent consultant and a promoter of Indonesia Infrastructure Finance and Khan Bank.
He was educated mining and energy investments, he is also a director of CellMark AB in the UK at Harrow and Oxford and holds an MBA from Harvard.
of Sweden and serves on the board of trustees of the Rochambeau Foundation in Washington DC and as chairman of the Nos Vies en Kadri Dagdelen 59 Partage Foundation.
Independent non-executive A professor at and previously head of the Department of Mining D Mark Bristow 55 Engineering at the Colorado School of Mines, USA, he began his Chief executive professional career as a mining engineer at Homestake Mining Chief executive since the incorporation of Randgold, which was Co now Barrick Gold Corporation and was the technical services founded on his pioneering exploration work in West Africa.
Has manager when he left for academia in 1992.
With a PhD in mining subsequently led the companys growth through the discovery engineering and an ME in geostatistics he has been involved in and development of world-class assets into a major gold mining numerous research and consulting projects worldwide, also serving business.
Has also played a significant part in promoting the on the board of directors of the Society of Mining, Exploration and emergence of a sustainable mining industry in Africa.
A geologist Metallurgy in the USA for six years and chairing other professional with a PhD from Natal University, South Africa, he has held board societies that support the mining industry.
He joined the Randgold positions at a number of global mining companies and is nonboard in January 2010. executive chairman of Rockwell Resources International.
6 Jeanine Mabunda Lioko 49 Graham Shuttleworth 45 Independent non-executive Financial director and chief financial officer Appointed a Randgold director in January 2013, she has spent a Joined Randgold in July 2007 but has been associated with the number of years working in the Democratic Republic of the Congos company since its inception, initially as part of the management finance industry including with Citi Group and as an advisor to team involved in listing the company on the LSE in 1997, and the Governor of Banque Centrale du Congo.
A former Minister of subsequently as an advisor.
A chartered accountant, he was a Portfolio of the DRC, a position which she held for over five years, managing director and the New-York based head of metals and she is now a serving member of the countrys National Assembly, mining for the Americas in the global investment banking division representing the Equateur Province.
She was educated in Brussels, of HSBC before taking up his new position at Randgold.
At HSBC Belgium, and holds a law degree from the Catholic University of he led or was involved in a wide range of major mining industry Louvain and a postgraduate degree in commercial science from the transactions, including Randgolds NASDAQ listing, and subsequent ICHEC Brussels Management School.
4 Norborne P Cole Jr 72 Andrew J Quinn 60 Senior independent non-executive Independent non-executive Started working for the Coca-Cola Company as field representative Retired at the end of 2011 from his position as head of mining in the USA in 1966 and advanced steadily through the organisation, investment banking for Europe and Africa at CIBC after 15 years in becoming chief executive of Coca-Cola Amatil in Australia in 1994, a that role and more than 38 years experience of the mining industry.
Under his leadership, Coca-Cola Amatil With a BSc Hons in mineral exploitation mining engineering from grew into the second largest Coca-Cola bottler in the world.
Now Cardiff University, he began his career in Anglo Americans gold based in San Antonio, Texas, he serves on the boards of a number division in 1975, holding various management and technical positions of US companies including Papa Johns International Inc.
Became a in South Africa, and worked briefly for Greenbushes Tin in Australia director of Randgold in May 2006. before joining Mining Journal in 1982 as editor of its gold publications.
In 1984 he entered the financial services industry joining James Capel $ 2 3 5 later HSBC Investment Banking and then CIBC in 1996.
Appointed Christopher L Coleman 45 to the Randgold board in November 2011.
Independent non-executive Head of Banking and Asset Finance and a managing director of $ Rothschild as well as chairman of Rothschild Bank International in Karl Voltaire 63 the Channel Islands, he also serves on a number of other boards Independent non-executive and committees of the Rothschild Group, which he joined in 1989.
A A graduate in mineral resources engineering from the Ecole des BSc Econ graduate from the London School of Economics, he was a Mines in Paris, he also holds an MBA and PhD in economics and non-executive director of the Merchant Bank of Central Africa from finance from the University of Chicago.
He started his career as a 2001 to 2008.
He is also a non-executive director of the US company mining engineer in Haiti and subsequently spent 23 years in the World Papa Johns International Inc.
Appointed to the Randgold board in Bank Group in Washington DC, most of this time at the International November 2008.
Finance Corporation where his last position was that of director of global financial markets.
Subsequently he was director of the Office 1 Steps down from the board and governance and nomination of President at the African Development Bank.
He was CEO of the committee with effect from 6 May 2014.
Nelson Mandela Institution from 2005 to 2009, and is currently a 2 Appointed chairman of the board with effect from 6 May 2014. member of the board of trustees of the African University of Science 3 Steps down from the audit committee with effect from 6 May 2014.
Appointed to the Randgold board in May 2006.
Appointed a member of the remuneration committee with effect from 3 May 2014.
5 A ppointed chairman of the governance and nomination # committee with effect from 6 May 2014.
Chairman of governance and nomination committee.
6 Appointed a member of the audit committee with effect from Chairman of audit committee.
7 Appointed a director with effect from 31 January 2014.
Member of governance and nomination committee.
8 Appointed a member of the governance and nomination Member of audit committee.
$ committee with effect from 3 May 2014.
