91% CSR 86.4% of all employees of process Award water recycled were host country Prix dexcellence nationals in DRC 4 200 94% 18% households now decrease in increase in local resettled at Kibali malaria incidence community development spend New 3 600 60% cyanide code new jobs created reduction in formalised in 2013 group LTIFR All mines in 136 operation over a 0 drinking water year certified to major boreholes drilled environmental ISO 14001 incidents and OHSAS 91 total new 180001 classrooms standards constructed Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 81 performance, covering all material aspects.
The data on Scope and boundary of this environmental, safety and economic impacts presented covers all six of our operational and development sites situated in Mali, report Cte dIvoire, Democratic Republic of Congo and Senegal.
With This sustainability report highlights the key sustainability the exception of GHG emissions, it excludes our offices and challenges facing our business, how we are addressing them guesthouses.
The scope and measurement methods have and some of our achievements in this field from 2013.
It has not changed if compared to Randgolds previous sustainability been produced according to the Global Reporting Initiative supplement published in May 2012.
GRI G4 Guidelines and the Mining and Metals Supplement, and has been verified by an independent third party.
We The data used to populate this document is collated on are reporting to be In Accordance - Core with the GRI G4 a monthly basis and reviewed by management.
previous years is provided in certain instances for comparative purposes.
Our sustainability strategy is informed by the views of our stakeholders and we have conducted a materiality analysis This report has been assured by an independent assurance with internal and external stakeholders to guide the content of provider, Think Sustainability, including assurance of Randgolds this document as detailed later in this supplement.
application of the GRI G4 Guidelines.
The aim of this supplement is to represent a balanced We welcome feedback on this report and the activities and reasonable view of our organisations sustainability described within.
2013 sustainability performance summary Focus Key performance indicators 2011 2012 2013 Trend Targets Gold sales Our production target for 2014 is 1.13Moz - 1.20Moz US$1 127m US$1 318m US$1 267m Payments to suppliers in countries of operation US$480 Our target is to maximise procurement from local suppliers US$322m US$537m Economic development see page 88 Total economic value distributed US$910 Our target is to increase economic value distributed in line with production US$657m US$790m Total community investment Our target is to increase health, education and economic development US$20.6m US$33.6m US$25.2m outcomes for communities Percentage of host country nationals in workforce 92% 92% 86.4% Our target is to maintain the number of nationals in our workforce above 80% Proportion of grievances resolved by 31 Dec 97.2% 94.1% 99% Our target is to resolve 100% of grievances registered through our Community see page 94 grievance mechanism Malaria Incidence rate 69.2% 62.0% 52.69% Our target is to reduce malaria incidence across the group by 25% in 2014 Amount of Voluntary Counselling and Testing VCTs for HIV 887 2 298 2 908 Our target is to raise awareness of HIV across the group, measured as number of VCTs LTIFR at operational mines 3.1 1.5 0.57 Our target is to maintain a LTIFR of 0.6 Number of workplace fatalities 3 1 1 Our target is for zero fatalities Human capital see page 104 Number of mines certified to OHSAS 1 2 4 Our target is to have all fully-operational mines OHSAS compliant Number of internationals replaced by trained nationals - - 45 Our target is to maximise the number of host country nationals in senior roles formerly taken by non-African employees Number of class 1 major or 2 medium environmental incidents 0 - Class 1 0 - Class 1 0 - Class 1 Our target is for zero Class 1 and 2 environmental incidents 8 - Class 2 10 - Class 2 13 - Class 2 Emission intensity 39.08 CO - 42.6 CO - 50.47 CO - Our target is to reduce GHG emissions to 23.45 tonnes CO2-e kt milled by 2 2 2 e kt milled e kt milled e kt milled 2015 Total water recycled 59% 69% 85% Our target is for 85% of water to be reused by 2015 Proportion of water quality tests below national or IFC standards - - - Our target is for zero non-compliance with relevant national and IFC Environment see page 112 standards Number of environmental or health incidents related to cyanide - - - Our target is for zero environmental or health incidents related to cyanide ISO 14001 certification 2 4 4 Our target is to have all fully-operational mines certified to the ISO 14001 standard Develop site specific Biodiversity Action Plans BAPs for all our operations 0 2 4 Our target is to introduce BAPs at all fully operational mines Non-GAAP measure, based on 100% of Loulo, Gounkoto and Tongon, 40% of Morila and 45% of Kibali.
82 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 2013 sustainability performance summary Focus Key performance indicators 2011 2012 2013 Trend Targets Gold sales Our production target for 2014 is 1.13Moz - 1.20Moz US$1 127m US$1 318m US$1 267m Payments to suppliers in countries of operation US$480 Our target is to maximise procurement from local suppliers US$322m US$537m Economic development see page 88 Total economic value distributed US$910 Our target is to increase economic value distributed in line with production US$657m US$790m Total community investment Our target is to increase health, education and economic development US$20.6m US$33.6m US$25.2m outcomes for communities Percentage of host country nationals in workforce 92% 92% 86.4% Our target is to maintain the number of nationals in our workforce above 80% Proportion of grievances resolved by 31 Dec 97.2% 94.1% 99% Our target is to resolve 100% of grievances registered through our Community see page 94 grievance mechanism Malaria Incidence rate 69.2% 62.0% 52.69% Our target is to reduce malaria incidence across the group by 25% in 2014 Amount of Voluntary Counselling and Testing VCTs for HIV 887 2 298 2 908 Our target is to raise awareness of HIV across the group, measured as number of VCTs LTIFR at operational mines 3.1 1.5 0.57 Our target is to maintain a LTIFR of 0.6 Number of workplace fatalities 3 1 1 Our target is for zero fatalities Human capital see page 104 Number of mines certified to OHSAS 1 2 4 Our target is to have all fully-operational mines OHSAS compliant Number of internationals replaced by trained nationals - - 45 Our target is to maximise the number of host country nationals in senior roles formerly taken by non-African employees Number of class 1 major or 2 medium environmental incidents 0 - Class 1 0 - Class 1 0 - Class 1 Our target is for zero Class 1 and 2 environmental incidents 8 - Class 2 10 - Class 2 13 - Class 2 Emission intensity 39.08 CO - 42.6 CO - 50.47 CO - Our target is to reduce GHG emissions to 23.45 tonnes CO2-e kt milled by 2 2 2 e kt milled e kt milled e kt milled 2015 Total water recycled 59% 69% 85% Our target is for 85% of water to be reused by 2015 Proportion of water quality tests below national or IFC standards - - - Our target is for zero non-compliance with relevant national and IFC Environment see page 112 standards Number of environmental or health incidents related to cyanide - - - Our target is for zero environmental or health incidents related to cyanide ISO 14001 certification 2 4 4 Our target is to have all fully-operational mines certified to the ISO 14001 standard Develop site specific Biodiversity Action Plans BAPs for all our operations 0 2 4 Our target is to introduce BAPs at all fully operational mines Non-GAAP measure, based on 100% of Loulo, Gounkoto and Tongon, 40% of Morila and 45% of Kibali.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 83 Our sustainability governance In recent years, there has been continued improvement in the systems and processes that we use to understand, measure, manage and report on sustainability issues at a group level.
This chapter provides a basic outline of our management approach, governance and corporate systems with regard to sustainability.
Stakeholder engagement Our corporate strategy is to create value for all our stakeholders - so stakeholder engagement is a critical part of business for Randgold.
We pride ourselves on an active and meaningful programme of stakeholder engagement each year which enables us to deepen our relationships, understand our stakeholders needs and priorities and which feeds into our management practices.
The main stakeholder categories we engage with are: S hareholders: Including both direct providers of capital and potential investors.
Employees: Including both permanent staff and contractors.
Local communities: Defined as those within a 10 kilometre radius of our mine sites.
Non-governmental organisations NGOs : Specifically those with an interest in our operations and active in the areas where we operate.
Government: Including national, regional and local government in host countries.
Unions: We speak with all forms of union representation at our mines and do not have restrictions or prescriptions on who speaks for the workers.
Suppliers and contractors: Both those based in our host countries and abroad.
Media: Both those based in our host countries and abroad.
At the heart of our engagement this year was a materiality assessment, explained alongside and undertaken in line with the guidelines of the GRI G4 reporting process.
The materiality assessment was part of an extensive programme of stakeholder engagement undertaken this year through channels such as formal meetings, roadshows, correspondence and site visits.
An overview of the ways we engaged with each stakeholder is shown on the next page.
84 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources licence to operate see: Delivering for host communities.
Stakeholder Ways we engaged Water pollution: We carefully monitor the cleanliness of all Shareholders Formal meetings water in and around our mines to protect our employees Investor roadshows and open forums and local communities see: Managing environmental Site visits impacts.
GRI G4 materiality assessment C yanide management: We have strict policies and Employees Mass meetings with CEO procedures in place to ensure the responsible use and Site visits management of cyanide see: Managing environmental Input via unions impacts.
Training programmes Local and national employment: Ensuring high levels GRI G4 materiality assessment of local and national employment is a fundamental part LocallyVia community development of our business strategy see: A safe, skilled and stable affected committees workforce.
communities Via grievance mechanisms Energy use and efficiency: Minimising energy use is core Consultations, Public Participation to our mining process and to the development of our local Processes PPP and local events communities see: Managing environmental impacts.
Local media Bribery and corruption: We have zero tolerance for Training programmes bribery or corruption and endeavour to combat corruption GRI G4 materiality assessment whenever necessary see: Our sustainability management NGOs Specialist partnerships R evenue transparency: We publish a full economic Formal meetings, correspondence statement within our annual report disclosing our payments and events of taxes, duties, royalties, salaries, procurements and other GRI G4 materiality assessment payments see: Our sustainability management.
Governments Formal meetings and correspondence Local procurement and partner development: It is our Site visits policy to maximise, as far as possible, the local economic Interactions at conference and benefits and sustainable development impacts of our speaking engagements operations see: Creating sustainable economic value.
Board representation at mine level S taff training and skills transfer: The optimisation of local GRI G4 materiality assessment talent and training of national employees to world-class Unions Monthly and mass meetings standards is at the heart of our approach to human capital Mine board meetings see: A safe, skilled and stable workforce.
Formal meetings, correspondence Legal compliance: We fully comply with all legislation in all and events jurisdictions see: Our sustainability management.
GRI G4 materiality assessment Suppliers and Account management relationships Resettlement and compensation: We are committed contractors Tender documents to minimising involuntary resettlement and where GRI G4 materiality assessment resettlement does need to take place our policies are in Media Publications and online information line with national legislation and the IFCs Performance Press releases Standards see: Delivering for host communities.
Interviews E nvironmental incidents: Good environmental Site visits stewardship is essential to our business and we carefully measure and manage environmental incidents see: Managing environmental impacts.
A materiality assessment Community development and investment: It is our policy To help inform what issues to cover in this sustainability to maximise, as far as possible, the local economic benefits supplement, we conducted a materiality assessment in 2013, and sustainable development impacts of our operations ie we considered the significance of various sustainability issues see: Delivering for host communities.
on our business and also asked stakeholders to identify issues Lo cal economic development: It is our policy to maximise, of concern that influenced their assessments and decisions as far as possible, the local economic benefits and about Randgold.
The process was carried out in line with GRI sustainable development impacts of our operations see: G4 guidelines and is detailed at the back of this supplement Creating sustainable economic value.
see Identifying our most material sustainabiity issues.
W aste management: We are committed to ensuring all hazardous, organic and inorganic waste generated by our The primary result of the assessment was a list of 19 priority mines is safely and sustainably disposed of see: Managing issues that reflect our most significant impacts and the environmental impacts.
key concerns our stakeholders have.
Our policies and HI V AIDS: HIV AIDS is a significant consideration in our performance managing these issues forms the backbone host countries and we operate a stand-alone programme of this report.
Some issues that were not prioritised by the to help prevent the spread of the disease see: Health as materiality process but are nonetheless important and are part of wealth.
also covered in this report.
Malaria: Diseases such as malaria are a major threat to our workforce and local communities and we operate a standThe 19 most material issues identified by the assessment were: alone programme to reduce malaria incidence around our Safety: We are an employee-focused company and mines see: Health as part of wealth.
committed to providing the safest possible working O ccupational health: The health and well-being of our environment see: A safe, skilled and stable workforce.
employees is crucial to the success of our business see: Community engagement: The support of local Health as part of wealth.
communities around our mines is central to our social Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 85 Our sustainability management As with other parts of our business our management of sustainability employs high-levels of expertise, experience, careful measurement and monitoring.
Randgold sustainability governance structure Randgold board Environmental and Operational board CEO sustainability commitee Mine GM GM Sustainability Health, safety, environment and community heads of departments Our operational structure provides well-defined lines of opportunities and its quarterly reports are tabled for review at responsibility from the operational level through to the board the group board of directors meetings.
The group executive committee reviews sustainability performance weekly.
Full details of our corporate governance are contained in this annual report.
Randgolds board of directors have ultimate oversight of all Measuring our environmental and social impacts is key to sustainability issues and take an active role in testing strategic our management of sustainability.
At ground level, on each direction, monitoring performance and ensuring our policies remain appropriate.
mine, we have a sustainability manager who measures results against Key Performance Indicators KPIs to ensure our policies are being implemented.
KPIs include environmental Openness and transparency are central parts of our management approach to sustainability.
Our reporting on data such as energy and water use: workforce data such as lost time injuries: and community data such as complaints and sustainability is completed in accordance with the GRI and undergoes external assurance.
Last year our sustainability comments from grievance posts.
reporting was confirmed as a B GRI application level and this year our report has been assembled in accordance core with Each line manager reports to the mine general manager, who the new GRI G4 guidelines.
This is indicative of our commitment in turn is answerable to the respective mine board chaired by our CEO, and to our group sustainability executive, who in turn to constantly evolving the transparency and effectiveness of our sustainability management systems.
reports to the CEO and the board.
Randgolds sustainability executive and CEO also meet quarterly with the general managers from each mine to form our boards environmental Key policies and processes and social oversight committee.
This committee is responsible All our projects are managed by a set of board-approved for identifying and managing strategic sustainability risks and standards and policies.
These set out the principles, 86 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources
