Managing environmental impacts 91% of process water recycled New cyanide management code formalised ISO 14001 certification and Biodiversity Action Plans in place at all mines except newly-opened Kibali Zero Class 1 major environmental incidents for fourth consecutive year Energy efficiency measures implemented with the potential to save up to US$200 000 month at Loulo mine Nzoro hydropower plant ready for April 2014, potentially saving up to 6 000l hr of diesel The process of extracting gold from the ground inevitably results in significant environmental impacts.
We aim to mitigate the most harmful aspects of the process through the careful use of energy and water, the responsible disposal of waste including cyanide and through detailed land rehabilitation plans.
Our policy is driven by core business needs: environmental liabilities constitute a major risk to our business and resource efficiency provides important day-today cost savings.
Overview The overall aim of our environmental management activities is to effectively manage our environmental risks by minimising negative impacts and maximising the long term benefits to our stakeholders.
Our materiality assessment this year highlighted water pollution and cyanide management as two of the top five highest priority material sustainability issues for Randgold.
We also see energy use, rehabilitation of disturbed land and waste and dust management as priority risks to be managed.
We have Environmental Management Systems EMS in place at each mine that set performance standards for managing our environmental risks and impacts.
The EMS at each site focus on the five priority issues identified above, together with those issues identified in the environmental impact studies for each site, the requirements of relevant national legislation in particular, general environmental legislation and mining-specific legislation and the IFC Performance Standards.
All our fully operational sites are certified to the internationally recognised ISO 14001 environmental management standard, and we expect the Kibali mine to be certified to ISO 14001 in 2015.
In addition to the legal compliance audits we undertook as part of the ISO 14001 standard, we also conducted independent audits to check our compliance with the IFC Performance Standards.
We had no significant environmental fines or nonmonetary sanctions in 2013.
112 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Water testing at Tongon.
We actively monitor our environmental performance.
The first is that contractors This enables us to continuously identify opportunities and the community can have impacts on the environment and for improvement and to act decisively in the event of an can affect our overall performance eg inappropriate waste environmental incident.
One example of how we use management practices may lead to cross-contamination of monitoring to drive improvements is illustrated by our response waste.
The second is that these groups can play an important to hydrocarbon spillages in Mali this year see Spotting trends role in our monitoring and corrective action processes.
part of our efforts in this area we require all local contractors to be trained in our EHS standards and we work with local We also see the involvement of local contractors and the local community as core to our environmental management community committees on areas such as waste management.
the provision of driver training for over 140 people, and the Spotting trends and taking action adoption of new policies on cellphone usage, speed monitoring Our ongoing processes to monitor and measure our and replacement of equipment.
Recognising the importance environmental impacts means we can intervene quickly to of peer learning, Shell, which scored highest against the seven stop a negative trend becoming an ingrained problem.
criteria, held a workshop to share its best practices with Ben&Co and PetroYara.
A good example of this came in early 2013 when our hydrocarbon suppliers in Mali suffered several fuel spillages Following the audit process there have been clear signs of from their trucks, some on the same area of road.
In order to improvement: with only one minor hydrocarbon spillage understand what was happening and why, our environmental in Mali over the rest of the year.
However, we recognise the team undertook an audit of our three fuel suppliers: Ben&Co, importance of maintaining a focus on this issue, and have PetroYara local Mali-based contractors and Shell.
established a routine dialogue with each of the suppliers to review their implementation of the action plan.
We worked closely with all three suppliers to judge their performance against seven key criteria ranging from vehicle and driver management, to health and safety and risk management.
The process included workshops and meetings with the suppliers, and visits to the sites of tanker accidents to understand the external factors that may have contributed to the spills.
We concluded that the spills were caused by a combination of operational eg equipment maintenance, procedural eg weaknesses in emergency response measures and human eg driver fatigue factors.
To address these factors, we developed and implemented an action plan.
The actions taken have included more swapping of drivers to avoid fatigue, the implementation of better emergency response plans, Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 113 2012 2012 2012 2012 Sustainability report continued Performance assessment Water management We have significantly increased our water recycling levels at all Our policies and processes mines this year and recycled 91% of process water across the Water is an essential part of the gold mining process.
It is group, reaching our corporate target to recycle at least 85% for used for power generation, dust suppression, processing, the first time.
We also produce large volumes of wastewater that we need to manage.
This success has been the result of ongoing efforts to keep Water security is therefore a key issue for our business.
In water recycling front of mind with all staff and visitors at each areas of potential water scarcity such as West Africa, it is mine.
Additional solutions such as new pumps and improved critically important that we work closely with local communities pipelines have also contributed to increased recycling levels at and industry to ensure the requirements of all water users some mine sites.
are met, and to minimise the potential for conflict over water resources.
This is particularly important given the likelihood of In total our operations consumed 11 850 ML of water, a slight changing weather patterns due to climate change.
In contrast, increase on last year mitigated by the higher level of recycling.
in the DRC, the long wet seasons mean there is an abundance The 9% of water which was not recycled was returned back into of water and our policy includes steps to prevent flooding and local water sources, and our regular testing of water quality accidental releases of process water.
showed no incidences of non-conformity with national or IFC standards.
At each mine, our water use is set by permit arrangements with local authorities.
Within the requirements of these permits, our policy is to use water as efficiently as possible.
At each Our water use stayed within the boundaries of our licence mine we create a closed loop system that recycles as much conditions throughout the year and none of our operations water as possible without discharging it to the environment.
has been identified as being immediately under threat from We have a corporate target to recycle 85% of grey water by water shortages.
The quarterly audits of our TSFs showed no 2015.
High levels of water recycling save costs and reduce the major anomalies in the management and construction of our potential for uncontrolled discharge with the associated water TSFs in 2013. contamination.
We recognise that water management is not just a technical The slurry from our mining process ends up in our TSFs and we debate around water consumption and wastewater standards.
take extra care to ensure there is minimal seepage from these It is also an issue that our local communities care deeply about facilities, using multiple lines of defence in case of extreme weather.
We use an experienced specialist company, Fraser and want to be involved with.
In the summer of 2013, following Alexander, to manage these facilities.
An independent auditor a concern raised in Morilas local community about the quality regularly checks both the work of the specialist company and of the water we engaged with the existing water quality our management of them.
forum which includes community leaders to test for water pollution.
Three external laboratories, including the National To ensure that we are meeting our regulatory and our own Water Quality Laboratory, analysed samples of the water and policy commitments, we regularly monitor surface and confirmed that there was no evidence of non-compliance with groundwater for the risk of water pollution and test drinking water standards.
This gave peace of mind to the local residents water on a monthly basis.
In line with international standards and underlined to us the importance of involving and engaging and local legislation we test for over 30 chemical elements local communities in water management efforts.
In 2014, including various heavy metals, cyanide and arsenic.
In the we plan to form similar community water quality forums in DRC a government agency conducts an independent audit of communities around our other mines.
our monitoring processes every two years.
