Governance & Remuneration Board of Directors and Executive Committee Board of Directors and Executive Committee THe BOARD OF DIReCTORS joined RB in 1987 and served in various Roberto Funari Brazilian Adrian Bellamy British # regional and central marketing roles.
Rejoined in Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 1999 was appointed EVP Category Development in February 2013 following two years at Imperial and Non-Executive Chairman in May 2003.
2006 with responsibility for global category Tobacco where he was Group Marketing He is a Director of The Gap Inc and a Director management, R&D, media, market research Director and Executive Committee member.
and Chairman of Williams-Sonoma Inc. and strategic alliances.
In his prior 12-year career with the Group, He was formerly Chairman of The Body Shop Roberto held increasingly senior marketing and Andr Lacroix French # International plc and a director of various general management roles in both emerging Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2008 companies including Gucci Group NV and and developed markets, including Brazil, and the Senior Independent Director in June The Robert Mondavi Corporation.
Netherlands, South Africa and Central Europe.
He is Group Chief Executive of Inchcape His last role was as Global Category Officer for Richard Cousins British # plc and Chairman of Good Restaurants AG.
He was previously Chairman and CEO of Euro He is CEO of Compass Group PLC.
He was CEO Disney, and has also held positions at Burger Rob fide Groot Dutch of BPB plc, and Non-Executive Director of P&O King Diageo, Colgate, PepsiCo and Ernst & eVP, eNA.
Richard will not offer himself for Young LLP.
roles in marketing and sales he became General re-election at the AGM in May 2014 and will Manager The Netherlands, then SVP, Regional Judith Sprieser American # retire from the Board after the AGM.
Director Eastern Europe and was appointed Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2003 and Global Category Officer, surface and dish Nicandro Durante Brazilian Italian # Chair of the Remuneration Committee in 2004. before being appointed EVP North America & Appointed a Non-Executive Director in She was previously CEO of Transora, Inc. and Australia.
Rob is responsible for North America, December 2013.
He is CEO of British American Executive Vice President formerly CFO of Sara Northern Europe, Central Europe, Southern Tobacco p. l. c. BAT.
Nicandro has had an Lee Corporation.
She is a Director of Allstate Europe and Western Europe and is extensive career at BAT and became Chief Insurance Company, InterContinental Exchange, headquartered in Amsterdam.
Operating Officer in January 2008 and CEO Inc. Royal Ahold NV and Experian plc.
Adrian Hennah British warren Tucker British # Chief Financial Officer CFO.
Dr Peter Harf German # Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2010.
Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 1999 He was CFO of Cobham plc from 2003 until Gareth Hill South African and is the Deputy Chairman.
He is a chartered accountant and SVP, Information Services.
Joined in 2006. of the Remuneration Committee until June previously held senior finance positions at Previously Information Systems Director at 2004.
Peter is the CEO of Parentes Holding SE Cable & Wireless plc and British Airways plc.
Prior to Arcadia, Gareth was formerly Joh.
A. Benckiser and a Director of He is Non-Executive Director and Chairmanat IBM UK Ltd, Rex Trueform Clothing Ltd in Coty Inc.
He is also Chairman of Labelux and designate of PayPoint plc and a Non-Executive South Africa and Arthur Andersen.
He is a the non-profit DKMS foundation.
Director of Thomas Cook Group.
Adrian Hennah British Member of the Audit Committee Rakesh Kapoor Indian Appointed CFO Designate in January 2013 and Member of the Remuneration Committee Chief executive Officer CeO.
Director and CFO in February 2013.
He joined # Member of the Nomination Committee Frederic Larmuseau Belgian following six years at Smith & Nephew plc as eVP, RuMeA.
Joined in 2001 as marketing CFO.
He was CFO at Invensys for four years and eXeCuTIVe COMMITTee director for Malaysia & Singapore.
In 2003 he spent 18 years at GlaxoSmithKline plc, where Heather Allen Canadian became regional marketing director for East he held a number of senior management and eVP, Category Development.
Asia and in 2005 became Global Category financial roles.
Adrian also worked at PwC in She undertook a number of senior marketing Director for Vanish.
In 2008 he was appointed audit and consultancy.
He is a Non-Executive roles in Eastern Europe, before becoming General Manager for Brazil and a year later was Director of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Marketing Director US in 1999.
She was promoted to SVP Regional Director Latin Elsevier NV.
appointed General Manager Canada in 2003 America.
In January 2013, Frederic was and joined the global head office in the UK in Kenneth Hydon British # appointed to SVP Regional Director North 2006 as Global Category Officer germ Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2003 America and was appointed EVP of RUMEA in protection, surface and personal care.
She was and Chairman of the Audit Committee in June 2013. appointed to her current role in May 2011.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute Simon Nash British of Management Accountants, the Association Amedeo Fasano Italian SVP, Human Resources.
Joined in 2009 from of Chartered Certified Accountants and the eVP, Supply.
Joined in 1997 as Supply Director Novartis Consumer Health, where he was Association of Corporate Treasurers.
After the Reckitt & Colman and Benckiser Global Head of HR for the Consumer Health the Senior Independent Director between 2005 merger, he was appointed Manufacturing division, based in Switzerland.
He retired as CFO of Vodafone Director for Central, South Western and international career with Procter & Gamble in Group plc in 2005 and was a Non-Executive Southern Europe Regions.
In 2002 he became detergent manufacturing, before moving into Director of Tesco PLC from 2004 to 2013.
He is Regional Supply Director North America and in HR with Mars Confectionery.
He moved to New a Non-Executive Director of Pearson plc and 2003 SVP Supply North America, Australia and York in 1993 with Kraft Foods International and Merlin Entertainments PLC.
In 2007 he took over the role of then on to Chicago as HR Head of the office SVP Supply Developing Markets and in March Rakesh Kapoor Indian # products subsidiary of Fortune Brands Inc. 2009 Amedeo was appointed as EVP Supply.
Joined the Board in September 2011 following He previously worked for Pirelli Tyres in multiple his appointment as CEO of the Company.
He supply roles in Italy, Turkey, Argentina and UK.
