56 Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting to the The Directors have reviewed the Groups financial members their report and the audited consolidated forecasts for the period to 31 December 2014 and financial statements for the 12 months ended associated financial covenants and have considered 30 June 2013. various downside sensitivities reflecting the potential impact of a further reasonably foreseeable deterioration in economic conditions.
This review confirmed Principal Activities and Business Review headroom within both financial covenants and facilities, The principal activity of the Group is residential subject to the business undertaking identified mitigating development which includes mixed use development.
actions which lie within the Groups control.
The principal Redrow plc is a public listed company, listed on the sensitivity relates to the impact of market conditions on London Stock Exchange and domiciled in the UK.
profitability and in turn on the Groups net asset position relative to the covenanted level.
Revenue and profit on ordinary activities before taxation from continuing operations are stated at 604.8m and After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors 70.0m respectively.
consider they have a reasonable expectation for stating that the Group and the Company have adequate The information that fulfils the requirements of the resources to continue trading for the foreseeable future.
business review can be found in the Chairmans statement and the Operating review and Financial Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern review on pages 6 to 37.
This includes a review of the basis in preparing the financial statements.
key risks facing the business and a review of the key Notifiable Interests performance indicators of the business and future developments.
Details of the financial risk management As at 17 September 2013, the Company has been objectives and policies and associated risk exposure is advised of the following notifiable interests of 3% given in note 14: Financial Risk Management.
or more in its ordinary shares: No.
of % of issued Name shares held share capital Going Concern Bridgemere The Directors have acknowledged the guidance on going incl.
Steve Morgan 149,486,045 40.42% concern and financial reporting published by the Toscafund Asset Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
Management LLP 56,205,646 15.20% The current economic conditions and uncertainty in the FIL Limited 15,450,460 4.18% housing market create uncertainties for the business, BlackRock, Inc. 15,277,577 4.13% and a description of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties and the arrangements to manage these The persons set out in the table above have notified the risks are set out on pages 28 and 29.
The Groups business Company pursuant to Rule 5 of the Disclosure and activities, together with the factors likely to affect its Transparency Rules of their interests in the ordinary future performance, are set out in the Business review share capital of the Company.
The Groups management of exposure to financial risk, including liquidity, interest rate At 17 September 2013, no change in these holdings risk and credit risk, is disclosed in note 14 to the financial had been notified nor, according to the registrar of statements together with details of the Groups banking members, did any other shareholder at that date have facilities and capital management policies and processes.
a notifiable holding of issued share capital.
As explained in the Financial review on pages 24 to 27, the Group maintains adequate committed banking Directors facilities.
As stated in note 14 to the financial The Directors of the Company during the year and up to statements, at 30 June 2013, the Group had 105.0m the date of signing are listed on page 53 of the Directors of undrawn committed borrowing facilities available.
remuneration report and the current Directors are also listed together with their biographical details on pages 38 and 39.
About Redrow Business review Corporate governance p. 3859 Financial statements Shareholder information 57 Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance Board of Directors Corporate governance statement Committee reports Directors remuneration report Directors report Directors continued Employees Formal appraisals of Executive Directors were Redrow places considerable importance on the provision undertaken during the financial year.
All the Nonof training and development: training@redrow, a Executive Directors underwent an annual appraisal purpose built in-house training facility at Tamworth, conducted by the Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
completed 2,687 training days during the year ended The Board confirms that Steve Morgan, John Tutte and 30 June 2013 including those which support the Group Barbara Richmond, who stand for re-appointment as induction process.
Executive Directors, and Alan Jackson, Debbie Hewitt The Group supports the employment of disabled persons and Nick Hewson, who stand for re-appointment as wherever possible through recruitment and by the Non-Executive Directors, continue to be effective and retention and retraining of those who become disabled demonstrate the appropriate commitment to their roles.
The Executive Directors have formal service agreements.
Termination of their employment may be effected by The Directors recognise the importance of good 12 months notice given by the Company except for communications with employees.
Companies within the Steve Morgan where the notice period is six months.
Group are encouraged to make their employees aware of the financial and economic factors affecting their The Non-Executive Directors have fixed term service respective companies and the Group.
This is assisted agreements outlining their duties and responsibilities.
through the medium of regular management meetings, Details of Directors service agreements are given in the staff publications and the Redrow intranet.
Directors remuneration report on pages 52 and 53.
Employee share ownership is encouraged through savings related schemes.
Directors Interests Related party transactions are disclosed in note 22 to Creditor Payment Policy the financial statements.
A summary of remuneration The Group values its relationships with suppliers and provided to key management personnel is provided in subcontractors.
It is the policy to agree credit terms prior note 7c.
Subject to any items of The Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the genuine dispute, it is policy to pay creditors within the Company are given in the Directors remuneration terms agreed.
At June 2013, the Group had 50 days report on pages 54 and 55.
There has been no change 2012: 48 days purchases outstanding in respect of in the Directors interests between 30 June 2013 and payments to suppliers and the Company had nil days 17 September 2013. purchases outstanding in respect of payments to suppliers 2012: nil.
Charitable and Political Donations Research and Development The Group made no political donations but paid 630,000 in charitable donations during the year being The Group has a centralised Product Development 600,000 in respect of national charities and 30,000 in Team charged with identifying and evaluating new support of local charities.
The Group and its employees construction techniques and products.
Environmental and are actively involved in fundraising activities for specific sustainability issues play a prominent role in its activities.
The Group made a 594,000 donation during The charge to the income statement in respect of research the year to the Morgan Foundation, a UK registered and development in the year was 0.4m 2012: 0.3m.
charity of which Steve Morgan is a trustee.
This is included within the charitable donations in respect of national charities noted above.
58 Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance Directors report continued Environment Voting and Transfer of Shares Redrow recognises its responsibilities to the community The Companys Articles of Association do not contain as a whole and has adopted an environmental strategy any specific restrictions on the size of a shareholders which is a core part of the Groups objectives.
Further holding or on the transfer of shares.
details are provided in the Sustainability review on pages The Company is not aware of any agreements between 30 to 37 and also on our website at redrowplc.
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
Significant Agreements The Companys Articles of Association do not contain The Companys banking arrangements are terminable and the Company is not aware of any restrictions on upon a change of control of the Company.
There are voting rights including any limitations on voting rights no contractual or other arrangements essential to the of holders of a given percentage or number of votes, business which require disclosure under the Companies deadlines for exercising voting rights and arrangements Act 2006. by which, with the Companys co-operation, financial rights carried by securities are held by a person other than the holder of the securities.
Independent Auditors A resolution to re-appoint  LLP The voting rights attaching to the shares held by the as external Auditors will be proposed at the Annual Companys Employee Benefit Trust are exercisable by General Meeting AGM on 11 November 2013.
Abacus Trust Company Isle of Man, the Trustee of the Trust.
Provision of Information to Auditors: Notice of Annual General Meeting In the case of each Director in office at the date the Directors report is approved, confirm that: Pages 91 to 94 set out the Notice of Annual General Meeting and details the resolutions proposed together a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant with explanatory notes.
audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and To the extent that the Directors report makes reference to information contained in other sections of the Annual b he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken Report, such information will be regarded as forming as a Director in order to make himself aware of any part of the Directors report.
relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the Board Capital Structure Graham Cope The Company has an authorised share capital of Company Secretary 480,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each of which Redrow plc 369,799,938 have been issued.
The Company has one Registered no.
2877315 class of ordinary shares which carry ordinary rights 17 September 2013 to dividends subject to the Companys Articles of Association.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Authority was given to the Directors at last years AGM to allot unissued shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 12,326,665 equivalent to approximately 33% of the Companys issued share capital and up to a further aggregate nominal amount of 12,326,665 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
As this authority expires at the forthcoming AGM the Directors will be seeking new authorities as set out in the Notice of Meeting.
