BUSINESS REVIEW 26 RISK SOLUTIONS & BUSINESS INFORMATION RBIs market-leading data services include: ICIS, an information Business Information and data service in chemicals, fertilisers and energy: Accuity, aprovider of services and solutions to the banking and corporate Reed Business Information RBI provides information and online sectors focused on payment efficiency, Know Your Customer data services to business professionals worldwide.
RBI provides KYC, anti-money laundering AML and compliance.
XpertHR, its customers with high-value industry critical data services, anonline service providing regulatory guidance, best practices information and tools as well as producing conferences, websites and tools for HR professionals: and Reed Construction Data, a and business magazines.
It has many strong global brands with provider of online construction data and information to the market-leading positions across a wide range of industry sectors.
Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2013 were 547m.
RBIisa global business with principal operations in London, RBIs other leading brands include Flightglobal, New Scientist, Amsterdam, Chicago, Atlanta and Shanghai.
RBI has 3,900 Farmers Weekly, Estates Gazette, Elsevier and Boerderij.
Approximately 28% of revenue in 2013 In 2013, RBI continued to reshape its portfolio, exiting areas not came from North America, 20% from the United Kingdom, 39% core to its paid content strategy.
As part of this strategy RBI has from Continental Europe and 13% from the rest of the world.
continued to exit its Marketing Solutions businesses.
Approved Index was sold in 2013, BuyerZone has been sold since year end RBIs customers use its data and online services to help make key andthe sale process of emedia is ongoing.
In addition RBI strategic decisions, to improve productivity and performance, completed its exit of its publishing businesses in Australia, toidentify new business opportunities and to reduce risk.
RBIs France, Spain and Italy.
ICISmade a small acquisition in the carbon magazines and websites deliver high-value news, information trading information space, Tschach Solutions.
andopinion to business professionals across many industry sectors while also providing an effective marketing channel forcustomers.
Data, news and advisory services for Payment routing data, AML services professionals working in the global andcompliance tools for the banking aviation industry andcorporate sectors worldwide Global provider of news, price benchmarks, Online services with reference data, News, data and research services for the data, analytics and research to the energy, compliance information and good practice UKcommercial property industry chemical and fertiliser industries guides for HR professionals Provider of actionable insight for the Leading news and opinion magazine News, insight and software solutions for construction industry through cost data, intheNetherlands farmers and agricultural businesses project leads, market intelligence, and marketing solutions 29275 SAS p007-040.
indd 26 07 03 2014 18:14 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 27 Market opportunities Data services are typically sold directly on a subscription or The growing need for high-quality industry data and information transactional basis.
Business magazines are mainly distributed and insight is driving demand for online subscription data services on a paid basis.
Advertising revenues are sold directly or and providing new opportunities.
RBIs products compete with a number of information providers Strategic priorities on a service and title-by-title basis including: IHS, McGraw Hill RBIs strategic goal is to help business professionals achieve and Wolters Kluwer as well as many niche and privately owned better outcomes with information and decision support in its competitors.
RBI competes for online advertising with other individual markets.
Its areas of strategic focus are: further business-to-business websites, search engines and social media.
growing the data services businesses: restructuring the advertising-driven portfolio and focusing other products on paidcontent: and driving further organisational effectiveness.
Business model, distribution channels and competition Across the RBI portfolio, user and subscription revenues now account for 78% of the total business with the remaining 22% derived from print and online advertising and lead generation.
RBIelectronic revenue streams now account for 60% of total revenue.
REVENUE BY FORMAT USER AND SUBSCRIPTION REVENUE Print 78% 33% 69% 62% 59% Electronic 60% Face-to-face 7% 2010 2011 2012 2013 REVENUE BY SEGMENT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET 547m 547m Rest of World Other Business 13% Magazines & Services North America 28% Major Data Services Rest of Leading Brands Europe 39% UK 20% Marketing Solutions 29275 SAS p007-040.
