GOVERNANCE 66 BUSINESS LEADERS Reed Elsevier Business Leaders Senior Business Executives Mark Kelsey Mike Rusbridge Ron Mobed Mike Walsh Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer Risk Solutions and Business Exhibitions Scientific, Technical & Medical Legal Information Joined in 1989.
Appointed to Business Information in 2010 and current position in 1996. current position in 2012. current position in 2011.
Previously President of Reed Previously President of Cengage Previously CEO of LexisNexis US Has held a number ofsenior Exhibitions Europe and Asia and Learnings Academic & Legal Markets and Director of positions across Reed Elsevier President Reed Exhibitions North Professional Group and Strategic Business Development over the past 30 years.
Prior to that worked with Co-President and Co-Chief Home Depot.
Prior to that was a Liverpool University and received leading US exhibition organiser, Operating Officer with information practising attorney at Weil, Gotshal his MBA from Bradford University.
Studied at services company, IHS.
Holds a and Manges in Washington D. C. and Manchester University and degree from Trinity College, served as a consultant with The Harvard Business School.
Cambridge and a masters degree Boston Consulting Group.
Holds a from Imperial College, London.
Juris Doctor degree from Harvard Law School and is a graduate of Yale University.
indd 66 07 03 2014 13:04 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 67 Corporate Executives Ian Fraser Kumsal Bayazit Youngsuk YS Chi Henry Udow Human Resources Director Chief Strategy Officer Director of Corporate Affairs and Chief Legal Officer and Chairman Elsevier Company Secretary Joined in 2005.
Appointed to current position at that time.
current position in 2011. current position at that time.
Previously Global HR Director at Previously Executive Vice Previously he was President and Previously Chief Legal Officer and BHP Billiton 1998 to 2005.
Holds President of Global Strategy and Chief Operating Officer of Random Company Secretary of Cadbury plc an MBA in Finance and Business Development for House, founding Chairman of having spent 23 years working with International Business from LexisNexis Legal and Professional.
Random House Asia and Chief the company.
Prior to that he Londons City University and an MA Prior to that she worked with Bain Operating Officer for Ingram worked at Shearman & Sterling in from Edinburgh University.
Ian is & Company in New York, Los Book Group.
Holds an MBA from New York and London.
Angeles, Johannesburg and Columbia University and is a Juris Doctor degree from the Sydney.
Holds an MBA from Graduate of Princeton University.
University of Michigan Law School Harvard Business School and is a and a bachelors degree from the Graduate of the University of University of Rochester.
