GOVERNANCE 64 BOARD DIRECTORS Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Erik Engstrom 50 Anthony Habgood 67 R N C Wolfhart Hauser 64 R C Chief Executive Officer Chairman Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Appointed: Chief Executive Officer since 2009.
Appointed: 2009 Appointed: 2013 Joined Reed Elsevier as Chief Executive Officer Nationality: British Nationality: German of Elsevier in 2004.
Other appointments: Chairman of Whitbread plc, Other appointments: Chief Executive Officer Nationality: Swedish Preqin Holding Limited and Norwich Research of Intertek Group plc.
Past appointments: Prior to joining Reed Partners LLP.
Past appointments: Chairman of Elsevier was a partner at General Atlantic Past appointments: Chairman of Bunzl plc and Dragenopharm GmbH & Co AG from 2002 to Partners.
Before that was President and Chief of Mlnlycke Health Care Limited and served as 2006.
Prior to that he was Chief Executive Officer Operating Officer of Random House Inc and, Chief Executive of Bunzl plc, Chief Executive of of TV Suddeutschland between 1998 and 2002 before its merger with Random House, Tootal Group plc and a Director of The Boston and Chief Executive Officer of TV Product President and Chief Executive Officer of Bantam Consulting Group.
Formerly Non-Executive Service GmbH for 10 years.
Served as a Doubleday Dell, North America.
Began his Director of Geest plc, Marks and Spencer plc, Non-Executive Director of Logica Plc and career as a consultant with McKinsey.
Served National Westminster Bank plc, Norfolk and Intertek Group plc before his current position asa Non-Executive Director of Eniro AB and Norwich University Hospitals Trust, atthe company.
Powergenplc, and SVG Capital plc.
Education: Holds a BSc from Stockholm School Education: Holds an MA in Economics from of Economics, an MSc from the Royal Institute Cambridge University and an MS in Industrial ofTechnology in Stockholm, and gained an Administration from Carnegie Mellon University.
MBAfrom Harvard Business School as a He is a visiting Fellow at Oxford University.
Marike van Lier Lels 54 Duncan Palmer 48 C Robert Polet 58 R C Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director of Reed Elsevier NV Appointed: 2012 Appointed: 2007 Appointed: 2010 Nationality: British and American Nationality: Dutch Other appointments: Non-Executive Director Nationality: Dutch Other appointments: Chairman of Safilo Group Other appointments: Member of the Supervisory ofOshkosh Corporation.
S. p. A. and a Non-Executive Director of Philip Past appointments: Prior to joining Reed Boards of KPN NV, USG People NV, TKH Group Morris International Inc, William Grant & Sons NV and Eneco Holding NV, and a member of the Elsevier was Chief Financial Officer and Senior Limited, Scotch and Soda NV and Crown Topco Vice President of Owens Corning Inc. from 2007 Executive Committee of the Aegon Association.
Limited, parent company of Vertu.
Member of A member of various Dutch governmental having previously held various senior finance the Supervisory Board of Nyenrode Foundation.
positions within Royal Dutch Shell for 20 years advisory boards.
Past appointments: President and Chief Past appointments: Member of the Supervisory inthe UK, the Netherlands and the US.
Executive Officer of Gucci Group from 2004 Education: Holds an MA in Mathematics from Board of Maersk BV, Executive Vice President to2011, having previously spent 26 years at and Chief Operating Officer of the Schiphol Cambridge University and an MBA from Unilever working in a variety of marketing Stanford University, and is a UK-qualified Group.
Prior to joining Schiphol Group, was a and senior executive positions throughout member of the Executive Board of Deutsche Chartered Management Accountant.
the world, including President of Unilevers Post Euro Express and held various senior Worldwide Ice Cream and Frozen Foods positions with Nedlloyd.
Formerly a Non-Executive Director of Wilderness Holdings Limited.
indd 64 10 03 2014 13:51 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 65 Adrian Hennah 56 A C Lisa Hook 55 R N C Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Appointed: 2011 Appointed: 2006 Nationality: British Nationality: American Other appointments: Chief Financial Officer Other appointments: President and Chief ofReckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Executive Officer of Neustar Inc and a Director Past appointments: Chief Financial Officer ofIsland Press.
ofSmith & Nephew plc from 2006 to 2012.
Before Past appointments: President and Chief that was Chief Financial Officer of Invensys plc, Executive Officer at Sun Rocket Inc. Before that having previously held various senior finance and was President of AOL Broadband, Premium and management positions with GlaxoSmithKline Developer Services.
Prior to joining AOL, was a for 18 years.
founding partner at Brera Capital Partners LLC.
Previously Chief Operating Officer of Time Warner Telecommunications and has served as senior advisor to the Federal Communications Commission Chairman and a senior counsel to Viacom Cable.
Formerly a Director of The Ocean Foundation.
Ben van der Veer 62 A Board Committee Membership Linda Sanford 61 A N C C Chairman of the Audit Committees Non-Executive Director A Audit Committees: Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Appointed: 2009 Appointed: 2012 R Remuneration Committee: Reed Elsevier Group plc Nationality: Dutch Nationality: American N Nominations Committee: joint Reed Elsevier PLC Other appointments: Member of the Supervisory Other appointments: Senior Vice President, and Reed Elsevier NV Boards of Aegon NV, TomTom NV and Koninklijke Enterprise Transformation, IBM Corporation.
C Corporate Governance Committee: joint Reed FrieslandCampina NV.
Serves on the board of directors of The Business Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Past appointments: Chairman of the Executive Council of New York State and the Partnership Both of the Executive Directors are directors of Board of KPMG in the Netherlands and a for New York City.
Also serves on the board of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and member of the Management Committee of the trustees of the State University of New York, Reed Elsevier NV.
KPMG International board until his retirement StJohns University, Rensselaer Polytechnic Marike van Lier Lels is a Non-Executive Director of in2008, having joined KPMG in 1976.
Formerly a Institute and the New York Hall of Science.
All of the other Non-Executive member of the Supervisory Board of Siemens Past appointments: Non-Executive Director Directors are directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Nederland NV.
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
