Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 21 Risk Solutions continues to focus on developing a pipeline of new Market opportunities solutions to drive growth in existing business segments and Risk Solutions operates in markets with strong long-term selected adjacent markets and geographies.
In 2013, this strategy underlying growth drivers including: insurance underwriting was reinforced with a number of focused acquisitions.
transactions: insurance, healthcare, tax and entitlement fraud: credit defaults and financial fraud: regulatory compliance and due In the Insurance business, Risk Solutions acquired Mapflow, an diligence requirements surrounding customer enrolment: and industry-leading geographic risk assessment technology security and privacy considerations.
company based in Dublin, Ireland.
Mapflows technology combined with Risk Solutions comprehensive data, advanced In the insurance segment, growth is supported by increasing analytics, supercomputing platform HPCC Systems and linking transactional activity in the auto, property and life insurance capabilities help commercial and home insurers better markets and the increasing adoption by insurance carriers of more understand property-level geographic peril risk to make more sophisticated data and analytics in the prospecting, underwriting informed underwriting decisions.
and claims evaluation processes, to assess underwriting risk, increase competitiveness and improve operating cost efficiency.
In Business Services, Risk Solutions acquired the remaining stake Transactional activity is driven by growth in insurance quoting in WorldCompliance, a leading provider of customer and vendor andpolicy switching, as consumers seek better policy terms.
screening content, to complement existing AML and compliance Thisactivity is stimulated by increasing competition between solutions.
Risk Solutions also acquired RSA Securitys consumer insurance companies, high levels of carrier advertising, and Knowledge Based Authentication technology to drive further risinglevels of internet quoting and policy binding.
innovation and strengthen its leadership position in identity management.
In Health Care, the acquisition of Enclarity A number of factors support growth for risk solutions in the supplements the existing identity and fraud, waste, and abuse financial services market, including new credit originations, solutions with the most comprehensive provider information continued high fraud losses, stringent regulatory compliance available.
The transition of MEDai from Elsevier to Risk Solutions requirements, and increasing anti-money laundering fines.
In Health Care business was announced, enabling the combination of receivables management, demand is driven mainly by levels of MEDais clinical expertise with Risk Solutions analytics, data, and consumer debt and the prospect of recovering that debt, which is HPCC technology to create leading clinical analytics solutions.
impacted by employment conditions in the US.
In corporate markets, demand is supported by growth in online retail sales and The identity management and risk evaluation solutions provided continued high levels of credit card fraud.
Growth in government by Risk Solutions utilise comprehensive database platforms of markets is driven by the increasing use of data and analytics to public records and proprietary information with more than combat criminal activity, fraud and tax evasion, and to address 2petabytes of unique data, which makes it the largest database of security issues.
The level and timing of demand in this market is its kind in the US market today.
LexisNexis Accurint is a flagship influenced by government funding and revenue considerations.
In product, powered by the HPCC technology.
This market-leading Health Care, there are numerous growth drivers for fraud and technology enables Risk Solutions to provide its customers with analytics solutions including the expansion of insurance coverage highly relevant search results swiftly and to create new, low-cost under the Affordable Care Act and the focus on cost containment solutions quickly and efficiently.
It is also increasingly used across and better patient outcomes.
other Reed Elsevier markets such as Legal and Scientific, Technical & Medical.
In February 2013, Risk Solutions completed the sale of its Screening business.
This allows it to increase its focus on higher-growth segments leveraging its core data, technology and analytical capabilities.
The Screening business presented limited opportunities to apply these capabilities to generate unique customer value, sustained growth, and superior margins.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY SEGMENT 933m 933m Print 4% Other Government Electronic Insurance 96% Solutions Business Services 29275 SAS p007-040.
