FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 178 REED ELSEVIER NV Report of the Board The non-executive and executive directors present their joint intangible assets, acquisition related costs, disposal related report, together with the financial statements of the group and of and other non operating items, the net pension financing charge the company, for the year ended 31 December 2013. or credit, exceptional prior year tax credits and movements in deferred taxation assets and liabilities not expected to crystallise As a consequence of the merger of the companys businesses with in the near term and include the benefit of tax amortisation where those of Reed Elsevier PLC in 1993, described on page 69, the available on acquired goodwill and intangible assets.
shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC can be regarded as having the interests of a single economic group.
The Consolidated income statement Reed Elsevier combined financial statements represent the Comparative figures have been restated following the adoption of combined interests of both sets of shareholders and encompass IAS19 Employee Benefits revised.
Reed Elsevier NVs the businesses of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Elsevier Reed Finance shareholders 50% share of the adjusted profit before tax of the BV and their respective subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, Reed Elsevier combined businesses was 928m 2012: 906m.
together with the parent companies, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Reported profit before tax, including the Reed Elsevier NV Elsevier PLC the combined businesses or Reed Elsevier.
shareholders share of amortisation, acquisition related costs and This report of the Board and the consolidated and parent company disposals and non operating items, was 659m 2012: 644m.
financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Reed The increase reflects the improved trading performance offset by Elsevier combined financial statements and other reports set out lower disposal gains.
on pages 2 to 154, which are incorporated by reference herein.
Elsevier achieved good growth in primary research submissions Summary combined financial information in euros is set out and usage, and in databases & tools, across the scientific, on pages 141 to 154.
The combined financial statements on pages technical and medical segments.
At Risk Solutions, all business 97 to 139 are to be considered as part of the notes to the statutory segments achieved strong growth.
At Business Information financial statements.
The annual report of Reed Elsevier NV underlying revenue growth accelerated reflecting continued good within the meaning of article 2:391 of the Dutch Civil Code growth in data services, modest growth elsewhere, and portfolio consists of pages 177 to 181 and, incorporated by reference, pages development.
Legal maintained positive underlying revenue 2 to 154.
The Corporate Governance Statement of Reed Elsevier growth despite subdued market conditions in the US and Europe.
NV dated 26 February 2014 is published on the Reed Elsevier Exhibitions achieved strong underlying growth excluding the website www.
com and is incorporated by reference effect of biennial show cycling: while growth in Europe was herein as per the Vaststellingsbesluit nadere voorschriften modest, the US, Japan, Brazil and other markets grew well.
inhoud jaarverslag January 2010 article 2a under 1 sub b.
The overall adjusted operating margin was 1.4 percentage points higher despite investment in global technology platforms and Principal activities new products and services, reflecting a combination of process The company is a holding company and its principal investments innovation, portfolio development and currency effects.
are its direct 50% shareholding in Reed Elsevier Group plc and its direct 61% shareholding in Elsevier Reed Finance BV, which are Reed Elsevier NV s shareholders share of the adjusted profit engaged in publishing and information activities and financing attributable of the combined businesses was 707m 2012: activities respectively.
The remaining shareholdings in these two 689m.
After deducting the companys share of the post tax companies are held by Reed Elsevier PLC.
charge for amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition related costs, disposal related and other non operating items, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC have retained their the net financing charge on defined benefit pension schemes separate legal identities and are publicly held companies.
Reed exceptional prior year tax credits in 2012 only and movements Elsevier NVs securities are listed in Amsterdam and New York in deferred taxes related to acquired intangible assets and Reed Elsevier PLCs securities are listed in London and the reported net profit for the year was 655m 2012: 642m.
Adjusted earnings per share increased 5% to 0.99 2012: 0.94.
Financial statement presentation At constant rates of exchange, the adjusted earnings per share The consolidated financial statements of Reed Elsevier NV include were 7% higher.
Including amortisation of acquired intangible the 50% economic interest that its shareholders including Reed assets, acquisition related costs, disposal related and other non Elsevier PLC, which has an indirect 5.8% interest in the company operating items, the net financing charge on defined benefit have under the equalisation arrangements in the Reed Elsevier pension schemes and tax adjustments, the basic earnings per combined businesses, accounted for on an equity basis.
Under the terms of the merger agreement, dividends paid to Reed Consolidated statement of financial position Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders are, other than in The consolidated statement of financial position of Reed special circumstances, equalised at the gross level inclusive of the Elsevier NV reflects its 50% economic interest in the net assets UK tax credit received by certain Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders.
of Reed Elsevier which as at 31 December 2013 was 1,434m In addition to the reported figures, adjusted profit figures are 2012: 1,402 m. The 32m increase in net assets reflects the presented as additional performance measures used by companys share in the comprehensive income of Reed Elsevier management.
These exclude in relation to the results of joint partially offset by dividends paid and shares repurchased.
ventures, the companys share of amortisation of acquired 29275 SAS p177-181 REP SUPBOARD AND EXECBOARD.
indd 178 07 03 2014 13:06 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 179 Parent company financial statements Authority to purchase shares In accordance with article 2:362 1 of the Dutch Civil Code, the At the 2013 Annual General Meeting, shareholders passed a individual parent company financial statements of Reed Elsevier NV resolution delegating the authority to the Board to acquire shares presented on pages 194 to 198 are prepared under UK Generally in the Company for a period of 18 months from the date of the Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
The profit attributable Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and therefore up to and to the shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV was 199m 2012: 758m including 23 October 2014, for the maximum amount of 10% of the and net assets as at 31 December 2013, principally representing issued capital.
During the year, 24,282,106 ordinary shares and the investments in Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed additionally 94,053 R shares equivalent to 940,530 ordinary Finance BV under the historical cost method and loans to their shares, were purchased under this and the previous delegation of subsidiaries, were 4,579m 2012: 4,948 m. Free reserves as at authority.
As at 31 December 2013 there were 65,887,553 ordinary 31December 2013 were 4,329m 2012: 4,701m, comprising shares held in treasury, representing 9% of the issued ordinary reserves and paid-in surplus less shares held in treasury.
A further 3,511,668 ordinary shares were purchased between 1 January 2014 and the date of this report.
Dividends A resolution to renew the delegation of the authority to the The Board is recommending an equalised final dividend of 0.374 Board will be submitted to the shareholders at the 2014 Annual perordinary share, up 11% compared with the prior year.
gives total ordinary dividends for the year of 0.506 2012: 0.467, up 8% on2012.
The final dividend will be paid on 23 May 2014.
Corporate Governance Dividend cover, based on adjusted earnings per share and the Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC are subject to various total interim and proposed final dividends for the year, is 2.0 times.
corporate governance principles and best practice codes, in The Boards of the company and Reed Elsevier PLC have adopted particular the Dutch Corporate Governance Code issued in dividend policies in recent years in respect of their equalised December 2008 the Dutch Code and the UK Corporate Governance dividends that, subject to currency considerations, grow dividends Code issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council in September broadly in line with adjusted earnings per share whilst maintaining 2012 the UK Code.
Reed Elsevier NV may not apply fully the dividend cover being the number of times the annual dividend is verbatim language of these codes, but does fully apply the covered by the adjusted earnings per share of at least two times principles and best practice provisions other than, in respect of the over the longer term.
Dutch Code, the following for reasons explained below: The total dividend paid on the ordinary shares in the financial year Best practice provision II.
2.5: Executive directors are required was 321m 2012: 319m.
to build up a minimum shareholding and meeting the relevant shareholding requirement is both a condition of the vesting of Share capital awards as well as a pre-requisite to maintain eligibility to During 2013, 8,165,731 ordinary shares in the company were receive future awards under the multi-year incentives.
Reed issued asfollows: Elsevier uses long term incentive arrangements in the form of under convertible debentures at prices between 11.19 awards of shares which may vest after three years.
The intent and15.87 of this shareholding policy is to align the interests of senior executives and shareholders.
This intent is in compliance with under executive share option schemes at prices between the Dutch Code.
Shares received on joining Reed Elsevier in 11.155 and 15.825 compensation for benefits forfeited under incentive schemes Information regarding shares outstanding at 31 December 2013 is from a previous employer are not to be considered as part of shown in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.
the minimum shareholding in this context.
At 31 December 2013 the total shares held in treasury were Best practice provision II.
Ofthese 4,992,360 ordinary shares were held by the arrangements that are commensurate with local and legal Reed Elsevier Group plc Employee Benefit Trust and 60,895,193 requirements to ensure a competitive employment offer to its ordinary shares and 156,394 R shares equivalent to 1,563,940 Board Members.
Executive directors have service contracts ordinary shares were held by Reed Elsevier NV.
under English law that provide for notice periods not exceeding one year.
There are currently no executive directors with Substantial holdings employment agreements under Dutch law.
In the event of As at 26 February 2014, based on the public database of and on dismissal, notice is given in accordance with the agreed notice notification received from the Netherlands Authority for the period.
The notice period applicable to the service contracts of Financial Markets, the company is aware of interests in the capital executive directors is 12 months.
The payment during the and voting rights of the issued share capital of the company of at notice period may be mitigated if the director finds other least 3% by the following persons or organisations: employment within this period.
The application of this FIL Limited arrangement may fall within the best practice provision that The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation remuneration in the event of dismissal may not exceed the fixed component of one years salary.
There are no other severance Causeway Capital Management LLC arrangements in place for the executive directors and none of BlackRock, Inc the service contracts contain severance pay arrangements.
Credit Suisse Group AG Although the principle that severance pay should not exceed the fixed component of one years salary is supported, there ING Groep N. V. Reed Elsevier PLC 29275 SAS p177-181 REP SUPBOARD AND EXECBOARD.
indd 179 07 03 2014 13:06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 180 REED ELSEVIER NV may be exceptional circumstances where this maximum would The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier Group plc are be manifestly unreasonable that could justify additional also unitary boards.
It is established board practice at Reed compensation on termination for loss of variable remuneration Elsevier NV that the executive and the non-executive directors components.
Full disclosure on remuneration in event of meet together.
dismissal is provided in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Significant agreements change of control Best practice provisions II.
2.14: In view of their The Governing Agreement between Reed Elsevier NV and Reed detailed specificity and complexity and because of the Elsevier PLC states that upon a change of control of Reed Elsevier confidential or potentially commercially sensitive nature of the NV for these purposes, the acquisition by a third party of 50% or information concerned, individual performance targets and more of the issued share capital having voting rights, should there achievements relevant for variable executive remuneration not be a comparable offer from the offeror for Reed Elsevier PLC, will only be disclosed in general terms.
Reed Elsevier PLC may serve notice upon Reed Elsevier NV varying Best practice provision II.
6.3: The disclosure of certain provisions of the Governing Agreement, including the transactions where directors have a conflict of interest, as governance and the standstill provisions.
required by these provisions, shall be qualified to the extent There are a number of borrowing agreements including credit required under applicable rules and laws pertaining to the facilities that in the event of a change of control of both Reed disclosure of price sensitive information, confidentiality and Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC and, in some cases, justified aspects of competition.
aconsequential credit rating downgrade to sub-investment grade Principle III.
7: The remuneration of non-executive directors is may, at the option of the lenders, require repayment and or determined by the Board in the context of the board cancellation as appropriate.
harmonisation with Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier Group plc, having regard for the maximum per annum approved by the Directors general meeting of shareholders.
The following individuals served as directors during the year: Best practice provision IV.
1.1: Appointments, suspensions and Non-executive directors Executive directors removal procedures for executive directors are set out in the A Habgood Chairman E Engstrom Reed Elsevier NV Corporate Governance Statement 2013.
In M Elliott retired 24 April 2013 Chief Executive Officer order to safeguard the agreed board harmonisation with the W Hauser appointed 24 April 2013 D Palmer Board of Reed Elsevier PLC, the articles of association of Reed A Hennah Chief Financial Officer Elsevier NV provide that a resolution of the General L Hook senior independent director Shareholders Meeting to appoint an executive director other as of 23 April 2013 than in accordance with the proposal of the Board shall require M van Lier Lels a majority of at least two thirds of the votes cast if less than R Polet one half of the companys issued capital is represented at Sir David Reid retired 24 April 2013 the meeting.
Given the still generally low attendance rate L Sanford at shareholders meetings in the Netherlands, the Board B van der Veer believes that this qualified majority requirement is appropriate At the Annual General Meeting held in April 2013, Wolfhart Hauser for this purpose.
was appointed as a non-executive director with effect from Best practice provision IV.
3.1: It is considered impractical and 24 April 2013.
Mark Elliott and Sir David Reid retired as unnecessary to provide access for shareholders to all non-executive directors at the conclusion of the Annual General meetings with analysts and all presentations to investors in Meeting in April 2013. real time.
Price sensitive and other information relevant to In September 2013, Duncan Palmer gave notice of his resignation shareholders is disclosed as required or as appropriate and as Chief Financial Officer effective as of 25 September 2014 or made available on the website.
Presentations made following such earlier date as Reed Elsevier may designate.
The the announcement of the interim and full year results are Nominations Committee retained an external search consultancy simultaneously webcast.
Investor seminars are also webcast.
to conduct asearch process in conjunction with the Boards to For further information on the application of the Dutch Code, identify a suitable candidate to succeed Mr Palmer.
Following the seethe Corporate Governance Statement of Reed Elsevier NV conclusion of the search process and on the recommendation of published on the Reed Elsevier website, www.
the Nominations Committee, the Board selected Nick Luff as Chief Financial Officer.
In January 2014, Reed Elsevier announced that The Board Nick Luff will be appointed to the Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, The implementation of the unitary board governance structure at Reed Elsevier Group plc and Reed Elsevier NV as Chief Financial Reed Elsevier NV was approved at the Annual General Meeting of Officer subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual Shareholders in April 2013.
On 8 May 2013, the articles of General Meetings in April 2014.
The effective date of his association of Reed Elsevier NV were amended and the unitary appointment remains to be confirmed but is expected to be no governance structure became effective.
Reed Elsevier NV now has later than 15 December 2014. a unitary board comprising both executive and non-executive All directors will stand for re-appointment at the Annual General directors.
At the same time, it was determined that Executive Meeting in April 2014.
Board members would become executive directors and members of the Supervisory Board would become non-executive directors.
29275 SAS p177-181 REP SUPBOARD AND EXECBOARD.
indd 180 07 03 2014 13:06 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 181 Biographical details of the Directors at the date of this report are Going concern given on pages 64 and 65.
Details of the remuneration of the The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider that Directors and their interests in the share capital of the company adequate resources exist for the combined businesses to continue are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages inoperational existence for the foreseeable future and that, 78to94.
therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 2013 financial statements.
In reaching this Financial statements and accounting records conclusion, the Directors have had due regard to the combined The financial statements provide a true and fair view of the state of businesses financial position as at 31 December 2013, the affairs of the company and the group as of 31 December 2013 and of strongfree cash flow of the combined businesses, Reed Elseviers the profit or loss in 2013.
In preparing the financial statements, the ability to access capital markets and the principal risks facing Board ensures that suitable accounting policies, consistently ReedElsevier.
applied and supported by reasonable judgements and estimates, A commentary on the Reed Elsevier combined businesses cash have been used and applicable accounting standards have been flows, financial position and liquidity for the year ended 31 followed.
The Board is responsible for keeping proper accounting December 2013 is set out in the Chief Financial Officers Report on records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the pages 52 to 59.
This shows that, after taking account of available financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that cash resources and committed bank facilities that back up short the financial statements comply with the law.
The Board has term borrowings, none of Reed Elseviers borrowings fall due general responsibility for taking reasonable steps to safeguard within the next two years.
Reed Elseviers policies on liquidity, the assets of the company and to prevent and detect fraud and capital management and management of risks relating to interest other irregularities.
rate, foreign exchange and credit exposures are set out on pages 58 and 59.
Further information on liquidity of the combined Internal control businesses can be found in note 18 of the combined financial As required under sections II.
1.5. of the Dutch Code, the statements.
The principal risks facing Reed Elsevier are set out on Audit Committee and the Board have reviewed the effectiveness of pages 60 to 62. the systems of internal control and risk management during the last financial year.
The objective of these systems is to manage, Auditors rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business Resolutions for the re-appointment of Deloitte Accountants BV as objectives.
Accordingly, they can only provide reasonable, but not auditors of the company and to authorise the Board to determine absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The their remuneration will be submitted to the forthcoming Annual outcome of this review has been discussed with the external General Meeting on 23 April 2014. auditors.
The Board confirmed that as regards financial reporting, the risk management and control systems provide reasonable Signed by: assurance against material inaccuracies or loss and have Non-executive directors Executive directors functioned properly during the financial year.
A Habgood Chairman E Engstrom W Hauser Chief Executive Officer Directors responsibility statement A Hennah D Palmer The Board confirms, to the best of its knowledge, that: L Hook Chief Financial Officer M van Lier Lels the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance R Polet with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by L Sanford the International Accounting Standards Board and as adopted B van der Veer by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the financial position and profit or loss of the group: and the Report of the Board includes a fair review of the Registered office development and performance of the business during the Radarweg 29 financial year and the position of the group as at 31 December 1043 NX The Netherlands 2013 together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Chamber of Commerce Amsterdam Neither the company nor the directors accept any liability to any Register file No: 33155037 person in relation to the Annual Report except to the extent that 26 February 2014 such liability arises under Dutch law.
Disclosure of information to auditors As part of the process of approving the companys 2013 financial statements, the Board has taken steps to ensure that all relevant information was provided to the companys auditors and, so far as the Board is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware.
