FINANCIAL REVIEW 58 CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICERS REPORT Accounting policies 2014 revised methodology for allocation of The combined financial statements are prepared in accordance corporate and shared costs with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by Following a review of activities, assets and costs across the the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting business, Reed Elsevier will introduce a new method for the Standards Board following the accounting policies shown on allocation of corporate and shared costs from January 2014. pages 102 to 107.
The accounting policies and estimates which Previously unallocated items will be attributed to the business require the most significant judgement relate to the valuation of areas, as will costs relating to shared activities and resources, on goodwill and intangible assets, the capitalisation of development the basis of benefits accrued.
This new allocation reflects an costs and taxation.
Further detail is provided in the accounting increased level of shared resources and capitalised costs.
Had this policies on pages 105 and 106. new method of allocation been applied during 2013, it would have resulted in the adjusted operating profit figures shown below.
Amendments to IAS19 Employee Benefits With effect from 1 January 2013, IAS19 Employee Benefits AS AT 31 DECEMBER New method Old method revised inter alia changed the methodology used in the 2013 2013 calculation of the net pension financing credit or charge in relation m m to defined benefit pension schemes.
Under the revised standard, Adjusted operating profit pension asset returns included within the net pension financing Scientific, Technical & Medical 787 826 credit or charge are calculated by reference to the discount rate of Risk Solutions 401 414 high-quality corporate bonds being also the discount rate applied Business Information 106 107 in the calculation of pension obligations and are no longer based Legal 250 238 on the expected returns on scheme assets.
The effect is to reduce Exhibitions 210 213 the asset returns recognised in the income statement.
Unallocated items 5 49 Adoption of IAS19 revised has had no impact on Reed Elseviers combined statement of financial position and statement of cash 1,749 1,749 flows.
The net pension financing credit or charge is now presented within net finance costs in Reed Elseviers combined income Treasury policies statement, rather than within operating profit as previously reported.
Given that the revised standard may introduce greater The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have volatility to the income statement, the net pension financing credit requested that Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance or charge has been excluded from the adjusted figures used by BV have due regard to the best interests of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier as additional performance measures.
Reed Elsevier NV shareholders in the formulation of treasury policies.
Financial instruments are used to finance the Reed As required under the revised standard, comparative figures have Elsevier businesses and to hedge transactions.
For the year ended 31 December 2012, operating businesses do not enter into speculative transactions.
The main profits are 25m lower and net finance costs are 11m higher than treasury risks faced by Reed Elsevier are liquidity risk, interest previously reported.
On an adjusted basis, profit before tax is rate risk, foreign currency risk and credit risk.
parent companies agree overall policy guidelines for managing each of these risks and the Boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Finance SA agree policies in line with parent company guidelines for their respective business and treasury centres.
A summary of these policies is given below.
Capital and liquidity management The capital structure is managed to support Reed Elseviers objective of maximising long-term shareholder value through appropriate security of funding, ready access to debt and capital markets, cost effective borrowing and flexibility to fund business and acquisition opportunities while maintaining appropriate leverage to ensure an efficient capital structure.
indd 58 07 03 2014 10:55 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 59 Over the long-term, Reed Elsevier seeks to maintain cash flow Foreign currency exposure management conversion of 90% or higher and credit metrics that are consistent Translation exposures arise on the earnings and net assets of with a solid investment grade credit rating.
The typical credit business operations in countries other than those of each parent metrics are net debt to EBITDA, on a pensions and lease adjusted company.
Some of these exposures are offset by denominating and on an unadjusted basis, and free cash flow as percentage of borrowings in US dollars.
Currency exposures on transactions netdebt.
denominated in a foreign currency are required to be hedged using forward contracts.
In addition, recurring transactions and future Reed Elseviers uses of free cash flow over the longer-term investment exposures may be hedged, in advance of becoming balance the dividend policy, selective acquisitions and share contractual.
The precise policy differs according to the specific repurchases, while retaining the balance sheet strength to circumstances of the individual businesses.
Highly predictable maintain access to cost effective sources of borrowing.
future cash flows may be covered for transactions expected to The balance of long-term debt, short-term debt and committed occur during the next 24 months 50months for the Scientific, bank facilities is managed to provide security of funding, taking Technical & Medical subscription businesses within limits into account the cash generation cycle of the business and the defined according to the period before the transaction is expected uncertain size and timing of acquisition spend.
Reed Elsevier to become contractual.
Cover takes the form of foreign exchange maintains a range of borrowing facilities and debt programmes forward contracts.
from a variety of sources to fund its requirements at short notice As at 31 December 2013, the amount of outstanding foreign and at competitive rates.
Consistent with the significance of Reed exchange cover against future transactions was 1.3bn Elsevier Group plcs US operations, the majority of debt is 2012: 1.2bn.
The policy is that no more than US$1.5bn of term debt issues should mature in any 12-month Credit risk period and no more than US$3.0bn in any 36-month period.
In Reed Elsevier has a credit exposure for the full principal amount of addition, minimum levels of borrowings with maturities over three cash and cash equivalents held with individual counterparties.
In and five years are specified, depending on the level of net debt and addition, it has a credit risk from the potential non-performance by free cash flow.
From time to time, Reed Elsevier may redeem term counterparties to financial instruments: this credit risk normally debt early or repurchase outstanding debt in the open market being restricted to the amounts of any hedge gain and not the full depending on market conditions.
Credit risks are controlled by There were no changes to Reed Elseviers long-term approach to monitoring the credit quality of counterparties, principally capital and liquidity management during the year.
licensed commercial banks and investment banks with strong long-term credit ratings, and the amounts outstanding with Interest rate exposure management each of them.
Reed Elseviers interest rate exposure management policy aims to Reed Elsevier treasury policies do not allow concentrations of reduce the exposure of the combined businesses to changes in riskwith individual counterparties and limit significant treasury interest rates at efficient cost.
To achieve this Reed Elsevier uses exposures with counterparties which are rated lower than AA3 fixed rate term debt, interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements by Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch.
At 31 December 2013, and interest rate options.
Interest rate derivatives are used only to cash and cash equivalents totalled 132m, of which 90% was held hedge an underlying riskand no net market positions are held.
with banks rated AA3 or better.
After taking into account interest rate and currency derivatives, at31 December 2013 interest expense was fixed on 57% of Reed Duncan Palmer Elseviers gross borrowings which had a weighted average Chief Financial Officer remaining life of 6.0years.
