FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 156 REED ELSEVIER PLC Directors report The Directors present their report, together with the financial 2012:532m.
The increase reflects the improved trading statements of the group and company, for the year ended performance offset by lower disposal gains.
Elsevier achieved good growth in primary research submissions As a consequence of the merger of the companys businesses with and usage, and in databases and tools, across the scientific, those of Reed Elsevier NV in 1993, described on page 69, the technical and medical segments.
At Risk Solutions, all business shareholders of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV can be segments achieved strong growth.
At Business Information regarded as having the interests of a single economic group.
underlying revenue growth accelerated reflecting continued good TheReed Elsevier combined financial statements represent the growth in data services, modest growth elsewhere, and portfolio combined interests of both sets of shareholders and encompass development.
Legal maintained positive underlying revenue the businesses of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Elsevier Reed Finance growth despite subdued market conditions in the US and Europe.
BV and their respective subsidiaries, associates and joint Exhibitions achieved strong underlying growth excluding the ventures, together with the parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC effect of biennial show cycling: while growth in Europe was and Reed Elsevier NV the combined businesses or Reed modest, the US, Japan, Brazil and other markets grew well.
This Directors report and the financial statements of Theoverall adjusted operating margin was 1.4 percentage points the group and company should be read in conjunction with the higher despite investment in global technology platforms and combined financial statements and other reports set out on pages newproducts and services, reflecting a combination of process 2 to 139.
A review of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses and innovation, portfolio development and currency effects.
their performance in the year is set out on pages 7 to 39, a Reed Elsevier PLCs shareholders share of the adjusted profit summary of the principal risks facing Reed Elsevier is set out on attributable of the combined businesses was 633m 2012: pages 60 to 62, and the Reed Elsevier statement on corporate 593m.
After deducting the companys share of the post tax responsibility is set out on pages 41 to 50. charge for amortisation of acquired intangible assets, and acquisition-related costs, disposal-related and other nonFinancial statement presentation operating items, the net financing charge on defined benefit The consolidated financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC pension schemes, exceptional prior year tax credits in 2012 include the 52.9% economic interest that shareholders have under only and movements on deferred taxes related to acquired the equalisation arrangements in the Reed Elsevier combined intangible assets, the reported net profit for the year was businesses, accounted for on an equity basis.
Under the terms of the merger agreement, dividends paid to Reed Adjusted earnings per share increased 9% to 54.0p 2012: 49.4p.
Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders are, other than in At constant rates of exchange, the adjusted earnings per share special circumstances, equalised at the gross level inclusive of the were 7% higher.
Including the effect of the tax credit equalisation UK tax credit received by certain Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders.
as well as amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisitionBecause of the tax credit, Reed Elsevier PLC normally requires related costs, disposal-related and other non-operating items, the proportionately less cash to fund its net dividend than Reed net financing charge on defined benefit pension schemes, and tax Elsevier NV does to fund its gross dividend.
An adjustment is adjustments, the basic earnings per share were 48.8p 2012:44.8p.
therefore required in the consolidated income statement of Reed Elsevier PLC to share this tax benefit between the two sets of Consolidated statement of financial position shareholders in accordance with the equalisation agreement.
The The consolidated statement of financial position of Reed Elsevier equalisation adjustment arises on dividends paid by Reed Elsevier PLC reflects its 52.9% economic interest in the net assets of PLC to its shareholders and it reduced the consolidated ReedElsevier which as at 31 December 2013 was 1,264m attributable earnings by 15m 2012: 14m, being 47.1% of the 2012:1,206m.
The 58m increase in net assets reflects the total amount of the tax credit.
companys share in the comprehensive income of Reed Elsevier In addition to the reported figures, adjusted profit figures are partially offset by dividends paid and shares repurchased.
presented as additional performance measures used by management.
These exclude the tax credit equalisation adjustment Dividends and, in relation to the results of joint ventures, the companys share The Board is recommending an equalised final dividend of 17.95p of amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related per ordinary share 2012: 17.0p.
This gives total ordinary dividends costs, disposal gains and losses and other non-operating items, for the year of 24.60p 2012: 23.0p.
The final dividend will be paid related tax effects, exceptional prior year tax credits in 2012 only on 23May 2014 to shareholders on the Register on 2 May 2014. and movements in deferred taxation assets and liabilities related to Dividend cover, based on adjusted earnings per share and the acquired intangible assets and include the benefit of tax amortisation total interim and proposed final dividends for the year, is 2.2 times.
where available on acquired goodwill and intangible assets.
The Boards of the company and Reed Elsevier NV have adopted dividend policies in recent years in respect of their equalised Consolidated income statement dividends that, subject to currency considerations, grow dividends Comparative figures have been restated following the adoption broadly in line with adjusted earnings per share whilst maintaining ofIAS19 Employee Benefits revised.
Reed Elsevier PLCs dividend cover being the number of times the annual dividend is shareholders 52.9% share of the adjusted profit before tax of the covered by the adjusted earnings per share of at least 2.0 times Reed Elsevier combined businesses was 832m 2012: 779m.
Reported profit before tax, including the Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders share of amortisation charges, acquisition-related The total dividend paid on the ordinary shares in the financial year costs and disposals and other non-operating items, was 576m was 278m 2012: 264m.
indd 156 07 03 2014 11:32 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 157 Parent company financial statements The office of director shall be vacated if he or she: i resigns: The individual parent company financial statements of Reed ii becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors Elsevier PLC are presented on pages 172 to 173, and are prepared generally: iii is or may be suffering from a mental illness: iv is under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Parent prohibited by law from being a director: or v is removed from company shareholders funds as at 31 December 2013 were office pursuant to the companys Articles.
shareholders rights to appoint individuals to the Board in accordance with the companys Articles, no individual may be Corporate governance appointed to the Board unless such appointment is recommended The company has complied throughout the year with the by the Nominations Committee.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Mark Elliott and Sir David Reid retired as Directors at the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 the UK Code.
conclusion of the AGM in April 2013 and Wolfhart Hauser was The UK Code is publicly available at www.
Details of appointed to the Board on 25 April 2013. how the principles of the UK Code have been applied and the Directors statement on internal control are set out in the In accordance with the provisions of the UK Code, all of the Structure and Corporate Governance report on pages 69 to 77.
Directors will retire from the Board at the AGM in 2014 and, being eligible, they will each offer themselves for re-election.
Taking into Details of the role and responsibilities, membership and activities account the assessment by the Corporate Governance Committee of the Reed Elsevier Audit Committees, including the companys of the qualifications, performance and effectiveness of each Audit Committee, are set out in the Report of the Audit Committees individual Director seeking re-election, the Board has accepted a on pages 95 and 96. recommendation from the Nominations Committee that each Director be proposed for re-election at the 2014 AGM.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions The company is required to state the annual quantity of emissions In September 2013, Duncan Palmer gave notice of his resignation in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from activities for which the as Chief Financial Officer effective as of 25 September 2014 or group is responsible.
Details of our emissions during the year ended such earlier date as Reed Elsevier may designate.
In January 2014, 31 December 2013 and the actions being taken to reduce them are Reed Elsevier announced the appointment of Nick Luff as Chief set out in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic Financial Officer to be effective at a date to be confirmed but is Report on pages 49 and 50 and form part of the Directors report expected to be no later than 15 December 2014. disclosures.
Further details can be found in our online Corporate In accordance with the Articles, Directors are normally subject Responsibility Report at www.
toelection by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment by the Board.
Notwithstanding the effective date of Directors Nick Luffs appointment remains to be confirmed, shareholders The following served as Directors of the company during the year: will be asked to elect MrLuff at the AGM in April 2014.
A J Habgood Chairman The notice period applicable to the service contracts of E Engstrom Chief Executive Officer ErikEngstrom, Duncan Palmer and Nick Luff is 12 months.
D J Palmer Chief Financial Officer Theremaining Directors seeking re-election at the 2014 AGM M W Elliott retired 25 April 2013 donothave service contracts.
W Hauser appointed 25 April 2013 A N Hennah Details of Directors remuneration and their interests in the share L Hook Senior Independent Director as of 23 April 2013 capital of the company are provided in the Directors Remuneration R B Polet Report on pages 78 to 94.
Sir David Reid retired 25 April 2013 L S Sanford Share capital B van der Veer The companys issued share capital comprises a single class of ordinary shares, all of which are listed on the London Stock Biographical details of the Directors at the date of this report are Exchange.
All issued shares are fully paid up and carry no given on pages 64 and 65. additional obligations or special rights.
Each share carries the Directors are appointed in accordance with the Articles of right to one vote at general meetings of the company.
In a general Association the Articles, which provide that any director meeting, subject to any rights and restrictions attached to any appointed during the year holds office only until the next following shares, on a show of hands every member who is present in Annual General Meeting AGM and is then eligible for election by person shall have one vote and every proxy present who has been the shareholders.
The companys Articles provide that at every duly appointed by one or more members entitled to vote on the AGM of the company, one-third of the directors or if their number resolution has one vote although a proxy has one vote for and one is not a multiple of three the number nearest to one-third shall vote against the resolution if: i the proxy has been duly appointed retire from office and, if they wish, put themselves up for by more than one member entitled to vote on the resolution: and ii re-election by the shareholders.
The UK Code recommends that the proxy has been instructed by one or more of those members to all directors should seek re-election by shareholders annually.
vote for the resolution and by one or more other of those members Accordingly, the Board has adopted this practice.
Subject to any rights or restrictions attached to 29275 SAS p155-159.
indd 157 07 03 2014 11:32 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 158 REED ELSEVIER PLC Directors report any shares, on a vote on a resolution on a poll every member Employee benefit trust present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of The Trustee of the Reed Elsevier Group plc Employee Benefit Trust which he is the holder.
Proxy appointments and voting instructions held an interest in 10,120,537 ordinary shares in the company must be received by the companys registrars not less than 48 representing 0.80% of the issued ordinary shares as at hours before a general meeting.
There are no specific restrictions 31 December 2013.
The Trustee may vote or abstain from voting on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are any shares it holds in any way it sees fit.
both governed by the general provisions of the Articles and prevailing legislation.
The company is not aware of any Significant agreements change of control agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions The Governing Agreement between Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed on the transfer of shares or on voting rights attached to the shares.
Elsevier NV states that upon a change of control of Reed Elsevier PLC for these purposes, the acquisition by a third party of 50% or At the 2013 AGM, shareholders passed a resolution authorising more of the issued share capital having voting rights, should there the Directors to allot shares up to a nominal value of 9m, not be a comparable offer from the offeror for Reed Elsevier NV, representing less than 5% of the companys issued share capital.
Reed Elsevier NV may serve notice upon Reed Elsevier PLC Since the 2013 AGM, no shares have been issued under this varying certain provisions of the Governing Agreement, including authority.
The shareholder authority also permitted the Directors the governance and the standstill provisions.
to allot shares in order to satisfy entitlements under employee share plans, and details of such allotments are noted below.
The There are a number of borrowing agreements including credit authority to allot shares will expire at the 2014 AGM, and a facilities that in the event of a change of control of both Reed resolution to further extend the authority will be submitted to the Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and, in some cases, a shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
consequential credit rating downgrade to sub-investment grade may, at the option of the lenders, require repayment and or During the year, 9,438,719 ordinary shares in the company were cancellation as appropriate.
issued in order to satisfy entitlements under employee share plans as follows: Powers of directors 440,685 under a UK Sharesave option scheme at prices Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the between 401.60p and 596p per share: companys Articles and any directions given by special resolutions, the business of the company shall be managed by the 7,983,028 under executive share option schemes at prices Board which may exercise all the powers of the company.
between 420p and 734.50p per share: and 1,015,006 under the Long Term Incentive Plan at prices Directors indemnity between 478p and 487.25p per share.
In accordance with the companys Articles, the company has granted Directors an indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, in The issued share capital as at 31 December 2013 is shown in note 12 respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The to the consolidated financial statements.
company also purchased and maintained throughout the year Directors and Officers liability insurance in respect of itself and Authority to purchase shares its Directors.
At the 2013 AGM, shareholders passed a resolution authorising the purchase of up to 125.9 million ordinary shares in the company Related party transactions representing less than 10% of the issued ordinary shares by Internal controls are in place to ensure that any related party market purchase.
During the year, 41,961,920 ordinary shares were transactions involving Directors or their connected persons are purchased under this and the previous authority.
As at 31 December carried out on an arms length basis and are properly recorded.
2013 there were 99,446,834 ordinary shares held in treasury, representing 7.8% ofthe issued ordinary shares.
A further Conflicts of interest 6,045,270 ordinary shares were purchased between 1 January The Companys Articles permit the Board to approve situations 2014 and the date of this report.
The authority to make market where a Director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly purchases will expire at the 2014 AGM, at which a resolution to conflict, with the interests of the company.
The Board has further extend the authority will be submitted to shareholders.
established a formal system whereby the Nominations Committee considers any such conflict or potential conflict and makes a Substantial share interests recommendation to the Board on whether to authorise it.
In As at 26 February 2014, the company had been notified by the reaching its decision, the Board is required to act in a way it following shareholders that they held an interest of 3% or more in considers would be most likely to promote the success of the voting rights of the issued share capital of the company: company and may impose limits or conditions when giving its Franklin Mutual Advisers LLC 5.04% authorisation, if it thinks this is appropriate.
BlackRock Inc. 5.03% Political donations Invesco Limited 5.03% Reed Elsevier does not make donations to European Union EU political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
In the Lloyds Banking Group plc 3.47% United States, Reed Elsevier companies donated 48,000 Legal & General Group plc 3.40% 2012:57,201 to political organisations.
In line with US law, thesedonations werenot made at federal level, but only to The percentage interests stated above are as disclosed at the date candidates and political parties at the state and local levels.
on which the interests were notified to the company.
indd 158 07 03 2014 11:32 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 159 Financial Statements and accounting records Having taken into account all the matters considered by the Board The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors report and brought to the attention of the Board during the year, the and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law Directors are satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts taken and regulations.
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial performance, business model and strategy.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the consolidated financial statements in Neither the company nor the Directors accept any liability to any accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards person in relation to the Annual Report except to the extent that IFRS as adopted by the EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
such liability could arise under English law.
Accordingly, any The Directors have elected to prepare the parent company liability to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom or misleading statement or omission shall be determined in Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom accordance with Section 90A of the Financial Services and Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law Markets Act 2000. the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Disclosure of information to auditors the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
As part of the process of approving the companys 2013 financial statements, the Directors have taken steps pursuant to section In preparing the parent company financial statements, the 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006 to ensure that they are aware of Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting auditors are aware of that information.
In that context, so far as the estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject which the companys auditors are unaware.
to any material departures being disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on a Going concern going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider that company will continue in business.
adequate resources exist for the combined businesses to continue in In preparing the group financial statements, IAS1 requires that operational existence for the foreseeable future and that, therefore, directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the information, including accounting policies, in a manner that 2013 financial statements.
In reaching this conclusion, the Directors provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable have had due regard to the combined businesses financial position information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with as at 31 December 2013, the strong free cash flow of the combined the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users businesses, Reed Elseviers ability to access capital markets and to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events the principal risks facing Reed Elsevier.
and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial A commentary on the Reed Elsevier combined businesses performance: and make an assessment of the companys ability to cash flows, financial position and liquidity for the year ended continue as a going concern.
31December 2013 is set out in the Chief Financial Officers Report The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting on pages 52 to 59.
This shows that, after taking account of available records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys cash resources and committed bank facilities that back up short transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time term borrowings, none of Reed Elseviers borrowings fall due the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure within the next two years.
Reed Elseviers policies on liquidity, that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. capital management and management of risks relating to interest They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the rate, foreign exchange and credit exposures are set out on pages company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 58 and 59.
Further information on liquidity of the combined and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
businesses can be found in note 18 of the combined financial statements.
The principal risks facing Reed Elsevier are set out Directors responsibility statement onpages 60 to 62.
The Board confirms that, to the best of its knowledge: Auditors the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance Resolutions for the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditors of with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the company and to authorise the Directors to fix their the International Accounting Standards Board and as adopted remuneration will be submitted to shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the financial position and profit or loss of the group: and the Directors report includes a fair review of the development By order of the Board Registered Office and performance of the business and the position of the group, Henry Udow 1-3 Strand together with a description of the principal risks and Company Secretary London uncertainties that it faces.
