BUSINESS REVIEW 20 RISK SOLUTIONS & BUSINESS INFORMATION Risk Solutions & Business Information transactional support activities, including some financial In Risk Solutions & Business processes, are provided from a shared services organisation managed by the LexisNexis Legal & Professional business.
Information, we provide data, The Legal & Professional business also distributes Risk Solutions products into legal markets in the US and internationally.
analytics and insight that enable Insurance Solutions provides a comprehensive combination of customers to evaluate and data and analytics to property and casualty, personal and commercial lines insurance carriers and life insurance carriers in manage risk, and develop market the US to improve critical aspects of their business, from customer acquisition and underwriting to claims handling.
Information intelligence, supporting more solutions, including the most comprehensive US personal loss history database, C. L. U. E. help insurers assess risks and provide confident decisions, improved important inputs to pricing and underwriting insurance policies.
Additional key products include LexisNexis Data Prefill, which economic outcomes, and provides critical information on customers, potential customers and their auto, property and life policy information directly into the enhanced operational efficiency.
insurance workflow, and LexisNexis Current Carrier, which identifies current or previous insurance as well as any lapses in coverage.
Risk Solutions Business Services provides financial institutions with risk management, identity management, fraud detection, credit risk LexisNexis Risk Solutions is a leading provider of solutions that management, and compliance solutions.
These include know combine proprietary, public and third-party information, with your customer and anti-money laundering AML products.
The advanced technology and analytics, and are powered by High business also provides risk and identity management solutions for Performance Computing Cluster HPCC Systems.
These solutions corporate customers in retail, telecommunications and utilities assist customers in evaluating, predicting and managing risk and sectors.
Receivables management solutions help debt recovery improving operational effectiveness, predominantly in the US.
professionals in the segmentation, management and collection of Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2013 were 933m.
LexisNexis Risk Solutions, headquartered in Alpharetta, Georgia, Government Solutions provides data and analytics to US federal, has principal operations in Georgia, Florida, and Ohio, and has state and local law enforcement and government agencies to help 3,300 employees.
solve criminal and intelligence cases and to identify fraud, waste LexisNexis Risk Solutions is organised around market-facing and abuse in government programmes.
industry sector groups: insurance, business services including Health Care Solutions provides identity, fraud, and clinical the financial services, receivables management and corporate analytics solutions across key stages of the healthcare workflow groups, government, and healthcare.
The largest of these is to enable intelligent decision making for payers and providers.
These groups are supported by a shared infrastructure for technology operations, data management, and other support The Risk Solutions business also provides risk-related information functions including compliance and marketing.
Anumber of to the legal industry through LexisNexis Legal & Professional.
Risk Solutions LexisNexis Data Prefill LexisNexis Current Carrier Tool to automate insurance application Database that identifies the existence of process providing critical information current or previous insurance, and whether insurers need to quote and underwrite apolicy or not the applicant has had a possible lapse incoverage LexisNexis C. L. U. E. Accurint for Collections Identity Management Range of solutions to help clients verify that Most comprehensive US personal insurance The leading online US solution to help locate an identity exists and authenticate individuals claims database debtors quickly and accurately LexisNexis Anti-Money LexisNexis Revenue Laundering Solutions LexisNexis RiskView Recovery and Discovery Content and information for anti-money Comprehensive suite of credit risk Suite of tools to enable governments to laundering compliance, risk mitigation management tools to help assess consumer leverage public records and analytics to andenhanced due diligence creditworthiness and risk potential identify instances offraud and to more efficiently collect onoutstanding debts 29275 SAS p007-040.
