BUSINESS REVIEW 14 SCIENTIFIC, TECHNICAL & MEDICAL Scientific, Technical & Medical customers rely on Elsevier to provide high-quality content and In Scientific, Technical & critical information for making scientific and medical decisions: to review, publish, disseminate and preserve research findings: Medical markets, we provide to create innovative tools to help focus research strategies, increase research effectiveness, improve medical outcomes, and information and tools to help enhance the efficiency of healthcare and healthcare education.
In the primary research market during 2013, over 1m research customers improve scientific papers were submitted to Elsevier.
Over 10,000 editors managed the peer review and selection of these papers, resulting in the and healthcare outcomes.
publication of more than 350,000 articles in over 2,000 journals, many of which are the foremost publications in their field and a Elsevier is the worlds leading provider of scientific, technical & primary point of reference for new research.
This content was medical information serving scientists, health professionals, and accessed by around 11m people, with more than 700m full text students worldwide.
Its objective is to help its customers advance article downloads last year.
Content is provided free or at very low science and improve healthcare by providing world-class content cost in most of the worlds poorest countries.
Elseviers journals and innovative information solutions that enable them to make are primarily published and delivered through the ScienceDirect critical decisions, enhance productivity, and improve outcomes.
platform, the worlds largest database of scientific and medical Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2013 were 2,126m.
research, hosting over 12m pieces of content, and 26,000 full text Elsevier is a global business with principal operations in e-books.
Flagship journals include Cell and The Lancet families Amsterdam, Beijing, Boston, Chennai, Delhi, London, Madrid, oftitles.
Munich, New York, Oxford, Paris, Philadelphia, Rio fide Janeiro, In 2013 Elsevier acquired Mendeley, an innovative research St. Louis, San Diego, Singapore and Tokyo.
management and social collaboration platform.
Researchers Approximately 38% of revenue by destination in 2013 was derived use Mendeleys desktop and cloud-based tools to manage from North America, 30% from Europe and the remaining 32% and annotate documents, create citations and bibliographies, from the rest of the world.
collaborate on research projects and network with fellow academics.
Elsevier serves the needs of the science, technology & medical markets by publishing primary research, reference, and Elsevier is also a global leader in the scientific, technical & education content, as well as by providing a range of database and medical reference market, providing authoritative and current workflow solutions.
Elseviers customers are scientists, professional reference content.
While reference has traditionally academic institutions educators, research leaders and been a print industry, Elsevier has been a leader in driving the administrators, medical researchers, doctors, nurses, allied shiftfrom print to electronic.
Flagship titles include works such health professionals and students, as well as hospitals, research asGrays Anatomy, Nelsons Pediatrics and Netters Atlas of institutions, health insurers, managed healthcare organisations, HumanAnatomy.
All of these Provides research performance tools Premier life sciences journal with the for academic institutions and funding highest impact factor in biochemistry intelligence and molecular biology Combines leading reference and An innovative research management and Leading web-based chemical reaction evidence-based medical content into its social collaboration platform workflow solution for industrial chemists fully integrated clinical insight engine One of the worlds leading medical journals The worlds largest database of scientific A leading comprehensive care planning and since 1823 and medical research articles clinical documentation system 29275 SAS p007-040.
indd 14 07 03 2014 18:14 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 15 Elsevier launched ClinicalKey in 2012, providing physicians with Market opportunities access to leading Elsevier and third-party reference and Scientific, technical & medical information markets have good evidence-based medical content in a single, fully integrated site.
The importance of research and Since launch ClinicalKey has grown rapidly, and currently serves development to economic performance and competitive positioning over 1,000 institutions.
is well understood by governments, academic institutions and corporations.
This is reflected in the long-term growth in research In medical education, Elsevier serves students of medicine, and development spend and in the number of researchers nursing and allied health professions through print and electronic worldwide.
Growth in health markets is driven by ageing populations books, as well as electronic solutions.
For example, Evolve, an in developed markets, rising prosperity in developing markets online suite of solutions designed to help students of nursing and andthe increasing focus on improving medical outcomes and allied health professions, had over 4m registered users in 2013. efficiency.
Given that a significant proportion of scientific research Elseviers database and workflow products provide a range and healthcare is funded directly or indirectly by governments, of tools and solutions for professionals in the science, spending is influenced by governmental budgetary considerations.
Customers include academic The commitment to research and health provision does, however, and corporate researchers, research administrators and remain high, even in more difficult budgetary environments.
Strategic priorities For academic and corporate researchers, significant products Elseviers strategic goal is to lead the way in providing information include Scopus, Reaxys, and Knovel.
Scopus is the largest abstract solutions that advance science, technology and health.
To achieve and citation database of research literature in the world, with over this, Elsevier creates solutions that reflect deep insight into the 50m abstract and bibliographic information records from more way its users work and the outcomes they are seeking to achieve: than 20,000 peer-reviewed journals and 5,000 international strives for excellence in content, service and execution: constantly publishers.
Reaxys is a leading solution for synthetic chemists, adapts and revitalises its products, business models and integrating chemical reaction and compound data searching with technology: and leverages its institutional skills, assets and synthesis planning.
resources to promote innovation and efficiency.
Knovel provides a range of web-based productivity tools for Elseviers strategic priorities are to continue to increase content the engineering community, integrating technical information volume and quality: to expand content coverage, building out with analytics and search to deliver trusted answers and integrated solutions combining Elsevier, third-party and customer drive innovation.
data: to increase content utility, using Smart Content to enable Elsevier serves academic and government research new e-solutions: to combine content with analytics and administrators through its SciVal suite of products that help them technology, focused on measurably improving productivity and evaluate their institutions research performance, determine outcomes for customers: and to continue to drive operational research strategies and increase institutional efficiencies.
Leveraging bibliometric data, such as citations from Scopus, SciVal In the primary research market, Elsevier aims to grow volume Spotlight helps institutions and governments to identify their through new journal launches, expansion of author-pays journals distinctive research strengths, evaluate performance and and growth from emerging markets: to enhance quality by building increase the focus of their research and development on our premium brands: and to add value to core platforms by investments.
SciVal Funding assists researchers and institutions in implementing new capabilities such as advanced identifying grants that are most relevant in their research areas.
recommendations on ScienceDirect and social collaboration For healthcare professionals, Elsevier develops products to deliver through Mendeley.
patient-specific solutions at the point of care to improve patient In clinical reference markets, priorities are to expand content outcomes.
Its clinical solutions include Gold Standard, which coverage, including licensing high-quality third-party content for provides critical information on drug interactions to assist effective ClinicalKey, as well as ensuring consistent tagging to link content treatment and CPM Resource Center, which provides a data-driven assets across products.
framework to support nurses in undertaking procedures.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET 2,126m 2,126m Print Rest of World 27% 32% North America 38% Face-to-face 1% Electronic 72% Europe 30% 29275 SAS p007-040.
indd 15 07 03 2014 10:47 BUSINESS REVIEW 16 SCIENTIFIC, TECHNICAL & MEDICAL Business model, distribution channels and competition Science and medical research is principally disseminated on a paid subscription basis to the research facilities of academic institutions, government and corporations, and, in the case of medical and healthcare journals, also to individual practitioners and medical society members.
For a number of journals, advertising and promotional income represents a small proportion of revenues predominantly from pharmaceutical companies in healthcare titles.
Over the past 15 years alternative payment models for the dissemination of research such as author-pays open access or authors-funder-pays have emerged.
While it is expected that paid subscription will remain the primary distribution model, Elsevier has long invested in alternate business models to address the needs of customers and researchers.
Over 1,600 of Elseviers journals now offer the option of funding research publishing and distribution via a sponsored article fee.
In addition, Elsevier now publishes more than 50 openaccess journals.
Electronic products, such as ScienceDirect, Scopus and ClinicalKey, are generally sold direct to customers through a dedicated sales force that has offices around the world.
Subscription agents facilitate the sales and administrative process for print journals.
Books are sold through traditional and online book stores, wholesalers and, particularly in medical and healthcare markets, directly to end users.
Competition within science and medical publishing is generally on a title-by-title and product-by-product basis.
Competing journals, books and databases are typically published by learned societies and other professional publishers.
Workflow tools face similar competition as well as from software companies and internal solutions developed by customers.
RELATIVE IMPACT FACTOR GROWTH IN ARTICLE SUBMISSIONS 1.11 1.08 1.06 9% 1.02 2010 2011 2012 2013 2012 2013 Improvement in quality of Elsevier journal content relative to other Continued increase in number of article submissions submitted to publishers.
Relative impact factors based on journal-level impact factors Elsevier journals.
released by Thomson Reuters in the given year.
indd 16 07 03 2014 10:47 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 17 2013 2012 Change at constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue 2,126 2,063 3% 1% 2% Adjusted operating profit 826 780 6% 2% 3% Portfolio development continued in 2013.
Disposals included 2013 financial performance Elsevier Business Intelligence and a number of small print and Strong volume growth in primary research submissions and pharma focused assets.
We supported our organic growth usage, and in databases & tools, across the scientific, technical strategy with small targeted acquisitions, including Mendeley, and medical segments.
Electronic revenues, which now account anonline reference management and collaboration solution.
for 72% of the total, grew strongly across all segments.
Print book sales and pharma promotion continued to decline.
2014 Outlook The customer environment remains broadly unchanged on Underlying revenues grew 2% and underlying adjusted operating last year, with variations by geography and customer segment.
We expect continued volume growth and strong demand for In primary research, growth in article submissions and usage electronic products and solutions, and continued declines in print remained strong across the scientific, technical and medical book and pharma promotion revenues.
Overall we expect another segments, and journal quality, as measured by Impact Factor, year of modest underlying revenue growth in 2014. continued to improve.
Revenue growth was driven by solid subscription renewals and new sales.
Author-pays or authors-funder-pays article volumes continued to grow strongly from a small base.
Good growth in scientific databases &tools and electronic clinical solutions was also supported by strong new sales.
Print book sales and pharma promotion continued to decline reflecting a combination of format migration and structural changes in the pharmaceutical industry.
indd 17 07 03 2014 10:47 BUSINESS REVIEW 18 SCIENTIFIC, TECHNICAL & MEDICAL 700m each year MORE THAN 11M SCIENTISTS DOWNLOAD MORE THAN 700M ARTICLES FROM SCIENCEDIRECT, THE WORLDS LEADING PRIMARY SCIENTIFIC, TECHNOLOGY & MEDICAL DATABASE 29275 SAS p007-040.
indd 18 07 03 2014 10:47 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 19 SCIENCEDIRECT: PREMIER PLATFORM FOR DISCOVERING WORLD OF RESEARCH As one of the largest research-intensive About ScienceDirect universities in the UK, the University of Leeds is ScienceDirect is one of the worlds home to 7,600 staff and 30,000 students from largest databases of peer-reviewed over 130 countries.
The university engages in full-text scientific, technical and world-class research across an exceptionally medical content.
Over 11m researchers, diverse range of disciplines and is ranked in the healthcare professionals, teachers, 1 UKs top 10 for research power.
The university students and information professionals has particular strengths in interdisciplinary around the globe rely on ScienceDirect research in areas such as energy, water and as a trusted source of over 2,000 climate change, human health and wellbeing.
ScienceDirect supports research and The University of Leeds Library includes three education with interactive elements in campus facilities, which together house around articles such as audio, video, graphs, 3m volumes as well as countless individual tables and images, and offers tools so manuscript and archival items.
The Library users can easily set alerts.
With over provides access to over 35,000 electronic journal 12m content pieces available, titles as well as an increasing number of ScienceDirect is a premier platform for electronic databases and monographs.
discovering the world of research.
In August 2000, the University of Leeds first subscribed to Elseviers ScienceDirect database.
Initially the university took print copies of journals alongside the electronic information, but switched to electronic only in 2002.
1 2008 Research Assessment Exercise INFORMATION IN THE FORM OF PEER-REVIEWED ARTICLES FORMS A HIGH-OCTANE FUEL FOR RESEARCH.
SCIENCEDIRECTS VAST ARRAY OF QUALITY JOURNALS, MANY OF WHICH ARE CENTRAL TO THEIR DISCIPLINES, FORMS AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THE RESEARCH INFRASTRUCTURE HERE AT LEEDS.
IT IS HIGHLY VALUED BY OUR ACADEMIC COMMUNITY.
Dr Stella Butler University Librarian and Keeper of the Brotherton Collection 29275 SAS p007-040.
