BUSINESS REVIEW 36 EXHIBITIONS Exhibitions Market opportunities We operate the worlds leading Growth in the exhibitions market is influenced by both business-tobusiness marketing spend and business investment.
Historically, exhibitions business, with 500 these have been driven by levels of corporate profitability, which in its turn has followed overall growth in GDP.
Emerging markets and events in over 30 countries.
higher growth sectors provide additional opportunities for Reed Exhibitions.
As some events are held other than annually, growth in Reed Exhibitions portfolio of exhibitions and conferences serves any one year is affected by the cycle of non-annual exhibitions.
43 industry sectors across the globe.
In 2013, Reed Exhibitions brought together over 6m event participants from around Strategic priorities theworld, generating billions of dollars of business and Reed Exhibitions strategic goal is to understand and respond to its facilitating entry into new markets for its customers and customers evolving needs and objectives better than its boostingthe local economies where the events are hosted.
competition through deep knowledge of its customers and the markets they serve.
Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2013 were 862m.
Reed Exhibitions is a global business headquartered in London Reed Exhibitions delivers a platform for industry communities to and has principal offices in Paris, Vienna, Norwalk Connecticut, conduct business, to network and to learn through a range of So Paulo, Abu Dhabi, Beijing, Moscow, Tokyo, and Sydney.
market-leading events in growth sectors, especially in higher Reed Exhibitions has 3,400 employees worldwide.
In 2013, growth geographies, enabling exhibitors to target and reach new approximately 16% of Exhibitions revenue came from North customers quickly and cost effectively.
America, 43% from Europe and the remaining 41% from the rest Organic growth will be achieved by continuing to generate greater ofthe world on an event location basis.
customer value through the intelligent application of customer Reed Exhibitions organises market-leading events which are knowledge, by developing new events, and by building out relevant to industry needs, where participants from around the technology platforms to ensure the rapid deployment of innovation world meet face-to-face to do business, to network and to learn.
and best practices across the organisation.
Reed Exhibitions is Its exhibitions and conferences encompass a wide range of also shaping its portfolio through a combination of strategic sectors.
They include construction, electronics, energy and partnerships and acquisitions in high-growth sectors and alternative energy, engineering, entertainment, gifts and geographies as well as by withdrawing from markets and jewellery, healthcare, hospitality, interior design, logistics, industries with lower long-term growth prospects.
manufacturing, pharmaceuticals, real estate, recreation, security and safety, transport and travel.
International construction trade fair International perfumery and cosmetics exhibition International exhibition of environmental The worlds property market Premier global event for the travel equipment, technologies and services industry One of the largest business gifts and home A world leading event for smart and US home improvement and DIY trade fair fairs in China renewable energy 29275 SAS p007-040.
indd 36 07 03 2014 18:14 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 37 Reed Exhibitions is committed to continually improving customer advanced materials sector.
Reed Exhibitions also entered into a solutions and experience.
By providing a variety of services, partnership with Thebe Exhibitions, one of the leading events including its integrated web platform, the company continues to companies in South Africa, to form Thebe Reed Exhibitions, which drive customer satisfaction.
Using customer insights, Reed will run a number of events, primarily in the travel and interior Exhibitions has developed an innovative product offering which design sectors.
enhances the value proposition for exhibitors by broadening their options in terms of the type and location of stand they take and the Business model, distribution channels and competition timing of their commitment to the event.
The substantial majority of Reed Exhibitions revenues are from sales of exhibition space.
The balance includes conference fees, In 2013 Reed Exhibitions launched 37 new events.
These included online and offline advertising, sponsorship fees and, for some events which extended the geographical footprint of the luxury shows, admission charges.
Exhibition space is sold directly or travel brand, ILTM, to Africa and the art brand, Paris Photo, to through local agents where applicable.
Reed Exhibitions Japan responded again to customer works in collaboration with trade associations, which use the demand by replicating its Tokyo-based World Smart Energy Week events to promote access for members to domestic and export in Osaka.
The UK-based event, Oceanology International, was markets, and with governments, for whom events can provide successfully launched in China through a collaborative effort important support to stimulate foreign investment and promote between the Chinese and UK teams.
Regional strategies remain a regional and national enterprise.
Increasingly, Reed Exhibitions is key element of building business in China and Brazil, taking more offering visitors and exhibitors the opportunity to interact before events to Chinas second tier cities and cloning events from and after the show through the use of online tools such as SoPaulo to Recife in Brazils fast developing north east.
Exhibitions now organises nearly 200 events in emerging markets.
Reed Exhibitions is the global market leader in a fragmented A number of targeted acquisitions were completed during 2013. industry, holding less than a 10% global market share.
Other These included the Capsule portfolio of contemporary fashion international exhibition organisers include UBM, Informa IIR and events, located mainly in North America: Travelweek So Paolo, some of the larger German Messe, including Messe Frankfurt, a high-end travel event servicing premium buyers across Latin Messe Dsseldorf and Messe Munich.
Competition also comes America, and Expo Ferretera, the leading hardware event in from industry trade associations and convention centre and Mexico.
Elsewhere, acquisitions were made to expand Reed exhibition hall owners.
Exhibitions footprint in China and its global position in the NUMBER OF EVENT LAUNCHES EVENTS IN EMERGING MARKETS 37 192 165 30 2012 2013 2012 2013 Increase in events taking place in high-growth geographies through launches and acquisitions.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET 862m 862m Electronic 2% North America Print 1% 16% Rest of World 41% Face-to-face Europe 97% 43% On an event location basis.
indd 37 07 03 2014 10:47 BUSINESS REVIEW 38 EXHIBITIONS 2013 2012 Change at constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue 862 854 1% 2% 2% 7% Adjusted operating profit 213 210 1% 4% 4% Excluding biennial exhibition cycling.
We undertook a number of portfolio changes during the year, with 2013 financial performance acquisitions including Expo Ferretera in Mexico, IPSA in Russia, In 2013 Exhibitions maintained strong underlying revenue Travelweek So Paulo in Brazil and Capsule in the US.
Disposals growth of 7% excluding the effect of biennial show cycling.
include a number of Spanish events as well as some smaller While growth in Europe was modest, the US, Japan, Brazil and events across geographies.
other markets all grew well.
The impact of biennial exhibition cycling has steadily been reduced Underlying revenues grew 2% 7% excluding biennial cycling, from 10% in 2011 through 8% in 2012, to 5% in 2013. and underlying adjusted operating profits grew 4%.
2014 Outlook The US and Japan achieved strong revenue growth for the year.
We expect good underlying growth in the US and Japan, and USshows reported good growth in visitor numbers, and growth limited growth in Europe.
In other markets we expect growth to inJapan was supported by leadership of the alternative energy remain strong, albeit at a slightly lower rate than in 2013.
In 2014, sector and new launches.
Brazil and China continued to generate which is a cycling-in year, we expect the impact of cycling to be strong growth.
further reduced to around 2 percentage points of growth.
In Europe good growth in international events more than offset softness in some domestic continental European events, resulting in modest overall growth.
In 2013 we launched 37 new events, primarily in high-growth geographies and sectors, including the highly successful launch of World Travel Market Latin America, building on a global franchise.
indd 38 07 03 2014 10:47 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 39 39 Reed Exhibitions works collaboratively across borders to leverage the strength INTERNATIONAL ofthe two most valuable assets in the company its people and its brands.
LUXURY TRAVEL In 2013, Reed Exhibitions launched over a dozen events by taking established brands into new geographies.
MARKET: BUILDING Reed Exhibitions has sought to tap into the changing dynamics of the luxury travel market by expanding its highly regarded GLOBAL BRANDS International Luxury Travel Market ILTM brand.
The flagship ILTM event is held annually at the Palais des Festivals et des Congrs in Cannes and has been launched into high-growth markets for inbound and outbound tourism including Asia Pacific, theAmericas, Africa and Japan as well as the spa and wellbeing sector.
EACH YEAR ILTM CONTINUES TO FAR EXCEED OUR EXPECTATIONS.
IT REALLY IS THE MOST EFFICIENT AND EFFECTIVE WAY TO PROMOTE AND GAIN BUSINESS.
THE FOCUSED AND PROACTIVE APPROACH IN EACH OF THE SHOWS ENSURES HIGH-QUALITY APPOINTMENTS ARE MADE.
THE PEOPLE YOU MEET ARE THE PEOPLE THAT ARE TRULY SELLING LUXURY.
Steve Odell President Silversea Cruises 29275 SAS p007-040.
