BUSINESS REVIEW 30 LEGAL Legal In the US, in Research & Litigation Solutions, electronic In Legal markets, we are a world information solutions and innovative workflow tools, developed through closecollaboration with customers, help legal and leading provider of legal, business professionals make better informed decisions in thepractice of law and in managing their businesses.
Flagship regulatory and news & business products for legal research are Lexis.
com and Lexis Advance, which provide federal and state statutes and case law, together with information and analysis to law analysis and expert commentaries from sources such as Matthew Bender and Michie and the leading citation service Shepards, firm, corporate, government and which advises on the continuing relevance of case law precedents.
Research solutions also include news and business information, academic customers.
ranging from daily news to company filings, as well as public records information and analytics.
Through its litigation solutions, Serving customers in more than 175 countries, LexisNexis Legal LexisNexis provides lawyers with a suite of tools covering case & Professional provides resources and services that inform preparation to processing and review to trial preparation.
decisions, increase productivity and drive new business.
LexisNexis partners with law schools to provide services to students as part of theirtraining.
Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2013 were 1,567m.
LexisNexis Legal & Professional is headquartered in New York In 2013, LexisNexis continued to release new versions of Lexis and has principal operations in the New York area, Ohio and North Advance, an innovative web application designed to transform how Carolina in the US, Toronto in Canada, London and Paris in Europe, legal professionals conduct research.
Built on an advanced and cities in several other countries in Africa and Asia Pacific.
It technology platform, Lexis Advance allows primary researchers has 10,000 employees worldwide.
Approximately 68% ofrevenue within legal and professional organisations to find highly relevant by destination in 2013 was derived from North America, 21% from information more easily and efficiently, helping them to drive better Europe and the remaining 11% from the rest ofthe world.
Future releases will continue to expand content and outreach and add new innovative tools.
LexisNexis employs LexisNexis Legal & Professional is organised in marketlawyers and trained editors with professional legal backgrounds facing groups.
These are supported by global shared who review, annotate and update the legal content to help ensure services organisations providing platform and product each document in the collection is current and comprehensive.
development, operational and distribution services, and This domain expertise combined with the application of Reed other support functions.
Elseviers big data HPCC technology means LexisNexis is able to update its entire legal collection faster and more efficiently, while also identifying and linking content, enabling customers to uncover previously undiscovered relationships between documents.
Legal & Professional Lexis Lexis Library Unparalleled legal, news and public records LexisNexis UK flagship legal online product content for legal professionals Matthew Bender Lexis PSL Critical analysis, checklists, forms, and Premier citations service LexisNexis UK legal practical practice guides authored by industry experts guidanceservice covering over 50 major practice areas Lexis Practice Advisor JurisClasseur New online legal research tool that New resource that offers guidance to help Largest, most authoritative online legal transforms the way legal professionals attorneys handle transactional matters more resource in France conduct research efficiently and effectively 29275 SAS p007-040.
indd 30 07 03 2014 18:14 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 31 New workflow and analytical tools and content sets are regularly In the UK, LexisNexis is a leading legal information provider introduced on Lexis Advance.
For example, in 2013 LexisNexis offering an unrivalled collection of primary and secondary launched MedMal Navigator, a workflow tool that integrates legislation, case law, expert commentary, and forms and medical and legal research with case facts, assisting attorneys in precedents.
Its extensive portfolio includes a number of heritage determining their course of action.
Also, LexisNexis launched new brands: Halsburys, Tolleys and Butterworths.
The content is modules for Lexis Practice Advisor, a web-based practical guidance delivered through multiple formats from print to online to mobile product tailored for attorneys who handle transactional matters.
apps and embedded in customers workflow.
Additionally, LexisNexis strengthened its core content offering In 2013, LexisNexis launched additional modules for the UK through the acquisitions of Sheshunoff and A. S. Pratt and LexisPSL product suite which provides lawyers a single analytical titles from Oxford University Press providing attorneys destination for their practical legal information needs with direct with enhanced information in online and ebooks formats.
links to the relevant cases, legislation, precedents, forms, In litigation solutions, LexisNexis launched its web-enabled Early practical guidance and expert commentary.
Similar practical Data Analyzer which enables users to determine the nature and guidance services were launched in Canada, South Africa amount of relevant data in a lawsuit at its source location.
Additionally, LexisNexis released a new version of Concordance In France, LexisNexis is a leading online provider of information to Evolution supporting the direct import of files from LAW lawyers, notaries and courts.
A heritage brand JurisClasseur and PreDiscovery reducing time, costs and storage needs by leading authoritative content is provided through multiple formats streamlining electronic discovery workflow.
These content sources are, as LexisNexis Business of Law Software Solutions provides law in the UK, being combined with new content and innovative firms with practice management solutions, including time and workflow tools to develop practical guidance and practice billing systems, case management, cost recovery and document management solutions.
In 2013, LexisNexis France continued to management services.
enhance Lexis 360, the first semantic search online tool combining legal information, practical content and results from the web by In August 2013, LexisNexis Martindale-Hubbell and Internet providing tailored solutions for the notary market.
Brands announced the set-up of a joint venture, bringing together Martindale-Hubbell lawyer directory, including Lawyers.
com, with Following the success of Lexis for Microsoft Office LMO in the US Internet Brands online marketing services forlawyers.
and Canadian markets, an Australian version was launched in 2013.
LMO enables customers to access LexisNexis content and In International markets outside the US, LexisNexis serves legal, services via add-ins toolbars within Microsoft Word and Outlook.
corporate, government, accounting and academic markets in Europe, Canada, Africa and Asia Pacific with local and In 2013, LexisNexis Legal & Professional strengthened its international legal, regulatory and business information.
The positions in Asia through acquisitions and enhanced products most significant businesses are in the UK, France, Australia, created specifically for legal professionals and practitioners, Canada and South Africa.
corporate counsels, legal researchers and government institutions in markets including India, China and Japan.
In China, LexisNexis focuses on providing customers with leading LexisNexis acquired LegalStudio, a leading provider of model collections of content and innovative online solutions to help legal contracts and practical guidance, strengthening its position in and business professionals make better decisions more high-growing Corporate and Intellectual Property practice areas.
Penetration of online information services has grown strongly and electronic solutions now account for 60% of revenue outside the US.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET 1,567m 1,567m Rest of World Print 11% 23% Europe Face-to-face 21% 1% Electronic North America 76% 68% 29275 SAS p007-040.
indd 31 07 03 2014 10:47 BUSINESS REVIEW 32 LEGAL Market opportunities customer service and support platforms.
This will provide Longer-term growth in legal and regulatory markets worldwide is customers with an integrated and superior experience across driven by increasing levels of legislation, regulation, regulatory multiple products and solutions.
Over the next few years complexity and litigation, and an increasing number of lawyers.
progressive product introductions, often based on the New Lexis Additional market opportunities are presented by the increasing platform, leveraging big data HPCC technology, will combine demand for online information solutions and practice advanced technology with enriched content, sophisticated management tools that improve the quality and productivity of analytics and applications to enable LexisNexis customers to research, deliver better legal outcomes, and improve business make better legal decisions and drive better outcomes for their performance.
Notwithstanding this, legal activity and legal organisations and clients.
information markets are also influenced by economic conditions Outside the US, LexisNexis is focused on growing online services and corporate activity, as has been seen with the dampening and developing further high-quality actionable content and impact on demand of the recent global recession and the workflow tools, including the development of practical guidance somewhat subdued environment that followed in North America and practice management applications.
In 2014, LexisNexis will and in Europe.
continue to introduce New Lexis globally.
Additionally, LexisNexis is focusing on the expansion of its activities in emerging markets.
Strategic priorities LexisNexis Legal & Professionals strategic goal is to enable Business model, distribution channels and competition better legal outcomes and be the leading provider of  Legal & Professional products and services are enhancing information and information-based workflow solutions generally sold directly to law firms and to corporate, government, in its markets.
To achieve this LexisNexis is focused on introducing accounting and academic customers on a paid subscription basis, next generation products and solutions on the global New Lexis with subscriptions with law firms often under multi-year contracts.
platform and infrastructure: leveraging New Lexis globally to continue to drive print to electronic migration and long-term Principal competitors for LexisNexis in US legal markets are international growth: and upgrading operational infrastructure, West Thomson Reuters and CCH Wolters Kluwer.
In news improving process efficiency and gradually improving margins.
and business information they are Bloomberg and Factiva News Corporation.
Competitors in litigation solutions also In the US, LexisNexis focus is on the continuing development of include software companies.
Significant international competitors next generation legal research and practice solutions.
It is also include Thomson Reuters, Wolters Kluwer and Factiva.
conducting a major upgrade in operations infrastructure and LEXIS ADVANCE US LEGAL CUSTOMER PENETRATION MOBILE DOCUMENT ACCESSES 73% 143% 45% 2012 2013 2012 2013 Increasing uptake of next generation legal platform.
Increasing use of Lexis Advance and lexis.
indd 32 07 03 2014 10:47 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 33 2013 2012 Change at constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue 1,567 1,610 3% 4% 1% Adjusted operating profit 238 234 2% 1% 5% The 2013 results reflect the impact of portfolio reshaping over 2013 financial performance thelast 18 months, including the disposal of the US document Positive underlying revenue growth was maintained in 2013 retrieval and filing business in late 2012 and other small print despite subdued market conditions in the US and Europe.
In the second half of 2013 LexisNexis Electronic revenues continued to show good growth, largely Martindale-Hubbell, the US lawyer directory, was spun out into offset by print declines.
ajoint venture with Internet Brands, a broad-based internet marketing firm.
Underlying revenues grew 1%, and underlying operating profits grew 5%.
2014 Outlook In the US and in our major European markets, conditions remained We will continue the roll out of our new technology platforms subdued, with growth in online solutions largely offset by andproducts in 2014, and will maintain our focus on process continued print declines.
Other international markets achieved improvement.
Our customer markets remain subdued, however, good growth.
limiting the scope for underlying revenue growth.
The roll out of new product releases continued, with 73% of US legal customers activated on the New Lexis platform at period end, and new product usage progressing well.
Ongoing process innovation and some initial decommissioning of old infrastructure more than offset inflation and higher depreciation, contributing to a 0.7 percentage point margin improvement in 2013.
indd 33 07 03 2014 10:47 BUSINESS REVIEW 34 LEGAL LEXIS ADVANCE: FAST AND EASY EXPERT INSIGHT AND ANALYTICS The Clore Law Group, based in the US and About Lexis Advance Lexis Advance provides lawyers headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina, with essential information and handles sophisticated medical malpractice analytical tools covering all lawsuits, advanced personal injury issues and aspects of their daily work.
on the innovative New Lexis The firm is noted for applying advanced trial science platform and powered by Reed Elseviers HPCC big data to win settlements and jury trials for its clients.
technology, the Lexis Advance Recognised for its innovative use of technology to product portfolio is regularly optimise case preparation and management, Clore updated and expanded.
Recent competes successfully against much larger firms additions include the expert across the country.
witness resource LexisNexis Profile Suite, and the medical Averaging 180 days on the road, Clores attorneys malpractice research and depend on fast, reliable and comprehensive legal analytics solution LexisNexis information systems that they can access anytime to MedMal Navigator, which research, assess, and present their cases.
They use combines LexisNexis the Lexis Advance portfolio of content, analytical and comprehensive legal content productivity tools for trusted information and deep with Elseviers extensive health legal insights: LexisNexis Verdict & Settlement information to help attorneys Analyzer enables them to compare similar verdicts understand the underlying and settlements, LexisNexis MedMal Navigator medical issues and related points of law.
delivers their litigators analytics and insights into related cases and medical issues, and LexisNexis Profile Suite helps them identify and evaluate expert witnesses.
100% more efficient WITH MEDMAL NAVIGATOR, THE CLORE LAW GROUP FINDS EXPERT WITNESSES IN HALF THE TIME.
TO BE A SUCCESSFUL LITIGATOR, YOU NEED TO STAY AHEAD OF THE CURVE AND GET THE INFORMATION AND ANALYSIS YOU NEED AS QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE.
Sam Allen Litigator Clore Law Group 29275 SAS p007-040.
indd 34 07 03 2014 10:47 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 35 THERE IS NO OTHER PRODUCT LIKE MEDMAL NAVIGATOR ON THE MARKET TODAY THAT BRINGS EVERYTHING TOGETHER FOR ATTORNEYS.
ITS COMPREHENSIVE AND COVERS EVERY ASPECT OF A MEDICAL MALPRACTICE CASE.
Sam Allen, Litigator, Clore Law Group 29275 SAS p007-040.
