We believe our ability to innovate is crucial Today Regus provides to the long-term growth and success of a range of high quality our business.
In 2013 we increased our investment in Research & Development products and services to by 60% to 7.2m 2012: 4.5m.
help our customers improve As the examples opposite describe, we their productivity and have already made the initial steps in broadening what we do, exploring and performance.
testing various offers in different markets, some further in the future than others.
Outsourcing their workplace needs to Weare con dent that investing in Regus allows our customers to focus such development will increase the more clearly on their core business attractiveness of our offer to a wider activities and be more successful.
This will improve customer satisfaction and provide The scale of the opportunity is signi cant.
additional opportunities to enhance Our network will remain at the core of long-term shareholder value.
our business, but we will use it to create a workplace ecosystem around which we provide, facilitate and deliver a wide range of work related activities and services.
DocStation, our Cloud Printing Platform.
Business Island concept including Business Workbox.
10 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DEVELOPING NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Strategic report Governance Financial statements Customer focused innovation Cloud Printing Business Workbox Cloud Voice Platform Platform A fully self-contained, resourced Internet enabled IT and telephony and private workspace with a services, seamlessly connecting Our solution, DocStation, enables footprint of four square metres, our network to provide an customers to send documents to ideal for locations with a high enhanced technology platform print from anywhere in the world footfall such as airports and for our customers.
and collect them when they visit service stations.
Global Single Sign-on Workplace in your Driver-Less Of ceCar Phone Apps Once registered with Regus global We have partnered with a concept WiFi service, a customers device car development company, A suite of apps which enable all instantly logs back on whenever Rinspeed, to create a driverless Regus products and services to a Regus location is visited.
car that can be transformed into be easily accessed and booked in a four-person mobile workspace.
real time anywhere in the world.
