Our business model Network strength Cash generative Our purpose is to provide Regus invests in strengthening and An attractive feature of our business model businesses with a network expanding its national networks so as to is the strong conversion of pro t into cash.
best serve the needs and demands of This supports continued investment in of high quality workplaces its customers, both current and new.
expanding our core expertise delivered that help them be more Expanding in this way enables Regus to through multiple national business centre interact with an increasing number and networks whilst delivering tangible cash effective and successful.
variety of customers across all industry returns to our shareholders through the To achieve this we have segments and geographical locations.
developed a proven, Regus is in a nancially strong position in Constantly innovating particular, the strong cash ow generation robust and high performing To better serve our customers we invest from our mature centres allows us to signi cantly in developing our products business model.
continue to invest in the business, growing and services.
We also champion a better the network and investing in Research & understanding of the bene ts of workplace Development.
This allows us to improve Over nearly 25 years we have continually outsourcing through substantial marketing and develop our business to meet invested in improving and developing our investment.
The of ce remains the primary changing customer needs.
business assets, the most important of workspace and our business centres which is our network of locations.
We now continue to be at the core of our network.
Good people, systems and processes operate in 100 countries across almost However, exible working now embraces Developing our people, processes and 2,000 locations business centres and third an expanding range of convenient places systems is core to delivering excellent place locations, an unrivalled proposition.
to work between the of ce and the home.
Successful delivery of We are developing our network, through As the illustration opposite demonstrates, our strategy by our people has driven both business centre and third place our business model is aligned with strong revenue growth.
All countries have locations, to directly meet this need.
realising our strategy and creating detailed development plans and in-country long-term value for both our management structures support this on shareholders and other stakeholders.
By investing in our people to develop their capabilities, particularly at a country level, and devolving decision making, we are witnessing a marked operational improvement which is re ected in our strong business performance.
6 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 HELPING OUR CUSTOMERS WORK Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2.
Assets Network Global network of 1,831 business centre locations 3.
Revenue and pro t Innovation Group revenue growth of 23.3%, 98 third place Mature like-for-like revenue growth locations strong of 3.7% investment in Mature operating margin Research & Development People 16.7% Recruitment and 25 ongoing training of high-quality 20 individuals 16.7 15 15.2 Brand 10 A well known, 10.2 10.3 well respected 6.5 5 global brand 0 09 10 11 12 13 5.
Cash ow 448 new business centres Full year dividend increased 13% to 76 Third place locations 3.6p 2012: 3.2p.
2012 Mature Centres are those that were open on or before 31 December 2010. www.
com investors 7 HOW WE CREATE VALUE
