Board of Directors The role of the Board is to provide Lance Browne A, N, R entrepreneurial leadership and to review Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Lance Browne was appointed Non-Executive Director of Regus the overall strategic development of on 27 August 2008, became Senior Independent Director on the Group.
18 May 2010 and Chairman of the Nomination Committee on 27 September 2012.
Lance is Vice Chairman of Standard Chartered Bank China Ltd, Chairman of Travelex China, and Advisory Council member of G3.
He was previously CEO then Douglas Sutherland N Chairman of Standard Chartered Bank China Ltd, Non-Executive Chairman Director of IMI plc, Senior Advisor to the City of London, Chairman Douglas Sutherland was appointed Non-Executive Director of of China Goldmines plc, and Director of Business Development Regus on 27 August 2008 and was appointed Non-Executive at Powergen International HK.
Douglas was Chief Financial Of cer of Skype during its acquisition by eBay and was also Chief Financial Of cer at SecureWave during its acquisition by Elmar Heggen A, N, R PatchLink.
Prior to this, Douglas was previously an Arthur Independent Non-Executive Director Andersen Partner with international management responsibilities.
Elmar Heggen was appointed Non-Executive Director of Regus He has served as a director of companies in several jurisdictions on 1 June 2010 and was appointed Chairman of the Audit and was the founding Chairman of the American Chamber of Committee on 27 September 2012.
Elmar has extensive Commerce in Luxembourg.
Douglas is currently also a Director management experience and is currently Chief Financial Of cer of Median Kliniken S. r. l. and Median Gruppe S. r. l. and Head of the Corporate Centre at RTL Group, the leading European entertainment network, where he has held various roles since 2000.
He is also a board member of Atresmedia Spain and Mark Dixon Metropole Television France.
Elmar began his career at the Felix Chief Executive Of cer Schoeller Group, becoming Vice President & General Manager of Chief Executive Of cer and founder, Mark Dixon is one of Europes Felix Schoeller Digital Imaging in the UK in 1999. best known entrepreneurs.
Since founding Regus in Brussels, Belgium in 1989, he has achieved a formidable reputation for leadership and innovation.
Prior to Regus he established Florence Pierre A, N, R businesses in the retail and wholesale food industry.
A recipient Independent Non-Executive Director of several awards for enterprise, Mark has revolutionised the way Florence Pierre was appointed Non-Executive Director of Regus business approaches its property needs with his vision of the on 21 May 2013.
She currently shares her time between future of work.
directorships, consulting and venture investments in companies providing innovative and internet services.
She has over 30 years of international corporate finance practice, holding senior positions Dominique Yates at BNP, Financire Rothschild, Degroof Corporate Finance and Chief Financial Of cer her own M&A advisory boutique.
Florence has an international Dominique Yates was appointed Chief Financial Of cer on perspective having worked in Chicago, New York, Paris and 1 September 2011.
Previously he served as Chief Financial Brussels.
She has also taught economics and finance, published Of cer at both LM Windpower, the  a number of books and articles on valuation, and has been a renewable energy company, and Symrise AG, the MDAX-listed member of several French entrepreneurship and innovation speciality chemicals company.
He also held senior positions at committees, both governmental and professional.
Imperial Tobacco Group plc, including Group Financial Controller, General Manager of France, Switzerland, Italy and Malta, and Group Business Development Director.
He is a quali ed Alex Sulkowski A, N, R chartered accountant.
Independent Non-Executive Director Alex Sulkowski was appointed Non-Executive Director of Regus on 1 June 2010: he also serves as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, having been appointed on 27 September 2012.
Alex has over 30 years of experience in international finance structures, private equity, tax advice and real estate.
He is currently the Managing Director of Third Millennium Investments SA and is a founding member of Taxand, the largest global network of independent tax advisors.
Prior to this Alex enjoyed a career with Arthur Andersen, responsible for the Belgium and Luxembourg tax practices, prior to joining Ernst and Young in 2002 as the Partner responsible for the Luxembourg tax practice and then serving as the Managing Partner of Atoz Tax Advisors from 2004 through 2009.
Notes A Member of the Audit Committee N Member of the Nomination Committee R Member of the Remuneration Committee 32 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 AN EXPERIENCED TEAM
