New countries and cities Companies outsource their The scope and strength of our network workplace needs to Regus is a key differentiator for Regus we therefore continuously invest in developing so that they can focus on and strengthening it further.
In 2013, we their core activities.
The opened in our 100th country Nepal and extend our reach to 684 cities including more convenient our new markets such as Beverly Hills, USA, locations become, the more Naples, Italy and Pretoria, South Africa.
attractive our offer is as an Network growth strengthens our relationships with customers, and alternative to owning or attracts new business.
It also drives up leasing property directly, shareholder returns: the more centres we have, the more we bene t from especially for larger economies of scale and lower unit costs.
businesses that cover Building national networks diverse geographies.
Launching in new markets is one key aspect of network growth.
But deepening We provide this convenience by our presence in existing ones is also establishing and then deepening national critical.
Thus, in China we increased our networks that are linked together into one network to 66 locations in 2013, in key global network of 1831 business centre business districts of up-and-coming cities and 98 third place locations across 100 such as Ningbo and Suzhou, as well countries.
The reach of our network is as the longstanding business hubs of unrivalled and a major differentiator.
In Germany we more than doubled the size of our For our customers from global business centre network whilst also corporates such as Google, Tata and opening many third place locations.
Toshiba to numerous businesses small and large our network is critical to their Extending our reach further success.
They use it to work more Expanding into new locations is an ef ciently and effectively, reduce xed important part of our strategy: we aim costs and meet a growing employee to be everywhere our customers need demand for more exible work us to be.
Regus now caters to mobile arra r ng ngem emen e ts ts.
Th T ey y also us u e it to explore workers: peoplle e who work r whiilst on the new w and existi ting ng m mar rke kets ts.
Duriing n 2 201 013 3 Re egu gus s ad adde ded d 76 76 new wi w th Regus a all llow ows s ou ur custom mer ers s to to o th thir rd d pl plac ace e lo oca c ti tion ons s wa walk k-iin n ur urba b n and d expa p nd witho h ut t the he e financial ris isk and d suburban an w wor orkp kplaces.
s These n new ew fac a ilities admi m nist s ra ative five a and d m man a ag ager e ial costs s ar ar a e pr rim imarily located ar rou ound nd t tra rans n port associ ciat a ed w wit th h growth.
in infr ffras as astr t uc uctu u u ure r r hubs such h h h a as s s s airp ports, mo otorw way a service station on ons an a d railwa ay stations but inc ncreasingly al also so in su such ch locations as commu m nity cen ntr t es es, li libr rar arie ies s an and d re retail o out u lets s. 8 8 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 A UNIQUE NETWORK Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key network highlights 1.
New countries 30% increase in the size Third place now open in Opened in Kathmandu, of Regus network five countries Nepal in June 2013 448 76 100th business centres added locations opened in 2013 country milestone achieved 4.
Growing growth national networks markets Strong end user demand in Our network in Germany China is one of our fastest all markets more than doubled in 2013 growing national networks 1.58m 81 66 individuals now supported business centres now open locations in 19 cities in China by Regus in 21 cities www www.
