Efficient, high-quality manufacturing Renishaw plc 12 Annual report and accounts 2013 overview strategy anD Ability to provide bUsiness MoDel support in all our markets seCUring groWth forthe long terM Our to assure success, people we undertake as many of our core activities as possible, including design, manufacturing, sales and support.
ContinUal effiCient strong MarKet bUilDing the researCh high-QUality presenCe anD bUsiness via Creating strong ManUfaCtUring foCUs on aCQUisition MarKet positions eMerging the highly exacting We seek to enhance our specifications of renishaws product portfolio, speed With innovative MarKets products mean that efficient, geographic market proDUCts We are focused on expanding innovative and high-quality penetration and gain access our business globally to allow We invested 51.8m on r&D manufacturing facilities are to new technologies and us to access increased and engineering to maintain vital.
our manufacturing customers via acquisition.
markets worldwide, with market leading positions in plants are located in UK, Wefocus on businesses that particular emphasis on our various technologies.
ireland, india, germany, Usa have strong complementary growth economies such as Much of our technology is and france.
We believe that technology and people.
China, latin america and proprietary and protected top-line revenue growth is thisyear we acquired certain india.
We have established by patents and or process enhanced by providing assets of lbC to strengthen over 70 locations in 32 know-how.
new products maximum flexibility and our additive manufacturing countries, whilst an extensive areprincipally developed scalability of manufacturing activities.
We completed the network of distributors covers in-house or by acquisition.
capability for our rapidly purchase ofthe remaining all other major industrialised renishaw consistently takes a growing businesses.
We have tranche ofshares in nations.
We have recently long-term view of engineering recently refurbished a further Measurement Devices opened our 11th office and science-based projects, 66,000 sq ft of extra limited and transferred its inChina to support this but as our group engineering production space at Miskin, business tothe Company.
Director, geoff Mcfarland, south Wales, which offers says, it requires a passionate 461,000 sq ft of existing belief in the ultimate factory space on a 193 acre commercial viability of the site.
We have also recently technology, and the ability to completed a 26,000 sq ft hold your nerve, because the extension at our existing length of time from fledgling production facility near technology to commercial Dublin, ireland.
Innovative products and processes Financial Shareholder Overview Performance Governance statements information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2013 13 Spent 15% of Strengthened revenue 51.8m additive on R&D and manufacturing engineering product offering with purchase of certain assets ofLBC We aim to continue at Expanded Recruited record the forefront of the metrology presence in numbers of new China with 11th industry whilst applying apprentices and office located graduates our measurement in Wuhan expertise into our growing healthcare business.
CUstoMer Consistent people foCUs on sUpport organiC groWth beCoMing people lie at the heart of the business and we aim to asolUtions We support our customers the group has a long history attract, retain and develop at all times via our global of profitable growth with proviDer high-quality staff that are fully presence, which allows us to excellent prospects for future the provision of solutions committed to renishaw.
We build long-term partnerships growth, driven by the isevident in our new product invest in our facilities and as they grow and develop in emerging markets in the lines dental, gauging, organisation to create new directions.
developing world and the neurological, diagnostics environments which stimulate increasing requirement for andadditive manufacturing.
see more at pages 36 37 positive engagement, high solutions that reduce energy itis also increasingly the case levels of loyalty and team consumption.
total sales in our core businesses building.
We have a growth over the last 30 years suchasCMM, machine tool performance-based work has averaged over 14% per and calibration.
culture and are always looking annum.
We are continually at ways to further engage and this is driving us to expand investing in our facilities to empower employees.
our applications engineering accommodate such growth, capabilities, to retrain our including recently sales force and to invest in commencing work on facilities.
solutions also 120,000 sq ft of additional change the nature of our office space as part of the engineering.
they require firstphase of expansion of applications software to newMills, UK, hQ and deliver the customer building new 20,000 sq ft experience, an area in which offices and production facility the business has invested for large scale metrology heavily in recent years such products at york, UK.
as MoDUs, productivity, dental CaD CaM, diagnostics, surgical planning and apex, using engineers both in the UK andindia.
