Renishaw plc 46 Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Board of directors and company secretary 1 Sir DaviD McMurtry 73 2 John Deer 75 4 allen roBertS 64 deputy chairman cBe, rdi, frs, freng, ceng, fimeche fca chairman and chief executive Group finance director trained as a mechanical engineer and worked for rolls-royce plc, Bristol, formerly employed by rolls-royce plc, Qualified as a chartered accountant in 1972 for 14 years.
Bristol, for 17 years, latterly holding the with peat, marwick, mitchell & co. before positions of deputy chief designer and joining renishaw in 1979. co-founded renishaw with sir david assistant chief of engine design of all mcmurtry in 1973. managing director of appointed to the Board of renishaw plc rolls-royce engines manufactured at renishaw from 1974 to 1989, primarily in1980.
involved in the commercial direction of Heads group finance, business systems the Group, with particular emphasis on invented the original measuring probe in the and Wotton travel Ltd. marketing and the establishment of the early 1970s and co-founded renishaw with Groups wholly-owned subsidiaries.
allen has the healthcare regulatory and John deer in 1973. quality assurance functions reporting responsible for group manufacturing in addition to his role as chairman and intohim.
and chair of the overseas marketing chief executive, sir david also has subsidiaries.
responsibility for Group technology and is chair of the nomination committee.
5 Geoff McfarlanD 45 Group engineering director 3 Ben taylor 64 ceng, fimeche Graduated with a Beng in computer aided mechanical engineering at Heriot-Watt assistant chief executive University, where he subsequently worked Before joining renishaw inc as president for several years as a research associate.
in 1985, Ben was the director of after working briefly in the high-volume engineering at sheffield measurement, manufacturing electronic sector, joined Usa.
renishaw in 1994 and appointed to the appointed to the Board of renishaw plc Board of renishaw plc in 2002. in 1987.
Heads the group engineering function responsible for group marketing, andis also responsible for group ip international operations, human resources andpatents.
Geoff is a non-executive director Ben also reports to the Board on corporate ofdelcamplc.
6 7 4 3 5 2 1 Financial Shareholder Overview Performance Governance statements information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2013 47 6 carol cheSney 50 7 John JeanS 63 8 Bill Whiteley 64 fca cBe, ceng fcma non-executive director non-executive director senior non-executive director chair of the audit committee and member member of the audit, remuneration and member of the audit, remuneration and of the remuneration and nomination nomination committees.
appointed to the Board of renishaw plc appointed to the Board of renishaw plc appointed to the Board of renishaw plc in april 2013. in June 2008. in october 2012. currently chair of the council of cardiff formerly chief executive at rotork plc.
a chartered accountant who worked at University and imanova an imaging Bill is also the chairman of spirax-sarco arthur andersen for seven years in audit research partnership between three engineering plc, Hill and smith Holdings plc services.
London universities and the medical and Brammer plc.
in addition he chairs Worked for some time in the group the board of mrc technology and is a accountsfunction at english china clays plc non-executive director of the alliance 9 Dr DaviD Grant 65 before joining Halma plc, where she is now medical Group.
He is also a board member cBe, freng, fLsW, ceng, fiet company secretary, having also been of the University and college employers Group financial controller.
member of the nomination and audit John also chairs the technology strategy committees, chair of the remuneration Boards stratified medicine advisory board, committee.
is a steering Board member of the appointed to the Board of renishaw plc Healthtech and medicines Knowledge in april 2012. transfer network and is an advisor to the University of manchesters venture fund.
currently senior independent director of iQe plc, non-executive director of the defence science and technology Laboratory, chair of stemnet and member of the governing board of the technology strategy Board.
Was Vice-chancellor of cardiff University from 2001 to 2012 and previously held leadership positions at dowty Group and Gec.
10 norMa tanG 49 Head of Legal and company secretary Joined renishaw in 2001.
Qualified as a solicitor in 1988 and since then has specialised in company and commercial legal matters, advising business clients and as an in-house counsel.
Heads the legal and company secretariat function, advising the Board on legal compliance and governance matters.
9 8 10 full biographies of the Board of directors are available online: see www.
