18 Strategic Report Hygiene Market opportunities Experts in and competition Initial Hygiene operates in a competitive market with good growth opportunities.
Hygiene We are well placed to increase market share through market segmentation and the introduction of value propositions to For more than 100 years Initial Hygiene has customers.
Significant investment has been made in updating and delivering helped organisations provide pleasant and best-in-class product solutions.
Building hygienic environments for staff, clients and market share in Europe remains a priority for our hygiene category.
Establishing good hygiene practices throughout organisations reduces the risk of Initiatives Growth initiatives include: infection being passed from person to person.
Launch of new Reflection range in 2012 As a result, fewer days are lost to sickness and Signature range in 2013 which translates directly into real cost savings and improved productivity.
Revenue performance m Performance In 2013 the business generated revenues 488.4m of 488.4m.
It has a 21% operating margin and delivered 102.0m in operating profits.
State of service has Operating profit m risen consistently over the past five years and as a result customer satisfaction rates continue to improve.
102.0m The new Signature range features a new contemporary design that significantly reduces the spread of germs Operating margin % Roll-out of new hygiene working practice On Site Service for feminine hygiene units Focus on key accounts 21% Initial Hygiene has helped organisations provide pleasant and hygienic environments for staff, clients and visitors Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 BusinessReview ID6 p01-28.
indd 18 01 04 2014 16:20 Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Strategic Report Hygiene 19 Market category Environmental Our hygiene business is complementary Responsible product development within to our world-leading pest control business the Company is an essential aspect of a linked offer in environmental health, its working practices.
These include requiring similar skills sets from our extensive training for colleagues to ensure employees and with both categories that chemicals, whether used in pest having compatible operational models.
control, hygiene or workwear, are utilised While organic growth has been squeezed in the correct way.
Responsible product through difficult trading conditions in development is focused on introducing Europe, the strong contribution to profits services that offer customers safe from our hygiene category underscores and environmentally friendly products.
Initial Hygiene is market leader in its importance to the group.
Following the decision to manufacture in- 26 out of 45 countries house hand wash hygiene products used in the Signature range, the Company Customers has now attained inclusion in the EUs Eco Label catalogue which is designed to help customers distinguish greener, more environmentally friendly, products of high 17% quality.
The catalogues coverage includes all of the Companys EU, Caribbean and Sales of Signature have led to a 17% increase in services per new African operations.
customer in the first six months postlaunch Signature was designed to stand out from the competition and won the We achieve high customer satisfaction prestigious Singapore Presidents award for product design levels and believe this is a key competitive advantage.
This will be enhanced further as we use the insight gained from our Customer Voice Counts feedback to improve service levels.
Additionally, we will be looking to use our new Signature range of washroom products to sell more services per customer in 2014.
Our CR report can be downloaded from the following link: rentokil-initial.
com  Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 BusinessReview ID6 p01-28.
