12 Strategic Report Managing the Business for Profitable Growth Managing the Business for Profitable Growth In 2014 we will build on this platform with a flatter, geographic grouping.
Strong regional structure ends the period of organisational change.
The East and West regions will cease businesses to exist and will be replaced by regional clusters.
The sale of Initial Facilities to Interserve Plc was announced on 28 February 2014 and, subject In 2013 our core businesses have been run on a day-to-day to approval by Interserves shareholders on basis by one manager per country, each responsible for the 17 March 2014, will no longer be part of the group.
No further change is envisaged to core categories in his her region.
Countries were grouped into the groups organisation structure, and external three geographic regions East, West and Asia.
Initial Facilities reporting in 2014 will reflect the new groupings has been run separately as a stand-alone business given its performance will be shown on a regional and site-based operating model.
Our five key geographic regions Europe Pacific UK & Rest of World % of group revenue Austria, Benelux, Australia, Fiji and Caribbean, Denmark, France, Germany, New Zealand Finland, Ireland, the 48.8 Europe Greece, Italy, Portugal, Middle East, North Categories: 19.3 North America South America, Spain Africa, Norway, South 17.5 UK & Rest of World Pest control 8.5 Pacific and Switzerland Africa, Sweden, Turkey Hygiene 5.9 Asia and UK Categories: Plants Pest control Categories: Hygiene Pest control Asia Workwear Hygiene Brunei, China, India, Plants Indonesia, Malaysia, North America Singapore, Thailand Canada, Mexico and US and Vietnam Categories: Categories: Pest control Pest control Plants Hygiene North America Europe Paci c UK & Rest of World Asia Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 BusinessReview ID6 p01-28.
indd 12 01 04 2014 16:19 Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Strategic Report Managing the Business for Profitable Growth 13 The Company is focused on its three core categories of 2.
Three core pest control, hygiene and workwear.
Shared operational synergies include the fact that they are people-serviced, categories route-based and organised around a branch network.
Rentokil Pest Control Our lead category Group revenue % 35.5% of core group revenues Leading positions in most markets including Europe, Asia and Pacific Strategic focus: Using pest operations as a vehicle for entering 36% new markets e. g. emerging economies of Brazil and Turkey Capitalising on North American growth opportunity currently regions No.
3 to enhance our national accounts infrastructure Developing international account sales capability Ongoing service productivity improvements Initial Hygiene Complementary business to pest control Group revenue % compatible operational model and a strong profit contribution 27.7% of core group revenues Leading positions in 26 of our 43 markets Strategic focus: Leveraging award-winning Signature range 28% of hygiene products to sell more services per customer: targeting higher-margin customers and increasing retention rates Improving pricing and margin management particularly for single-service customers Seeking to build market share through acquisitions at local and national level in Europe Initial Workwear Complementary fit with hygiene benefiting from Group revenue % a shared brand, linked service and integrated routebased operations 22.9% of core group revenues Only organisation with international scale in four main continental European markets C ustomer retention 23% 94% retention, average customer tenure of 16 years Strategic focus: Repositioning business to focus on workwear garments and on increasing sharing of best practice and product ranges across countries of operation Seeking acquisitions in cleanroom and consolidation opportunities in European workwear Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 BusinessReview ID6 p01-28.
indd 13 01 04 2014 16:20 14 Strategic Report Managing the Business for Profitable Growth Managing the Business for Profitable Growth continued 3.
Managing the portfolio for growth We have grouped our categories and geographies into a four-quadrant growth potential and profit contribution matrix.
Allocation to each quadrant will drive implementation and execution of growth strategies and determine appropriate allocation of capital to ensure maximum returns.
Growth potential and profit contribution matrix Revenue 2013 % Contribution to revenue Emerging Growth 1,764m excludes Initial Facilities growth m High Categories Geographies Categories Geographies Pest control Asia Pest control North America Hygiene Middle East Hygiene United Kingdom 15 North Africa Cleanroom Germany Workwear Turkey Austria South America Switzerland 10 East Africa Caribbean Med 5 Categories Geographies Categories Geographies Ambius Ireland Hygiene France 0 Plants Spain Workwear Benelux Portugal Nordics Italy Australia 48 Protect & Enhance Growth Greece New Zealand 40 Growth Emerging South Africa Low 7 Emerging Protect & Enhance 5 Manage for Value Manage for Value Manage for Value Protect & Enhance Net Low Med High Profit contribution Emerging Growth High growth potential, low profit contribution High growth potential, high profit contribution Focus on: investment in capabilities and effectively directing Focus on: investing to take share and develop existing customers sales to extend our footprint whilst filling gaps in our geographic footprint M&A strategy: pest control-led market entry, focus on acquiring M&A strategy: extend geographic reach into new cities and build local management capabilities, bolt-ons for density accept out sub-scale regions, lower IRR 15% as platform for growth lower IRR 15% after adjusting for risk Categories include: pest control and cleanroom workwear Categories include: pest control and hygiene Geographies include: North America, UK, Germany, Austria, Geographies include: Asia, the Middle East, North Africa, Turkey, Switzerland and the Caribbean East Africa and South America Protect & Enhance Manage for Value Low growth potential, high profit contribution Low growth potential, lower profit contribution Focus on: service productivity, route density, retaining and growing Focus on: productivity and route density, reducing cost existing customers and development of new offers and services base and improving retention M&A strategy: consolidate regional and local strengths, acquire M&A strategy: acquiring bolt-ons for density requires high new capabilities in adjacent service areas, above average IRR 30%, divesting sub-scale unprofitable businesses IRR 25% Categories include: Ambius plants Categories include: hygiene and workwear Geographies include: Ireland, Spain, Portugal, Italy and Greece Geographies include: France, Benelux, Nordics, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 BusinessReview ID6 p01-28.
indd 14 01 04 2014 16:20 Growth potential m Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Strategic Report Managing the Business for Profitable Growth 15 4.
O perational levers for growth The drive for growth will be delivered through the differentiated plan for each quadrant, described opposite.
In addition, the businesses will utilise six revenue growth levers.
First, we will target our offer appropriately ensuring we are providing the right offer to the right customers but also that we are masters of our markets, adapting our thinking to local needs.
Second, we will deliver sales effectiveness in both building the sales pipeline and through sales brilliance.
Finally, we will drive retention and growth through delivery of outstanding customer service, account management and service differentiation.
Operational levers Levers Objectives Examples of value potential The Right Offer for the Right Customers Signature product range: 1.
Where to Play 17% 17% increase in services per Innovating to build our Future Offer new customer in the first six months post launch Targeting Adapting the thinking to meet Local Needs Geographic targeting: a 10% 2.
Mastering Our Offer 10% increase in route density offers our Markets Local Planning for sales and marketing 3-5% productivity gain Delivering Warm Prospects to sales Online: 40% win rate for inbound 3.
Building 40% enquiries from web and other the Pipeline Directed selling to Target Customers marketing channels Sales The right Recruitment and Training for sales Advantage sales tablet: UK 7% 4.
Sales Brilliance 7% increase in sales yield in first Supported by the Best Sales Tools Effectiveness year post launch Delivering the Service our Retention: 1% increase in 5.
Delivering 12m customers expect retention delivers 12m revenue our Promise and 4m profit per annum Service Differentation versus competitors Retention Account Management to build strong links Account management: 24% 6.
Engaging our 24% & Growth increase in NPS and quarter Customers Long-Lasting Relationships with customers of reviews led to sale Medium-term objectives As a result of the strategic review outlined above the Company is committed to delivering a number of medium-term financial objectives.
These commitments are built around our focus on clear investment criteria to ensure optimal allocation of capital and to drive shareholder value.
They will form a key element of our strategy going forward.
We will seek to deliver: We will also seek to deliver: Mid single-digit revenue growth, supported by M&A investment Post-tax IRR of 20% on acquisitions: and divestment of non-core or poorly performing businesses Reduced for Growth Emerging but 15% Higher for Protect & Enhance c. 25% and High single-digit profit growth, leveraging revenue ambitions Manage for Value c. 30% Significant improvement in sustainable cash flow which will be used to fund: Prioritised approach to investment: Restructuring costs of 20m per annum M&A investment, on average c. 50m per annum IT capital expenditure of 25m per annum Progressive dividend policy Incremental reduction in debt Capex broadly in line with depreciation: 20m reduction in 2014 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 BusinessReview ID6 p01-28.
