30 Corporate Governance Board of Directors Board of Directors 2 1 5 6 7 developing the global Vodafone 1.
Jeremy Townsend brand as Chief Marketing Officer Chairman Chief Executive from Chief Financial Officer and and director of Vodafone Group plc 1 October 2013 Chief Information Officer Committee memberships from 1998 to 2006.
He brings from November 2013 Chairman, Nomination committee Executive Director and Regional extensive experience to the Board Managing Director, West region Committee memberships Skills and experience over the developing marketing until 1 October 2013 None Joined Rentokil Initial as Chairman agenda for Rentokil Initials brands.
in May 2008 and prior to that had Committee memberships Skills and experience He also held senior executive roles a successful executive career with None Joined Rentokil Initial as Chief at Vodafone, including Chief Imperial Chemical Industries plc Financial Officer in August 2010.
Executive of Northern Europe, Skills and experience ICI, becoming Chief Executive Formerly Finance Director of Middle East and Africa operations Joined Rentokil Initial as an from 2003 to 2008.
Before joining Mitchells & Butlers plc, and and Chief Executive of Vodafone executive director in May 2008.
ICI in 1997 he held a number of previously an executive at UK.
Prior to this he held senior Responsible for the West region senior executive positions at JSainsbury plc where he held positions at Kingfisher plc and business and the group legal and Unilever from 1974, with Birds Eye various finance roles including Group Tesco PLC and was a director M&A functions.
He was responsible Walls, Quest International and Financial Controller, Corporate of WHSmith PLC.
for Rentokil Initials Asia-Pacific Unichema International.
Formerly Finance Director and Strategy businesses in 2008 09.
Formerly a Current external commitments a director of Severn Trent plc and Director.
Prior to Sainsburys, he was senior executive at ICI 1987-2008 and relevant qualifications Sara Lee Corporation USA.
employed by Ernst & Young, working where he was responsible for a Chairman of SuperGroup plc, in audit and corporate finance.
Current external commitments number of group functions and Chairman of PRS for Music Limited and qualifications international businesses including Current external commitments and Six Degrees Technology Group Chairman of United Utilities Group ICIs regional and industrial and relevant qualifications Ltd. Age 59.
PLC, senior independent director of divisions.
He also served as the No other appointments.
J Sainsbury plc and Non-executive Executive Vice President of mergers 5.
Richard Burrows Graduated from Manchester Director of Rolls-Royce PLC.
and acquisitions, General Counsel Non-executive Director University with a first class honours and Company Secretary.
Committee memberships Graduated from Manchester degree in Management Science.
Member, Remuneration committee University with a first class honours Current external commitments A Chartered Accountant.
Age 50. degree in chemical physics and, and relevant qualifications Skills and experience after completing his doctorate, was No other appointments.
Peter Bamford Joined Rentokil Initial as a awarded a research fellowship.
Non-executive Director Non-executive Director in January Mr Ransom has a LLB Hons Law Age 65.
Significant international from the University of Southampton.
Member, Audit committee business experience ranging from A Solicitor.
Age 50. leading successful manufacturing Skills and experience and service businesses in the drinks Joined Rentokil Initial as a industry to banking and financial Non-executive Director in July 2006. services roles.
Formerly Governor He was one of the key architects of of the Bank of Ireland, joint Chief Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 CorpGov ID6 p29-54.
indd 30 01 04 2014 16:33 Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Board of Directors 31 Current external commitments Paul Griffiths and relevant qualifications Company Secretary Chief Executive of TUI Travel plc.
Relevant qualifications A Chartered Management Chartered Secretary.
Subject to re-election at the 2014 Note: William Rucker stood down AGM, Mr Long will stand down as a director on 14 March 2013 as a director at the end of 2014. and Alan Brown stood down as a director and Chief Executive 8.
4 Non-executive Director Committee memberships Member, Remuneration committee 3 Skills and experience Joined Rentokil Initial as a Non-executive Director on 5 March 2012.
Formerly the Chief Executive of RAC Motoring Services.
Prior to joining the RAC she held roles as Distribution Director of Aviva UK Life and Norwich Union Insurance.
Current external commitments and relevant qualifications Managing Director, Corporate Solutions at AEGON UK Plc and a Non-executive Director of 8 9 Henderson Group Plc.
A member of the Chartered Institute of Marketing and the Chartered Executive and latterly a Directorships at Somerfield plc and Insurance Institute, with a masters Non-executive Director of Pernod Wilson Bowden plc.
Ricard SA France, Chairman and Current external commitments Chief Executive of Irish Distillers and and relevant qualifications 9.
Duncan Tatton-Brown a director of CityJet Ltd Ireland, A Non-executive Director of the Non-executive Director Mey ki Turkey and Eurasian Competition and Markets Authority Natural Resources Corporation plc.
Committee memberships and lead Non-executive Director for Chairman, Audit committee Current external commitments the Office of Fair Trading.
Chairman Member, Nomination committee and relevant qualifications of the Advisory Board at Oxford Chairman of British American Institute of Retail Management and Skills and experience Tobacco plc and Voicesage Global Associate Fellow at Oxford Joined Rentokil Initial as a Holdings Ltd. Non-executive Universitys Sad Business School.
Non-executive Director in July 2005. director of Carlsberg A S Denmark.
Honorary visiting professor at As serving Chief Financial Officer of Mr Burrows is a graduate of Cass Business School.
Ocado Group plc he brings current Wesley College, Dublin Ireland.
and relevant experience of the A Chartered Accountant.
Age 68. financial management of large, 7.
Peter Long complex international service Non-executive Director businesses, having previously 6.
Alan Giles Senior Independent Director served as Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Committee memberships of Fitness First Group Ltd and prior Committee memberships Member, Remuneration committee to that Group Finance Director of Chairman, Remuneration committee and Nomination committee Kingfisher plc, Finance Director of Member, Nomination committee Skills and experience B&Q plc and Chief Financial Officer and Audit committee Joined Rentokil Initial as a of Virgin Entertainment Group.
Skills and experience Non-executive Director in October Current external commitments Joined Rentokil Initial as a 2002.
Serving Chief Executive of a and relevant qualifications Non-executive Director in May 2006. global service business, TUI Travel Chief Financial Officer of Ocado He has extensive commercial and plc, with over 50,000 employees and Group plc.
A Chartered strategic service industry two global brands.
Led the creation Management Accountant.
Age 48. experience, having led two major of the TUI Travel Group, executing retail brand businesses through a successful strategy of industry Mr Tatton-Brown will retire from significant periods of change.
consolidation and organic growth the Board at the conclusion of the Formerly Chairman of Fat Face with a focus on differentiated 2014 AGM.
Group Limited, Chief Executive of service offerings.
Previously held HMV Group plc, Managing Director positions as Non-executive Director of Waterstones, a director of of Debenhams plc and RAC plc and WHSmith PLC and Book Tokens Chief Executive of Sunworld Ltd. Limited and held Non-executive Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 CorpGov ID6 p29-54.
