16 Strategic Report Pest Control Market opportunities Experts in and competition The global pest control market is estimated Initiatives Pest control to be worth approximately 9bn, of which Launch European ranges in the we have around 7%.
We see further industrial, driving & personal opportunities to increase our share in this protective equipment sectors growing market through a combination across all our businesses Rentokil is the worlds leading commercial of organic and acquisitive actions.
Rising standards of hygiene are driving greater Focus on service excellence pest control company providing the demand for pest control services in and customer care highest levels of risk management, emerging and mature economies.
The sector is consolidating, presenting reassurance and responsiveness to good opportunities to grow through acquisition.
Over recent years we have our customers.
broadened our geographic presence through acquisitions in North, Central and South America andthe Middle East.
We believe our differential capability versus Performance Revenue performance m our competitors is brand strength, global In 2013 we achieved revenues of reach, service, products, innovation 626.1m and operating profits of and expertise.
In addition, investment 125.2m from our pest control activities.
626.1m in information technology is enabling The business is highly profitable and us to serve our customers better, faster generates a 20% operating margin.
North America is our largest geography Operating profit m Acquire businesses to broaden in this category.
geographic reach in Continental Initiatives 125.2m Europe and to target high growth Some of our growth initiatives include: sectors PestConnect remote system for Operating margin % monitoring mice that links into our Market opportunities online reporting tools and competition Bed bugs early detection using Roll-out of myRentokil smartphone natural science app, providing customers with a slimmed down view of their site 20% PestConnect remote monitoring focusing on pest activity and open system for mice that links into our recommendations: the first of its kind online reporting tools in the European pest control market Heatpod continued roll out of Advantage sales capability tabletmobile heat treatment for insects based sales tool to support account management and new business Rodents development of new delivery mechanisms for rapidStefanie Scheider, one of our highly skilled North acting rodenticides American pest technicians, believes our comprehensive training programme sets us apart from our competitors Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 BusinessReview ID6 p01-28.
indd 16 01 04 2014 16:20 Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Strategic Report Pest Control 17 Market category which minimises contact with non-target species.
During the year Rentokil entered Pest control is the groups leading into a research and development agreement category.
We are a leading player in No.
1 with Intrexon, a US leader in synthetic most of our markets.
Pest control is the biology, with the objective of developing engine for growth of our business and a new generation of highly-effective and is the vehicle for both new market entry Rentokil is the worlds leading sustainable pest control solutions.
and for further significant expansion in commercial pest control company North America.
This was accelerated by Rentokil places great importance in the acquisition of Western Exterminator developing its Authorised Product List and Eden Advanced Pest Technologies in APL.
The selection of which bait is best 2012.
In the coming year we will be looking is made at the Global Science Centre, to broaden further our national footprint in through a rigorous evaluation procedure the US and Canada for full access to large which includes worldwide field testing.
Our pest This approach ensures unacceptable control operations work together across toxic products are not used, chemical regions to share best practice and build compliance aspects are controlled and Over the last three years the company capabilities in strategic marketing and excessive dosage avoided.
Preliminary APL has seen a significant increase innovation.
This has allowed us to develop in the number of call-outs relating work in the USA enabled a reduction from to bed bugs a leading technical capability worldwide 2,286 Stock Keeping Units SKUs in 2008 with unique proprietary products.
to 99 in 2012, prior to the acquisition of Western Exterminator.
Across Europe, the Customers APLs have been reduced from 270 at the Throughout the world homeowners and end of 2011 to 186 at the end of 2013. businesses trust Rentokil to solve their As well as its regulatory review, the Centre pest problems.
In 2013 commercial pest works with other organisations to influence control accounted for 74% of the business, Rentokil places great importance in end users knowledge and understanding with residential services accounting for working with other organisations to of safe pest control.
This includes bodies influence end users knowledge and 26%.
We offer a comprehensive pest understanding of safe pest control such as the Universities Federation for control service and supply of RentokilAnimal Welfare UFAW and the Campaign branded DIY pest control products.
for Responsible Rodenticide Use CRRU which helps ensure pest control related Environmental environmental impacts are mitigated by In pest control a key element of product sharing best practice and technical advice stewardship is to minimise the need for the with professional users such as farmers use of potentially dangerous products.
way of illustration, Rentokil uses Entotherm, a heat treatment that replaces traditional chemical spraying against bed bugs, moths and beetles.
Similarly, Pygo is a smart Our CR report can be downloaded insecticide that bio-degrades in a controlled from the following link: manner depending on its exposure to light, rentokil-initial.
com  Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 BusinessReview ID6 p01-28.
