20 Strategic Report Workwear Initiatives Experts in Growth initiatives include: Launch of our seven new proprietary Workwear ranges of workwear garments across Europe Cleanrooms we are ideally placed in Initial Workwear specialises primarily in this rapidly growing, high margin sector.
We maintain zero-tolerance environments the rental and maintenance of garments, for customers in the pharmaceutical and such as workwear and personal protective hi-tech manufacturing industries equipment PPE, throughout Europe.
Market category The business is highly profitable and enjoys a strong position in the European workwear market.
It is a good complementary fit with our hygiene Performance Revenue performance m business both businesses are routeIn 2013 we achieved revenues of based and have a shared brand with 403.8m.
The majority of business in linked services for customers.
this category came from France.
Our 403.8m competitive position in this market is Customers highlighted by the 16% operating margin Operating profit m Based on our thorough understanding achieved in 2013, delivering 64.4m of people at work, we can help our of operating profits for the year.
customers perform better by providing 6 4.4m them with the highest quality workwear Market opportunities solutions.
Our strategic focus includes: and competition Operating margin % The European workwear market is Growing the rental market by converting estimated to be worth approximately 5bn customers currently purchasing their of which we have an estimated 8% and garments to our rental business model growing ahead of GDP at 3%.
There Targeting priority market segments with is an increasing trend by customers to high potential, such as those industries outsource their workwear requirements 16% where health and safety are of paramount which is fuelling further growth importance and which therefore need opportunities.
Customers are seeking expert advice in workwear management both functional and fashionable workwear, maintained to the highest standard and Ongoing investment in R&D and with greater transparency on costs and innovation to deliver the best products performance.
Initial is well positioned to and services to our customers capitalise on these trends through product innovation, service differentiation and investment in plant and equipment.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 BusinessReview ID6 p01-28.
indd 20 01 04 2014 16:21 Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Strategic Report Workwear 21 We class water consumption in our Environmental Emissions kWh per kg European workwear and textiles processing Our workwear processing plants in plants as a key performance indicator Europe 44 plants in Austria, Belgium, because of the large amounts of water the Czech Republic, France, Germany, -20% used in the laundry process.
Over recent the Netherlands, Nordics and Poland Since 2008 years these plants have utilised water represent 80% by volume of the Companys recovery systems reducing both water and total property energy consumption.
These energy consumption, and have delivered plants are the focus for ongoing innovation effluent suitable for subsequent reuse.
development in the area of energy Water consumption is normalised based management.
on kilograms of workwear washed.
In 2013 the results of a survey by ETSA Total consumption across our workwear European Textile Services Association and textile processing plants fell by 4.4% Water consumption litres provided an insight into the operational to 9 litres during the year 2012 saw efficiencies of the member companies.
Internal comparison showed that This represents an overall reduction Initials major processing plants were of 23.5% since 2009. operating at, or above, the industrys Our new Personal Protective Equipment best practice estimates for water, PPE workwear range is the first of its energy and chemicals usage.
-23.5% kind to adopt the latest EU standards for Steam-free laundries are also in the process Since 2009 PPE, giving customers greater assurance of being introduced with the first in Sweden in respect of their businesses health in 2011.
This type of laundry operates with and safety liabilities.
An environmentally the lowest possible energy consumption friendly approach has been adopted in the roughly one third of the average for older development of its Filin range of Polo style plants.
By 2013 five laundries had shirts made with polyester that comes been converted to this technology.
This new range is improvements include the completion of estimated to save nearly 3,000 litres of water a project in our French workwear plant and over 300kg of waste compared with at Bourg-en-Bresse where new remote 100% cotton polo shirts.
Over 47,000 items monitoring equipment enables maintenance in this range have been sold post launch.
teams to review both energy and water consumption from one console, and spot efficiency deviations in operating processes that require immediate maintenance.
In 2013 we invested 23m in our Total emissions from the Companys European laundry infrastructure workwear processing plants have reduced by 6.9% in 2013, with an overall reduction of 20% since 2008.
Our CR report can be downloaded from the following link: rentokil-initial.
com  Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 BusinessReview ID6 p01-28.
