50 Corporate Governance Directors Report and Other Statutory Disclosures Directors Report and Other Statutory Disclosures The Directors Report is a requirement of the Companies Act 2006. per share, payable to shareholders on the register at the close of The UKLAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs and Listing business on 11 April 2014 to be paid on 21 May 2014.
This equates Rules LRs also require the Company to make other disclosures.
to a full year dividend of 2.31p per share, an increase of 10.0% The Corporate Governance Report for the year on pages 30 to 72 compared to 2012, on an approximately one third two thirds interim forms part of the Directors Report.
Disclosures elsewhere in the final basis.
2013 annual report are cross-referenced where appropriate Outlook for 2014 and taken together fulfil the requirements of the Companies Act, We have delivered a steady financial performance in 2013, despite the DTRs and the LRs.
ongoing economic challenges in Europe, rounding out the year with The directors submit their report and audited financial statements a solid fourth quarter in line with expectations.
of the Company and the group to the members of Rentokil Initial plc The divestment of Initial Facilities to Interserve Plc, announced the Company for the year ended 31 December 2013. on 28 February 2014, together with the sale of City Link in April, allow us to focus on our core service categories of pest control, The Company hygiene and workwear using our differential matrix to target Constitution Rentokil Initial plc is a company incorporated in higher growth markets.
England and Wales, with company number 5393279.
The Company Though we see no immediate improvement in trading conditions is a holding company with limited trading in its own right and in Europe particularly the Benelux in 2014 we expect to offset with subsidiary undertakings in over 60 jurisdictions.
The material ongoing margin pressure with cost efficiencies and anticipate a subsidiary undertakings are listed in on page 128. material improvement in free cash flow as restructuring expenses Articles of association and directors powers and capex are reduced.
In addition our new strategy, with its The articles of association set up the internal regulations of the differentiated plan to drive shareholder value, gives us confidence in Company and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders and making further operational and financial progress in the coming year.
the conduct of the Board and general meetings.
Share capital Under the articles, the directors are responsible for the management The Companys share capital during the year consisted of ordinary of the business of the Company and may exercise all the powers of shares of 1p each.
There were 1,817,498,329 shares in issue at 31 the Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes and the December 2013 2012: 1,814,831,011.
Each ordinary share other Companys articles of association.
For example, the articles contain than treasury shares, which have no voting rights carries the right to specific provisions and restrictions regarding the Companys power vote at a general meeting of the Company.
At any general meeting, to borrow money.
a resolution put to the vote of the meeting shall be decided on a show of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On a show of hands, every Powers relating to the issuing of shares are also included in member who is present in person or by proxy at a general meeting the articles of association and such authorities are renewed by of the Company shall have one vote.
On a poll, every member who shareholders each year at the AGM.
The articles do not contain is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share special control rights or restrictions on transfer or limitations on the of which they are a holder.
holding of ordinary shares and no requirements for the prior approval of any transfers.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying The Company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is another corporation or by an individual and there are no arrangements not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may which may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
As at 28 February 2014 the shareholders shown in the accountability to shareholders section of the Corporate Governance The articles of association also give power to the Board to appoint Report on page 40 had indicated that they had an interest in 3% or and replace directors, but also require directors to retire and submit more of the Companys issued share capital and were not subject to themselves for re-election at the first AGM following the appointment the 5% disclosure exemption under the Disclosure and Transparency and for re-election by rotation, although directors now submit Directive.
No other interests have been disclosed to the Company themselves for re-election annually.
The articles themselves may in accordance with Disclosure and Listing Rule 5 either during the beamended by special resolution of the shareholders.
In accordance with the articles of association, directors can be Authority for the Company to make purchases of its own shares of appointed or removed by the Board or shareholders in general up to 181,483,101 shares was obtained at the AGM on 15 May meeting.
Amendments to the articles of association have to be 2013.
No purchases of its shares were made by the Company during approved by at least 75% of those voting in person or by proxy 2013.
The authority is normally renewable annually and approval will at the general meeting.
Subject to company law and the articles be sought from shareholders at the 2014 AGM to renew the authority of association the directors may exercise all the powers of the for a further year.
Company and may delegate authority to committees and day-to-day management and decision-making to individual executive directors.
Authority for the Company to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe The articles of association are available upon request and are for shares was obtained at the AGM on 15 May 2013.
The authority displayed on the Companys website at www.
com remains in force and approval will be sought from shareholders at the 2014 AGM to renew the authority for a further year.
During the Dividend year 2,667,318 shares were issued for cash to satisfy the exercise Despite continuing challenging market conditions the Company has of the vested rights under the share incentive plan approved by made solid progress in 2013 and we anticipate further operational shareholders in 2008. and financial progress in 2014.
Taking this into consideration the Board is recommending a final dividend in respect of 2013 of 1.61p Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 CorpGov ID6 p29-54.
indd 50 01 04 2014 16:34 Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Directors Report and Other Statutory Disclosures 51 Change of control provisions Directors indemnity and insurance There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate The Company has granted indemnities in favour of its directors, as is upon a change of control of the Company, such as some commercial permitted by s. 232 to s. 235 of the Companies Act 2006.
It has also agreements and employee share plans.
None of these are deemed purchased insurance cover for the directors against liabilities arising in to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the group as a relation to the Company, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006. whole.
A description of the groups debt funding arrangements is set This insurance does not cover criminal activity.
out in NoteC1 to the financial statements which also describe the change of control provisions relating to the groups Euro medium-term Colleagues and community note programme.
The group is committed to employment practices that follow best practice and are based on equal opportunities for all colleagues, Reporting, accountability and audit irrespective of age, gender, race, colour, sexual orientation, disability The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and or marital status.
The Companys policy is to recruit, appoint and accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
UK promote on the merit of the individual.
Of its 52,000 colleagues company law requires that the directors must not approve financial at the end of 2013, 42% were female, and of its 365 senior managers, statements unless they are satisfied that they give the true and fair 20% were female.
Female representation at Board level is 9%.
view of the state of affairs of the group.
In preparing the financial The engagement and enablement of colleagues is critical to our statements the directors are required to: apply them consistently, success as a service company.
In September 2013 a confidential make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent, survey carried out by Hay Group revealed that both colleague state the basis on which they are prepared and prepare the financial engagement and enablement were six percentage points ahead the statements on a going concern basis.
global norm for service companies.
At 74% the Companys colleague The directors must keep adequate accounting records for the Parent enablement score was three percentage % points ahead of the Company to enable them to ensure that its financial statements global High Performance company norm.
comply with the Companies Act 2006.
The directors have a general The Company has over 100 colleagues in apprenticeships across responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonable to safeguard Europe.
By the end of 2013, 28,000 training hours were recorded the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other globally on U Online, the Companys in-house university.
The directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report The Company attaches considerable importance to communicating and Corporate Governance Report that comply with law and with colleagues and systematically provides colleagues with regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and information on matters of concern to them, consulting them or integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the their representatives regularly.
Internal communications take place Companys website.
at a group, region, country and team level in order to ensure that colleagues receive accurate information in a timely manner and The Strategic Report which includes the Chairmans and Chief a variety of structures exist for two-way communications at all Executives letter provides an overview of the development and levels.
At a corporate level the group intranet is used to announce performance of the Companys business in the year ended 31 Company news with the support of direct email communication from December 2013 and its position at the end of the year and covers the executive team.
This is supplemented by a periodic electronic the likely future developments in the business of the Company and magazine called The Right Way which features interviews with senior the group.
For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.
5R 2 and executives about major initiatives and performance.
8R, the required content can be found in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report, including material incorporated by reference.
In Europe the Company meets its European Forum European Works Council usually twice a year to communicate with colleagues The independent auditors report on pages 73 to 74 includes representatives from across the continent.
The Company maintains a statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
an open dialogue with the Forum at times of business change.
The directors recognise that their responsibility to present a balanced and understandable assessment extends to interim and other In recent years the Company has provided support to colleagues price-sensitive public reports, reports to regulators and information and communities at times of natural disaster including response to required to be presented by law.
flooding in Thailand and Indonesia, the earthquake in New Zealand and the tsunami in Japan.
Following Typhoon Yolanda, which struck Disclosure of information to auditors the Philippines in 2013, the Company made cash donations and The directors confirm that, insofar as each of them is aware, there provided food, personal hygiene and pest control provision in affected is no relevant audit information as defined by section 418 2 of the areas.
Local management teams worked in partnership with the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is unaware: Philippine Red Cross to supply food and other basic items to those and each director has taken all the steps that should have been taken to ensure that they are each aware of any relevant audit information inneed.
as defined and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware During the year our South African operations launched an Employee of that information.
Share Ownership Plan in which all employees became members Going concern of a trust which owns a 25% share in the business.
This resulted in The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the Company it being awarded a Level 3 B-BBEE Broad-Based Black Economic and the group have adequate resources to continue in operation for Empowerment status.
In 2013 the Company also supported the the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they consider it appropriate to global charities Malaria No More and WaterAid: for every colleague adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
taking part in its global colleague survey a donation of 1 was Further details on the groups net debt, borrowing facilities and donated to these charities and a total of 8,688 was presented financial risk management policies is provided in the Financing to each charity.
section of notes to the accounts on pages 113 to 125.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 CorpGov ID6 p29-54.
indd 51 01 04 2014 16:34 52 Corporate Governance Directors Report and Other Statutory Disclosures Directors Report and Other Statutory Disclosures continued The table below shows the trend in water consumption over the past Health and safety six years for all the workwear processing plants.
Direction of health and safety is set by the Safety, Health and Environment SHE leadership team who focus upon developing Water usage per unit washed operational and functional capability to deliver improved litres used per kilogram performances, especially on the priority businesses, of which 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 there were five in 2013.
Details of the Companys health and All workwear processing safety performance and initiatives can be found in the Corporate plants 13.0 12.2 11.6 11.3 9.8 9.3 Responsibility Report 2013, available at www.
com The SHE leadership team reports on health and safety matters to every meeting of the Executive Leadership Team and of the Board Greenhouse gas GHG emissions reporting and is always the first item of business.
The Executive Leadership Our principal energy derived emissions KPI is reported as an index Team reviews individual businesses health and safety performance, on a normalised basis in order to provide an accurate like-for-like using its KPIs of Lost Time Accident Rate LTA a frequency performance comparison, removing the variables of currency and measure and Working Days Lost Rate WDL a severity measure.
In 2013 the Companys energy derived emissions The table below shows the continued improvement in these two excluding those related to City Link per m turnover at constant KPIs over the past six years as well as the performance against target exchange rates reduced by 3.2%.
The Company publishes its emissions data in the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP.
In 2013 it completed its seventh successive CDP 2013 KPI 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 target submission, obtaining a disclosure percentage of 70% in the CDP Leadership Index.
It also submits environmental data for publication LTA 1.82 1.53 1.68 1.34 1.08 0.94 0.97 to the Business in the Community Index and Dow Jones Sustainability WDL n a 39.66 47.56 35.75 24.83 19.97 21.65 Index, which placed the Company in the World Index for its sector.
Under the requirements of The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations, Rentokil Initial is required Regrettably there were two fatalities in 2013, which involved Company to report in its Directors Report on all direct GHG emissions relating vehicles.
One occurred on a Company site in France, and involved to the combustion of fuel and the operation of any facility and indirect a female colleague who was hit by a reversing truck.
As a result of GHG emissions through the purchase of electricity, heat, steam or this incident, a Company-wide workplace transport safety review cooling.
In addition, the Company must state the methodologies used was initiated and a series of improvements on vehicle pedestrian and at least one intensity value which expresses the emissions relative segregation agreed for sites across the group.
The other, also in to its activities.
France, involved an elderly lady who was hit by one of our vehicles when crossing the road, which remains under investigation.
Since 2006, the Company has reported on its emissions relating to all property, plant and vehicles owned by the Company.
In 2013, Environment we also reviewed other sources of emissions, including leakages and The Companys principal environmental KPIs are water consumption process gases.
A scoping exercise assessing HFCs leakages from in the workwear processing plants and energy derived emissions.
airconditioning and refrigeration units was undertaken worldwide.
Details of the Companys environmental initiatives can be found This indicated that these represented less than 0.5% of the in its Corporate Responsibility Report 2013, available at Companys total 2012 emissions and is considered not material www.
A similar exercise focused on PFCs, which confirmed there was no use of any PFC related chemicals.
Water consumption Water consumption in our European workwear processing plants is However, material levels of emissions were established in the use a key performance indicator, because of the large amounts of water of methyl bromide and sulfuryl fluoride in fumigation pest treatments used in the laundry process.
The latter is a relatively new gas and the former has been in use for many years but its production For several years, these plants have utilised water recovery systems, will be phased out in 2015.
Whilst the manufacturer states that reducing both water and energy consumption, and delivering effluent sulfuryl fluoride is not ozone depleting, we are reporting on emission suitable for subsequent reuse.
In addition, following supplier contractual derived from its use because it has a global warming potential of agreements, water, energy and chemical consumption are controlled around 5,000. jointly with the supplier which is responsible for all consumption improvements.
All plants are audited with the supplier, with a focus The acquisition of Western Exterminator in the US at the end on water and energy consumption.
Equipment suppliers review boiler of 2012 led the Company to become a more significant user of water treatment systems to ensure boiler efficiency is maintained at sulfuryl fluoride.
During 2014 we are undertaking a data collation the highest levels.
Also, steam-less laundries are being introduced of consumption of fumigation gases as well as investigating the currently in use in four plants.
Steam-less processing plants operate availability of possible alternatives to sulfuryl fluoride.
For 2013, at the lowest possible energy and water consumption levels.
we are reporting upon the results from the fumigation gases scoping exercise, and include emissions based on this exercise in the data Water consumption is normalised based on kilograms of workwear below.
In future years, we anticipate there could be some variability washed.
For all the workwear processing plants, consumption fell in fumigation gases emissions, as the use of these gases is typically in 2013 by 4.4% to 9.3 litres 2012 a reduction of 14.1% and related to large building fumigation contracts.
This represents an overall reduction of 28% since 2008.
indd 52 01 04 2014 16:34 Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Directors Report and Other Statutory Disclosures 53 Directors Report and Other Statutory Disclosures continued The Companys total 2013 emissions, split between the two Key contracts categories, and segregated between energy derived emissions The group does not have any dominant customer or supplier and fumigation derived emissions are as follows: relationships.
Total energy Total fumigation Post balance sheet events derived emissions derived emissions Source of emissions tonnes CO e tonnes CO e 2 2 The Company announced on 28 February 2014 that it had signed a Direct GHG emissions relating contract with Interserve Plc to sell the Initial Facilities business to them to the combustion of fuel and the 232,971 380,979 for 250m.
The transaction is subject to the approval by Interserve operation of any facility shareholders at a general meeting to be held on 17 March 2014.
Please refer to Note D3 to the accounts on page 127 which sets Indirect GHG emissions through out the financial effect of the transaction on the Company.
the purchase of electricity, heat, 28,072 0 steam or cooling Political donations It is the Companys policy to not make payments to political The energy derived emissions include those that are defined as scope organisations.
The Company does however maintain a shareholder 3 emissions and those that are defined as outside scope.
authority to make payments of a political nature but does so only in order to ensure that the Company has authority from shareholders for This emissions data is based on the 12 months ended 31 December the limited number of activities associated with the operation of the 2013.
Energy data has been collated in tandem with energy costs business which might be caught by the broad definition of payments and covers all worldwide operations.
Fumigation gas data has of a political nature contained within current legislation.
There were no been collated from those Rentokil operations authorised to use payments to political organisations during 2013 2012: nil.
Emissions have been calculated in line with the 2013 DEFRA reporting standards, and have been calculated using the UK Related party transactions Government conversion factors for company reporting produced Other than in respect of arrangements relating to the employment of on behalf of DEFRA and DECC.
directors, details of which are provided in the Directors Remuneration The intensity values are based on energy derived emissions per m Report or as set out in Note D2 on page 126, there is no indebtedness turnover, with two variants.
The first uses actual exchange rates to owed to or by the Company to any colleague or any other person calculate the turnover base.
However, because of the extent of our considered to be a related party.
worldwide operations, this may show variations that may be due to currency variations.
The second intensity value is an index of Research and development emissions per m turnover at constant exchange rates.
The Company invests in an active programme of innovation in supportof its major international business streams.
This programme Energy derived emissions per m turnover includes the conception, design, testing and manufacture of new Intensity values 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 products to enhance the quality, effectiveness and safety of the At actual exchange rates 112 117 114 117 131 Companys services and minimise their environmental impact.
Where appropriate, work may be sponsored at universities with Index based on constant expertise in relevant areas.
exchange rates 84.82 87.63 87.92 89.05 100.00 The five-year trend of normalised energy derived emissions shows that the Company has produced an overall reduction in emissions of 15.1%.
All these values exclude both City Link revenue and energy usage, to provide consistency of comparison.
The Company has set a target of an emissions reduction of 10% by 2016, based on this index of energy derived emissions, from 2011 levels.
indd 53 01 04 2014 16:34 54 Corporate Governance Directors Report and Other Statutory Disclosures Directors Report and Other Statutory Disclosures continued dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of in other jurisdictions.
the annual report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the Each of the directors, whose name and functions are set out on group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with pages 30 to 31, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors a. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the to prepare group and Parent Company financial statements for each applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the group of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company as a whole: and financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
b. the Strategic Report and Directors Report include a fair review Under company law the directors must not approve the financial of the development and performance of the business and the statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the view of the state of affairs of the group and Parent Company and of consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the group and of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Statement of the directors as to the disclosure of make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent information to the auditor The directors confirm that, insofar as each of them is aware, there for the group financial statements, state whether they have been is no relevant audit information as defined by s. 418 2 of the prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is unaware: for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether and each director has taken all of the steps that should have been applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject taken to ensure that they are each aware of any relevant audit to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent information as defined and to establish that the Companys auditors Company financial statements: and are aware of that information.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis The Directors Report on pages 50 to 54 and the Strategic Report on unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the Parent pages 2 to 28 were approved by a duly authorised committee of the Company will continue in business.
Board of directors on 28 February 2014 and signed on its behalf The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting by Paul Griffiths, the Company Secretary.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Paul Griffiths Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also Company Secretary responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, 28 February 2014 Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
Registered office: The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Riverbank, Meadows Business Park, Blackwater, Camberley, the corporate and financial information included on the Companys Surrey GU17 9AB website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and Registered in England and Wales No: 5393279 Cautionary statement This report contains statements that are, or may be, forward-looking regarding the groups financial position and results, business strategy, plans and objectives.
Such statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances and there are accordingly a number of factors which might cause actual results and performance to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and no representation or warranty, whether expressed or implied, is given in relation to them, including as to their completeness or accuracy or the basis on which they were prepared.
Other than in accordance with the Companys legal or regulatory obligations including under the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Information contained in this 2013 annual report relating to the Company or its share price, or the yield on its shares, should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance.
Nothing in this 2013 annual report should be construed as a profit forecast.
