2 Strategic Report Our Business Our Business Our brands Who we are Our global brands are Rentokil, Initial andAmbius.
Rentokil Initial is a global leader in Our values support services employing some Service, Relationships and Teamwork have been identified by our colleagues 52,000 people in 2013.
We provide across the group as the core values of the Company.
By living our values we route-based services in pest control, are better placed to offer outstanding hygiene, workwear and plants and and consistent customer service.
site-based services in facilities management.
Our businesses Core categories Non-core activities Pest Control Hygiene Workwear Facilities Services Plants Rentokil Pest Control is the Initial Hygiene provides Initial Workwear specialises in Ambius installs and services Initial Facilities provides fully worlds leading commercial high-quality hygiene the supply and maintenance both interior and exterior integrated Total Facilities pest control company, products and services that of garments, such as plant displays, flowers, Management TFM to operating in over 50 countries minimise risk of exposure to workwear and personal replica foliage, Christmas commercial and Government including recent entries bacteria and other infectious protective equipment, decorations and ambient sector organisations of all sizes in Turkey, Mexico and Brazil.
We are scenting for commercial across all business sectors.
We have leading market offer customers a range of the only player with scale businesses including hotels, It has comprehensive service positions in the UK, services from convenient across the four main offices and shopping centres.
capabilities in catering, cleaning, continental Europe, Asia and delivery of hygiene supplies continental European Ambius is North Americas security, buildings mechanical South Africa and a rapidly to a complete rental markets of France, Germany, largest office interior plants and electrical engineering and expanding presence in the maintenance service.
business and also operates statutory compliance.
We also offer a linen service in Europe, Australia, Canada long-term partnering relationships for hotels, restaurants and and South Africa.
and is the service partner of hospitals.
Group revenue % Group revenue % Group revenue % Group revenue % Group revenue % 21.3% 17.6% 5.8% 27.3% 23.2% Facilities Services In 2013 the Company indicated that Initial Facilities, with its different site-based operating model, would be managed as a stand-alone business from the remainder of the group.
On 28 February 2014 Rentokil Initial announced the divestment of Initial Facilities to Interserve Plc for a total cash consideration of 250m.
Completion, which is subject to the agreement of Interserves shareholders on 17 March, is expected by the end of March 2014.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 BusinessReview ID6 p01-28.
indd 2 01 04 2014 16:17 Corporate Governance Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Our Business 3 Mature and growth markets Mature Our businesses have leading positions in mature markets including Europe and the United Kingdom, the United States and Australia.
Demand for our services is driven by high standards of hygiene, health and safety.
Growth These include both established growth markets where there is a steady demand for our services and emerging markets in which a growing middle class in cities, tighter hygiene legislation and greater end-user expectations are driving increased demand.
We have a growing presence in Asia, North Africa, the Middle East and the Americas.
Global performance Where we operate We operate in over 60 countries including Europe, Europe Asia Pacific Australia, Asia, North America, the Middle East and South America.
Greater awareness of public health, 860m 105m 150m stricter food safety legislation and the growing presence of international food, pharmaceutical and UK & Rest North hospitality companies in emerging markets are of World America driving demand for our services.
308m 341m For more information go to page 12 Canada UK United States Europe Asia Middle East Mexico Africa South South Australia America Africa Key Mature markets Growth markets Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 BusinessReview ID6 p01-28.
