Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2013 17 Report of the Directors The Directors present their Annual Report and the Group During the year the Nominations Committee comprised Accounts for the year ended 29 December 2013. the following Directors: Tony Hughes Chairman Results and dividends Simon Cloke The results for the year ended 29 December 2013 are Alan Jackson presented under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Report and Andrew Page Accounts are drawn up on a 52 week reporting basis ending on 29 December 2013 2012: 52 week reporting basis ending The Directors remuneration report, which includes details on 30 December 2012.
The results for the year are set out in of Directors remuneration and interests in the Companys the consolidated income statement on page 45.
This shows shares and options, together with information on service a Group profit after tax of 56.2m 2012: 48.2m.
An interim contracts, is set out on pages 25 to 35. dividend of 5.25p per share was paid on 9 October 2013.
The Directors propose a final dividend of 8.75p per share, Directors shareholdings which is subject to approval at the Companys Annual The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company, General Meeting to be held on 15 May 2014.
Should this all being beneficially owned, were as follows: be approved, the final dividend will be paid on 9 July 2014, At 26 At 29 At 30 bringing the ordinary dividend per share payable in respect February December December of 2013 to 14.0p 2012: 11.8p.
2014 2013 2012 Executive Directors Directors Andrew Page 490,056 490,056 681,486 Full details of the Directors of the Company are given on the Stephen Critoph 263,220 263,220 358,197 page opposite.
The Directors who held office during 2013 were as follows: Non-executive Directors Alan Jackson 250,191 250,191 400,191 Executive Directors Tony Hughes 400,000 400,000 400,000 Andrew Page Simon Cloke 15,000 15,000 15,000 Stephen Critoph Trish Corzine until 15 May 2013 Details of the Directors share options are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report.
The closing mid-market price Non-executive Directors of the ordinary shares on 29 December 2013 was 589.5p Alan Jackson and the range during the financial year was 364.0p to 591.5p.
Tony Hughes Share capital structure Simon Cloke The Company has one class of shares, ordinary shares of 1 28 8p.
As at 29 December 2013, the issued, called up and Each of the non-executive Directors excluding the Chairman fully paid number of shares in issue was 200,647,143 shares.
is considered by the Board to be independent.
Tony Hughes There are no preference shares or special rights pertaining held the position of senior non-executive Director.
Alan to any of the shares in issue.
Jackson moved from executive Chairman to non-executive Chairman on 1 January 2006 and given his tenure as an Following the 2013 Annual General Meeting the Directors executive Director, is not considered to be independent as have had the authority to allot shares up to an aggregate defined by the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
nominal amount of 18,777,950 which represented approximately one third of the ordinary share capital of the No Director has a service contract with the Company Company at the time the authority was given by shareholders.
requiring more than twelve months notice.
Mr Page has This authority expires at the Annual General Meeting to be advised the Board that he wishes to retire from his role as held on 15 May 2014 and it will be proposed to extend this Chief Executive Officer of the Company on 31 August 2014. authority updated for the current number of shares in issue at the forthcoming Meeting.
The Directors have no present In accordance with the Code, the Directors will be subject intention of exercising this authority.
to re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
At the 2013 Annual General Meeting the Directors were also During the year the Audit Committee comprised the following provided with the authority to allot shares for cash other than non-executive Directors: on a pre-emptive basis, up to an aggregate nominal amount Simon Cloke Chairman of 2,816,692 which represented approximately 5% of the Tony Hughes issued share capital at the time that the authority was given by shareholders.
This authority also expires at the Annual During the year the Remuneration Committee comprised General Meeting to be held on 15 May 2014 and it will be the following non-executive Directors: proposed to extend this authority updated for the current number of shares in issue at the forthcoming Meeting.
The Tony Hughes Chairman Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
Simon Cloke 18 Annual Report 2013 The Restaurant Group plc Report of the Directors continued In addition, following the 2013 Annual General Meeting, Remuneration Committee currently comprise of two nonthe Directors have the authority to make market purchases executive Directors rather than three.
The Board anticipates of shares in The Restaurant Group plc on behalf of the appointing an additional non-executive Director in 2014 Company up to 20,029,813 ordinary shares which which will address this see Nominations Committee, below.
represented 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at the time of the Notice of the 2013 Annual General The size and composition of the Board is regularly reviewed to Meeting.
The minimum price that may be paid for such ensure that the effectiveness of the Board and performance 1 shares is 28 8p per share.
The maximum price is the higher of of the Group remains at a high standard.
5% above the average middle market quotation for the ordinary shares for the five business days preceding the date Statement about applying the principles of the Code of purchase and the higher of the price of the last independent The Company has applied the principles set out in section 1 trade and the highest current independent bid on the London of the Code, including both the Main Principles and the Stock Exchange Daily Official List at the time the purchase supporting principles, by complying with the Code as reported is carried out.
Further explanation of how the Main Principles have been applied is set out below and in the Directors This authority expires at the forthcoming Annual General remuneration report and the Audit Committee report.
Meeting and it will be proposed to extend this authority updated for the current number of shares in issue The Board at the Meeting.
The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company and Group within a framework of prudent The Group has entered into various contracts, including and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed leases, during the course of ordinary business which and managed.
The Board reviews the Groups business may be terminated in the event of a change of control model and strategic objectives and looks to ensure that the of The Restaurant Group plc.
necessary financial and human resources are in place to achieve these objectives, to sustain them over the long term Substantial shareholdings and to review management performance against these At 6 February 2014 the Company had been notified of the objectives.
The Board also sets the Companys values and following interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share standards and manages the business in a manner to meet capital of the Company: its obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders.
Number % of issued of shares share capital The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance Director and Black Rock Investment two non-executive Directors.
Their biographies appear on Management Inc 16,631,232 8.29 page 16 and these demonstrate a range of experience and Old Mutual Asset Managers 12,212,851 6.09 sufficient calibre to bring independent judgement on issues Legal & General Investment of strategy, risk management, performance, resources and Management Ltd 10,052,541 5.01 standards of conduct which is vital for the success of M&G Investment the Group.
Management Ltd 9,888,161 4.93 Standard Life 9,022,392 4.50 Tony Hughes acts as senior independent non-executive Aviva Investors 8,076,330 4.03 Director and is available to shareholders if they have reasons Royal London Asset for concern on which contact through the normal channels Management Ltd 6,872,498 3.43 is inappropriate or has failed to resolve an issue.
Lloyds Banking Group 6,449,251 3.21 The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly Corporate governance defined.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and The Company is committed to high standards of corporate effectiveness of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer governance and to observing the principles of corporate is responsible for the strategic direction and operational governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance management of the Group.
The Board meets on a regular Code that was issued in 2010 by the Financial Reporting basis and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically Council the Code for which the Board is accountable reserved for its consideration.
This includes approval of the to shareholders.
annual budget and the three year business plan, approval of the interim and year end Report and Accounts, review Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate and approval of significant capital expenditure including Governance Code development of new sites, significant disposals of assets Throughout the year ended 29 December 2013, the Company and acquisitions or disposals of businesses.
has been in compliance with the provisions set out in the Code except for provisions concerning the number of Directors Operational management are responsible for the day-to-day considered to be independent, and the independence of the running of the Group and report on a regular basis on that Chairman who was previously executive Chairman before performance to the Board.
The Board is responsible for being appointed to the role of non-executive Chairman in reviewing, challenging and approving the strategic direction January 2006.
The Company currently has two nonof the Group and monitoring operational performance.
executive Directors who are considered to be independent, The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper which, until the retirement of Trish Corzine on 15 May 2013 management of the Group and has access to the necessary was less than the 50% of the Board excluding the Chairman information and training to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Audit Committee and Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2013 19 All Directors are subject to election by shareholders Companys announcement of the year end results, and at at the first opportunity after their appointment, except the half year.
Feedback from major institutional shareholders where they are appointed by shareholders, and to annual is provided to the Board on a regular basis and, where re-election thereafter.
appropriate, the Board will take steps to address their concerns and recommendations.
There is significant involvement from the non-executive Directors.
This includes an ongoing dialogue with the The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate executive Directors including constructive challenge of with private and institutional investors and welcomes their performance and the Groups strategy.
The Chairman aims to ensure that the chairmen Directors are provided with sufficient information to allow of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and them to monitor, assess and challenge the executive Nominations Committee are available at the Annual General management of the Group.
Meeting to answer questions, and for all Directors to attend.
Comprehensive Board papers including financial information Remuneration Committee are circulated to all Directors prior to Board meetings and, The Remuneration Committee consists of two independent on a weekly basis, they receive up-to-date trading information.
There are written terms of reference The non-executive Directors have the opportunity to meet for the Remuneration Committee.
There was 100% without the executive Directors being present.
Matters attendance at the two Remuneration Committee meetings examined on these occasions include consideration of targets held during 2013.
The role of this Committee and details set and performance achieved by management.
of how the Company complies with the principles of the Code are set out in the Directors remuneration report.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and a procedure has been agreed Nominations Committee for the Directors in the furtherance of their duties to take The Nominations Committee consists of the independent independent professional advice, if necessary, at the expense non-executive Directors, the non-executive Chairman and of the Company.
On joining the Board there is a process the Chief Executive Officer.
It met once during 2013 with for Directors to receive training as to their role and its full attendance at the meeting.
There are written terms of requirements and for non-executive Directors to gain an reference for the Nominations Committee.
It is responsible for understanding of the whole business.
Non-executive making recommendations to the Board for the appointment Directors are actively encouraged to meet with operational or replacement of additional Directors and ensuring there management and to visit the Groups operations in order is an appropriate balance and diversity of skills, experience, to enhance their understanding of the Groups business, knowledge and independence both now and in the future.
its brands, employees and processes.
The Nominations Committee is tasked with regularly at least During 2013 there were eight Board meetings with full annually reviewing the composition of the Board to ensure attendance by Board members.
The Company acknowledges it remains effective and comprises a suitable range of skills, the importance of developing the skills of the Directors to backgrounds and experience.
In 2013 the Nominations run an effective Board.
To assist in this, Directors are given Committee concluded that an additional non-executive the opportunity to attend relevant courses and seminars Director should be appointed.
Spencer Stuart, an independent and to acquire skills and experience which may enhance executive search consultancy and a signatory of the their contribution to the ongoing progress of the Group.
Voluntary Code of Conduct, has been appointed to identify The performance of the Board and Board Committees suitable candidates.
The Company anticipates announcing are appraised annually.
The process is led by the Chairman, an appointment during 2014. supported by the Company Secretary and involves a comprehensive review of performance against objectives The Committee is also responsible for succession planning and areas for future development.
The non-executive for the Group.
In 2013, it oversaw the appointment of the Directors also meet in the absence of the Chairman to Deputy Managing Director of the Concessions Division to appraise the Chairmans performance.
In 2013, an externally the role of Managing Director, Concessions, following Trish facilitated review of Board effectiveness was carried out by Corzines retirement from this position.
The Committees work Independent Audit Ltd IAL.
IAL has no other connection on succession planning was a significant factor in the smooth with the Company.
The review examined the keys functions transition of personnel in this key role within the Group.
of the Board and the effective discharge of its responsibilities.
The results were analysed by IAL and their report has been The Board acknowledges the importance of diversity and discussed in detail with the Chairman and the Board.
promoting equal opportunities throughout the Group.
The The review concluded that no significant changes or Nominations Committee will continue to have regard to the improvements were required.
recommendations of the Women on Boards report from Lord Davies published in February 2011 in its deliberations Communications with shareholders on future appointments.
Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
The Chairmans statement, Chief Executive Officers review Audit Committee of operations and Group Finance Directors report include The Audit Committee consists of two non-executive a detailed review of the business and the Chief Executive Directors.
During the year the Committee was chaired by Officers review of operations includes a review of planned Simon Cloke.
There are written terms of reference for the future developments.
There is a regular dialogue with Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee met twice during institutional investors including presentations after the 2013 with full attendance at each meeting.
A more detailed 20 Annual Report 2013 The Restaurant Group plc Report of the Directors continued description of the work undertaken by the Audit Committee compliance with statutory and internal health and safety is included in the Audit Committee report on pages 36 and requirements: and 37.
Shareholders of the Company have the opportunity to an internal audit function headed by an experienced re-appoint Deloitte LLP as external auditor of the Company internal auditor has access to all areas of the Company at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 May 2014. and Groups business and reports into the Board.
Internal control Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal to the accounts control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In accordance The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report with guidance for Directors Internal Control: Guidance for and the financial statements in accordance with applicable Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance, law and regulations.
The Board considers that the Annual the Board has ensured that there is an ongoing process for Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control understandable.
Company law requires the Directors to including identifying, evaluating and managing the significant prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under risks faced by the Group.
This process, which is regularly that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group reviewed by the Board, is carried out in conjunction with financial statements in accordance with International Financial business planning and is documented in a risk register that Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European has been progressively enhanced during the financial year and Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have chosen to up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Whilst acknowledging its overall responsibility for the system of Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards internal control, the Board is aware that the system is designed and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
The Group has well-established procedures which have In preparing the Group financial statements, International been developed over many years which meet the requirements Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: of the Turnbull Guidance.
A key control procedure is the properly select and apply accounting policies: day-to-day involvement of executive members of the Board in all aspects of the business and their attendance at regular present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and management meetings at which performance against plan and business prospects are reviewed.
The Group has a understandable information: monthly executive management meeting where the executive provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Directors, senior operational managers and heads of functional specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable departments review Group performance and issues affecting users to understand the impact of particular transactions, the Group.
Additionally, the Board seeks to continually other events and conditions on the entitys financial position strengthen the internal control system where this is consistent and financial performance: and with an appropriate balance between risk and reward.
make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other key features and the processes for reviewing effectiveness of the internal control system are In preparing the parent company financial statements, described below: the Directors are required to: terms of reference for the Board and its sub-committees, select suitable accounting policies and then apply including a schedule of matters reserved for the Board them consistently: and an agreed annual programme of fixed agenda items make judgements and accounting estimates that are for Board approval: reasonable and prudent: an established organisational structure with clear lines state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards of responsibility and rigorous reporting requirements: have been followed: and operational performance and operational matters are prepare the financial statements on the going concern considered at monthly meetings of the executive Directors basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the with senior management.
Financial performance is Company will continue in business.
monitored and action taken through weekly reporting to the executive Directors and monthly reporting to the Board The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate against annual budgets approved by the Board: accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain capital investment is regulated by a budgetary process the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable and authorisation levels, with appraisals and post accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company investment reviews: and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comprehensive policy manuals setting out agreed comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also standards and control procedures.
These include human responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company resources related policies, information technology and and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention health and safety.
The Group employs a firm of external and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
auditors to monitor restaurants on a regular basis for Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2013 21 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and financial instruments for trading purposes.
Group operations integrity of the corporate and financial information included are primarily financed from retained earnings and bank on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom borrowings including an overdraft facility.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In addition to the primary financial instruments, the Group also has other financial instruments such as debtors, Information provided to the auditor prepayments, trade creditors and accruals that arise directly Each of the current Directors have taken all the steps that from the Groups operations.
Further information is provided they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any in note 22 to the accounts.
relevant information needed by the Companys auditor for the purpose of their audit and to establish that the auditor The average rate of interest charged during the year on the is aware of that information.
The Directors are not aware of Groups debt was 2.74% 2012: 2.64%, and the average any relevant information of which the auditor is unaware.
On 2013 results, information is given and should be interpreted in accordance net interest was covered 33.6 times 2012: 35.4 times with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006. by profit before tax, interest and non-trading items.
Based on year end debt and profits for 2013, a 1% rise in interest Going concern rates would reduce profits before tax and non-trading items The Group Finance Directors report contains a summary by 0.7% 2012: 0.8% and interest cover would reduce to of the cash flows and borrowing position of the Group.
The Group is highly cash generative and enjoys negative working capital as, given the nature of the business, At 29 December 2013 the Group had gross borrowings it generally does not give credit to its customers.
attracting interest including overdraft of 50.0m 2012: 50.0m and cash balances of 7.3m 2012: 12.9m.
Further information on the Groups policies for capital risk management and financial risk management are set out Annual General Meeting below.
The principal risk factors and uncertainties that could A separate Circular is included with the mailing of the affect the business are detailed in the Strategic Report.
Annual Report to shareholders setting out the resolutions to be voted on at the Annual General Meeting, which is to Based on the Groups plans for 2014 and after making take place at 11am on 15 May 2014 at the offices of Instinctif enquiries including preparation of reasonable trading Partners, 65 Gresham Street, London, EC2V 7NQ.
forecasts, consideration of current financing arrangements and current headroom for liquidity and covenant compliance, The Board believes that the proposed resolutions to be put the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting are in the has adequate resources to continue operations for the best interests of shareholders and, accordingly, recommends foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings in the Company.
Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that it will be able Auditor to continue as a going concern while looking to maximise Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue returns to shareholders.
The capital structure of the Group as auditor and a resolution will be proposed at the Annual consists of equity comprising issued share capital, reserves General Meeting for their reappointment.
and retained earnings, debt, finance leases and cash and cash equivalents.
Directors responsibility statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: The Group monitors its capital structure on a regular basis the financial statements, prepared in accordance with through cash flow projections and consideration of the cost of the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs financing its capital.
The Group has a 140m revolving facility as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair in place until October 2016 and a 10m overdraft facility.
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit Under the terms of the 140m revolving facility the Group or loss of the Company and the undertakings included is required to comply with its financing covenants whereby in the consolidation taken as a whole: and net interest charges must be covered at least four times by the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the EBITDA and net debt must not exceed three times EBITDA.
development and performance of the business and the The margin on interest rates applied to the revolving facility position of the Company and the undertakings included is dependent on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
The banking in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a facility covenants are tested twice annually and are monitored description of the principal risks and uncertainties that on a regular basis.
The Group remained within its banking they face.
By order of the Board Financial risk management The Board of The Restaurant Group plc regularly reviews the Stephen Critoph financial requirements of the Group and the risks associated Company Secretary therewith.
The Group does not use complex financial 26 February 2014 instruments, and where financial instruments are used it is for reducing interest rate risk.
The Group does not use derivative
