04 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Market review The global beverage market is large and growing.
The can is playing its part in that growth.
THE GLOBAL MARKET FOR BEvERAGES THE GLOBAL BEvERAGE CAN MARKET While there is a tendency to equate growth with Around 1.9 trillion litres of packaged beverages The beverage can market comprises about emerging markets, we continue to see strong can were consumed across the world in 2013, an 90% aluminium cans and 10% steel cans.
In the growth in a number of mature beverage markets increase of 3% on 2012.
This figure equates to US, beverage cans are made exclusively from as cans replace glass packaging, notably in the the average consumer drinking 264 litres a year.
aluminium, but steel is still used in some parts of Nordic countries and some parts of Eastern Europe, Africa and Asia.
Nearly all of the beverage Europe.
We see this trend continuing in Europe Consumption levels and growth rates differ widely cans used in North America and Europe are two and expect to see the same pattern in emerging by beverage category and region.
North America piece but some three piece steel beverage cans markets as the expansion of modern retail remains the largest market for beverages, with are still used in China and south east Asia.
consumption at 582 litres per capita while average rates in Africa, the Middle East and The can market can be divided into standard COMPETITIvE ENvIRONMENT Asia fall well below the global average, thus cans defined 33cl, 35.5cl and 50cl cans and The global beverage can market has three highlighting the potential that is as yet unexploited.
The demand for specialty cans major global players, Rexam, Ball and Crown The low consumption regions are expected to has been increasing in recent years as drinks who account for over 60% of the global supply achieve the strongest growth in the coming producers respond to consumer demand for of beverage cans.
CanPack has emerged as a years, especially in Asia.
different can sizes to meet various consumption strong regional player in recent years but only needs.
In a market such as North America, Carbonated soft drinks CSD and beer are accounts for some 4% of global supply.
The where volumes of standard cans are declining, significant categories in terms of consumption.
consolidated nature of the industry provides ensuring supply and demand are in balance Within packaged drinks, the strongest growth the foundation for good discipline around entails converting capacity from standard to over the next three years is expected to come supply and demand.
This is important given specialty or removing capacity altogether.
from energy drinks, still drinks, iced tea and the significant differences in regional growth packaged water.
Rexam estimates that around 300bn beverage rates around the world.
cans were consumed globally in 2013.
THE GLOBAL PACKAGING MARKET and CSD account for the vast majority of Beverage cans also have to compete with other Globally, more than 1.4 trillion beverage packs consumption, but an increasing number pack types, in particular glass and PET bottles.
were sold in 2013, an increase of 4% in volume of consumers are drinking other beverage The advantages of the can are well documented: on 2012.
Glass accounts for the biggest share of categories such as energy drinks in a can.
they are unbreakable, light and quick to chill.
They the market followed by PET and beverage cans, See chart 3 below.
are also convenient for the retailer and consumer with the remainder packaged in a mix of cartons, North America remains the largest can region as well as 100% and infinitely recyclable.
pouches, sachets and other pack types.
PET is accounting for 35% of the beverage can market the fastest growing of the three main pack types followed by Asia, Europe, South & Central and has been growing on average 7% a year America and the Middle East and Africa.
Cans have been growing on See chart 5 below.
average by 3% while glass has been losing share and growing at just 2% a year.
2013 Whats in a can by beverage category volume growth CAGR 1.9 trillion litres Soft drinks and alcoholic drinks lPackaged water 18% Energy drinks 10% lBeer Still drinks 9% lCSD 12% lCSD Iced tea 8% lBeer & cider 11% lIced tea & coffee Packaged water 7% l Juice, nectars lJuice drinks 5% Sports drinks 6% & still drinks lIced tea & coffee 3% Spirits incl FABs 5% l Sports & energy drinks lSpirits incl FABs 2% Iced coffee 4% lFABs lSquash & fruit powders 2% Beer & cider 3% Juice & nectars 2% lWine 1% Wine 2% lSports & energy drinks 1% CSD 2% lMilk & dairy drinks 15% Squash & fruit powders 2% lHot drinks 30% 0 3% 6% 9% 12% 4.
2013 Global can volumes by region 6.
2013 Can makers market share 1.4 trillion units Market c 300bn cans lGlass 33% lRexam 2013 35% 30% 21% 9%5% lPET 31% lBall lCans 21% lCrown lOther 15% lCanPack lNorth America lMCC lAsia lOther lEurope lSouth & Central America l Middle East & Africa Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 05 KEy CUSTOMERS In emerging markets the challenge is more Sales to top 10 customers As seen in the table here, Rexams customers around different pack types to access different include large global and regional beverage consumer segments, price points, beverage companies in CSD, beer and energy drinks categories and channels.
Our customers are increasingly focused on They are all looking to reduce their costs and innovation to differentiate their products in ABInBev Arizona differentiate their products.
One of their key a crowded and lower growth marketplace.
Carlsberg Group Coca-Cola challenges is profitable growth in what is today Innovation is taking place in many areas such Heineken Kirin a world growing at a slower pace than previously.
as beverage categories, consumer segments, Monster Oettinger The slowdown in mature markets appears to occasions and channels.
Pepsi Red Bull have put pressure on prices and margins, and To address customers priorities Rexam has emerging markets seem to be proving no less increased its focus on innovation, developing competitive as local champions and partnerships with existing and new suppliers multinationals fight for position.
to focus on new technologies with potential for In developed markets, the trend is towards creating competitive advantage.
See more on finding ways for customers to achieve higher page 20. prices through, for example, novelty and stand out products using size and decoration as a differentiator.
Key market drivers Changing demographics Health and safety The key market drivers and changing lifestyles declining health, evidenced by growing in packaging are: the growth in urbanisation means that society obesity rates and related lifestyle diseases is moving away from traditional household such as diabetes, is serving as a wake up Expanding global economy and family structures.
It is also moving to more call for consumers.
Changing demographics and modern retail outlets such as supermarkets and nutrition increasingly is being recognised as a changing lifestyles discount stores which are the home of the can.
way to improve public health and some food Health and safety ageing populations are leading to more single and drink companies are looking to provide person households and greater reliance on a more holistic approach to health through Sustainability home delivery.
As they represent a higher nutritious food and beverage choices.
proportion of the total population, they are Expanding global economy closely related to health is the growing public expected to shape demand cycles.
as middle classes grow and a greater concern about product safety and the need disposable income becomes available at all time scarcity and enhanced mobility lead for packaging that prevents counterfeiting, socio-economic levels, desire for and access to less conventional consumption occasions tampering and contamination.
requiring easy to consume and on the Sustainability go products.
economic development and globalisation also the modern world is heavily influenced by create unprecedented but unevenly distributed shifting consumption occasions and reasons resource scarcity, climate change and loss wealth.
The needs of low income consumers to drink stress relief, nutritional aid, status of biodiversity.
create a demand for affordable products enhancing are creating the need for new which itself presents a scaleable opportunity.
many see the current patterns of development formats and pack sizes for every lifestyle as unsustainable and are demanding a complete and occasion.
growing wealth increases demand for novel, rethink regarding the production and consumption fun and personalised packaging which helps consumers have become accustomed of goods.
consumers express individuality through their to treating themselves and this sense of purchases and choice of brand.
socially conscious consumers are asking who entitlement ensures indulgence is an enduring or what is behind the brand and final product.
behaviour, irrespective of financial pressures.
A sizeable segment of consumers feel a desire to do the right thing.
06 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Market review The pace of change is growing.
Here are a number of consumer trends and how the beverage can is addressing them.
Consumer trend How the can is addressing these trends Rexams response Sustainability Customers and consumers expect packaging to be Rexam supports markets with low lightweight, recyclable and to keep products fresh.
recycling rates, establishing and Cans are unbeatable across these areas and they enhancing collection mechanisms help create sustainable supply chains between and helping to foster a recycling manufacture and consumption.
The metals from which cans are made aluminium Rexam has a proven track record in and steel exist in abundance and are both 100% lightweighting: a 33cl can is 22% and infinitely recyclable with no loss of physical lighter than it was 20 years ago, properties.
The economic value of these materials and in 2013 we reduced our own has helped create an established global recycling aluminium usage by 5,600t.
infrastructure that achieves a higher recycling rate Energy efficiency programmes over than any other beverage packaging material.
the past three years in our operations have reduced our CO footprint per can 2 by 6%.
Health & Cans are now available in many different sizes To support portion control Rexam offers Wellbeing including a variety of smaller can options which a range of cans and FUSION bottles of support portion control.
The can, as a single serve, 250ml or less to suit a variety of beverage can contribute to monitoring consumption.
Cans have a large surface area for printing nutritional labels.
The can is a safe, secure and hygienic pack: it is also tamper proof.
The can protects products from two of its greatest enemies, light and oxygen, keeping the product fresh and safe to drink.
Easy, Convenient There is a wide range of can sizes and configurations Rexams wide range of can sizes, TM TM & Simple standard, Sleek, slim, king size cans as well as including resealable FUSION bottles aluminium bottles available as single units and and CapCan varieties, offers the perfect multipacks for outdoor as well as home consumption.
solution for on the go and at home consumption.
Cans are easy to chill and easy to store in the fridge.
Thermochromic ink acts as a temperature indicator on cans to let consumers know when the drink is at its optimum temperature.
Individualism Cans can be personalised with individual print Rexam supports promotional activities Customisation designs, for example, personal names, city names, with printing capabilities as well as soccer team names, etc.
TM Cans are perfect for special events and limited edition Rexams own Editions patent pending runs, especially using high definition printing.
technology allows us to produce between 8 and 24 designs of the same label With 360o branding, the can amplifies the brand simultaneously on a single pallet.
on the supermarket shelf and acts as a potent This printing innovation enables our marketing vehicle.
customers to improve filling efficiency and create new marketing opportunities for brands using beverage cans.
The next generation of this technology TM Editions Super Premium was successfully launched in 2013.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 07 Consumer trend How the can is addressing these trends Rexams response TM Premium & Cans achieve a premium look through high Rexams FUSION aluminium bottle Affordable definition printing with the same detail and 250 and 330 ml is a perfect pack for impact as a photograph.
The can is made of metal, a durable, shiny and We continue to work with customers long lasting material that enhances the perception to enhance brand touch points with, of quality and authenticity.
TM A variety of special can ends tabs coloured, Our Editions mixed design on a pallet laser engraved, cut out tabs are suitable for technology means that the designs, limited editions, brand revitalisation or such as personalised names, cities, etc, attracting new customers.
can be packed in multipacks or used on single cans direct from the filling line.
Cans retail in multipacks and smaller pack sizes for affordability.
Sensory & Cans use a combination of inks and varnish to Rexam offers a full range of can Indulgence enhance the look and feel of the can.
finishes including tactile, debossing, thermochromic, photochromic inks 360o debossing provides a physically different feel to enhance the design of the can.
We are now applying our Luminous glow in the dark inks create a sense of fun thermochromic inks to can ends.
and are ideal for shelf stand out in bars and nightclubs.
Thermochromic inks change colour when beverages reach their optimum drinking temperature.
Sparkle effects provide additional shelf stand out and branding opportunities.
Changing Cans are moving into other beverage categories Rexam offers a full range of can Demographics and occasions such as juice drinks, dairy drinks sizes for a range of categories and for breakfast, wine, water, pre mixed spirits, etc.
of occasions from single serve, for on the go consumption, right through to Smaller can sizes are suitable for children and large sizes for sharing.
Can designs are suitable to address the needs of adult soft drinks and next generation products such as functional beverages.
Cans are suitable for distribution through vending machines and food service channels as well as traditional routes such as supermarkets and convenience stores.
Smart & Cans have a large surface area for providing Rexam has the capability to enhance Connected data, website information, etc to an information the drinking occasion and connectivity hungry generation.
Cans are ideal for enabling social media interaction as it is easy to include QR codes and augmented reality AR features on a can.
