Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 63 REMUnERATIOn POLICy OvERvIEW Our current remuneration principles are as follows: The Groups main objective is to create value for our shareholders and Attracting, retaining and motivating highly qualified and talented other stakeholders through our vision of becoming the best beverage can people, providing competitive remuneration to all employees maker in the world.
This means balancing profitable revenue growth, cash appropriate to the countries in which we are based.
generation and the risk profile for the Group to deliver a strong return on Ensuring that a significant portion of the remuneration package of capital employed.
It is essential that the remuneration principles underpin these objectives and that achievement of the corporate strategy is reinforced an executive director is weighted towards variable performance related pay which rewards higher achievement.
through appropriate performance and management incentives.
Rewards are aligned with the Companys performance so that executive directors Promoting a consistent, clear and transparent link between business are incentivised to achieve demanding results but within an appropriate strategy and individual motivation to achieve performance and to risk profile for the Group.
Providing a meaningful reward opportunity for achievement of stretching targets linked to delivery of our business strategy and achievement of personal performance objectives.
Providing transparency and simplicity in the reward strategy and complying with regulation.
The remuneration policy salary, benefits and retirement benefits Annual cash incentives Salaries are reviewed annually taking Incentive metrics reflect key aspects of account of both internal and external budgeted profit and cash, and personal comparators performance objectives reflect strategy for growth Benefits offered are competitive and cost effective Executive Key performance indicators See pages 16 and 17 directors participate in retirement Linking reward to benefit plans in their home business strategy country see pages 14 and 15 Long term incentives designed to align the interests of management with those of shareholders with a bias towards the longer term Short term capital discipline and creation of shareholder value in annual incentives Linking annual incentives to a balance of growth and return measures, including personal objectives, to align with strategy Awards are granted with performance 25% of annual cash incentive is deferred targets that are measured over three years into share awards.
Awards a re subject to a and reflect the Companys strategy.
Awards three year holding period and are subject are subject to clawback to clawback Long term incentives deferred bonus incentives
