54 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Accountability John Langston Audit and risk committee chairman The board recognises its responsibility for ensuring the implementation and Throughout 2013 the audit and risk maintenance of effective systems of risk management and internal control, committee carried out its duties by and presenting a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The systems and controls in place include policies focusing on the key activities associated and procedures which provide reasonable assurance that transactions are with and complementary to its core recorded as necessary to facilitate the financial reporting process and the preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with internal financial control responsibilities.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Representatives of the Year end results 2012 reviewed with external auditors and recommended businesses complete bi annual representation letters formally confirming for approval to the board: internal audit update Q4 2012 presented: that their businesses comply with the Groups financial reporting policies internal audit plan for 2013 approved: review of whistle blowing calls.
and other Group policies and procedures.
To discharge its responsibilities the board works closely with the audit and risk committee.
External audit plan for 2013 year end approved: early warnings report presented by external auditors for half year 2013: internal audit update After taking account of the detailed work of the audit and risk committee, the Q1 2013 presented: update on Group risks and risk register reviewed board confirms that it carried out a review of the effectiveness of the system and approved: risk presentation by Beverage Can North America sector of internal control which operated within the Group during 2013 and up to management team.
the date of this annual report in accordance with the requirements of the revised Guidance on Internal Control published by the FRC formerly known Half year results 2013 reviewed with external auditors and recommended as the Turnbull Guidance.
This review covered the effectiveness of internal for approval by the board: internal audit update Q2 2013. controls, namely financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
Early warnings report presented by external auditors for year end 2013: No significant failings or weaknesses were identified in the review for 2013. detailed review of Group risks including presentation by Beverage Can The board is satisfied that, where areas for improvement were identified, Europe and Beverage Can Africa, Middle East & Asia sector management processes are in place to ensure that the necessary action is taken and that teams: presentation by chief information officer of the information technology progress is monitored.
The board will continue to carry out such reviews on risks with emphasis on cyber risks: internal audit update Q3 2013: review an annual basis.
Details of the specific actions taken during 2013 to review of effectiveness of external and internal auditors.
the control environment and continue to improve controls are set under risk The committee recognises its role in supporting the board by ensuring that management and internal control on page 56. appropriate internal controls and risk management processes are in place to maintain good corporate governance for the Company.
John Langston Audit and risk committee chairman Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 55 AUdIT And RIsK COMMITTEE MEMBERsHIP And MEETInGs 2013 AUdIT And RIsK COMMITTEE AREAs OF FOCUs 2013 The audit and risk committee members comprise independent non executive Reviewing the financial results of the Group for the half and full year.
John Langston is the chairman of the audit and risk committee.
As a qualified chartered accountant and former finance director he is considered Confirming the accounting process for the sale of Personal Care and the to have recent and relevant financial experience and is well placed to lead return of cash to shareholders.
the audit and risk committee to enable it to carry out its responsibilities.
Reviewing the progress of the sale of the Healthcare business.
Committee membership Attendance Commencement of a new external lead audit partner.
John Langston committee chairman 4 4 Reviews of effectiveness of both external and internal audit.
Jean-Pierre Rodier 4 4 Conducting a detailed review of risks for the business including presentations by the management teams of the Beverage Can Europe, Beverage Can Johanna Waterous 4 4 North America and Beverage Can Africa, Middle East & Asia sectors.
1 Number of scheduled meetings attended maximum number of meetings that the Reviewing updates from the director internal audit on the controls within director could have attended.
the businesses, focus on IT risks and controls, and reviewing reports of whistle blowing calls.
THE ROLE OF THE AUdIT And RIsK COMMITTEE Audit and risk committee chairman attended a finance conference of the The board has approved the terms of reference delegating certain Group in May and addressed attendees from Group and the sector responsibilities to the committee.
The terms of reference are reviewed businesses.
He also met the internal audit team at its December 2013 annually and are available on the Companys website.
The main meeting following the review of internal audit effectiveness.
responsibilities of the audit and risk committee are to: oversee and review the financial and operational risks, policies FInAnCIAL And BUsInEss REPORTInG and management: The audit and risk committee shares responsibility with the board for reviewing assist the board in meeting its responsibilities by ensuring an effective in detail the annual report and half year results announcement, which provide system of internal control and compliance and accurate external a clear assessment of the performance and prospects of the Group through financial reporting: the business model, strategy, and a review of strategic risks and financial and non financial performance.
Also included in the annual report is the external assist the board in managing the relationship with the Companys external auditors report to the members providing an independent opinion on the auditors, to review and monitor their independence, and in particular the truth and fairness of the Groups financial statements.
The half year results provision of any non audit services provided by them to the Group: announcement includes the external auditors review report to the Company.
keep under review the effectiveness of the process for the identification, Other published financial information is reviewed by the audit and risk assessment, mitigation, reporting and monitoring of risks facing the business: committee for statutory and regulatory compliance and is submitted to the approve the appointment of the director internal audit and review and board with a recommendation for approval.
approve the annual programme of internal audit assignments: and significant issues considered by the committee ensure the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and As part of the reporting and review process, the committee has regular understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders discussions with both management and the external auditors relating to to assess the Companys business model, strategy and performance.
During the year the committee considered the following The audit and risk committee meets four times a year.
At the request of the key risks, accounting issues and judgements in relation to the Groups audit and risk committee chairman, the chairman of the board, the chief financial statements and disclosures: executive, the finance director, the director of Group finance, the director internal audit and the external auditors are invited to attend each meeting.
Healthcare business disposal The accounting treatment following the disposal of the Healthcare Should it be requested, the audit and risk committee has access to independent business, together with judgements on the assessment of the carrying expert advice at the Companys expense.
The performance and effectiveness value of goodwill and other intangible assets.
The committee considered of the audit and risk committee are reviewed as part of the performance evaluation of the board and all its committees.
external advice and agreed the accounting treatment in consultation with the external auditors.
significant contracts The accounting implications of significant contracts that had been reviewed and approved by the board, and have been entered into by the Group.
The committee considered the external auditors report on the Groups contract review process and the treatment of up front payments, take or pay obligations and potential embedded derivatives.
Tax The director of Group tax presented the Groups assessment of its tax position, exposures and provisions.
The committee considered benchmark data from other similar multinational corporates, the advice of specialist advisors and the external auditors to assist in formalising its accounting position.
56 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Accountability continued There is an ongoing process for identifying, assessing, mitigating, reporting Metal premium costs and monitoring the risks faced by the Group with a formal audit and risk A report on the increase in metal premium costs and the delay in getting process known as the ARC process led by the director of Group finance metal from third party warehouses to the Groups business locations was together with the chief executive, finance director, the director internal presented by the director of commodity risk.
The committee considered audit and other senior management representatives.
Meetings are held the impact on the business and any mitigating measures that could be with businesses and functional managers who present their risk registers, put in place.
enabling discussion of the risks identified, the management of those risks and the mitigation measures as well as the effectiveness of the systems of Internal controls internal control.
The process ensures that risks are not just the product of a Progress in implementing the Group control framework was presented bottom up approach but are also examined from a top down perspective by the director of Group finance with independent assurance provided and closely aligned with the Groups strategy.
by the director internal audit on how each business assesses its own The enterprise risk management function chairs the risk leadership team with control environment and how the outcome is matched against internal representatives from internal audit and senior management from each of the audits assessment.
The committee considered the outcome of testing sectors.
The team meets regularly to focus on key Group risk themes and to done by the external auditors relating to the timing of revenue recognition refine the ARC process.
to minimise the risk of fraud and assessment of the overall control environment of the Group, including the Raise Your Concern whistle During 2013, a number of refinements were made including: blowing arrangements.
further risk assessment and mitigation actions in respect of the competitive Goodwill trading environment in North America Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible use of a new risk management software system providing enhanced assets in connection with the annual impairment review.
The committee reporting and improved analysis of information across the businesses considered the annual budget approved by the board together with implementation of risk based auditing and a commodity exposure managements key assumptions for discount and long term growth system, in addition to formal sharing of best practice across the business rates in the budget forecasts.
units and benchmarking on world class safety review of the common risk themes within the commercial and supply chain RIsK MAnAGEMEnT And InTERnAL COnTROL functions with the aim of achieving consistency in risk and mitigating actions.
The Group has well established risk management and internal control systems.
While all elements of risk cannot be eliminated, the processes and systems The results of the ARC process are reported to the audit and risk committee aim to identify, assess, prioritise and, where possible, mitigate the Groups and provide an opportunity for the audit and risk committee to discuss and risks.
Although no system can provide absolute assurance against material analyse the risks reported.
In addition to reviewing the risks, as presented misstatement or loss, the Groups systems are designed to provide the board by management, the audit and risk committee also receives presentations with reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded, transactions are from the Groups businesses or functional managers to assess at first hand properly authorised and recorded and that material errors and irregularities the effectiveness of the process, consider whether the risks identified are are either prevented or detected within a timely period.
being managed successfully and to challenge management on the mitigation measures in place.
The audit and risk committee reports its conclusions to The enterprise risk management function is led by the director of Group the board for review.
Details of the key risks to which the Group is exposed finance and has brought an increased focus and emphasis on global risk and additional information on risk processes and management are management, providing leadership and co-ordination across the Groups included in the strategic report and can be found on pages 28 to 33. business and operational risk activities.
Operational risk which includes health and safety, environment, fire and property protection, security, The framework which the board has established to provide effective business continuity and crisis management is the responsibility of senior internal control for both the Group and its associates and joint ventures functional management.
is supported by the key areas set out in the table on pages 57 and 58.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 57 THE InTERnAL COnTROL FRAMEWORK Activity in 2013 Financial reporting The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting Regular reviews took place to ensure businesses were performing financial results to the board.
An annual budget and in line with budget and strategy.
The chief executive and the finance strategic review are prepared for each business and director met regularly with operational management to ensure are consolidated for review by the board before businesses were performing as expected and reporting in accordance being formally adopted.
During the year, monthly with the Groups standards.
Following those meetings the chief management accounts, including cash flow and executive and the finance director reported back to the board.
capital expenditure reporting, are prepared with a comparison against budget and prior year.
Forecasts are revised in light of this comparison and are also reviewed by the board.
delegated authority There are clearly defined lines of responsibility and The Group authority levels and related financial limits, which include levels of authority in operation throughout the Group, information on those matters that are specifically reserved for the with specific matters reserved to the board.
Businesses boards consideration, were reviewed and updated.
are decentralised with operating autonomy and financial responsibility delegated to corporate and local management to the extent that they have approval to operate within defined levels of authority and risk.
Procedures There are formal written Group financial procedures Improvements were made to access and security controls along with and controls and controls in operation, including specific procedures a detailed review of the consistency of the Groups computerised for treasury matters, capital investment and the management systems and controls operating around the Group.
Corporate and local A Group control framework has been developed and implemented management are required to complete biannual to ensure that controls are operated consistently and in line with representation letters formally confirming that their best practice.
businesses comply with the Groups financial reporting Online legal compliance training system developed to ensure policies and other Group policies and procedures.
employees familiarity and compliance with the Groups Code of Conduct also includes specific training on Financial Integrity, Combating Bribery in Business and Competition and Anti Trust Law, and was completed by all appropriate employees during the year.
Internal audit The internal audit function monitors financial and The annual internal audit plan, produced from an assessment of the other risks faced throughout the Group and the risks following the ARC process review, was approved by the audit control systems in operation to manage those risks.
All significant internal audit findings are reported Meetings were held regularly between internal audit management, to the audit and risk committee.
the finance director and the director of Group finance, together with business management, to review progress on implementing audit recommendations and to ensure any significant issues identified were addressed.
Updates on performance were provided to the audit and risk committee by the director internal audit, including details of progress against the audit plan, audit report opinions given and progress in implementing audit recommendations.
A new set of key performance indicators for the internal audit function were introduced measuring completeness of the audit plan, timeliness of internal audit reports, coverage of businesses, key projects supported and development of internal audit staff.
The internal audit function enhanced its approach to the audit of business risks by focusing on a number of the key Group risks identified from the ARC process and carried out a detailed review of the risk mitigations management had put in place to address these risks.
Areas reviewed included commercial sales and metal controls in Beverage Can Europe, the tax process and metal controls in Beverage Can South America, metal controls in Beverage Can North America as well as the Group treasury and information management functions of Rexam PLC.
58 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Accountability continued THE InTERnAL COnTROL FRAMEWORK COnTInUEd Activity in 2013 Operational Operational risk management, part of the enterprise In line with the Rexam values, a system of awards was introduced risk management risk function, provides the leadership to develop and to recognise businesses receiving high scores based on the audits.
monitor processes which identify, assess and manage An enhanced global environment, health and safety EHS audit risks associated with health and safety, environment, approach was developed to provide the basis of challenge for a business continuity and crisis management, fire and more sustainable and robust improvement of EHS management loss prevention, security and asset protection.
systems and performance at all sites.
In addition, we introduced a Purpose built audit programmes allow for businesses high standard fire safety and property protection audit supported to be evaluated against Rexams and external best and performed by AXA Matrix.
Further details can be found in the practice standards in these areas, and provide the key risks section of this annual report on page 33. basis for continuous improvement action plans.
In addition, many Rexam businesses are accredited to external internationally recognised standards.
The function also manages Rexams global insurance programme.
Periodic updates including any significant findings and issues are reported to the audit and risk committee.
InTERnAL AUdIT During 2013, the audit and risk committee reviewed the effectiveness of The internal audit function plans and undertakes audits to ensure that the external auditors and recommended to the board that a resolution to the controls operating in the businesses conform with Group controls and reappoint PwC be proposed at the AGM 2014.
The effectiveness review in procedures, and reviews the effectiveness of the risk management process.
2013 was conducted by the director internal audit surveying both the audit and risk committee and Group management to establish their respective The director internal audit provides quarterly updates to the audit and risk views on a number of areas including audit scope, delivery and audit team.
committee and reports on all significant audit findings.
He also has separate A further review of PwCs effectiveness will be undertaken in 2014 following meetings with the chairman of the audit and risk committee without any completion of the 2013 audit and will include sector and business management other member of management being present.
following the change in lead audit partner at the beginning of 2013.
The audit In 2013 the audit and risk committee reviewed and approved the annual and risk committee will continue to keep under review the independence internal audit plan including the proposed audit approach, coverage and and objectivity of the external auditors.
It also reviewed the results of the audits undertaken, Non audit services are provided by PwC to the Group only in accordance with particular emphasis on the recommendations made and managements with Rexams policy on the provision of such services, which assesses the response to the matters raised.
Following a restructuring of the audit team type of service to be provided and the associated fees.
Any request for non in early 2012, to reflect changes in the Groups structure and to ensure audit services above a fee threshold of 25,000 is presented to the finance greater consistency in audit and output, an externally led review of the director for approval prior to commencement of the work.
The finance director functions effectiveness was undertaken by Independent Audit Limited will also obtain the prior authorisation of the chairman of the audit and risk to assess the progress made since the last external review in 2010.
The committee for services deemed restricted above a threshold of 50,000 review was presented to the committee in November and reported that and above 150,000 for services deemed unrestricted.
PwC are prohibited significant progress had been made and that Rexams internal audit function from providing services to the Group that would be considered to jeopardise compared favourably with other internal audit functions that had been their independence, such as financial systems design and implementation, externally reviewed.
actuarial services, internal audit outsourcing and investment services.
The policy on non audit services was reviewed during 2013 to ensure it continues ExTERnAL AUdITORs to be in line with best practice.
The audit and risk committee has primary responsibility for and advises the board on the appointment, reappointment and the remuneration of the The audit and risk committee bi annually reviews the level of non audit Companys external auditors.
Any recommendation for the reappointment fees to ensure that the provision of non audit services does not impair of the external auditors is subject to their continued satisfactory performance.
Non audit fees in 2013 relate mainly  LLP PwC have been the Companys external to assurance reporting on historic financial information required for business auditors since 2003 with the lead audit partner changing by rotation in disposals and global tax advisory services.
The fees for non audit services 2008 and in 2013.
The board has reviewed the recent guidance on audit are disclosed in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
Other audit tendering and rotation, and the audit and risk committee has indicated that firms were engaged to provide expatriate and specialist tax advisory it plans to consider, in 2016, a review of the current external audit service services as well as to advise on business disposals.
provider in conjunction with the subsequent formal rotation of the lead audit partner.
The committee is also aware the Competition Commissions recommendations on audit re tendering and the review in 2016 may include a re tender process if considered necessary.
The external auditors attend all audit and risk committee meetings and annual ARC meetings with each of the business sectors.
The audit and risk committee chairman also has separate meetings with the external auditors to discuss relevant matters.
The external auditors work with Group and sector management and discuss their findings and recommendations with the audit and risk committee.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 59 dIRECTORs COnFLICTs OF InTEREsT During 2013, 45 calls were received by the helpline provider 2012: 47 calls The board has a formal system in place for directors to review regularly and there have been on average 42 calls per year since the policy was their interests and to deal with situations where a director reports any introduced in 2006.
The majority of calls received tend to be related to conflicts of interest.
Any conflict situation reported to the chairman and human resources issues and practices.
All reports of calls are taken by the company secretary is considered by the board based on its particular internal audit or the company secretarys office and an initial feedback facts.
Any authorisations given to a director who has a conflict situation are response is available to the caller within five working days.
recorded in the board minutes and in a register of directors conflicts which All calls are investigated by the director internal audit, in conjunction with is reviewed annually by the board.
No conflict situations were reported to the company secretary or deputy company secretary, and, if appropriate, the board during 2013 and up to the date of this annual report.
by management of the respective business.
Any significant concerns are reported directly to the chairman of the audit and risk committee as well as COdE OF COndUCT to Group management.
Group management and the audit and risk committee A Code of Conduct, which applies to all Company employees worldwide, receive a quarterly report on calls received and how they have been resolved.
has been approved by the board and provides a clear statement for the benefit of stakeholders involved with or impacted by Rexams activities.
It The audit and risk committee reviews the whistle blowing policy and the RYC is communicated through an induction process for new employees, as part process annually.
The service provided by the externally operated helpline of the team briefings in the Groups businesses and on the Groups intranet is currently being reviewed and will be benchmarked against other similar and website.
The board is kept informed regarding the maintenance of providers to ensure that it is meeting the needs of the Group.
the Code of Conduct and any breaches of it.
An online training system is GOInG COnCERn operated to ensure all appropriate employees are aware of their responsibilities The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its and are in compliance with the Code of Conduct.
Further details can be future development, performance and position are set out in the strategic found on page 37. report on pages 2 to 44.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, The Groups policies and procedures relating to bribery and corruption were liquidity position and borrowing facilities are detailed in the financial review kept under review by the executive leadership team and the audit and risk on pages 38 to 44.
In addition, notes 23, 24 and 25 to the consolidated committee during 2013.
There were no material breaches of the Code of financial statements include the Groups objectives and policies for managing Conduct during 2013. its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposures to credit risk and During 2013 we took steps to increase the scope and impact of our online liquidity risk.
The training is now tightly linked to our The Group has considerable financial resources together with established onboarding process to reinforce the messages contained in the Code of agreements with a number of key customers and suppliers across different Conduct.
We designed and are in the process of implementing an annual geographic areas and markets.
The financial resources include 2.1bn of recertification module so that all appropriate employees will be reminded debt facilities, of which 0.8bn are undrawn, with the next significant maturity of the requirements of the Code and their obligations.
The Group also has a cash and cash The content of the Code of Conduct captures the key compliance equivalent balances at 31 December 2013 of 0.2bn.
As a consequence, messages that are relevant for all employees, whether working in our the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business plants or in office based functions.
During 2013, we undertook to build despite the economic environment which increases risks and uncertainties.
a strong platform to enable training to be delivered to all of our people The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, are satisfied that the that do not have access to the online environment as part of their day to Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational day role.
This will be conducted by a mixture of classroom based training existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt and by giving employees access to computer kiosks to enable them to the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated and Company complete the training.
WHIsTLE BLOWInG POLICy REMUnERATIOn POLICy Rexam has an open door policy whereby employees are encouraged to The remuneration committee is responsible for making recommendations to share concerns, raise issues and provide ideas for improvement with all the board on the Groups remuneration policy and setting the remuneration levels of management in the business.
It is recognised, however, that there arrangements appropriate for the directors within the terms of the policy will be times when an employee might be uncomfortable raising concerns approved by shareholders.
The directors remuneration report, which includes directly with local management and, in such cases, communication with the proposed remuneration policy for approval by shareholders at the business and Group management is encouraged.
AGM 2014, is on pages 62 to 79 of this annual report.
The Company operates a whistle blowing policy which is supported by an external confidential telephone helpline, available to all employees to raise any concerns, including those of a financial nature.
The helpline is provided by one of the leading providers of whistle blowing services in the UK, who have a significant number of other FTSE clients.
The Raise Your Concern policy RYC is highlighted to employees when they commence employment with the Group and in team meetings to ensure the policy is understood by, and available to all employees.
Employees are encouraged to use the service only when other internal reporting lines have not adequately dealt with their concerns, or if the matter is too serious or confidential to discuss with local or sector management.
