60 Rexam Annual Report 2013 shareholder engagement The board fully supports the principle of the Code which seeks to The non executive directors are given regular updates as to the views of encourage more active interest and contribution from shareholders.
After the investor meetings held following the announcement of the half and full year results, a summary report on investor sHAREHOLdER EnGAGEMEnT CyCLE 2013 responses is prepared for the board, normally by the Companys corporate presentations and conference calls for half year and full year results, brokers.
The board also commissions periodic assessments of major investors and interim management statements views on Company management and performance, based on results of surveys and extensive interviews.
This survey also helps to plan the investor briefing meetings with major institutional shareholders in the UK, relations programme for the following year.
US and Europe attendance of all of the directors at the AGM PRIvATE InvEsTORs Communication with private investors is largely through the AGM, which attendance by senior executives from across the business at relevant is held at a central London location.
The notice of the AGM is posted to meetings and conferences throughout the year shareholders with, if requested, a hard copy of the annual report and any hosting investor and analyst meetings to address a variety of business related papers at least 20 working days before the date of the AGM to areas see below for more details ensure that shareholders have sufficient time in which to consider the items of business to be voted upon.
An electronic and paper proxy appointment dialogue between the remuneration committee and shareholders service is offered to enable those who cannot attend in person to vote on see page 70 for more details the business being proposed at the meeting.
responding to enquiries from shareholders and analysts through our A presentation is made at the AGM to update shareholders on the Groups investor relations and company secretariat teams activities.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions of the providing information through the investor section on the Companys chairman, the board and the chairman of each board committee during website www.
com and Rexam investor app the AGM and to meet all the directors informally.
Separate resolutions are proposed at the AGM on a poll for each item of business and an InsTITUTIOnAL InvEsTORs announcement confirming whether each resolution was passed at the AGM Meetings are held in the UK, US and Europe following the announcement is made through the London Stock Exchange and on the Rexam website.
of the half and full year results to discuss the Groups operating and financial performance, including corporate governance related matters, Rexams ADR investors receive details of the AGM and are entitled to instruct and the Groups longer term strategy.
The presentation slides shown to the depositary, The Bank of New York Mellon, to vote on the resolutions to representatives of the investment community are available on the be proposed at the AGM.
Companys website, as is a live webcast of the related results presentation.
The total number of shares voted for the AGM 2013 increased compared Contact is made with major institutional shareholders periodically and in to the previous year to 69.5% 2012: 66.3%.
A summary of the number of advance of the AGM each year in order to understand their views on the votes cast in respect of each resolution can be found on the Rexam website Company and to ensure that their views are communicated to the board.
together with the presentation slides shown at the AGM.
All members of the board normally attend the AGM and the board receives a written report after In November 2013, institutional investors were invited to an Investor the AGM giving details of the voting and any concerns raised by shareholders.
Seminar hosted by the chief executive.
The senior management of Rexams An event for private investors was held during the year, in conjunction with businesses and Group marketing and innovation made presentations on the UK Shareholders Association UKSA.
A group of 30 private investors their areas of business and answered questions.
The seminar was webcast from the UKSA listened to presentations from the head of investor relations on and a replay, together with presentation slides and transcripts, is available Rexams half year results and business strategy.
The event enabled investors online on the investors section of www.
com to ask questions and the Company to receive direct private investor feedback.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 61 sHAREHOLdERs By PROFILE, sIzE OF HOLdInG And GEOGRAPHy An analysis of Rexam ordinary share holdings by category and size is as follows: % holdings number by size of holding lIndividuals 67.22 lInstitutions 32.78 l1 2,000 74.28 Number Number l 2,001 20,000 21.55 of holdings of shares l 20,001 100,000 1.90 l 100,001 and above 2.27 % total issued shares held lIndividuals 2.05 lInstitutions 97.95 l1 2,000 1.23 Number Number l 2,001 20,000 2.26 of holdings of shares l 20,001 100,000 2.08 l 100,001 and above 94.43 An analysis of Rexam ordinary share holdings by geography is as follows: % total by region % total by European country lUK 48.4 lNorway 2.5 lNorth America 39.8 lFrance 1.2 lEurope 8.1 lNetherlands 1.1 lRest of world 3.7 lGermany 0.7 lSweden 0.5 Worldwide Europe lIreland 0.4 lDenmark 0.3 lSwitzerland 0.4 lUnidentified 0.7 lOther 0.3
