18 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Strategy in action: Operational excellence At Rexam we manufacture more than 62bn beverage cans a year.
Operational excellence lies at the heart of our approach to low cost manufacturing and sustainable value creation.
LEAN IS KEy Efficiency savings Efficient and sustainable manufacturing is critical to our economic and environmental performance and so improving our manufacturing 21m has a significant impact on our business.
To ensure that we can continue to deliver and sustain our In 2013 we delivered 21m of financial results and to support our vision of being efficiency savings, and going the best can maker in the world, we continue to forward we aim to continue embed the principles of lean enterprise and to to deliver a similar amount of increase the engagement of our people in savings each year.
For our recent continuous improvement.
The award of the Shingo performance in annual cost savings prizes in 2013 and 2014 are testament to the and efficiencies, see also page 17. success of our journey so far see page 8.
REDUCING MATERIAL AND RESOURCES The consistent reduction in material usage, and the lowering of our carbon footprint and water Different can sizes usage see page 35 are direct outcomes of the continuous improvement that drives our 17 manufacturing ethos.
Lightweighting has historically been the most important component of these When drinks can making savings.
In 2013, we continued to lightweight the can.
However, there is more to go in terms started out 75 years ago there was essentially one size: 12oz 33cl.
of lightweighting the ends, the bottom of the can and different specialty can sizes to help Today we manufacture 17 different sizes the broadest range in the deliver continued material savings.
We are actively managing SUPPLy CHAIN MANAGEMENT the operational complexity of In 2013, we set up a centrally led procurement this increase in sizes without function supported by global category directors.
compromising the efficiency The aim was to take full advantage of our size and of our asset base.
global spread to manage more efficiently not just our metal cost but also our other direct material costs and capital equipment expenditure.
The 2013 savings see right exceeded our expectations.
Supply chain success We also invested further in supplier relationship management to drive closer collaboration and Doubled thereby improve quality, innovation and payment terms.
Increasingly our customers are moving to a global procurement model.
As a 100% beverage can business, we are too.
Our global procurement function doubled its budgeted savings in 2013 using the power and input of the entire procurement organisation.
