80 Rexam Annual Report 2013 directors report The directors present their report for the financial year ended 31 December Each of the current directors, whose names are listed on pages 46 and 47 2013.
This directors report incorporates the corporate governance information of the annual report, confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: on pages 45 to 61.
The annual report has been prepared for, and only for, the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in the members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
The Company, accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view its directors, employees, agents and advisors do not accept or assume of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly performance of the business and the position of the Group, together disclaimed.
This annual report may contain statements which are not based with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
on current or historical fact and which are forward looking in nature.
These forward looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at dIvIdEnds the date of preparation of this annual report and the Company undertakes Subject to shareholder approval, the directors have proposed a 2013 no obligation to update these forward looking statements.
Such forward final dividend of 11.7p per share.
The total dividend for the year ended looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties 31December 2013 is 17.4p per share 2012: 15.2p.
facing the Group including, without limitation, those risks described in this annual report, and other unknown future events and circumstances which Dividend Ex can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
per share dividend Record Payment Nothing in this annual report should be construed as a profit forecast.
p date date date sTATEMEnT OF dIRECTORs REsPOnsIBILITIEs 2013 interim 5.7 14.08.13 16.08.13 11.09.13 The current directors of the Company are responsible for preparing the 2013 final 11.7 07.05.14 09.05.14 29.05.14 annual report, the remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
PRInCIPAL ACqUIsITIOns And dIsPOsALs Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements As reported in the annual report 2012, the disposal of the Groups Personal for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared Care business completed on 31December 2012 for a total consideration the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International of 430m.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union On 3 February 2014, Rexam announced the proposed sale of the and the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK pharmaceutical devices and prescription retail packaging divisions of its Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK Accounting Standards and Healthcare business to Montagu Private Equity for US$805m in cash.
Under company law the directors must not approve the transaction is subject to consultation with various European works councils financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair and is conditional on the necessary regulatory approvals and subject to view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit certain adjustments at completion.
The transaction is expected to complete or loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing these financial statements, around the middle of 2014. the directors are required to: On 13 February 2014, Rexam announced that it has signed an agreement to select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: acquire a 51% controlling interest in beverage can maker United Arab Can make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Manufacturing Limited UAC for US$122m.
The transaction is subject to and prudent: regulatory approvals and is expected to complete in the third quarter of 2014. state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable dIRECTORs And dIRECTORs InTEREsTs UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material The board of directors during the year ended 31December 2013 and at the departures disclosed and explained in the consolidated and parent date of this annual report is set out on pages 46 and 47.
The appointment company financial statements respectively: and of Ros Rivaz is discussed on page 53.
There were no other changes to the prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it board during 2013 and up until the date of this annual report.
is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will None of the directors had any interest during or at the end of the year in continue in business.
any contract of significance in relation to the business of the Company The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records or its subsidiary undertakings.
that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and the Companys Full details of the interests in the share capital of the Company of those directors transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial holding office on 31December 2013, including any interest of a connected position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the person, are set out in the remuneration report.
financial statements and the remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 sHARE CAPITAL of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets At 31December 2013, the Company had 791,961,072 ordinary shares of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for of 713 7p each in issue as shown in note 28 to the consolidated the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities, and responsible financial statements.
for the maintenance and integrity of the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys ordinary shares may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
other than certain restrictions which may be imposed by law, for example, insider trading law.
The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys and the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 81 RETURn OF CAsH And sHARE COnsOLIdATIOn sIGnIFICAnT AGREEMEnTs As reported in the annual report 2012, shareholders approved a return of The Company is required to disclose any significant agreements that take cash to shareholders of 45p per existing ordinary share by way of one new effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company following B share for each existing ordinary share on 24January 2013.
Some commercial agreements allow the counterparties to the return of cash was accompanied by a consolidation of the existing alter or terminate the arrangements in these circumstances.
The Company ordinary shares in the ratio of nine new ordinary shares for every ten existing also has committed debt facilities all of which are directly or indirectly subject ordinary shares held.
On 11February 2013 a dividend of 45p per share to change of control provisions, albeit the facilities do not necessarily require was paid on 585,302,440 B shares and these shares were reclassified as mandatory prepayment on a change of control.
deferred shares, and a further 284,810,974 B shares were redeemed for At 31December 2013 the debt facilities subject to these provisions were: 45p per share.
On 8April 2013, the remaining 8,271,056 B shares were redeemed for 45p per share.
Further details can be found in note 28 to the 1 Debt facilities Amount Maturity consolidated financial statements and on our website.
Subordinated bond 750m June 2067 POWERs GIvEn TO dIRECTORs US private placement US$175m December 2024 The powers given to the directors are contained in the articles of association US private placement US$395m December 2022 the Articles and are subject to relevant legislation and, in certain circumstances, including in relation to the issuing or buying back by the Company of its US private placement US$150m December 2022 shares subject to authority being given to the directors by shareholders in US private placement 25m December 2022 general meeting.
The Articles also govern the appointment and replacement Revolving credit facility 602m November 2018 of directors.
The Articles, which may only be amended with shareholders approval in accordance with relevant legislation, can be found on our website.
Bilateral credit facility 45m November 2018 Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2018 PURCHAsE OF OWn sHAREs At the AGM 2013, shareholders passed a special resolution in accordance Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2018 with the Companies Act 2006 and relevant institutional guidelines, to authorise Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2018 the Company to purchase, should it wish to do so, a maximum of 79.08m Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2018 shares in the market.
Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2018 No shares were purchased in the market using this authority, nor has any contract been made to purchase shares under the previous or existing Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2018 authorities from 1January 2013 to the date of this report.
The directors are Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2018 seeking a renewal of the authority at the AGM 2014.
Further details can be found in the notice of AGM 2014.
Bilateral credit facility 20m November 2018 Bilateral credit facility 10m January 2016 AGM AGM 2 GBP bilateral credit facility 250m May 2014 Share purchase authority 2013 2014 approved proposed 1 All of the bilateral credit facilities and the revolving credit facility are multi currency other than the 250m GBP bilateral credit facility.
10% of issued share capital 79.08m 79.1m 2 Includes an option to extend the final maturity from May 2014 to May 2015 subject to the agreement of the bank.
sUBsTAnTIAL sHAREHOLdInGs In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR of the Financial The service contracts of the executive directors do not contain a change of Conduct Authority, the Company was advised of the following significant control provision.
direct and indirect interests in the issued ordinary share capital of the The trustee of the Rexam Employee Share Trust the Trust holds shares in Company as at 31December 2013 and the date of this report.
order to satisfy awards under the Rexam employee share incentive plans.
% interest If an offer is made to acquire the Companys shares, the trustee is not obliged to accept or reject any such offer in respect of any shares which are intended Number of in issued shares share to satisfy awards which are outstanding.
However, the trustee shall have regard to the interests of the beneficiaries and shall have the power to consult Name of shareholder disclosed capital them to obtain their views on such offer and, subject to the foregoing, may 1 BlackRock Inc 44,138,256 5.03 consider any recommendations made to it by the Company but shall not be Lazard Asset Management LLC 39,633,001 5.00 obliged to comply with such recommendations.
The Company has granted a qualifying pension scheme indemnity in the 1 The information disclosed above relating to BlackRock Inc was notified to the Company prior to the share consolidation and no further notifications had been form permitted by the Companies Act 2006 to the directors of Rexam Pension received at the date of this report.
Trustees Limited, the Trustee to the Rexam Pension Plan.
The indemnity remains in force at the date of this report.
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the DTR is publicly available via the regulatory information services and on the Companys website.
IndEMnITIEs The Company granted indemnities to Leo Oosterveer, Stuart Chambers, REsEARCH And dEvELOPMEnT Johanna Waterous and Ros Rivaz on their appointments to the board.
The The Groups expenditure on research and development during the year indemnities relate to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur in amounted to 6m from continuing operations and 3m from discontinued the course of their duties and are in force as at the date of this report.
Following our focus on innovation, cover also remains in place to protect all directors and senior management in the innovation board has commissioned research into three broad areas the event of a claim being brought against them in their capacity as directors of activity: our Pack of the Future programme, Core Process initiatives from or officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Similar indemnities will be new technologies and our Plant of the Future programme.
Further details offered to current and any new directors joining the board.
82 Rexam Annual Report 2013 directors report continued BRAnCH OFFICE During the year, the Company established, through one of its UK subsidiary companies, a branch office in Dubai for its Beverage Can Africa, Middle East & Asia sector.
Further details relating to this sector can be found on page 11 of the annual report.
CORPORATE GOvERnAnCE sTATEMEnT The information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate governance statement in accordance with rule 7.2 of the DTR can be found in this directors report and in the corporate governance information on pages 45 to 61 which is incorporated into this directors report by reference.
FInAnCIAL InsTRUMEnTs The information relating to the Groups financial assets and its financial risk management can be found in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
InFORMATIOn InCLUdEd In sTRATEGIC REPORT The information that fulfils the reporting requirements relating to the following matters can be found on the pages identified.
Subject matter Page reference Likely future developments 11 Greenhouse gas emissions 37 Employment of disabled persons 23 Employee involvement 23 AUdITORs disclosure of information to the auditors Each person who is a director of the Company at the date of approval of this annual report confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director individually has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Reappointment of auditors As disclosed on page 58 of the governance section, the audit and risk committee has considered the role and performance of  LLP as the Companys auditors.
After such consideration, the audit and risk committee has recommended that  LLP be proposed for reappointment at the AGM 2014.
AnnUAL GEnERAL MEETInG 2014 The AGM of the Company, details of which can be found in the notice of AGM 2014, will be held at 11.30am on 2May 2014 at Church House, Deans Yard, London SW1.
The notice of AGM 2014 is available on the Companys website www.
The directors consider that each of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM 2014 is in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole and recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all of the resolutions.
Shareholders may vote in person at the AGM 2014 or by proxy the deadline for proxy votes to be received is 11.30am on 30April 2014.
On behalf of the board David Gibson Company secretary 20February 2014
