20 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Strategy in action: Innovation Innovation contributes to our customers growth and our own.
We are geared to provide a variety of innovation platforms to help customers create greater value across their product offerings.
INNOvATION READy THREE AREAS OF FOCUS Two years ago we increased our focus on We run a set of key account processes in which innovation and created a global organisation we engage with our customers to understand and governance structure built around the and address their needs.
We have drawn on highest level of the business.
It includes the our customer understanding and our own Innovation Board including the chief executive research on the wider market trends to develop and finance director, Group marketing and a technology roadmap with three broad areas operations directors and the four sector directors of activity.
The first, Pack of the Future, focuses and the Innovation Council consisting of our on product innovation to meet our customers various technology directors.
Our innovation needs for differentiation.
The second is Core activity now brings together the best of our Process, where we are looking to build on our regional innovation to drive it globally.
foundation of lean enterprise with new technologies in advanced manufacturing to EARLy PARTICIPATION meet productivity requirements.
Finally, Plant As we pulled together our innovation activity of the Future pulls together different technology across the organisation, we decided to balance building blocks into a range of next generation our activity across the short, medium and longer plant designs with highly sustainable operations term horizons.
Recognising the challenges in to help our customers access new markets.
innovation between the academic ideas and commercialisation, but also the potential value creation, we actively seek to participate earlier in the technology value chain.
Our joint venture with UK based advanced engineering company Magna Parva see also page 9 is testament to our intent.
We have been awarded public funding to support this higher risk activity and we work collaboratively with other partners, from universities and SMEs to global suppliers, on new technologies.
Can as launch pad Lightweighting Customer partnerships New 12oz No 1 Cans provide a platform for new Our engineers use finite element Our aim is to be the No 1 partner segments with a range of sizes to analysis and CAD software to of choice for our customers in match on shelf price aspirations continuously lightweight our achieving their brand ambitions and consumption occasions as products towards the ultimate by provoking new thinking and well as 360 degree visual impact design.
We are investing in scoping collaboration for through design and shape see new technologies to enable our shared success.
TM our award winning FUSION lightweighting journey to continue.
aluminium bottle on page 7, to underpin premium brand values and high end routes to market.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 21 Consumer demand for made for me packaging continues to grow and our Editions technology, where up to 24 different designs can be produced on a single pallet, has been developed further to provide customers with the perfect blend of variety and collectability.
Following last years successful launch in Brazil, our patent pending Editions technology has been rolled out globally during 2013 with a number of our customers as well as achieving industry recognition with a prestigious Embalagem Marca award in Brazil.
Interest continues to be high and our specialist teams are exploring new ways to adapt the innovation for our customers.
The next generation of this print technology Editions Super Premium was launched in 2013 with South American beer brand Eisenbahn.
This latest development expands the design window to allow variable printing of more complex photographic images and increases the level of customisation our customers can achieve with their brands.
22 Rexam Annual Report 2013 HUMAN RIGHTS Our I Care safety As a company with operations in many A respect for human rights is implicit in our campaign in South employment practices across all our operations countries across the globe, we understand and welcome the focus on the debate on the as well as in the high standards we expect from America encourages our suppliers see page 35 wherever we source role of business and human rights.
employees to extend their products.
We are committed fully to conducting our the concept of caring We are often important employers in the business in the right way.
Our four core values see page 14 and our Code of Conduct, which communities in which we operate, and we take about themselves into consideration their concerns, using our sets out clear standards of behaviour, underpin our and their team to social, ethical and environmental commitments and presence responsibly to contribute to the send a clear message to all of our stakeholders.
encompass caring about the communities in which they work.
