14 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Delivering our strategy Our focus in the last three year period has been to optimise cash, manage costs and drive return on capital employed to 15%.
In this, we have succeeded.
Our strategic priorities Activity in 2013 Our challenges What we did in 2013 Our vision Our vision is to be the Achieved ROCE target of 15%.
Maintain ROCE at or around 15% in tough best beverage can maker macroeconomic times.
Profitable revenue growth year on year 13% in the world.
Achieve best performance Underlying earnings per share from continuing Our strategy By leveraging operational and business best Cost mitigation plans swiftly implemented.
operations grew 13% in 2013, a result of an increase practices across the Group we enhance our in earnings and share consolidation, consistent Our strategic priorities Portfolio focused on beverage cans.
financial performance year on year.
with our strategy to balance growth and returns.
up to the end of 2013 See also page 42. and how we performed against them can be seen in the table to the right.
To interact with our customers globally and continue to act locally.
Key account management 115m We have reviewed our framework established.
Customer expectations Planned investment in first can plant in strategy see page 11 By understanding, anticipating and responding Customer satisfaction survey above.
Switzerland strengthens partnership to customer needs we build secure, sustainable industry benchmark.
to reflect our focus on and mutually valuable partnerships and create Innovation integral part of our offer.
See also page 10. beverage cans and will enduring customer satisfaction.
be reporting against those priorities going forward.
Emergence of new risks as we enter new markets.
Delivery of targets and external recognition Changes in legislation that disadvantage DJSI Our values for sustainability work.
Ensure our future Rexam selected to join Dow Jones Sustainability Continuous improvement By embedding longer term thinking when Governance in and around Index DJSI whose members represent leading However well we do today, we are determined identifying opportunities and implementing innovation embedded.
We remain a to do better tomorrow.
This is the key to customer leading practices in sustainability, innovation member of FTSE4GOOD.
satisfaction, operational excellence and and risk management we will support the See also page 34. business success.
We set ourselves ambitious long term prosperity of the business.
targets and, in making us the benchmark for quality and safety in our industry, become a beacon of best business practice.
Delivered 20m operational excellence Maintain cost reduction performance.
savings to offset increased costs.
Recognition Higher complexity due to proliferation 7 We believe in recognising every contribution Leveraged scale and best practice to deliver of can sizes.
Drive operational excellence Seven beverage can operations in total to our business and we celebrate outstanding more than twice budgeted procurement savings.
Operational excellence is core to the safety accredited by Shingo Institute which achievement.
We reward and promote people of our people as well as low cost manufacture.
Continued focus on improving safety but less recognises excellence in organisations.
on merit, through fair and open performance Our aim is to be the preferred supplier to our progression in performance.
management and career development systems.
See also page 8. customers by driving excellence throughout We should all feel that our work is an enjoyable our core business processes.
and fulfilling part of our lives.
Teamwork Regained North American volumes.
We are at our best when we work together as a united group.
We deliver the greatest possible Opening of Finland plant secures volumes Changing market dynamics and need to 92% benefit to customers, shareholders, colleagues in Nordic region.
Invest for value Can volumes in India grew more than 90% and communities when we pool our talents We will continue to invest in order to support Conversion of Belm plant defends in 2013.
We have about 50% market share.
Investment in organic growth or north east Brazil.
us make us stronger: we respect and value the See also page 11. acquisitions will be determined by a structured diversity of our people and we are committed and responsive approach to meeting customer to fair play and meritocracy.
expectations and where we see the best opportunities to grow with good returns over time.
Trust Open and honest communication is essential to External safety benchmarking and action plan Attract and retain talent in an increasingly business efficiency but it is also a fundamental to drive own safety performance to next level.
condition for a positive working environment.
771 We encourage people to say what they think, Organisation adapted to changes and proved Maximise benefits of working as one Build a winning organisation We run a company wide recognition scheme we avoid politics and if we promise we will resilient in tough trading environment.
The achievement of our strategy is contingent called Blue Chip.
It is an on the spot means to do something, we deliver.
We will earn and on us having a strong, world class organisation 2013 employee engagement survey provided Eliminate life threatening incidents.
recognise individuals who demonstrate our deserve the trust of everyone who comes into where everyone is engaged to achieve our goals further insights to drive engagement and values and leadership practices.
We awarded contact with us.
and has the right tools, incentives and motivation performance.
over 279 Blue Chips in 2013 bringing the total to be the best.
to 771 since its inception in 2011.
Increased executive engagement: plant visits and live on-the-job experience at plants.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 15 The priorities listed in the left hand column in the table below help us focus on what is important to deliver on our strategy, to align and mobilise our organisation and to optimise time to execution.
In short, with a winning organisation we will generate the operational excellence in all our processes to deliver on customer expectations, which is vital to achieving best performance.
Our strategic priorities Activity in 2013 Our challenges What we did in 2013 Achieved ROCE target of 15%.
Maintain ROCE at or around 15% in tough macroeconomic times.
Profitable revenue growth year on year 13% at GDP.
Achieve best performance Underlying earnings per share from continuing By leveraging operational and business best Cost mitigation plans swiftly implemented.
operations grew 13% in 2013, a result of an increase practices across the Group we enhance our in earnings and share consolidation, consistent Portfolio focused on beverage cans.
Key account management 115m framework established.
Customer expectations Planned investment in first can plant in By understanding, anticipating and responding Customer satisfaction survey above.
and mutually valuable partnerships and create Innovation integral part of our offer.
See also page 10. enduring customer satisfaction.
Delivery of targets and external recognition Changes in legislation that disadvantage DJSI for sustainability work.
Ensure our future Rexam selected to join Dow Jones Sustainability By embedding longer term thinking when Governance in and around Index DJSI whose members represent leading identifying opportunities and implementing innovation embedded.
We remain a leading practices in sustainability, innovation member of FTSE4GOOD.
and risk management we will support the See also page 34. long term prosperity of the business.
Higher complexity due to proliferation 7 Leveraged scale and best practice to deliver of can sizes.
Drive operational excellence Seven beverage can operations in total more than twice budgeted procurement savings.
Operational excellence is core to the safety accredited by Shingo Institute which of our people as well as low cost manufacture.
Our aim is to be the preferred supplier to our progression in performance.
See also page 8. customers by driving excellence throughout our core business processes.
Opening of Finland plant secures volumes Changing market dynamics and need to 92% in Nordic region.
Invest for value Can volumes in India grew more than 90% We will continue to invest in order to support Conversion of Belm plant defends in 2013.
See also page 11. acquisitions will be determined by a structured and responsive approach to meeting customer expectations and where we see the best opportunities to grow with good returns over time.
External safety benchmarking and action plan Attract and retain talent in an increasingly to drive own safety performance to next level.
771 Organisation adapted to changes and proved Maximise benefits of working as one Build a winning organisation We run a company wide recognition scheme resilient in tough trading environment.
It is an on the spot means to on us having a strong, world class organisation 2013 employee engagement survey provided Eliminate life threatening incidents.
recognise individuals who demonstrate our where everyone is engaged to achieve our goals further insights to drive engagement and values and leadership practices.
We awarded and has the right tools, incentives and motivation performance.
