62 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Remuneration report driving the right behaviours and motivating and rewarding our executives Therefore, the committee has introduced a ROCE underpin, whereby the earnings per share EPS element will only vest if, over the performance period, ROCE is in excess of the average cost of capital and averages at least 12%.
We have therefore adjusted the weighting of the performance measures to 75% EPS subject to ROCE underpin and 25% to relative total shareholder return TSR.
In December 2013 I wrote to the Companys major institutional shareholders to share the proposed changes to the remuneration policy for 2014.
The responses received were supportive of the remuneration policy.
ACHIEvEMEnTs And REWARds FOR 2013 Details of the remuneration decisions for 2013 are set out in the annual remuneration report on pages 71 to 79.
The chairmans statement and the Jean-Pierre Rodier chief executives review provide a clear picture of a tough year but also one Remuneration committee chairman of further progress.
The committee has considered very carefully the targets that were established for annual and long term incentives and the level of payout for the 2013 annual incentive.
The committee has set the chief executives salary at 784,380 for 2014 dear shareholders a 2% increase over 2013 and the finance directors salary at 473,790 On behalf of the board, I present a 2% increase, in line with the average increase comparable to the United Kingdom employees.
The new salaries become effective from the directors remuneration report 1 May 2014. for the year ended 31december 2013.
The actions of the executive leadership team continue to demonstrate very The report is in two sections: effective leadership and a commitment to the Companys values.
Following a review of the outcomes of the annual incentive and taking into account The proposed directors remuneration the overall Company performance, the annual incentive will pay out at 50% of base salary for both the chief executive and the finance director.
policy, which describes the approach to The 2010 LTIP grant for executive directors vested at just over 93% in March remuneration applicable from the annual 2013 in respect of the 20102012 performance period.
We are expecting general meeting on 2May 2014 AGM that in March 2014 the long term incentive awards granted in 2011 will vest at 86.4% for executive directors and I am pleased that all participants will 2014.
This proposed policy will be subject again be rewarded for their achievements.
to a binding vote at the AGM 2014.
The committee will continue to maintain Rexams remuneration policies such that they continue to be aligned to shareholders interests and provide the The annual report on directors right framework to attract, retain and motivate the executives that the remuneration which sets out how our Company needs to meet its objectives.
remuneration policy was implemented I am pleased to welcome Ros Rivaz who joined the committee on 11December 2013 following her appointment to the board on 12 June 2013.
For me, after in 2013 and how we intend the policy to eight years as a non executive director of the Company and more recently apply for 2014.
This report will be subject as remuneration committee chairman, I will be retiring from the board at the conclusion of the AGM 2014.
I thank my fellow directors for their to an advisory vote at the AGM 2014. support and wish them every success for the future.
During the year we completed our strategic review of the Companys remuneration arrangements giving consideration to the Companys strategy Jean-Pierre Rodier and structure.
The Remuneration committee the committee believes that the Remuneration committee chairman existing remuneration policy is appropriate and effective in driving the right behaviours and in motivating and rewarding our senior executives.
The incentive performance measures have been slightly realigned to reflect our improved capital efficiency and to encourage sustainable growth and cash generation.
CHAnGEs TO REMUnERATIOn The overall structure and measures for our annual incentive plan remain unchanged, rewarding performance against profit growth 50%, cash delivery 30% and personal objectives 20%.
For annual incentive awards in 2014, one quarter of the cash element will be based on cash conversion About this remuneration report to encourage sustainable cash generation and a proportion of the personal This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of objectives element will be aligned to our strategy for growth.
the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment In relation to our long term incentive plan, we have made a change to the Regulations 2013.
It also meets the requirements of the UK Listing balance of measures, again linked to our growth strategy.
Over recent years, Authoritys Listing Rules.
a successful focus on return on capital employed ROCE as part of the long term incentive has seen a steady increase in ROCE from 9.4% in 2009 to The following parts of the remuneration report 2013 are audited: 15.5% in 2013.
We believe that this represents an important milestone for the single total figure of remuneration for directors, including annual Rexam.
The board remains committed to strong capital discipline and believes incentive and long term incentive outcomes for the financial year ended that the focus should be on maintaining a healthy level of ROCE, while 31 December 2013: long term incentives awarded during 2013: total ensuring that the target is not set at such a level that it might penalise pension entitlements: payments to past directors and payments for management for investing to secure future growth.
loss of office: and, directors shareholdings and share interests.
