24 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Strategy in action: Emerging markets Emerging markets generally have higher GDP growth rates.
Their growing middle class populations, the expansion of modern retail channels and improving infrastructure all help support our customers growth and offer some of the best opportunities for beverage can growth.
They are set to play an important role in creating sustainable value for us.
ExPANDING FOOTPRINT ExPLORING OTHER OPPORTUNITIES We have spoken for some time about the An increasing population and a growing opportunities in emerging markets.
In early economy, two important drivers of beverage 2014 we saw our strategy to target profitable can growth, saw beverage can consumption growth opportunities bear fruit with the acquisition grow by 15% in Mexico and Central America of a controlling stake in United Arab Can UAC, in 2013.
We are participating in this growth a Saudi Arabian company which makes both through our joint venture plant in Guatemala, beverage cans and can ends.
The beverage which has doubled its volume since 2006.
We can market in the Middle East including Iran have a plant in Queretaro, Mexico, where we and Iraq is large 17 to 18bn cans and recent have good growth in standard cans and 30% market growth has been around 6%.
This is growth in specialty cans since 2010. forecast to continue in the medium term.
We We continue to explore additional opportunities expect the venture to lead to further expansion as we strengthen our relationships with customers in the region.
Given our own size and global throughout the region.
access to technical expertise, we see the potential for significant synergy opportunities.
NEED FOR FLExIBILITy The demand for flexibility in can type is high in emerging markets.
Our challenge lies in providing different pack types to enable our customers to access different consumer segments, categories and channels.
They seek lower price products to access consumer segments with lower incomes to introduce them to the product and the brand.
They also want lower volume manufacturing solutions to access markets where demand is growing fast but has not yet achieved the levels of developed markets.
AMEA share of world cans Annual can consumption India can consumption Mexico 30% 90 1 The regions of Africa, the Middle Mexicos can consumption per Per capita beverage can East and Asia present considerable capita is around 90 cans per consumption in India is still very potential for us.
These markets today person per year while the average low, less than one can per capita account for some 75% of the worlds in Central America is still under 40. per year.
We invested ahead of population and around one third of the demand curve in order to take total global beverage can volumes.
advantage of the enormous growth potential and, today, we have a 50% share of a growing billion can market.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 25 Beyond pure manufacturing.
RIO-Fusion launched itself as Indias first fruit flavoured carbonated drink in 2013.
The company chose to partner with Rexam as the brand shifted from glass bottle to the aluminium can.
TM The 330ml Sleek can was made at the Taloja plant which opened its new aluminium line in November 2012.
Rexam also worked closely with the RIO brand to establish effective filling facilities and ensure a smooth transition from bottles to cans.
Rahul Sangoi, director of sales and marketing at Silver Ice Beverages parent company of RIO-Fusion Drinks, said: Rexams way of working goes beyond the pure manufacturing of cans.
Their team approached us with a design proposal and worked closely with us to create a new look brand that is both youthful and full of energy.
Rexam was also able to set us up with appropriate can filling facilities, making the transition to aluminium cans a smooth one.
The switch to aluminium cans was supported by regional initiatives to promote the sustainability benefits of the can.
