Stakeholder value 12 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Business model CUSTOMERS investing in assets to convert metal sheet into cans Rexam is a global for our customers.
Fundamental to our success is the establishment of manufacturer of beverage strong and lasting relationships with our customers Over time, we expect a reward commensurate with to ensure that we are the preferred can supplier.
cans, the vast majority this risk.
Key to our success and to creating value, Total lowest cost over time is a crucial element of therefore, is ensuring a high utilisation of our asset of which are made of our offering as is our ability to combine our insights, base and our ability to convert aluminium steel resources and experience to understand our aluminium.
We make sheet into finished beverage cans and ends at customers markets and to provide innovative the lowest delivered cost, and as sustainably as a broad range of can solutions to their needs.
Our customer base is possible.
We focus on operational excellence increasingly consolidated and while beverage sizes for products such using six sigma and lean principles across our can making is regional, the larger customers are operations and processes to reduce cost and as carbonated soft drinks, moving to global procurement models.
We are material usage especially aluminium, all the while pursuing a key account strategy, including global beer, energy drinks and ensuring the safety and wellbeing of our people.
management of our core global customers, to other drinks categories.
further align ourselves with them.
The location of SUPPLIERS our can making plants relative to customers filling We make approximately 62bn cans a year at Our aim is to be a key strategic partner for most of locations is important in minimising logistics and 55plants in five continents.
We are part of a our major suppliers who include aluminium, energy, freight costs to ensure low cost supply.
supply chain that stretches from ore mining to the chemical, machinery and freight companies.
consumption of beverages from cans and their Aluminium represents almost 50% of our annual PEOPLE AND CAPABILITIES recycling by the consumer.
Within that chain, cost base: some 2bn annually.
We source our We have a highly skilled and motivated workforce, we have direct control over the manufacture of metal from well established global aluminium most of whom work in plants, and we develop our beverage cans and ends and the financial, human suppliers.
We have largely derisked the people to build a winning organisation and to and intellectual capital to make this viable.
Our procurement of aluminium ingot with pass through the requirements of our industry.
The complexity business model below is underpinned by clear and clauses in customer contracts or long term supply of our business is growing with the proliferation consistently applied frameworks for enterprise agreements backed by appropriate hedging.
of different can sizes and finishes, and shorter risk management, including governance and We work closely with all our suppliers to product runs.
The ability to deliver at low cost sustainable development.
co-develop innovative processes and products.
in such an environment will become a prime With aluminium, for example, we expect to capability.
Innovation in products and processes, MANUFACTURING benefit from developments in aluminium sheet and our close understanding of the trends affecting The core manufacturing skills around converting manufacture to help reduce our material usage.
our customers, are also critical differentiating sheet metal into beverage cans lie at the heart of With capital equipment suppliers we expect to factors in shaping our future, as is our constant our Company.
That is where we create the vast take advantage of the advances that they make support and promotion of the beverage can as majority of our value and generate sustainable in can making technology to enhance the work a viable and sustainable alternative to other competitive advantage.
We assume the risk of we are already doing in this area.
converting aluminium ingot into coil and of Business model Enterprise risk management Strategic inputs value creation opportunities Financial capital Materials and Can and end Customers Consumers Human capital resources making Well invested Water 62bn cans annually Rexam operations 55 Support recovery asset base plants in five continents and recycling of Careful capital Energy Right can at right beverage cans price in right place allocation Manufacturing Aluminium sheet excellence Innovative solutions Understanding Recyclate sizes, finishes, Process and user trends product innovation closures Supply and demand Strong relationships Lean principles in balance Cost management Interdependence Strong supplier Inventory relationships management Aluminium Shipping freight Inks Freight Sustainable practices Sustainability Licence to operate Community Salaries and Cash returns to Sustainable employment and Taxes Supplier payments engagement shareholders development people development Recycled cans Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 13 SHARED vALUE We plan for operating efficiencies and pricing to Our business follows a circle of revenue and offset cost inflation over time, thereby expecting profit generation, efficient cash conversion and profits to grow slightly faster than sales.
This will reinvestment in the business.
We share the value translate into strong cash generation which supports Our aim is to balance we generate with our shareholders through a healthy balance sheet and helps maintain an growth and returns the dividend see page 80 and with the wider investment grade rating.
To underpin sales growth community through employment, salaries, and to protect our business, we will continue to measured in return on the payment of taxes and supplier payments.
invest at a rate of 1 to 1.5 times depreciation.
investment in organic growth or bolt-on acquisitions Our aim is to balance growth and returns In a high investment year, or will be determined by where we see the best measured in return on capital employed: opportunities to grow with good returns over time.
In a high investment year, or if we make if we make an acquisition, The disciplined allocation of capital is a crucial an acquisition, ROCE may drop slightly, and in ROCE may drop slightly, competency in this respect and, consequently, a low investment year it may go up: but 15% is a source of advantage.
and in a low investment the centre of gravity through the cycle.
Sales growth is expected to be slightly above the GDP We consider the dividend to be the core element year it may go up: but 15% of the countries in which we operate as beverage of shareholder remuneration and something on is the centre of gravity markets grow and cans take a greater share of which they should be able to depend.
We aim to the pack mix as beverage packaging shifts continue to pay the dividend in line with our policy through the cycle.
from glass to aluminium and plastic in line with of 2.0 to 2.5 times cover and return surplus cash consumer preference and retailer logistics.
Graham Chipchase Chief executive Balancing growth and returns Sales growth GDP Pack mix change New category growth Emerging markets growth Investment Profit growth GDP Protect our strong market positions Efficiencies and pricing offset cost inflation Create shareholder over time value by growing Capture growth, focus on returns Good drop through from increased volume while maintaining Organic investment c 1.0x 1.5x and utilisation depreciation underpins GDP growth ROCE at c 15% Bolt-on acquisitions Cash generation Working capital management Strong balance sheet Investment grade credit rating Surplus cash Dividend Returned to shareholders Dividend cover 2.0 2.5x
