Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 51 Effectiveness Our board evaluation process Interviews, board attendance, review of papers Analysis of strengths and challenges, recommendations discussion document stuart Chambers nomination committee chairman Individual feedback meetings Our board members bring important Collective board discussion skills and experience to our organisation The review explored three key aspects of board effectiveness: the board and this complements the skills of our environment culture, dynamics, composition and tenure of directors, the work executive team.
of the board strategy and operations, risk and control, and performance management, and the use of time and process planning and allocation.
HOW Is THE BOARd EFFECTIvE?
Dr Long noted that all directors believe that the board has an open and The board acts in the best interests of the Company, making well informed transparent culture which encourages high quality debate and a sophisticated and high quality decisions within a framework of prudent risk management.
The review highlighted a number of strengths and the Matters are discussed cohesively by the board as a whole, with challenge board shared the view that the board and its committees continue to and debate encouraged, and no one individual has unrestricted power of operate effectively.
A number of challenges and opportunities were identified and the board The composition of the board and its committees facilitates the effective agreed to focus on the following areas during 2014: discharge of its duties and responsibilities.
Rexam has a board of directors with international business backgrounds and a range of diverse skills, Challenges 2014 actions following 2013 evaluation experience and nationalities.
Their diversity and knowledge are invaluable Strategic To continue to refine the strategic review process in challenging and developing the Groups strategy and enable the board objectives and promote discussion on non financial drivers to govern the global business effectively.
Throughout 2013 and up to the date of this annual report the Company Talent management To focus on the connection between strategic had a majority of independent non executive directors on the board.
and succession objectives and executive succession planning, The board is aware of the other commitments of the directors and considers planning including the chief executives plans for the that these commitments do not conflict with their duties as directors of the development of executive and senior management Company.
Stuart Chambers recent appointment as chairman designate of diversity: and allowing time for interaction and ARM Holdings plc was reported to the board.
He confirmed that no conflict debate between the board and senior management.
arose from that role and that the appointment will have no adverse impact on his time commitment to Rexam.
A biography of each member of the board, Board and To continue to structure the board and its committees including details of their business experience and other directorships, is given committee in a way that encourages the board to work on pages 46 and 47. development together as a unit, facilitates good cross referencing between committees, and develops individual BOARd PERFORMAnCE EvALUATIOn knowledge and involvement.
The directors recognise that the evaluation process is an important annual Customers To develop a more comprehensive understanding opportunity to review the practices and performance of the board and its and suppliers of the longer term impact of changing customer committees, and implement actions to improve the boards focus, effectiveness and competitor dynamics.
and ability to contribute to the Companys success.
In 2013, Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Limited was engaged to conduct an independently facilitated review of the board and its committees.
Dr Long does not have any other connection with the Group.
The chairman and company secretary agreed the scope of the review with Dr Long to include one to one interviews with each board member and with the company secretary and the Group director, human resources, to obtain open and constructive feedback.
52 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Effectiveness continued The board made progress during 2013 against the areas for development During 2013, the board visited the beverage can plants in Izmir, Turkey identified in the 2012 internal evaluation.
In particular: and Cairo, Egypt where they met with local management and toured the manufacturing facilities.
Areas for development 2013 progress following 2012 evaluation Members of the senior management team with responsibility for the Strategic planning The directors considered the 2013 strategic Groups businesses and those with corporate and service centre functional review process engaging, with high quality responsibilities make periodic presentations at board meetings about their pre reading material and board presentations, businesses, functions, performance, suppliers, customers, markets and strategy.
and a combination of formal and informal The company secretary, who is appointed by the board, is responsible for debate facilitated by the chairman.
ensuring compliance with board procedures.
This includes taking minutes of the board meetings and recording any concerns relating to the running Risk management Board briefings and presentations on supply of the Company or proposed actions arising therefrom that are expressed chain risk related topical issues, such as aluminium by a director in a board meeting.
The company secretary is also secretary procurement, enabled the board to consider and to the audit and risk, nomination and remuneration committees.
Under the direction of the chairman, the company secretary is responsible for Non financial The balanced scorecard has been further integrated the communication of relevant information between the board, its committees monitoring into the Groups processes and measures and is and the senior management team.
He also advises the board, through the reported periodically to the board.
chairman, on all governance and regulatory compliance matters.
Talent management Continued progress to be made in engagement Should a director reasonably request independent professional advice to and succession around executive leadership development and carry out their duties, such advice is made available at the Companys expense.
A non executive director with expertise in technology, manufacturing processes nOMInATIOn COMMITTEE MEMBERsHIP And MEETInGs 2013 and procurement was recruited during the year.
The board has approved the terms of reference delegating certain responsibilities to the committee.
The terms of reference are reviewed Board development Board meetings facilitate an even contribution annually and are available on the Companys website.
from executive and non executive directors, the non executive directors drawing on their areas The nomination committee is chaired by the chairman of the board.
The of expertise, in an environment which is both other members of the committee during 2013 were all independent non challenging and constructive.
Customers Customer and supplier presentations made to the Committee membership Attendance and suppliers board during the year with further progress required Stuart Chambers committee chairman 2 2 on the longer term strategic impact of changing customer and competitor dynamics.
John Langston 2 2 Leo Oosterveer 2 2 A full performance evaluation of the board and its committees will continue 2 to be conducted annually.
Ros Rivaz 1 1 dEvELOPMEnT, InFORMATIOn And sUPPORT Jean-Pierre Rodier 2 2 Formal board meetings are held during the year and the chairman and the Johanna Waterous 2 2 company secretary ensure that, prior to each meeting, the directors receive accurate, clear and timely information which helps them to discharge their 1 Number of scheduled meetings attended maximum number of meetings that the duties.
In the months with no scheduled board meeting, the directors receive director could have attended.
the prior month and cumulative financial and operating information relating 2 Appointed to the committee on 12 June 2013. to the Group and its businesses.
The directors receive their board papers through an electronic portal and are able to reference and mark the THE ROLE OF THE nOMInATIOn COMMITTEE electronic papers in the board meeting.
The appointment and replacement of directors is governed by the Companys All newly appointed directors participate in an internal induction articles of association, which may only be amended with shareholders programme that introduces the director to the Group and includes visiting approval in accordance with relevant legislation.
This programme is tailored to each directors needs, appointments to the board are the responsibility of the nomination taking into account individual qualifications and experience.
If required, committee which acts in accordance with its terms of reference and the an overview of the role and responsibilities of a director can be facilitated articles of association.
The company secretary gives guidance on All board appointments are conducted through a formal, rigorous and board procedures and corporate governance.
transparent procedure involving the nomination committee and the board.
The performance and effectiveness of the nomination committee are reviewed Ros Rivaz joined the board as a non executive director in June 2013. as part of the main performance evaluation of the board and all its committees.
Ros met with functional and operational management for an overview of the corporate and business aspects of the Group, and visited the The main responsibilities of the nomination committee are to: beverage can operations in Milton Keynes, UK, Chicago, US and Cairo, review the structure, size and composition of the board including the Egypt.
She also met with the Groups external auditors, legal advisors of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity, including gender diversity : the Companys brokers and capital markets advisors.
Governance and give full consideration to succession planning and ensure that processes board related matters were discussed with the company secretary.
and planning are in place with regard to both the board and senior executive appointments: The chairman is responsible for, and reviews and agrees with each director their training and development needs.
Members of the committees receive identify and consider candidates on merit against objective criteria and specific updates on matters that are relevant to their role.
The chairman make recommendations to the board on appointments to the board and arranges for the board to visit at least one of the Groups business locations board committees, and on the appointment of the company secretary: each year to ensure that the directors knowledge of and familiarity with the businesses are updated and maintained.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 53 assess the time needed to fulfil the roles of chairman, senior independent sUCCEssIOn PLAnnInG director and non executive director: The nomination committee develops succession plans for the board, mindful of the need for progressive refreshment of the board, and a balance of skills, keep up to date on strategic issues and commercial changes affecting the experience and diversity.
Company and its markets: and In view of Jean-Pierre Rodiers forthcoming retirement from the board, the assist the chairman with the annual board performance evaluation committee has prepared a briefing for recruitment consultants to commence process to assess the overall performance and effectiveness of the board a search for a new non executive director.
and each board committee, and the individual performance of directors.
The boards responsibility for succession planning means that it is actively nOMInATIOn COMMITTEE AREAs OF FOCUs 2013 involved in the Groups talent processes to identify internal candidates for During 2013 the nomination committee carried out its duties by focusing on promotion and develop senior managers to give them every opportunity its key activities and ensuring the long term effectiveness of the board.
The nomination committee identifies through the management review process any internal people whose skills, experience Reviewed the board and committee composition following retirements and contribution to the Group would add value to the board.
The board from the board in 2012. periodically discusses current senior management positions within the organisational structure and, led by the chief executive, considers potential Discussed the range of skills on the board and its diversity to ensure an successors to meet the Groups leadership needs over time.
adequate balance of skills and experience for effective medium and long term decision making.
ELECTIOn And RE-ELECTIOn OF dIRECTORs Conducted an appointment process for the recommendation of Ros Rivaz To promote good governance and in accordance with the Code, the board has recommended that all directors should submit themselves for election as non executive director.
or re-election on an annual basis.
Reviewed succession planning and development for executive directors and non executive directors.
Directors in office as at the date of this report to be proposed for election Oversight of a thorough board performance evaluation.
or re-election at the AGM 2014 Stuart Chambers Chairman BOARd APPOInTMEnTs And dIvERsITy Graham Chipchase Chief executive The board appreciates the benefits of greater board diversity, including gender David Robbie Finance director diversity.
They recognise a diverse and inclusive culture, and policies that promote diversity are key to creating a breadth of perspective among John Langston Non executive director directors and effective balance in the boardroom.
Leo Oosterveer Non executive director The nomination committee has a policy of working alongside recruitment Ros Rivaz Non executive director consultants who adhere to a voluntary code of conduct to ensure that when seeking new candidates for the board, at least 30% of the candidates on Johanna Waterous Senior independent director their initial list of candidates are women the Voluntary Code of Conduct Jean-Pierre Rodier is not being proposed for re-election as he will retire and are independent in that they have no other connection with the Company.
as a non executive director at the conclusion of the AGM 2014.
For executive director appointments the recruitment consultants evaluate and consider prospective external candidates and review internal candidates.
In Following a rigorous evaluation of the performance of each director all cases the nomination committee then meets with and considers prospective and on the recommendation of the nomination committee, the board is candidates and, if appropriate, recommendations are made to the board recommending that Ros Rivaz, who was appointed as a non executive for approval.
director since the date of the last AGM, stand for election and that the other directors named above stand for re-election at the AGM 2014.
The Groups gender balance at board level is currently six males, 75% and two females, 25% 2012: 85% male and 15% female.
It is the boards intention Ros Rivaz is considered by the board to be independent.
She is being to maintain that at least 25% of the board are women.
Diversity is one of the recommended for election as the board believes that her experience in important factors in the specification given by the nomination committee technology, sustainability and IT systems, and her expertise in driving to recruitment consultants when appointing new directors.
The nomination efficiencies in manufacturing processes and procurement is of value committee ensures that, with the assistance of recruitment consultants who to Rexam.
adhere to the Voluntary Code of Conduct, female candidates are considered Graham Chipchase is being recommended for re-election as the board routinely as part of the recruitment process to bring the most effective balance believes his leadership and insight into the Group and its markets will within the boardroom.
The overriding objective is that board appointments continue to help to develop Rexam and create shareholder value.
will continue to be on merit and that the most appropriate candidates are identified and appointed.
David Robbie is being recommended for re-election as the board believes his strong financial and corporate finance experience and his financial and In 2014 the nomination committee will continue to assess the boards strategic skills are important to the board and to the maintenance of tight composition and how it can be enhanced and will consider diversity as financial controls.
part of this process to ensure it continues to draw candidates from the widest possible range of talent.
Further details on diversity throughout the Group John Langston, Leo Oosterveer and Johanna Waterous are being can be found on page 23. recommended for re-election as, in the boards view, they remain independent and, following their formal performance evaluation, the During the year the nomination committee asked Odgers Berndtson to chairman of the board has confirmed that they continue to be effective commence a search for a new non executive director to join the board.
and demonstrate their commitment to the board.
Odgers Berndtson is an independent executive search firm which has no On the recommendation of the nomination committee, Stuart Chambers, who other connection with the Company.
Ros Rivaz was interviewed by the was considered independent on appointment as chairman of the Company, nomination committee as part of the external search process and was is being recommended for re-election, as the board believes he continues recommended to the board for appointment on the basis that she to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
brought the required skills and experience to the board and had A biography of each member of the board can be found on pages confirmed that she had sufficient time to discharge the role.
