Governance I Board of directors Scott Forbes Nick McKittrick Chairman Chief Executive Officer Scott was appointed Chairman of Nick became Chief Executive Officer in Rightmove in 2005.
He is non-executive April 2013 having been Chief Operating director of Orbitz Worldwide, a NYSE Officer since 2005 and additionally listed online travel agency.
He is also the Finance Director since 2009.
Nick is a Chief Executive of Bridge Capital Advisors co-founding executive, having joined Ltd, which he founded in 2007, and was Rightmove in 2000, and was a director of NetJets Management Ltd, responsible for launching the original a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway until website.
His prior experience is in October 2009.
Scott has over 30 years technology consulting with Accenture.
experience in operations, finance and Appointed to the Board 5 March 2004. mergers and acquisitions including 15 years at Cendant Corporation, which was formerly the largest worldwide provider of residential property services.
Scott established the Cendant international headquarters in London in 1999 and led this division as Group Managing Director until he joined Rightmove.
Jonathan Agnew Ashley Martin Judy Vezmar Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Jonathan joined the Board in 2006 Ashley joined Rightmove in 2009 as a Judy joined Rightmove in 2006 as a as Senior Independent Director.
He is non-executive director and also as non-executive director.
She was Chairman of The Cayenne Trust.
Chairman of the Audit Committee, where Chief Executive Officer of LexisNexis Jonathan was an investment banker he provides oversight of the financial International until January 2014. for over 25 years, including being reporting practices, internal control LexisNexis, part of the global media Managing Director of Morgan Stanley environment and compliance with the group Reed Elsevier PLC, is a leading and Group Chief Executive of Kleinwort various listed company regulations.
worldwide provider of content-enabled Benson.
He has been Chairman of He is also a member of the Remuneration workflow solutions, where Judy was Nationwide Building Society, Limit, Committee.
He qualified as a chartered responsible for the International Group Gerrard Group, LMS Capital, Beazley accountant in 1981 and has a career in and their expansion of the range of and Ashmore Global Opportunities and finance spanning 30 years.
Ashley is successful solutions including online has served on the Council of Lloyds.
currently Group Chief Financial Officer services to over 100 countries.
Chairman of The Engine Group, a private equity is also a non-executive director of of the Remuneration Committee and a backed international marketing services blinkx plc, an internet media company.
member of the Audit and Nomination group.
He was previously Finance Director Appointed 16 January 2006.
of Rok plc, the building services group, of the Audit, Remuneration and and Group Finance Director of the Nomination Committees.
media services company, Tempus plc.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Peter Brooks-Johnson Robyn Perriss Chief Operating Officer Finance Director and Company Secretary Robyn joined Rightmove in 2007 as Peter joined Rightmove in 2006 and Financial Controller with responsibility developed the Home Information for day to day financial operations, was Packs proposition.
His focus appointed Company Secretary in April subsequently shifted to the operation 2012 and promoted to the Board as of the rightmove.
He then Finance Director in April 2013.
Robyn went on to lead, from the beginning of qualified as a chartered accountant in 2008, the estate agency business.
South Africa with KPMG and worked in Peter was promoted to the role of both audit and transaction services.
co. uk Prior to joining Rightmove, Robyn was on his appointment to the Board on Group Financial Controller at the online 10 January 2011 and Chief Operating media business, Trader Media Group.
Prior to joining Appointed to the Board 30 April 2013. rightmove, Peter was a management consultant with Accenture and the Berkeley Partnership.
Appointed to the Board 10 January 2011.
Colin Kemp Peter Williams Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Colin was appointed to the Board in Peter joined Rightmove in February 2014 2007.
With over 30 years experience in as a non-executive director.
He is senior high street retail banking, Colin has independent non-executive director of worked for Lloyds Banking Group Sportech plc and non-executive director companies since 1979.
Between January of Cineworld Group plc.
Peter was 2005 and December 2007, Colin was previously senior independent director Managing Director of Halifax Estate of ASOS plc, held non-executive director Agencies Limited and is currently the roles in the EMI group, Blacks Leisure Managing Director of Telephone Banking Group plc, JJB Sports plc, GCap Media for the Lloyds Banking Group, Retail plc and Capital Radio Group plc.
Colin is a Cranfield MBA and executive career, he was Chief Executive an Associate of the Chartered Institute of at Alpha Group plc and prior to that, Marketing.
Chief Executive of Selfridges plc where he also acted as Chief Financial Officer for over ten years.
