Energy Financial performance Review of operations 2013 2012 The profitability of the uranium and Australian coal industries continues US$ million US$ million to be significantly impacted by lower commodity prices and high input costs.
Revenue 5,454 6,062 However, the long-term fundamentals for the Energy product group remain strong.
The group has large option-rich assets and a programme of more than Operating cash flow 999 641 1,500 cost saving initiatives aimed at transforming the business to ensure it Underlying earnings 33 309 remains competitive throughout the cycle.
Capital expenditure 732 1,877 In 2013 the Energy product group delivered underlying earnings of Net operating assets 4,872 7,169 US$33 million compared with 2012 earnings of US$309 million.
The decline in earnings was primarily due to significantly lower prices and the absence Strategy and strategic priorities of gains on divestment of exploration properties, which amounted to The Energy product group aims to sustainably extract full value from its assets US$258 million in 2012.
This was partly offset by a weaker Australian dollar, to serve growing global energy demand.
It will achieve this by transforming lower operating costs and record production across a number of sites.
the business to deliver sector-leading performance in all of its large, A transformation programme of aggressive cost and productivity improvements option-rich orebodies.
continued to deliver results during the year, boosting earnings by US$442 million US$646 million pre-tax compared with 2012.
An impairment The group is focused on: charge of US$470 million post-tax was also recognised relating to Rio Tinto Maximising productivity and significantly reducing cost.
Optimising the portfolio and deriving maximum value from mine to market.
Rio Tinto Coal Australia Rio Tinto: 100 per cent Embedding innovative and value-adding technology.
In Queensland, Rio Tinto Coal Australia RTCA manages the Hail Creek Building trust and partnering to earn the right to operate.
Rio Tinto: 82 per cent, Kestrel 80 per cent and Clermont 50.1 per cent coal mines.
Safety In New South Wales, RTCA manages Coal & Allieds coal mines which include In 2013, the Energy product groups all injury frequency rate was 0.67 the Hunter Valley Operations 80 per cent, Bengalla 32 per cent, Mount compared to 0.66 in the previous year.
In a challenging year of transformation Thorley 64 per cent and Warkworth 44.5 per cent.
there were no fatalities recorded at any operations.
RTCA is taking action across a wide front to improve the competitiveness In 2013, Kestrel Mines strong commitment to health and safety was recognised of its operations during challenging conditions for the Australian coal industry.
with the mine winning the Chief Executive Safety Award for most improved A transformation programme of business improvement initiatives has reduced operation.
The Kestrel team has consistently improved its safety performance operating costs significantly and increased productivity.
Reduced expenditure over recent years through increasing employee engagement on safety, and on capital projects and improved management of working capital has further embedding the leadership commitment to ensure everyone returns home contributed to reducing costs.
safely after every work shift.
Australian coal production increased by eight per cent Rio Tinto share in 2013 The Energy product groups safety efforts are focused on: compared to 2012, with four mines Hunter Valley Operations, Mount Thorley Understanding and eliminating critical safety risks.
Warkworth, Bengalla and Clermont achieving annual records.
This substantial production increase was delivered through operational improvements, the Fostering a culture of shared and personal accountability for safety.
completion of brownfield mine developments and the ramp-up of Clermont Reducing injuries as well as achieving zero fatalities.
Net earnings of US$367 million represent a nine per cent decrease from 2012, due to significantly lower prices for all types of coal.
Greenhouse gas emissions On 15 October 2013, the US$2 billion Kestrel Mine Extension in central Over the past 15 years, Rio Tinto has spent more than US$100 million on Queensland was officially opened.
The extension is expected to add 20 years research and development into technologies that will reduce emissions from to the life of the mine.
Also in October, a binding agreement was signed to sell coal-fired power plants.
This investment has been targeted at ensuring coal Clermont Mine for just over US$1 billion and a conditional sale and purchase retains a significant role in the global energy mix in an increasingly carbonagreement for Blair Athol Mine was reached.
In 2013, the Energy product group continued its A$6 million sponsorship of The Otway Project, Australias first industrial-scale RTCA is working to secure a long-term future for the Mount Thorley Warkworth demonstration of geological carbon dioxide capture and storage.
mine, following the NSW Land and Environment Courts decision to overturn government planning approvals.
Rio Tinto has also appealed against the Courts The Energy product groups greenhouse gas emissions decreased to decision, with support from the NSW Government.
In early 2014, a short-term approximately 3.5 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent in 2013, planning approval was granted that will enable the mine to resume normal compared with 4.0 million tonnes in 2012.
This reduction was mainly due operations for around two years.
to the implementation of a new industry methodology applicable only at the Energy product groups New South Wales sites, which more accurately Energy Resources of Australia Rio Tinto: 68.39 per cent estimates fugitive emissions of carbon dioxide and methane.
These gases Energy Resources of Australia ERA is a publicly-listed company.
Following naturally occur in coal seams and are released during the mining process.
the completion of open pit mining at its Ranger mine in December 2012, ERA In 2013, Energys Australian coal and uranium operations completed energycontinued production in 2013 by processing stockpiled ore.
The majority of use assessments in accordance with requirements under the Energy Efficiency high-grade stockpiled ore was processed during the first half of 2013.
More than 40 opportunities were identified relating to fuel second half of 2013, the mill was primarily fed with lower-grade stockpiled usage, coal handling and processing, and process control.
The opportunities material and as a result uranium oxide production was reduced.
identified will now undergo detailed evaluation.
On 7 December 2013, ERA voluntarily suspended ore processing operations following the failure of a leach tank in its processing plant.
No one was injured in the incident which was fully contained by the mines containment system, 32 32 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Energy and there was no impact to the surrounding environment or to Kakadu National economical to do so, develop a uranium operation without the requirement Financial performance Review of operations Park.
The incident is being fully investigated.
of first finding a Canadian majority partner.
2013 2012 The profitability of the uranium and Australian coal industries continues US$ million US$ million to be significantly impacted by lower commodity prices and high input costs.
In September 2013, ERAs A$220 million brine concentrator was officially Development projects Revenue 5,454 6,062 However, the long-term fundamentals for the Energy product group remain opened.
Managing water is central to ERAs operations and the brine strong.
The group has large option-rich assets and a programme of more than The Energy product group continues to review the optimal growth profile Operating cash flow 999 641 concentrator will help improve its ability to treat water and progressively 1,500 cost saving initiatives aimed at transforming the business to ensure it for all business units in light of market conditions for coal and uranium, the rehabilitate the site.
Underlying earnings 33 309 remains competitive throughout the cycle.
high-cost operating environment in Queensland and New South Wales, and Capital expenditure 732 1,877 Since 2011 ERA has achieved total cumulative cash savings of A$127 million infrastructure constraints in Mozambique.
The Energy product groups resource In 2013 the Energy product group delivered underlying earnings of of its A$150 million in targeted reductions.
This has been delivered through Net operating assets 4,872 7,169 base in Australias Hunter Valley is unique due to its premium quality coal, US$33 million compared with 2012 earnings of US$309 million.
The decline a number of initiatives, including merging management roles, reducing the and proximity to existing infrastructure.
The resources based in this region in earnings was primarily due to significantly lower prices and the absence use of contractors, reducing support and services roles, improvement in are large, adjacent and option-rich orebodies that have the potential to support Strategy and strategic priorities of gains on divestment of exploration properties, which amounted to procurement and maintenance practices, and rationalisation of corporate costs.
substantial open cut or underground mines for many decades to come and The Energy product group aims to sustainably extract full value from its assets US$258 million in 2012.
This was partly offset by a weaker Australian dollar, are difficult to replicate.
With Energys ability to operate its New South Wales to serve growing global energy demand.
It will achieve this by transforming Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique Rio Tinto: 100 per cent lower operating costs and record production across a number of sites.
operations as a network, and a range of development options not yet realised, the business to deliver sector-leading performance in all of its large, A transformation programme of aggressive cost and productivity improvements Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique RTCM manages the Zambeze Project 100 there is further potential for these assets to deliver material, long-term value option-rich orebodies.
continued to deliver results during the year, boosting earnings by US$442 per cent, Tete East Project 100 per cent, and Benga Mine 65 per cent in to shareholders.
million US$646 million pre-tax compared with 2012.
An impairment Mozambique, and the Zululand Anthracite Colliery 74 per cent in South Africa.
The group is focused on: charge of US$470 million post-tax was also recognised relating to Rio Tinto Work continues to determine the optimum pathway for the potential The Energy product group is working to secure a new pathway for its coal Maximising productivity and significantly reducing cost.
development of the Mount Pleasant project, a greenfield coal site in the Hunter business in Mozambique.
Its Benga mine has established itself as a hard coking Optimising the portfolio and deriving maximum value from mine to market.
In Queensland, the Energy product group is progressing a pre-feasibility coal producer and has been working to improve performance by reducing Rio Tinto Coal Australia Rio Tinto: 100 per cent study and government approvals to provide options for ongoing open-cut Embedding innovative and value-adding technology.
operating costs and increasing productivity.
In Queensland, Rio Tinto Coal Australia RTCA manages the Hail Creek operations as well as underground development at Hail Creek Mine.
Building trust and partnering to earn the right to operate.
Rio Tinto: 82 per cent, Kestrel 80 per cent and Clermont 50.1 per cent A post-tax impairment charge of US$470 million relating to RTCM was Evaluation and exploration of the Ranger 3 Deeps mineral resource in ERA, coal mines.
This impairment follows a review of RTCMs development plan, which is estimated to contain over 33,000 tonnes of uranium oxide, progressed Safety discount rate and associated country risk premium and brings the total In New South Wales, RTCA manages Coal & Allieds coal mines which include in 2013.
Construction of an exploration decline, to conduct underground In 2013, the Energy product groups all injury frequency rate was 0.67 impairments relating to RTCM to US$3.3 billion.
the Hunter Valley Operations 80 per cent, Bengalla 32 per cent, Mount close-spaced drilling to further define and evaluate the resource, began in May compared to 0.66 in the previous year.
2012 and underground drilling commenced a year later.
In addition, ERA began In 2013, RTCM delivered an operating cost reduction of US$20 per tonne, there were no fatalities recorded at any operations.
a pre-feasibility study on the proposed Ranger 3 Deeps underground mine in a 129 per cent increase in total coal production to 1.6 million tonnes 100 per RTCA is taking action across a wide front to improve the competitiveness In 2013, Kestrel Mines strong commitment to health and safety was recognised July 2012.
The study is on schedule and a decision on the viability and design cent basis compared with 2012, a hard coking coal yield increase of five per of its operations during challenging conditions for the Australian coal industry.
with the mine winning the Chief Executive Safety Award for most improved of an operational mine is expected by 2015.
ERA has also formally commenced cent and a reduction in overall headcount in excess of 25 per cent.
A transformation programme of business improvement initiatives has reduced operation.
The Kestrel team has consistently improved its safety performance the statutory approval process for the proposed underground mine with the operating costs significantly and increased productivity.
Reduced expenditure Notwithstanding these improvements, challenges remain due to infrastructure over recent years through increasing employee engagement on safety, and Northern Territory and Commonwealth Governments.
on capital projects and improved management of working capital has further constraints and difficult market conditions combined with instances of civil embedding the leadership commitment to ensure everyone returns home contributed to reducing costs.
unrest and ongoing political tensions.
While the families of expatriate workers safely after every work shift.
Outlook were temporarily moved home in November, business operations were not Australian coal production increased by eight per cent Rio Tinto share in 2013 The Energy product groups safety efforts are focused on: In the short term, the coal and uranium mining industries are expected to impacted.
Separate to this, from mid-December 2013 to mid-January 2014, compared to 2012, with four mines Hunter Valley Operations, Mount Thorley continue to suffer from increased costs, and weak commodity prices.
The RTCM suspended mining operations at the Benga mine to reduce stockpiled Understanding and eliminating critical safety risks.
This substantial medium and long-term outlook, though, is positive.
Customer commitments continued to be met during the suspension.
production increase was delivered through operational improvements, the Fostering a culture of shared and personal accountability for safety.
to rise steadily driven by economic growth in emerging markets and further completion of brownfield mine developments and the ramp-up of Clermont Reducing injuries as well as achieving zero fatalities.
Rssing Uranium Rio Tinto: 68.58 per cent urbanisation and industrialisation in China and India.
Much of this new demand Mine.
Net earnings of US$367 million represent a nine per cent decrease from is expected to be met by coal as it is the most secure, affordable, and readilyRssing Uranium Mine is located near Arandis in Namibias Erongo region.
2012, due to significantly lower prices for all types of coal.
available source of energy, particularly in the Asia Pacific region.
Greenhouse gas emissions Like the rest of the Energy product group, in 2013 Rssing focused on business On 15 October 2013, the US$2 billion Kestrel Mine Extension in central improvement strategies to reduce unit costs and achieved its target of Over the past 15 years, Rio Tinto has spent more than US$100 million on After two decades of remarkable development and transformation, China is Queensland was officially opened.
The extension is expected to add 20 years US$30 million in savings for 2013.
Rssings overall strip ratios dropped from research and development into technologies that will reduce emissions from only now reaching world average levels of electricity and energy consumption.
Also in October, a binding agreement was signed to sell almost 4:1 in 2011 to 2:1 during 2013.
Uranium production in 2013 was 5,312 coal-fired power plants.
This investment has been targeted at ensuring coal Previously a major net exporter of coal, China is now the worlds largest net Clermont Mine for just over US$1 billion and a conditional sale and purchase thousand pounds 100 per cent basis compared with 5,950 thousand pounds retains a significant role in the global energy mix in an increasingly carbonimporter of both thermal and coking coal.
It is estimated that China will have agreement for Blair Athol Mine was reached.
Production was impacted by lower-than-planned throughput and constrained environment.
In 2013, the Energy product group continued its imported over 300 million tonnes of coal in 2013.
China will also need to import a leach tank failure in December which halted production.
Some processing A$6 million sponsorship of The Otway Project, Australias first industrial-scale RTCA is working to secure a long-term future for the Mount Thorley Warkworth uranium to meet the requirements of its fourth-generation nuclear power operations were restarted on 11 January 2014 and operations will continue demonstration of geological carbon dioxide capture and storage.
mine, following the NSW Land and Environment Courts decision to overturn programme.
India, with low per capita electricity consumption and 300 million to be progressively restored during the first quarter.
Rio Tinto has also appealed against the Courts people still without access to electricity, requires substantial investment in The Energy product groups greenhouse gas emissions decreased to decision, with support from the NSW Government.
In early 2014, a short-term energy infrastructure to sustain the countrys growth and development.
approximately 3.5 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent in 2013, Rio Tinto Canada Uranium Rio Tinto: 100 per cent planning approval was granted that will enable the mine to resume normal compared with 4.0 million tonnes in 2012.
This reduction was mainly due Rio Tinto Canada Uraniums Roughrider project is an exploration site located in Asia remains the dominant market for Australian seaborne coal.
Japan, operations for around two years.
to the implementation of a new industry methodology applicable only at North-Eastern Saskatchewans Athabasca Basin, which supplies approximately South Korea and Taiwan remain important customers for Rio Tinto and growth the Energy product groups New South Wales sites, which more accurately 20 per cent of the worlds uranium.
An exploration programme is under way from other South East Asian countries is expected.
Coking coal is experiencing Energy Resources of Australia Rio Tinto: 68.39 per cent estimates fugitive emissions of carbon dioxide and methane.
These gases that is focused on obtaining orebody knowledge and a better appreciation of downward pricing pressure in the current market.
However, fundamentals Energy Resources of Australia ERA is a publicly-listed company.
geotechnical, hydrological and hydrogeological conditions.
Roughrider is near for this product remain strong over the long term, due to continued steel the completion of open pit mining at its Ranger mine in December 2012, ERA competitor deposits and existing uranium mills in the same geological terrain demand growth in China, India and other emerging Asian economies, as well In 2013, Energys Australian coal and uranium operations completed energycontinued production in 2013 by processing stockpiled ore.
The majority of as all of Canadas currently-producing uranium mines.
as underlying global resource scarcity of premium coking coal.
Rio Tintos use assessments in accordance with requirements under the Energy Efficiency high-grade stockpiled ore was processed during the first half of 2013.
In the Australian coal, due to its quality, supply reliability and location, is well Opportunities Act.
More than 40 opportunities were identified relating to fuel second half of 2013, the mill was primarily fed with lower-grade stockpiled In 2013, the Canadian Government agreed to enter into an Agreement in positioned to supply the growth in demand in these Asian countries.
Uranium usage, coal handling and processing, and process control.
Principle with the European Union on the Comprehensive Economic Trade production will need to grow in the long term to meet Chinas large future identified will now undergo detailed evaluation.
The Agreement provides an exemption to eligible companies On 7 December 2013, ERA voluntarily suspended ore processing operations requirements, but in the medium term the market remains under considerable from the Non-Resident Ownership Policy as it applies to foreign ownership following the failure of a leach tank in its processing plant.
No one was injured price pressure.
Once enacted, this change means Rio Tinto could, if in the incident which was fully contained by the mines containment system, 32 33 riotinto.
