Aluminium Rio Tinto Alcan works closely with stakeholders to address sustainability Financial performance concerns and help identify ways to foster greater transparency and 2013 2012 sustainability throughout the aluminium industry.
In 2013 the results of the US$ million US$ million Quebec Government-led assessment of the carbon footprint of Rio Tinto Alcan Revenue 12,463 12,170 ingot made in Quebec, relative to the industry average, showed a 50 per cent Operating cash flow 1,364 571 lower global warming potential than the industry average excluding China.
Underlying earnings 557 54 Capital expenditure 2,226 2,755 Review of operations Net operating assets 18,814 20,461 Rio Tinto Alcans ongoing transformation is strengthening its position as the worlds leading aluminium business in terms of quality of assets, productivity Following the conclusion of a comprehensive review in August 2013, the Group determined and profitability.
that the divestment of Pacific Aluminium for value was not possible in the current economic conditions.
On 29 November 2013, Rio Tinto announced that it intended to suspend The Aluminium group delivered underlying earnings of US$557 million alumina production at Gove, Australia and focus on its bauxite operations after determining the refinery was no longer a viable business in the current market conditions.
The four US$503 million higher than 2012, including increased EBITDA margins, despite Pacific Aluminium smelters and the Gove bauxite mine were therefore reintegrated into a nine per cent decline in average London Metal Exchange LME prices periodRio Tinto Alcan during the second half of 2013.
The Gove alumina refinery continues to be over-period and the negative impact of severe weather in Australia in the first reported in Other Operations.
Comparative numbers have been reclassified accordingly.
Strategy and strategic priorities The average aluminium market price in 2013 was US$1,845 per tonne, which compares to an average of US$2,018 per tonne in 2012.
Rio Tinto Alcans The Aluminium product groups ultimate objective is to be the most profitable average realised price, which includes market and product premiums, for primary aluminium producer in the world.
In todays challenging environment, primary metal products in 2013 was US$2,268 per tonne, compared with this is only achievable by continuing to drive the transformation of the business, US$2,383 per tonne in 2012.
The growing momentum from the cost reduction focusing on top-tier assets and continuing to improve cost structure in a initiatives combined with increased volumes and a rise in market premia were sustainable way.
the main drivers of the positive change in earnings.
The second wave of a comprehensive transformation strategy launched Rio Tinto Alcan pursued more than 500 cost reduction initiatives and in in 2011 is committed to continuing improvement by: 2013 these improvements lifted underlying earnings by US$392 million Improving performance through significant, widespread cost reductions US$574 million pre-tax.
The savings included greater production efficiencies and productivity gains.
and lower prices of raw materials, lower functional costs and increased Focusing on top-tier assets by curtailing high-cost capacity and divesting production from Yarwun and Alma.
The impact of the heavy rainfalls in non-core assets.
Queensland impacted cost reduction efforts by US$58 million pre-tax.
Delivering key brownfield and modernisation projects that will enable Higher volumes were boosted by record operational performances at the Rio Tinto Alcan to leverage its leading bauxite and unrivalled renewable bauxite operations, notably at the Weipa and Gove mines in Australia, taking power positions, as well as its industry-leading proprietary AP technology.
advantage of higher demand and the steady ramp-up of production at the expanded Yarwun alumina refinery.
Aluminium volumes realised a return to full Safety production at the Alma, Quebec smelter, and completion of the leading-edge In 2013, the Aluminium groups all injury frequency rate showed incremental AP60 smelter which were in part offset by the curtailment of the Shawinigan 1 improvement to 0.66 versus its target of 0.68.
Sadly, however, there was smelter and the divestment of the  smelter and one fatality in April, which resulted from an accident at the Alma smelter Castelsarrasin casting facility in France.
The Aluminium group continued to strengthen its portfolio during 2013, Rio Tinto Alcans ongoing priority is to press ahead with implementing the building on the momentum of the past five years.
To date, it has curtailed or Zero Harm by Choice leadership development programme, while continuing closed 600,000 tonnes of high-cost aluminium smelting capacity, including to learn from significant potential incidents and improving the effectiveness 100,000 tonnes curtailed at the Shawinigan smelter in Quebec in December of critical control monitoring plans, in order to reach the ultimate goal of zero 2013.
The group is in the process of curtailing 2.6 million tonnes of alumina injuries.
Vehicle and pedestrian safety, working at height and lifting loads capacity at Gove.
Major divestments during 2013 included the sale of Rio Tinto remain the most important personal safety risks to manage.
Alcans 50 per cent stake in the Vigelands Metal Refinery and associated power station in Norway, the sale of the St. Jean-fide-Maurienne smelter and Greenhouse gas emissions Castelsarrasin business in France, and the sale of the Sebree smelter in the US.
Rio Tinto Alcan reduced its greenhouse gas intensity by 29 per cent since The group is continuing to review appropriate future pathways for other 2008, making a substantial contribution to Rio Tintos overall GHG intensity non-Tier 1 assets.
This significant reduction came from the divestment or An impairment charge of US$1,293 million was recognised relating closure of outdated or higher-carbon energy plants, as well as ongoing to the Groups aluminium business, primarily for Gove alumina refinery operational improvements that have combined to give Rio Tinto Alcan one 3 US$555 million, following the 29 November announcement to curtail of the lowest carbon footprints in the aluminium industry.
production, and for the Kitimat assets US$696 million where a significant Following the recent reintegration of Pacific Aluminium into Rio Tinto Alcan, project cost overrun has been identified which diminished the value 78 per cent of Rio Tinto Alcans power supply is carbon-free.
Seventy two per of the associated intangible assets.
cent comes from hydroelectricity, one of the cleanest forms of electricity 1 The figure excludes Pacific Aluminium and Gove.
Pacific Aluminium had an all production, and the remaining six per cent comes from nuclear power sources.
injury frequency rate of 0.88 in 2013.
Gove had an all injury frequency rate of 0.93.
2 The figure excludes Pacific Aluminium and Gove.
Pacific Aluminium accounted for 26 per cent of Rio Tintos total GHG emissions in 2013, and Gove accounted for five per cent of total GHG emissions.
3 The Gove refinery is reported as part of Other Operations.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Aluminium Rio Tinto Alcan works closely with stakeholders to address sustainability Recent proposals by the LME regarding warehousing rules could soften Financial performance Development projects concerns and help identify ways to foster greater transparency and regional premiums from their recent record levels to a more historic range, 2013 2012 Rio Tinto Alcans primary focus is on delivering key existing brownfield and sustainability throughout the aluminium industry.
In 2013 the results of the but this will take time to unfold.
US$ million US$ million modernisation projects investments that will enable it to leverage the groups Quebec Government-led assessment of the carbon footprint of Rio Tinto Alcan Revenue 12,463 12,170 strong bauxite and low-cost hydropower positions.
Despite the short-term challenges, the longer-term outlook for aluminium ingot made in Quebec, relative to the industry average, showed a 50 per cent Operating cash flow 1,364 571 remains robust and Rio Tinto Alcan believes that strong margins will be The new Arvida Smelter and AP60 Technology Centre in Quebecs Saguenay lower global warming potential than the industry average excluding China.
available for the well-positioned, low-cost operator.
Medium to long-term Underlying earnings 557 54 Lac-Saint-Jean region is complete and has ramped up successfully.
With an compound annual demand growth rates from a 2013 base are forecast initial capacity of 60,000 tonnes per year, the smelter provides an industrialCapital expenditure 2,226 2,755 Review of operations to average five per cent until 2020 and to be near four per cent until 2030. scale research and development platform for commercialising Rio Tinto Alcans Net operating assets 18,814 20,461 Rio Tinto Alcans ongoing transformation is strengthening its position as the Transportation will be the stand-out growth end-use sector supported by latest-generation AP Technology.
AP60 is designed to deliver significantly worlds leading aluminium business in terms of quality of assets, productivity substitution of other materials by aluminium.
Following the conclusion of a comprehensive review in August 2013, the Group determined lower full economic costs of production once at full capacity, including and profitability.
that the divestment of Pacific Aluminium for value was not possible in the current economic 40 per cent higher metal output per pot and 15 per cent higher labour conditions.
On 29 November 2013, Rio Tinto announced that it intended to suspend The Aluminium group delivered underlying earnings of US$557 million productivity.
This new facility, which will eventually replace the existing alumina production at Gove, Australia and focus on its bauxite operations after determining the refinery was no longer a viable business in the current market conditions.
The four US$503 million higher than 2012, including increased EBITDA margins, despite Arvida smelter, has the potential for two additional phases that would Pacific Aluminium smelters and the Gove bauxite mine were therefore reintegrated into a nine per cent decline in average London Metal Exchange LME prices periodboost annual capacity of the new facility from 60,000 to 450,000 tonnes.
Rio Tinto Alcan during the second half of 2013.
In British Columbia, the modernisation of the Kitimat smelter will enable half of 2013. the Aluminium group to fully leverage its wholly-owned Kemano hydropower Strategy and strategic priorities The average aluminium market price in 2013 was US$1,845 per tonne, which resource.
A project cost overrun has been identified, and a process to validate compares to an average of US$2,018 per tonne in 2012.
Rio Tinto Alcans the extent of the overrun is currently under way.
Any additional capital The Aluminium product groups ultimate objective is to be the most profitable average realised price, which includes market and product premiums, for required to complete the project will be subject to board approval.
Subject primary aluminium producer in the world.
In todays challenging environment, primary metal products in 2013 was US$2,268 per tonne, compared with to that approval, the Kitimat Modernisation Project is now expected to be this is only achievable by continuing to drive the transformation of the business, US$2,383 per tonne in 2012.
The growing momentum from the cost reduction commissioned and produce first metal during the first half of 2015.
This project focusing on top-tier assets and continuing to improve cost structure in a initiatives combined with increased volumes and a rise in market premia were will increase Kitimats annual capacity by some 48 per cent to approximately sustainable way.
420,000 tonnes, while moving production into the first decile of the cost The second wave of a comprehensive transformation strategy launched curve and achieving a reduction of more than 50 per cent in the smelters Rio Tinto Alcan pursued more than 500 cost reduction initiatives and in in 2011 is committed to continuing improvement by: emissions intensity.
2013 these improvements lifted underlying earnings by US$392 million Improving performance through significant, widespread cost reductions US$574 million pre-tax.
The savings included greater production efficiencies Ramp-up at the expanded Yarwun alumina refinery in Australia, a project and productivity gains.
and lower prices of raw materials, lower functional costs and increased known as Yarwun 2, is now complete and contributing to reduced alumina Focusing on top-tier assets by curtailing high-cost capacity and divesting production from Yarwun and Alma.
The impact of the heavy rainfalls in operating costs.
Production capacity at Yarwun has more than doubled, to non-core assets.
3.4 million tonnes per year: an initiative that strengthens Rio Tinto Alcans second-quartile position on the industry cost curve for alumina production.
Delivering key brownfield and modernisation projects that will enable Higher volumes were boosted by record operational performances at the Rio Tinto Alcan to leverage its leading bauxite and unrivalled renewable bauxite operations, notably at the Weipa and Gove mines in Australia, taking Bauxite growth projects include the South of the Embley expansion project power positions, as well as its industry-leading proprietary AP technology.
advantage of higher demand and the steady ramp-up of production at the in Queensland, which, subject to approval, will extend the life of the Weipa expanded Yarwun alumina refinery.
Aluminium volumes realised a return to full bauxite mine by about 40 years depending on production rates.
This will Safety production at the Alma, Quebec smelter, and completion of the leading-edge ensure continuity of supply for Rio Tinto Alcans Gladstone refineries, while In 2013, the Aluminium groups all injury frequency rate showed incremental AP60 smelter which were in part offset by the curtailment of the Shawinigan also facilitating exports to meet rapidly increasing demand from China and 1 improvement to 0.66 versus its target of 0.68.
Sadly, however, there was smelter and the divestment of the  smelter and the developing Middle East market.
This project can be developed at the one fatality in April, which resulted from an accident at the Alma smelter Castelsarrasin casting facility in France.
The Aluminium group continued to strengthen its portfolio during 2013, Due to current market conditions, it is unlikely that Rio Tinto Alcan will make Rio Tinto Alcans ongoing priority is to press ahead with implementing the building on the momentum of the past five years.
To date, it has curtailed or further significant investments in aluminium and alumina growth projects for Zero Harm by Choice leadership development programme, while continuing closed 600,000 tonnes of high-cost aluminium smelting capacity, including the foreseeable future.
to learn from significant potential incidents and improving the effectiveness 100,000 tonnes curtailed at the Shawinigan smelter in Quebec in December of critical control monitoring plans, in order to reach the ultimate goal of zero 2013.
The group is in the process of curtailing 2.6 million tonnes of alumina Outlook injuries.
Major divestments during 2013 included the sale of Rio Tinto Looking to the near term, bauxite should continue to be the healthiest segment remain the most important personal safety risks to manage.
Alcans 50 per cent stake in the Vigelands Metal Refinery and associated power of the industry, driven largely by strong demand in China.
Rio Tinto Alcan is well station in Norway, the sale of the St. Jean-fide-Maurienne smelter and positioned to take advantage of this strong demand through its industry-leading Greenhouse gas emissions Castelsarrasin business in France, and the sale of the Sebree smelter in the US.
bauxite assets, especially against the backdrop of the supply uncertainty Rio Tinto Alcan reduced its greenhouse gas intensity by 29 per cent since created by Indonesias export ban, which was implemented in January 2014.
The group is continuing to review appropriate future pathways for other 2008, making a substantial contribution to Rio Tintos overall GHG intensity Global demand for alumina and aluminium is also strong, however these non-Tier 1 assets.
This significant reduction came from the divestment or segments face continued challenges going forward.
An impairment charge of US$1,293 million was recognised relating closure of outdated or higher-carbon energy plants, as well as ongoing At the end of 2013, the aluminium market was nearly balanced following to the Groups aluminium business, primarily for Gove alumina refinery operational improvements that have combined to give Rio Tinto Alcan one 3 recent curtailments and production disruptions.
Aluminium inventories are US$555 million, following the 29 November announcement to curtail of the lowest carbon footprints in the aluminium industry.
likely to remain high as warehouse deals are driven by the attractiveness of low production, and for the Kitimat assets US$696 million where a significant Following the recent reintegration of Pacific Aluminium into Rio Tinto Alcan, interest rates and a strong contango ie indicative of expected higher prices.
project cost overrun has been identified which diminished the value 78 per cent of Rio Tinto Alcans power supply is carbon-free.
The market for alumina, currently trading at or around the marginal cost cent comes from hydroelectricity, one of the cleanest forms of electricity of production, is expected to remain near balanced for the near term.
1 The figure excludes Pacific Aluminium and Gove.
Metal prices remain under pressure as do many marginal producers.
Pacific Aluminium accounted Nonetheless, market premiums have reached unprecedented levels.
Despite for 26 per cent of Rio Tintos total GHG emissions in 2013, and Gove accounted markedly-increasing premiums, a good portion of the industry remains in for five per cent of total GHG emissions.
This could intensify pressure for more curtailments, 3 The Gove refinery is reported as part of Other Operations.
which over the longer term could put upward pressure on the LME base price.
