STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Strategic context Group strategy While the macroeconomic environment provides a common demand context, travel and recommitted to the strategy that has worked for us for many years: Global economy External pressures supply-side factors can result in stark structural differences across commodity to invest in and operate long-life, low-cost, expandable operations in the most The global economy grew by just three per cent in 2013.
Yet, there is a The mining industry is cyclical and, following a decade-long growth phase, it is sectors.
In principle, commodity prices will tend to have a relationship with attractive industry sectors.
This strategy will allow us to take advantage of the strong sense that developed economies are finally on the path to a more robust now experiencing a period of lower prices and compressed margins.
Meanwhile, the cost of developing and extracting metal and mineral resources.
However, opportunities ahead, and we are confident that it is the right one for Rio Tinto.
Significant growth headwinds remain in the form of continued fiscal volatility a characteristic of the macroeconomic environment since the global the exact nature of that relationship will depend on barriers to entry and exit, contraction and high debt levels, but construction and manufacturing activity financial crisis has been ongoing and is expected to continue, bringing with it In 2013 we reset our focus on executing the strategy by becoming a leaner, which are specific to each sector.
is improving and supporting labour markets.
This renewed momentum appears further short-term risk.
more cash-oriented and tightly-run business.
We refocused our Group strongest in the US with growth in parts of Europe still proving more hesitant.
Across many commodity sectors, the general supply trends in recent years on improving performance, strengthening our balance sheet, and delivering Our response to this has been to focus on costs, cash flow and capital The improved US outlook led the Federal Reserve to start tapering its have pointed towards fewer discoveries, falling ore grades and maturing existing results to deliver greater value for shareholders.
Others in the sector have embarked upon similar paths.
Inefficiencies accommodative Quantitative Easing QE programme towards the end of 2013, operations as well as greater complexity of projects and of non-developed are also being exposed, and so reductions in costs and capital expenditure, We are doing what we said we would: reliably and relentlessly executing our with indirect implications for emerging markets.
Loose monetary policies in the orebodies.
Technology trends are likely to offer some long-term solutions productivity improvements, and project deferrals and cancellations have strategy.
We are making every dollar count, looking for ways to do things safer, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD countries to these supply challenges, but it is also likely that prices above historical become a prominent part of mining industry strategy.
smarter and better, and ensuring that we only invest in activities that add value.
are believed to have supported investment and growth in developing levels will be required for markets to balance the structural demand and economies, putting the short-term growth outlook in these countries at Despite the uncertain conditions that we currently face, the long-term outlook supply trends.
2013 marked our 140th year in business.
We have been around this long risk from changing money flows.
Asian economies risk seeing this effect for our sector remains positive.
by being very good at what we do.
Looking to the future, disciplined execution compounded by a structural, although very gradual, slowdown in Chinas of our strategy is vital to building on our recent successes, and our industryCommodity markets The worlds population is forecast to increase by 30 per cent in the next economic expansion.
leading capabilities will equip us to do this.
After several years of elevated prices and record investment by mining 40 years.
Seventy million people enter the middle classes every year.
In Having firmly established itself over the past year, Chinas new leadership companies, supply for several commodities has finally started to catch up China alone, around 170 million people are expected to move to an urban We have world-class people and assets, and have developed pioneering set the agenda for a gradual reform process at the Third Plenum meetings with demand, at least temporarily.
Better-supplied commodity markets have environment by 2025.
These factors are driving demand for the minerals and and industry-leading systems and technologies.
We pride ourselves on being in November 2013.
After several years of growth dominated by investment, resulted in downward pressures on some prices during 2013, for example on metals we produce, as essential ingredients of modern life.
They make our innovative finding solutions that help us operate more efficiently, sustainably the countrys economic growth model is beginning to rebalance towards thermal and coking coal.
Despite strong Chinese imports, prices for both business a good and valuable one to be in.
We are recognised and respected for our exploration and consumption.
This process poses significant challenges for the new commodities were down 12 per cent and 22 per cent respectively from 2012 operations expertise, for our values and our commitment to safety, and for government, with scope for a volatile transition period.
Similar trends have been seen for base metals, although price declines Consistent strategy, sharper focus creating benefits for our diverse stakeholders.
should gradually deliver a more sustainable growth model, the pace of growth in 2013 were more moderate.
Mined copper supply is starting to expand at Rio Tintos vision is to be a company that is admired and respected for While these things will not change, our sharpened focus aims to transform is expected to continue to slow.
More importantly, slowing growth is now a faster pace than demand after a long period of constrained and disrupted delivering superior value as the industrys most trusted partner.
us into the highest performer in our sector and will make sure we are fighting acknowledged by the leadership as inevitable and necessary.
In the case of aluminium, there are still no signs of inventories fit for the next 140 years and beyond.
The world we operate in today, and the future we are preparing for, require us in 2013, Chinas central government is likely to be more considered and falling, as capacity expansions in western China and the Middle East have to have a clear and consistent strategy.
In 2013, we reaffirmed our direction of cautious in future policy responses to cyclical growth weakness.
Fiscal support outweighed the curtailment of higher-cost smelters.
In 2013, prices of for investment and associated short-term spikes in commodity demand are exchange-traded metals were also influenced by shifting market expectations expected to be less frequent and smaller in scale.
This effect was particularly pronounced in the gold market, STRATEGY where some large daily price corrections resulted in an overall 27 per cent Financial markets were less volatile in 2013, and the risk of shocks in Europe decline between the start and end of the year.
Invest in and operate long-life, low-cost, expandable much less pronounced than the previous year.
Nevertheless, several macro risks still simmer under the surface, with the potential to derail the more Contrary to consensus expectations at the start of 2013, the iron ore market operations in the most attractive industry sectors positive short-term global outlook at any time.
The US government shutdown has so far been one of the most resilient to the commissioning of new supply.
in late 2013 and protracted negotiations over the debt ceiling are a further Major iron ore producers added about 100 million tonnes per annum of new reflection of the challenges to bringing US sovereign debt back onto a seaborne capacity last year without the market experiencing a significant price more sustainable path.
Similar tensions extend to Europe where, although correction.
In fact, not only did iron ore prices average four per cent above 2012 2013 PRIORITIES intervention from the European Central Bank returned bond yields to more levels at US$135 t delivered to China, they also displayed much less volatility manageable levels, the pace of reforms and structural readjustments necessary throughout 2013 compared to the cycles that this market had become for a sustainable monetary union remains slow.
Meanwhile, the unwinding of accustomed to since the global financial crisis.
The steady iron ore price QE policies represents uncharted territory with many potential pitfalls including performance reflected sustained elevated steel output levels in China during inflation, significant bond market sell-offs and the formation of new asset most of 2013.
Chinese steel demand growth of about seven to eight per cent bubbles.
Added to the uncertainty around Chinas reform process and last year highlighted the continued gap in construction and infrastructure geopolitical tensions in the Middle East, the impact of these key US and needs in second and third tier cities and in western provinces.
European macro risks on future market volatility should not be discounted.
The generally softer price environment and stronger supply growth have Short-term consensus expectations about Indias growth prospects have refocused the mining industry on dealing with margin compression in 2013. been revised downward over the past year, reflecting concerns over the pace of Across the industry, mining companies are reprioritising cost improvements reforms, monetary and fiscal policies and lagging infrastructure development.
and productivity initiatives, and cutting back on capital expenditure plans.
However, looking further into the future, the rising prosperity in Asia and other emerging markets remains the main global economic trend of relevance to the Outlook mining industry.
We continue to believe that this will ultimately help to support On balance, the short-term economic outlook points to a further consolidation Improve Strengthen the Deliver and sustain an elevated level of global economic growth and commodity of the global recovery as we start 2014.
However, macro risks abound and the demand over the next couple of decades.
potential for continued volatility remains significant.
In the mining industry this performance balance sheet results is likely to drive further prudent investment behaviours while new supply gets Drivers of commodity prices absorbed by the market.
Looking to the future, our view remains that there Long-term structural economic trends are important drivers of future will be a high average demand growth setting for our markets and that the commodity prices through their effects on commodity demand.
The economic complexity of future mining projects will continue to increase.
development and urbanisation of emerging countries goes through an initial OUTCOME investment-led growth phase, which is particularly commodity-intensive.
This benefits commodities such as steel and copper used in construction and Greater value for shareholders infrastructure applications.
The structure of economies evolves through time and, as the capital stock matures, other commodities such as aluminium, energy products and industrial minerals tend to take over as the main enablers of consumption-led growth models.
