Their relevance to our strategy, and our performance against these measures in 2013, are explained below.
Some KPIs are used as a measure in the long-term incentive arrangements for remuneration of executives.
These are identified with this symbol: a b a Indicator All injury frequency rate AIFR Underlying earnings Operating cash flow Per 200,000 hours worked US$ millions US$ millions Dividends from equity accounted units Cash flow from consolidated operations The safety of our people is core to This is the key financial performance Operating cash flow is a complementary Relevance to strategy everything we do.
Our goal is zero harm, indicator used across the Group.
It gives measure to underlying earnings.
It also including, above all, the elimination of insight to cost management, production provides insight to how we are managing workplace fatalities.
We are committed to growth and performance efficiency.
costs and increasing efficiency and reinforcing our strong safety culture, and We are focused on reducing our costs productivity across the business.
and increasing productivity to improve earnings and deliver greater value for shareholders.
We reduced by US$948 million compared with which include US$600 million of our AIFR by three per cent in 2013.
This reflects operating cash cost dividends from equity accounted units, improvements, favourable exchange rates are 22 per cent higher than in 2012, and strong volumes offsetting the impact primarily as the result of higher volumes of lower average market prices for the and cost reduction initiatives.
Groups commodities other than Iron Ore and industry-wide cost inflation pressures.
AIFR is calculated based on the number Items excluded from net earnings to arrive Operating cash flow represents the cash Definition of injuries per 200,000 hours worked.
at underlying earnings are explained in generated by the Groups consolidated This includes medical treatment cases, note 2 to the 2013 financial statements.
operations, before payment of interest, and restricted work-day and lost-day taxes, capital expenditure and cash flows injuries for employees and contractors.
More information page 20 page 197 page 113 Notes a The accounting information in these charts is drawn up in accordance with EU IFRS.
explained in note 2 to the 2013 financial statements.
Both net earnings and underlying earnings deal with amounts attributable to the owners of Rio Tinto.
However, EU IFRS b Underlying earnings is the key financial performance indicator which management requires that the profit for the year reported in the income statement should also uses internally to assess performance.
It is presented here as a measure of earnings to include earnings attributable to non-controlling interests in subsidiaries.
provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of the Groups operations.
Items excluded from net earnings to arrive at underlying earnings are 10 10 riotinto.
KPI trend data Their relevance to our strategy, and our performance against these measures in 2013, are explained below.
The Groups performance against each KPI is covered in more detail in later sections of this Annual report.
Explanations of the actions taken by management to maintain and improve performance against each KPI support the data.
These are identified with this symbol: See the Remuneration Report on page 68 a a c a b a Indicator Total shareholder return TSR Net debt Capital expenditure Greenhouse gas GHG emissions All injury frequency rate AIFR Underlying earnings Operating cash flow % US$ millions US$ millions intensity Per 200,000 hours worked US$ millions US$ millions Indexed relative to 2008 Dividends from equity accounted units 2008 being equivalent to 100 Cash flow from consolidated operations The safety of our people is core to This is the key financial performance Operating cash flow is a complementary The aim of our strategy is to maximise Net debt is a measure of how we are We are prioritising investment in the Our GHG performance is important in Relevance to strategy everything we do.
It also total shareholder return.
This KPI managing our balance sheet and capital highest-returning projects in the most upholding and extending our licence including, above all, the elimination of insight to cost management, production provides insight to how we are managing measures performance in terms of structure.
We constantly evaluate and attractive sectors.
We are committed to to operate.
We are focusing on reducing workplace fatalities.
costs and increasing efficiency and shareholder wealth generation.
We also balance the alternative uses for our cash a disciplined and rigorous investment the energy intensity of our operations reinforcing our strong safety culture, and We are focused on reducing our costs productivity across the business.
monitor our relative TSR performance between disciplined investment, process investing capital only in assets as well as the carbon intensity of our improving safety leadership.
and increasing productivity to improve against peers.
strengthening our balance sheet, and that, after prudent assessment, offer energy, including through the earnings and deliver greater value returning cash to investors.
attractive returns that are well above development and implementation of for shareholders.
We reduced by US$948 million compared with which include US$600 million of five-year period from 2009 to 2013 was million at 31 December 2012 to was US$4,631 million lower than in 2012. intensity by 17.3 per cent between 2008 our AIFR by three per cent in 2013.
This reflects operating cash cost dividends from equity accounted units, characterised by continued volatility in US$18,055 million at 31 December 2013 This was mainly due to the completion of and 2013.
This is largely a result of the improvements, favourable exchange rates are 22 per cent higher than in 2012, global equity markets and commodity as operating cash inflows and divestment five major capital projects during the year: Ningxia aluminium smelter divestment and strong volumes offsetting the impact primarily as the result of higher volumes prices.
Total dividends paid in calendar proceeds fully offset the outflows relating the Pilbara iron ore infrastructure in 2009, the closure of the Lynemouth of lower average market prices for the and cost reduction initiatives.
year 2013 were 178 US cents per share, to capital expenditure and the increase in expansion to 290Mt a: Oyu Tolgoi smelter in 2012, divestment of the Groups commodities other than Iron Ore a nine per cent increase on 2012.
copper-gold mine and concentrator: Sebree smelter in 2013 and improved and industry-wide cost inflation pressures.
investor sentiment improved in the last Kestrel coking coal underground measurement methodology for coal quarter of the year and both the Rio Tinto mine: the Argyle underground diamond seam gas at our Australian coal mines.
plc and Rio Tinto Limited share prices mine: and the AP60 aluminium smelter ended the year close to their opening in Quebec.
These factors resulted in Rio Tinto registering a TSR of 2.1 per cent in 2013.
AIFR is calculated based on the number Items excluded from net earnings to arrive Operating cash flow represents the cash TSR combines share price appreciation Net debt is calculated as: the net Capital expenditure comprises the net Our GHG emissions intensity measure Definition of injuries per 200,000 hours worked.
at underlying earnings are explained in generated by the Groups consolidated and dividends paid to show the total borrowings after adjusting for amounts cash outflow on purchases less disposals is the change in total GHG emissions per This includes medical treatment cases, note 2 to the 2013 financial statements.
operations, before payment of interest, return to the shareholder.
due to equity accounted units originally of property, plant and equipment, unit of commodity production relative to a and restricted work-day and lost-day taxes, capital expenditure and cash flows funded by Rio Tinto, cash and cash capitalised evaluation costs and base year.
Total GHG emissions are direct injuries for employees and contractors.
equivalents, other liquid resources and purchases less disposals of other emissions, plus emissions from imports derivatives related to net debt.
of electricity and steam, minus electricity further explained in note 24 and steam exports and net carbon Consolidated net debt to the credits purchased from, or sold to, 2013 financial statements.
More information page 20 page 197 page 113 Page 96 page 153 page 199 page 22 Notes a The accounting information in these charts is drawn up in accordance with EU IFRS.
Both net earnings and underlying c Amounts include 100 per cent of subsidiaries capital expenditures.
earnings deal with amounts attributable to the owners of Rio Tinto.
Items excluded from net earnings to arrive at underlying earnings are 10 11 11 riotinto.
