STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Group strategy continued Business model Progress against strategy In 2013, we refocused our business on three clear priorities to deliver greater value for shareholders: to improve performance, strengthen the balance sheet and deliver results.
What we said we would do in 2013 What we did What we plan to do in 2014 and beyond Improve performance EXPL EXPLORE ORE AND AND E EV VAL AL U UA ATE TE DEVEL DEVEL OP OP MINE MIN AND E AN PRO D PROCESS CESS MARKET MARKE AND T AND DELIVER DELIVER CLOSE CLOSE DO DOWN WN AND AN REHABILIT D REHABILIT ATE ATE Improve our safety performance Regrettably, our Group had three fatalities at managed operations Target, above all, the elimination of workplace fatalities during 2013 Achieve a year-on-year improvement in AIFR and lost time customers are industrial companies that process our products further How we create value Our all injury frequency rate AIFR improved from 0.67 to 0.65 injuries and supply numerous sectors including construction and infrastructure, We create and preserve value by investing in and operating long-life, low-cost, Improve how we manage critical risks and learn from serious automotive, machinery, energy and consumer goods.
See pages 18 and 10 expandable operations in the most attractive industry sectors.
From the earliest potential incidents stages of exploration, during our assets productive lives, and throughout the We innovate and improve our products and services to maximise value to Deliver US$2 billion in operating unit cash Achieved US$2.3 billion of operating unit cash cost improvements Target further savings to reach US$3 billion full-year closure and restoration phase beyond, we commit to high standards of customers.
We are constantly adding to our market knowledge, allowing us cost reductions improvement in 2014 versus 2012 in operating unit Exceeded our cost savings target while realising productivity gains sustainable development.
Read more on pages 18 to 25. to improve our investment decision-making process.
In many cases, we are cash costs across the portfolio and setting new production records responsible for delivering product to our customers, and do so efficiently, Explore and evaluate See page 38 reliably and cost-effectively.
We have significant in-house logistical capability, Our experienced in-house exploration team has a proven track record of including through our own networks of rail, ports and ships.
Reduce exploration and evaluation spending Reduced exploration and evaluation spending by US$1 billion Sustain the reduced exploration and evaluation spend discovering Tier 1 orebodies: the highest-value deposits that are profitable by US$750 million pre-tax Continue to progress key evaluation projects at a pace See page 36 throughout the commodity cycle.
Close down and rehabilitate that matches our overall view of investment priorities We integrate closure planning throughout an assets life cycle, from the earliest We maximise opportunities by exploring for and evaluating deposits in new Achieve targeted reductions of US$1 billion Reduced sustaining capital expenditure by US$1.9 billion Keep sustaining capital expenditure at around this stages of project development.
When a resource reaches the end of its life, we geographies such as the La Granja copper project in Peru.
We also explore in sustaining capital expenditure reduced level See page 11 seek sustainable and beneficial future land uses, to minimise financial, social the orbits of our current operations like the Caliwingina iron ore resource in and environmental risks.
By partnering with external conservation the Pilbara, which sustains the value of our existing businesses.
We operate Strengthen the balance sheet organisations, we access expertise that helps us improve our rehabilitation the majority of exploration programmes ourselves rather than outsourcing, so performance.
Our approach helps us to maintain a positive reputation for Simplify and strengthen our process for Set up cash generation offices to strengthen the focus on cash Continue to apply our enhanced capital allocation systems we can keep focus on targets that are important to Rio Tinto.
We will, however, allocating capital and improve visibility for senior managers in this area and controls, to maintain discipline sustainable development and ensures we meet the expectations of our current partner with others if it gives us access to attractive opportunities, or skills, that Elevated the role of subject matter experts in the economic and Allocate capital in the following order of priority and future stakeholders.
we do not possess in-house.
technical evaluation phase Essential sustaining capital expenditure Our orebody knowledge allows us to find value-enhancing ways of developing Reinforced our Investment Committee approvals process Delivering value for our stakeholders Progressive dividends our resources and positioning our products in the market.
Our geological See page 12 Iterative cycle of compelling growth, debt reduction, Rio Tintos primary focus is on the delivery of value for our shareholders.
expertise gives us the confidence to keep hunting for the most elusive and further cash returns to shareholders We balance disciplined investment with prudent management of our balance discoveries.
And we have a strong tradition of developing and applying Pay down debt to a more sustainable level sheet and cash returns to shareholders.
We offer a long-term investment innovative technologies to resolve specific exploration challenges.
opportunity, and commit to sustainable growth in cash returns to shareholders Review capital expenditure plans across all Reduced capital expenditure from US$17.6 billion in 2012 to Reduce capital expenditure further, to less than through our progressive dividend policy.
As we work, fixed on this core aim, our of our businesses US$12.9 billion, completing five major capital projects, which US$11 billion in 2014, and to around US$8 billion in 2015, Develop enabled us to bring on significant new volumes while delivering steady growth activities also give us the opportunity to create value for our other stakeholders, We develop orebodies for long-term value delivery.
We aim to deliver projects in a variety of ways.
Completed a ranking process for all our capital projects on time and on budget such as commissioning the first major expansion See page 12 phase of our Pilbara iron ore operations and the Oyu Tolgoi concentrator in Customers 2013.
Through our reinforced capital allocation process, we approve investment Invest only in new projects that provide Outlined a breakthrough pathway to increase Pilbara mine Increase Pilbara mine production capacity by 60Mt a We supply our customers with the right products at the right time.
They then only in assets that, after prudent assessment, offer attractive returns that are attractive returns, well above cost of capital, production capacity towards 360 million tonnes per annum Mt a, between 2014 and 2017, by focusing predominantly on add further value, by turning them into the end products that society needs well above our cost of capital.
and which compare favourably to other uses at a US$3 billion lower capital cost than previously planned brownfield expansions and low-cost productivity gains to make modern life work.
of capital Funding and development of the phase 2 Oyu Tolgoi underground Continue to discuss the pathway forward for Oyu Tolgoi During this phase, we plan the most efficient configuration for developing expansion delayed until discussions with Government of underground expansion Communities the orebody and for getting the products to market.
We work closely and Mongolia are concluded Our operations create employment and career development opportunities strategically with our customers, to create demand for the optimal suite of See page 12 for our local communities, as well as business opportunities for local suppliers.
products, thus maximising value over the deposits lifetime.
Once the value Communities often benefit from the infrastructure we put in place to serve our of the resource is confirmed, and internal and external approvals are received, Deliver results facilities and, once our operations are closed, we restore the sites often for the project moves into implementation and construction.
Streamline our portfolio through divestments, Announced or completed asset sales of US$3.5 billion Continue our long-standing approach of reshaping community use, new industry, or back to native vegetation.
targeting significant cash proceeds our portfolio Having been unable to divest Pacific Aluminium for sufficient Mine and process value, the four smelters and Gove bauxite mine have been Curtail the Gove alumina refinery during the first half of 2014 Our people We create value by safely and efficiently operating assets that fit with our reintegrated into the Aluminium group We invest in our people throughout their careers, offering diverse employment Group strategy.
Our global operating model allows us to implement standard After exploring options for the Diamonds business, including prospects, opportunities for development, and competitive rewards and benefits processes and systems across the Group, for instance in procurement, potential divestment, it has also been retained this being the that have a clear link to performance.
As employees spend their wages, the operations and maintenance.
This globally-consistent approach reduces our best path to generate maximum value value we share with them is spread more widely.
use of consumables, increases the life of our equipment and optimises the See page 13 extraction of ore.
In turn, we enjoy higher production and reduced costs, and Governments Deliver the first phase expansion of the Pilbara Completed the first phase expansion four months ahead of Ramp up to reach an annual production rate of 290Mt a we maximise value.
We are often a major economic contributor to the local, state and national operations to 290Mt a schedule and US$400 million under budget, delivering first tonnes before the end of the first half of 2014 on the ship in August We use world-class technologies during mining and processing to increase jurisdictions in which we operate.
Our tax and sovereign equity contributions our efficiency and productivity, and to produce material that is tailored to our enable governments to develop and maintain public works, services and See page 34 customers needs.
Through networked partnering with academia, technology institutions.
We work together to facilitate growth of diverse and sustainable Deliver first production of copper concentrate First copper-gold concentrate produced in January: first shipment Increase sales volumes at Oyu Tolgoi suppliers and other experts, we gain access to knowledge and technical economies that endure far beyond the active life of our operations.
from Oyu Tolgoi took place in July: and operating at full capacity by the end of 2013 prowess that augment our own capabilities.
See page 28 Suppliers Market and deliver By seeking a balance of global, national and local supply capability we drive Our diverse portfolio of metals and minerals allows us to respond to demand value for our shareholders and deliver economic benefits for the communities across the development cycle: we supply basic raw materials and refined in which we operate.
products that are the building blocks of added-value goods.
