STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Copper The groups underlying earnings of US$821 million were 22 per cent lower than Northparkes formerly Rio Tinto: 80 per cent Resolution Copper Rio Tinto: 55 per cent Financial performance 2012.
Excluding the impact of the US$131 million write-down of the investment Located in New South Wales, Australia, Northparkes was a joint venture with The Resolution Copper project, located in Arizona, US, is among the top ten 2013 2012 in Northern Dynasty Minerals, which owns 100 per cent of the Pebble Project in the Sumitomo Group.
Northparkes produced 51 thousand tonnes of copper largest undeveloped copper assets in the world, and could eventually become US$ million US$ million the Bristol Bay region of western Alaska, underlying earnings were ten per cent and 62 thousand ounces of gold up to December 2013 100 per cent basis.
the largest copper producer in North America.
This reflected lower prices, the impact of the pit wall slide at In July 2013, Rio Tinto announced an agreement to sell its 80 per cent interest Operating cash flow 672 469 In November 2013, the company submitted a Mine Plan of Operations to Bingham Canyon and decreased gold and molybdenum volumes at Kennecott in Northparkes to China Molybdenum Co. Ltd. CMOC for US$820 million.
initiate Federal permitting on the project.
Approval of the plan would allow Underlying earnings 821 1,059 Utah Copper from lower grades.
These were partly offset by US$352 million of The transaction closed on 1 December 2013. mining to occur on lands where the company currently holds mineral title.
Capital expenditure 2,813 4,455 cash cost savings US$514 million pre-tax achieved across the Copper group, Palabora formerly Rio Tinto: 57.7 per cent Resolution is also seeking approval in the US Congress to acquire full legal notably at Kennecott Utah Copper.
A post-tax and non-controlling interest Net operating assets 12,070 12,321 Palabora Mining Company is a South African company formerly listed on title to 671 hectares of public land held under its mineral claim and to revoke impairment charge of US$1,655 million has been recognised as an exclusion the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
The mine produced 26 thousand tonnes a mineral withdrawal on 307 hectares of adjacent land.
In exchange, the from underlying earnings.
This includes US$1,565 million related to the Strategy and strategic priorities of refined copper up to July 2013 100 per cent basis.
In December 2012, project would give the public more than 2,400 hectares of high-quality Arizona impairment of previous non-cash accounting uplifts on first consolidation of Rio Tinto announced an agreement to sell its interest in Palabora for conservation lands.
While exchange legislation faces opposition from specialThe Copper product groups 4 2 strategy aims to create substantial and certain assets of Turquoise Hill including Oyu Tolgoi.
In addition, charges of consideration totalling US$373 million.
The transaction closed on 31 July 2013. interest groups, it is moving through the US Congress with bi-partisan support.
It is focused on building a core portfolio US$283 million have been excluded from underlying earnings related to the of four operating assets Kennecott Utah Copper, Oyu Tolgoi, Escondida and Kennecott Utah Copper slide.
Technology and innovation Grasberg and two world-class greenfield projects La Granja and Resolution Development projects The Copper group recently established a Growth and Innovation organisation In 2013, the group repositioned its portfolio and delivered significant Copper that are or are expected to be large, long-life, low-cost and expandable The Copper groups investment focus is on improving productivity and mine responsible for developing a focused, attractive portfolio of value-producing improvements in productivity and costs, with a 15 per cent increase in mined operations.
The Copper group will deliver this strategy through: life at key operating assets and retaining development optionality on high growth and innovation opportunities.
The group invests in value-creating, copper despite challenges at Kennecott and Oyu Tolgoi, a 12 per cent reduction quality projects, with production to come online when the market dictates.
Relentlessly focusing on health, safety, environmental responsibility and leading-edge technology to drive the efficiency and safety of its mining in costs at managed operations including a 23 per cent reduction in service It employs a phased approach to development to maximise the value of a community engagement, and sustainable partnerships with governments processes and reduce environmental impact, above and below ground.
It also completed US$1.8 billion of divestments.
project to shareholders and to manage project risks and capital exposure.
Taking in real-time data, the new Excellence Centre uses the latest in modelling Core operating assets Improving productivity via safer, better and smarter practices and selected Productivity and mine life extension and simulation tools to significantly improve copper processing performance investments in technologies that generate long-term value.
Kennecott Utah Copper Rio Tinto: 100 per cent Kennecott across the globe.
As the second largest copper producer in the US, Kennecott accounts for nearly Driving maximum value out of the products the group mines and optimising Rio Tinto is investing US$660 million to extend the life of Kennecotts Bingham 25 per cent of the countrys copper production.
In 2013, Kennecott produced Rio Tinto is evaluating a range of incremental and step-change technologies the entire supply chain.
The project, known as Cornerstone, involves 194 thousand tonnes of refined copper, 192 thousand ounces of refined gold, to improve the safety and productivity of current mines and expansions, pushing back the south wall of Bingham Canyon to gain access to 515 million Developing strong leadership, matching the groups employees and skills to and 5.7 thousand tonnes of molybdenum.
On 10 April 2013, the Bingham with a particular focus on mineral processing and block cave mining.
This tonnes of 0.79 per cent copper equivalent ore, with first ore expected to be its current and future requirements, and creating a culture that establishes Canyon Mine experienced a 135 million tonne landslide on the north-east wall.
has included large-scale copper sulphide leach testwork on the La Granja accessed in 2017. accountability for delivery of business objectives.
As a result of Kennecotts sophisticated monitoring systems and advanced mineralisation and a successful pilot sulphide leach facility using ore Escondida planning, no one was injured.
Recovery work will continue until the end of 2015, at Kennecott.
Safety At Escondida, production was approximately seven per cent higher in 2013, with production in the near and medium term constrained by the slide.
In 2013, In 2013, the Copper groups all injury frequency rate was 0.49, compared primarily as a result of higher ore grades and improved throughout rates.
Kennecotts underground project was paused until further value-engineering Outlook to 0.50 in 2012.
The group regrettably had a fatality at La Granja, one In addition, Escondida will construct a new dynamic leach pad to maintain work is completed to assess the most profitable path forward for the project.
While Rio Tinto expects volatility in the near term, long-term fundamentals of its managed projects, in 2013.
Tragically, there were 33 fatalities at the current levels of oxide leaching.
The project should be complete in mid-2014, for the copper industry remain positive.
The continued urbanisation, Oyu Tolgoi Rio Tinto: 51 per cent interest in Turquoise Hill Resources non-managed Grasberg mine, of which 28 were related to a devastating when the existing heap leach is exhausted.
industrialisation and electrification of China and other large markets such Located in Mongolias South Gobi Desert, Oyu Tolgoi is the largest new underground accident.
There was also a fatality at the SouthGobi Resources Grasberg as India and South East Asia, combined with greater energy-efficiency copper-gold operation in the world.
Commercial operations began in mid-2013 non-managed infrastructure project.
PT Freeport Indonesia continues to develop the large-scale, high-grade requirements and the move toward more renewable energy sources, will and Oyu Tolgois open pit is now operating at full capacity.
In 2013, Oyu Tolgoi Rio Tinto Coppers safety programmes are focused on four facets: underground orebodies located beneath and nearby the Grasberg open pit.
continue to drive long-term copper demand.
Against those demand dynamics, produced 77 thousand tonnes of copper and 157 thousand ounces of gold.
In aggregate, these underground orebodies are expected to ramp up over the supply picture will remain constrained, with continued cost escalation in Customers began collecting concentrate from the Chinese warehouse during Eliminating fatality risks and catastrophic events, and developing sound several years to approximately 240,000 tonnes of ore per day following the some jurisdictions, falling grades, technical challenges from increasing depth the fourth quarter of 2013, and had withdrawn approximately 26,400 tonnes mitigation plans.
anticipated transition from the Grasberg open pit in 2017. at existing operations and new discoveries, water and power constraints, and of concentrate by year end.
Helping employees at all levels understand safety risks and how to manage continued political and social risks, especially for new projects.
The groups new Underground performance safety standards are Escondida Rio Tinto: 30 per cent On 29 July 2013, Rio Tinto announced that all funding and work on Rio Tinto Copper is well positioned to benefit from of these strong market believed to be the most thorough and inclusive in the mining industry.
Located in Chiles Atacama Desert, Escondida is the worlds largest copper mine underground development of Oyu Tolgoi would be delayed.
It is currently the industrys sixth largest copper producer, with in terms of copper production.
In 2013, Escondida produced 1.1 million tonnes Strong focus on reducing injuries.
Rio Tinto has continued to engage with the Government of Mongolia with the existing Tier 1 assets.
In addition, the group is pursuing high-value growth of copper 100 per cent basis.
Safe design and engineering standards.
aim of resolving a number of outstanding shareholder issues and to progress opportunities, using a phased and structured approach to development Grasberg a joint venture that gives Rio Tinto a 40 per cent share of project finance.
An option to restart underground development, subject to investment while maintaining optionality.
The group is carefully managing Greenhouse gas emissions production above specified levels until the end of 2021 and 40 per cent certain conditions being met, has been proposed, but further delays may occur costs and capital exposure, and its leadership in technological innovations of all production after 2021 The Copper groups 2013 greenhouse gas emissions were 8.34 tonnes of if these conditions are not met before lender commitments on existing project allows it to safely and efficiently access lower grade ores and deposits, at Grasberg is owned and operated by PT Freeport Indonesia, a subsidiary of carbon dioxide equivalent per tonne of copper cathode produced, compared finance arrangements expire.
Such delays could lead to further impairments.
This strategy will generate significant and sustainable value for US-based Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.
Located in the province of with 10.66 tonnes in 2012.
The increase in efficiency resulted from an shareholders and all partners, as it is expected to reposition the group from the Greenfield projects Papua in Indonesia, it is one of the worlds largest copper mines.
Rio Tintos incremental improvement at Kennecott Utah Copper and from the divestment third quartile of the copper cost curve into a low-cost, first quartile producer.
share of mined copper production at Grasberg was six thousand tonnes La Granja Rio Tinto: 100 per cent of the Palabora smelter in mid-2013.
The La Granja project, located in northern Peru, has the potential to be a Tier 1 asset and one of Rio Tintos highest-value opportunities.
Review of operations Divested operations The Copper portfolio is made up of large, long-life, low-cost and expandable The project strategy is focused on delivering a risk-managed and staged entry In 2013, Rio Tinto Copper made solid progress in repositioning its portfolio operations that are capable of creating substantial and sustainable value for to a world-class mining district.
The mine development strategy is designed to to focus on a core portfolio of Tier 1 assets, with US$1.8 billion of divestments shareholders.
In 2013, the group produced 631 thousand tonnes of mined manage social, environmental and technical challenges by starting at a small completed, including Northparkes, Palabora, Eagle, Altynalmas Gold and Inova.
copper Rio Tinto share, making Rio Tinto the worlds sixth largest supplier.
scale and preserving options to grow the project over time.
The group has also committed to reviewing the strategic fit of its minority The group also produced 340 thousand ounces of mined gold, 4,765 thousand interest in Northern Dynasty Minerals, which owns 100 per cent of the Pebble ounces of mined silver and 5.7 thousand tonnes of molybdenum as byProject in Alaska.
products of its copper operations.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Copper The groups underlying earnings of US$821 million were 22 per cent lower than Northparkes formerly Rio Tinto: 80 per cent Resolution Copper Rio Tinto: 55 per cent Financial performance 2012.
