Diamonds & Minerals while titanium dioxide sales volumes were also lower.
This was offset by higher Financial performance diamond prices, favourable exchange rate movements and lower evaluation 2013 2012 study costs.
The acquisition of BHP Billitons interests in Richards Bay Minerals US$ million US$ million in September 2012 also contributed an increase in earnings.
Revenue 4,193 4,056 Operating cash flow 909 267 On a like-for-like basis, cash operating costs of production in 2013 were US$358 million lower than in 2012, reflecting the impact of targeted cost Underlying earnings 350 149 reduction initiatives and favourable exchange rate movements.
A large number Underlying earnings excluding Simandou 393 411 of initiatives were launched to remove significant structural costs from the Capital expenditure 1,009 1,814 business, including delayering the organisation, driving productivity initiatives Net operating assets 7,900 8,061 and removing costs.
In parallel, temporary plant closures in response to market conditions generated significant savings in variable costs during the year.
Strategy and strategic priorities Rio Tinto Diamonds RTD The Diamonds & Minerals product group has an attractive portfolio of RTD is a leading producer of rough diamonds with a product portfolio that businesses that connect customers and consumers all around the world with provides a presence in all major markets.
Rio Tintos diamonds assets comprise products that enhance the quality of life.
Demand growth for diamonds and the Argyle Diamond Mine in Australia Rio Tinto: 100 per cent, the Diavik industrial minerals typically follows peak requirements for commodities such as Diamond Mine in Canada 60 per cent, Murowa Diamonds in Zimbabwe iron ore and copper as mid-to-late economic development cycle minerals.
The 78 per cent and the Bunder diamond project in India 100 per cent.
RTD groups strategy is focused on operating safe, low-cost, demand-led businesses.
sells its share of production through its centralised marketing office in Belgium Through its integrated marketing strategies, the group can create and grow and has a niche cutting and polishing factory in Australia for its high-end global markets for its products that produce value for Rio Tinto and pink diamonds from the Argyle mine, and sells them to an international its shareholders.
The product groups strategy is focused on: In June 2013, Rio Tinto announced its intention to retain its diamonds Creating demand-led, integrated operations that can respond quickly businesses after concluding a strategic review which considered a range of to the changing external environment.
The medium to long-term market fundamentals for diamonds remain robust, and the high quality diamonds Generating and exploiting proprietary market insights.
business is well positioned to capitalise on the positive market outlook.
Growing global markets through business-focused research and market development.
RTD produced 16.0 million carats in 2013, a 22 per cent increase from 2012 that reflected higher tonnes processed and higher grades at Argyle following Strengthening its position in traditional segments and entering attractive the commissioning of the underground mine in April 2013.
was 15 per cent higher than in 2012, reflecting higher volumes and increased Improving operating performance by cutting costs, driving productivity prices.
RTD reported earnings of US$53 million in 2013, compared to a loss of and delayering the organisation.
US$25 million in 2012, reflecting higher revenues and cost savings.
Safety The ramp-up of the Argyle underground mine to full operation is on schedule to be completed by 2015, extending the life of mine until at least 2020.
Diamonds & Minerals continues to focus on fostering a culture of accountability and awareness among employees and improving contractor safety in our Production from Diaviks underground mine commenced in early 2010 pursuit of zero harm.
The product groups all injury frequency rate AIFR in parallel with open pit operations.
Diavik has now completed the transition increased to 0.75 in 2013 from 0.57 in 2012.
Regrettably, there was one fatality to a fully underground mine, with all three pipes now at full production.
in November 2013 at Richards Bay Minerals in South Africa.
Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium RTIT The product group faces some unique challenges in health and safety.
RTIT is the largest producer of high-grade titanium dioxide feedstocks.
It mines The workforce spans multiple nationalities, ethnicities, languages and cultures ilmenite at its wholly-owned Rio Tinto Fer et Titane RTFT operation in Canada: in developing countries.
In response, management is employing innovative its managed operation Richards Bay Minerals RBM in South Africa Rio Tinto: strategies and visible safety leadership to train the workforce.
74 per cent : and its QIT Madagascar Minerals QMM operation 80 per cent.
Diamonds & Minerals is focused on eliminating fatality risks by placing RTIT produces high-grade titanium dioxide feedstocks at its world-class an emphasis on critical controls and robust process safety.
metallurgical complexes at RTFT and RBM as well as valuable co-products including high purity iron, steel, metal powders, zircon and rutile.
Greenhouse gas emissions In 2013, titanium dioxide feedstock production increased by two per cent Overall greenhouse gas GHG emissions intensity increased slightly in 2013. year-on-year to 1.6 million tonnes Rio Tinto share.
This includes an increase This was largely due to lower production at Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium RTIT : in attributable volumes at RBM resulting from Rio Tinto doubling its stake in the reduction in capacity utilisation of its smelters led to an increase in September 2012.
Due to challenging market conditions for high grade titanium GHG emissions per tonne of product reflected in a four per cent increase dioxide feedstock, RTFT brought forward a planned shutdown of one of nine in emissions intensity for RTIT compared to 2012.
GHG emissions per tonne furnaces in Canada and deferred the rebuild until market conditions improve.
of product were marginally higher at Rio Tinto Minerals, but improved across The RTFT upgraded slag UGS production was also taken offline for part of Rio Tinto Diamonds operations.
The product group continues to invest in the the year, together with zircon and rutile production at RBM.
implementation of more efficient equipment and technology, such as the RTITs revenues increased by one per cent as the impact of the RBM wind farm at Diavik.
transaction was largely offset by lower prices for titanium dioxide feedstocks, zircon and metallics and lower sales volumes of titanium dioxide feedstocks.
Review of operations Earnings fell by 35 per cent to US$264 million, despite the benefit of the RBM The groups underlying earnings of US$350 million include evaluation costs transaction, which increased Rio Tintos share of earnings with effect from in respect of Simandou of US$43 million.
Excluding Simandou expenditure, September 2012. underlying earnings of US$393 million were four per cent lower than in 2012.
Prices were lower for titanium dioxide feedstocks, zircon, metallics and borates, 30 30 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Diamonds & Minerals while titanium dioxide sales volumes were also lower.
This was offset by higher Rio Tinto Minerals RTM The project is adopting a stage gate approach for investment to be made Financial performance diamond prices, favourable exchange rate movements and lower evaluation in line with Government of Guinea approvals and funding processes.
RTM Rio Tinto: 100 per cent supplies over 30 per cent of the worlds refined 2013 2012 study costs.
The acquisition of BHP Billitons interests in Richards Bay Minerals US$ million US$ million borates from its world-class deposit in Boron, California.
RTM also has borates In February 2013, the Government of Guinea approved the Social and in September 2012 also contributed an increase in earnings.
refineries and shipping facilities in China, France, Malaysia, the Netherlands, Revenue 4,193 4,056 Environmental Impact Assessment SEIA conducted on the Simandou project.
Operating cash flow 909 267 On a like-for-like basis, cash operating costs of production in 2013 were The SEIA is the result of a consultation programme involving more than 10,000 US$358 million lower than in 2012, reflecting the impact of targeted cost members of the local communities and ensures the project is developed in a Underlying earnings 350 149 Borates production of 495,000 tonnes boric oxide equivalent was seven per cent reduction initiatives and favourable exchange rate movements.
A large number way that maximises long-term benefits for the people of Guinea and minimises higher than in 2012, following cuts to production in 2012 in response to market Underlying earnings excluding Simandou 393 411 of initiatives were launched to remove significant structural costs from the impact on the communities and the environment.
Also during the year, the conditions.
Global demand for RTM refined borates improved slightly with Capital expenditure 1,009 1,814 business, including delayering the organisation, driving productivity initiatives project sponsors the Government of Guinea, Rio Tinto, Chinalco and the revenue remaining flat on lower prices.
Earnings of US$131 million were six Net operating assets 7,900 8,061 and removing costs.
In parallel, temporary plant closures in response to market International Finance Corporation signed a letter of mutual intent setting per cent lower than 2012 due to the decrease in product prices.
conditions generated significant savings in variable costs during the year.
out the key principles that will serve as the basis of the Investment Framework Rio Tinto Minerals is delivering the modified direct dissolving of kernite MDDK that the partners intend to finalise in the first half of 2014.
The Investment Strategy and strategic priorities Rio Tinto Diamonds RTD project, which allows for more efficient orebody utilisation.
The project is on Framework is instrumental in governing the Simandou project successfully, The Diamonds & Minerals product group has an attractive portfolio of track for completion in 2014.
RTD is a leading producer of rough diamonds with a product portfolio that and in setting a stable and durable operating model and environment for all businesses that connect customers and consumers all around the world with provides a presence in all major markets.
Rio Tintos diamonds assets comprise partners and investors.
products that enhance the quality of life.
Demand growth for diamonds and Dampier Salt DSL the Argyle Diamond Mine in Australia Rio Tinto: 100 per cent, the Diavik industrial minerals typically follows peak requirements for commodities such as Dampier Salt Limited, the worlds largest solar salt exporter, produces industrial In parallel, the partners are seeking funding for the project infrastructure.
This Diamond Mine in Canada 60 per cent, Murowa Diamonds in Zimbabwe iron ore and copper as mid-to-late economic development cycle minerals.
The salt by solar evaporation of seawater at Dampier and Port Hedland, and from may include outsourcing to a third-party consortium in a strategy to embed a 78 per cent and the Bunder diamond project in India 100 per cent.
underground brine at Lake MacLeod, all in Western Australia.
Salt is sold broad partnership approach to developing the multi-user infrastructure, and to sells its share of production through its centralised marketing office in Belgium Through its integrated marketing strategies, the group can create and grow principally to the base chemical industry markets in Asia.
Salt production of reduce the risk and capital commitments of the Simandou project sponsors.
and has a niche cutting and polishing factory in Australia for its high-end global markets for its products that produce value for Rio Tinto and 6.7 million tonnes Rio Tinto share was two per cent lower than 2012.
During pink diamonds from the Argyle mine, and sells them to an international its shareholders.
2013, gypsum mining operations and sales were resumed.
The product groups strategy is focused on: The group serves a range of different industries, but are linked through their In June 2013, Rio Tinto announced its intention to retain its diamonds Development projects track record of creating and defining new and profitable markets for their Creating demand-led, integrated operations that can respond quickly businesses after concluding a strategic review which considered a range of In 2011, Diamonds & Minerals re-entered the potash business through an products.
Demand softened in these markets in 2013 in response to broader to the changing external environment.
The medium to long-term market exploration joint venture with North Atlantic Potash Inc. a subsidiary of economic trends, and the outlook for 2014 remains uncertain, although there fundamentals for diamonds remain robust, and the high quality diamonds Generating and exploiting proprietary market insights.
Acron is a world leader in fertiliser production and holds multiple is some sense that developed economies are on the path to a more robust business is well positioned to capitalise on the positive market outlook.
Growing global markets through business-focused research and potash exploration permits in Saskatchewan, Canada.
Drilling results indicate recovery, which is a driver for industrial mineral demand.
encouraging potash grade and thickness.
Higher nutritional standards, medium to long-term outlook continues to be positive across all products RTD produced 16.0 million carats in 2013, a 22 per cent increase from 2012 population growth and limited arable land make potash a critical factor in as urbanisation and rising standards of living drive higher levels of demand.
that reflected higher tonnes processed and higher grades at Argyle following Strengthening its position in traditional segments and entering attractive maintaining global food security, and a natural complement to RTMs existing the commissioning of the underground mine in April 2013.
RTM will continue to seek to capture profitable growth in emerging economies borate fertiliser business.
was 15 per cent higher than in 2012, reflecting higher volumes and increased Improving operating performance by cutting costs, driving productivity and maintain its position in its established markets.
Progress continued at the groups Jadar lithium-borate deposit in Serbia.
improvements will facilitate speed and flexibility in shifting supply to promising US$25 million in 2012, reflecting higher revenues and cost savings.
A pilot plant for processing Jadar material was commissioned at Boron and sectors and regions.
Demand for borates is expected to remain stable in the core samples processed at the plant yielded encouraging and positive results.
near term, and the long-term industry fundamentals remain attractive.
RTM Safety The ramp-up of the Argyle underground mine to full operation is on schedule If developed, the deposit has the potential to supply a significant proportion will focus on increasing refined borates capacity to meet higher-than-GDP to be completed by 2015, extending the life of mine until at least 2020.
Diamonds & Minerals continues to focus on fostering a culture of accountability of global lithium demand.
Lithium carbonates fastest-growing application demand growth while achieving world-class safety performance and improving and awareness among employees and improving contractor safety in our Production from Diaviks underground mine commenced in early 2010 is in batteries that provide clean power to industrial systems and electric and its cost position.
Diavik has now completed the transition hybrid vehicles.
Regrettably, there was one fatality Demand for titanium dioxide feedstock is expected to continue to grow in to a fully underground mine, with all three pipes now at full production.
In January 2013, against a backdrop of weaker market conditions for its the medium to long term, in line with improving global economic conditions, Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium RTIT products and the need to manage and reduce its costs, RTIT reviewed the urbanisation and demand growth in emerging markets supported by rising The product group faces some unique challenges in health and safety.
It mines economic viability of the TiO4 project and cancelled prefeasibility studies per capita incomes.
In response to weak demand and excess inventory in the The workforce spans multiple nationalities, ethnicities, languages and cultures ilmenite at its wholly-owned Rio Tinto Fer et Titane RTFT operation in Canada: for the project in Canada and Madagascar.
The Zulti South mine expansion feedstock supply chain, and in order to reduce operating costs and inventory, in developing countries.
In response, management is employing innovative its managed operation Richards Bay Minerals RBM in South Africa Rio Tinto: at RBM, the mineral sands exploration programme in Mozambique and other RTIT has taken action at a number of its operations, including temporary strategies and visible safety leadership to train the workforce.
brownfield studies at the groups operations continue.
closures of the UGS plant and deferral of a planned furnace rebuild at RTFT.
Diamonds & Minerals is focused on eliminating fatality risks by placing RTIT produces high-grade titanium dioxide feedstocks at its world-class The Bunder diamond project is progressing its prefeasibility study, which Pigment inventory has returned to historical levels and it is expected that an emphasis on critical controls and robust process safety.
metallurgical complexes at RTFT and RBM as well as valuable co-products began in July 2010.
These studies have confirmed the economic potential feedstock inventories within the supply chain will return to historical levels including high purity iron, steel, metal powders, zircon and rutile.
of the orebody and work is under way to define the best development option.
Greenhouse gas emissions In 2013, titanium dioxide feedstock production increased by two per cent Mine plan approval was received during the year and environmental approvals Overall greenhouse gas GHG emissions intensity increased slightly in 2013.
The medium to long-term fundamentals for the diamond industry are positive year-on-year to 1.6 million tonnes Rio Tinto share.
This includes an increase are under way.
This was largely due to lower production at Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium RTIT : and expected to support sustainable future price growth.
The global mineral in attributable volumes at RBM resulting from Rio Tinto doubling its stake in the reduction in capacity utilisation of its smelters led to an increase in The Simandou iron ore project in Guinea is one of the largest-known reserve base is steadily declining, compounded by limited exploration September 2012.
Due to challenging market conditions for high grade titanium GHG emissions per tonne of product reflected in a four per cent increase undeveloped high-grade iron ore resources in the world.
The concession will investment and success, and expected reductions in supply over the medium dioxide feedstock, RTFT brought forward a planned shutdown of one of nine in emissions intensity for RTIT compared to 2012.
GHG emissions per tonne enable the development of the largest mine and infrastructure project ever to longer term.
Demand in India and China is expected to continue to grow, furnaces in Canada and deferred the rebuild until market conditions improve.
of product were marginally higher at Rio Tinto Minerals, but improved across undertaken in Africa.
This will include the progressive development of a and to represent nearly 50 per cent of global diamond consumption by 2020.
The RTFT upgraded slag UGS production was also taken offline for part of Rio Tinto Diamonds operations.
The product group continues to invest in the 100 million tonne per annum mine, a 650-kilometre trans-Guinean railway Demand in mature markets is expected to continue to grow in line with GDP.
the year, together with zircon and rutile production at RBM.
implementation of more efficient equipment and technology, such as the and a new deep-water port.
RTITs revenues increased by one per cent as the impact of the RBM wind farm at Diavik.
Prices were lower for titanium dioxide feedstocks, zircon, metallics and borates, 30 31 31 riotinto.
