STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Exploration Technology & Innovation Rio Tinto has had a sustained commitment to exploration since 1946 and A drilling programme at the Tamarack project in Minnesota, US has continued Rio Tintos Technology & Innovation group T&I collectively seeks to maximise Productivity Improvement an exceptional track record in mineral discovery success.
Mature operations, to further extend the  metal resource.
Additional total shareholder returns by partnering with, supporting, and constructively With the organisational focus on improving productivity across Rio Tinto, the such as Weipa, the Pilbara and Rssing, were Tier 1 greenfield discoveries drilling is planned in 2014 to follow up extensions to the known mineralisation.
challenging product groups and functions in productivity improvement, Mineral Technology Services and the Mining and Asset Management Centre by Rio Tinto where value is still being realised after more than 40 years of Drilling at the Roughrider uranium project in Saskatchewan has increased the technical assurance, project delivery, and innovation.
T&I focuses on creating were combined to form Productivity Improvement.
The focus of this team is to production.
In March 2013, restructuring resulted in the Exploration group understanding of the resources and indicated further extensions to the known sustainable value and competitive advantage by making improvements to help the business identify and implement significant productivity improvements reporting to the chief financial officer.
Regional exploration across Rio Tintos Saskatchewan tenure the way Rio Tinto operates.
T&I also provides technical insights and support by aligning performance with clear productivity metrics: improving productivity has generated numerous targets for follow-up drilling in 2014.
In Laos, orebody to review and mitigate critical risk factors across Rio Tinto.
diagnostics: establishing internal and external benchmarking: and by knowledge at the Sanxai bauxite project advanced through auger drilling Strategy constructively challenging and testing proposed plans for productivity T&Is gross costs in 2013 were US$370 million, compared with US$415 million across the prospective areas.
The Amargosa bauxite project in Brazil has also improvements.
This team also provides technical insights into risk mitigation, The goal of Exploration is to create value for Rio Tinto through discovery in 2012 and US$343 million in 2011.
2013 costs decreased compared with progressed through an Order of Magnitude study with drilling and mapping with expertise in the areas of geology, geotechnics, mining, mineral processing, or acquisition of Tier 1 resources that are well located and high grade, to 2012 due to reductions in headcount, innovation spend and travel.
advancing a number of brownfield areas in the Amargosa orbit.
dams and tailings, process control and hydrogeology.
supplement the Groups existing high-quality resource base.
The Exploration The total number of employees in T&I decreased from 1,031 at year-end group performs both greenfield and brownfield exploration programmes and Brownfield projects generated good drilling results at the Yandi Braid and T&I also includes a Strategic Production Planning SPP team that works 2012 to 730 at year-end 2013. undertakes focused research and development to aid the exploration effort.
Munjina iron ore projects in the Pilbara and coking coal projects at Winchester with business units to develop comprehensive plans and valuations of strategic Greenfield exploration aims to establish completely new operating business South, Mt Robert, Hillalong and Valeria in the Bowen Basin, Australia.
Results from SPP provide a logical resource development Strategy and strategic priorities units, involving, among other objectives, geographic or commodity out of the Z20 uranium resource on the Rssing mine lease in Namibia was framework for detailed studies and investment decision-making.
Brownfield exploration is directed at sustaining or growing T&I is focused on four strategic pillars of work to support the broader Rio Tinto completed and the project handed over to the Energy product group.
existing Group businesses in the orbit of existing operations and provides Group: Productivity Improvement, Innovation, Technical Assurance and Project Project Development & Implementation Effective data and information management lies at the heart of the Exploration significant value to the product groups.
Each of these four pillars is underpinned During 2013, Project Development & Implementation PDI reshaped its group.
Significant efficiency improvements have been achieved by organising by a centralised team of industry experts and professionals, leveraging their operating structure to align with the completion of existing capital projects, the Additionally, Exploration supports the product groups with orebody knowledge data in structured, managed systems accessible via intuitive user interfaces.
collective technical capability across Rio Tintos businesses to deliver enhanced general streamlining of organisational hierarchies, and the reduction in capital expertise, and supports the business development groups in evaluating merger Progress continued on the development of the VK1 airborne gravity value for shareholders.
spending across Rio Tinto over the next few years.
Under the revised structure, and acquisition opportunities.
It also supports the Economics team with supply gradiometer, with further test flying undertaken in 2013.
In addition to Rio Tinto is committed to an independent project management office PMO forecasts.
To pass community, sustainability and investment hurdles, the Explorations projects, the Groups major evaluation projects in 2013 were: Safety and two regionally-based Project Delivery Hubs, one for Australasia and the exploration process can take ten to 20 years to progress from target generation Project Commodity Country other for the Americas & Africa.
T&I is committed to the safe operation of its facilities and to the safe to development decisions.
Enhancing and reaffirming the core exploration deployment of its personnel.
The all injury frequency rate for T&I in 2013 strategy, linked to the application of a rigorous global prioritisation process, La Granja Copper Peru In line with Rio Tintos commitment to pursue greater value for shareholders, was 0.63 compared to 1.57 in 2012.
The improvement of this measure was has accelerated in Tier 1 discoveries since 2000.
Tier 1 discoveries over the Resolution Copper US PDI is now delivering capital projects within a recently-developed Capital primarily attributed to a tighter focus on existing safety efforts, particularly past decade are: Projects framework.
The framework provides Rio Tinto with a disciplined Pilbara Iron ore Australia across Rio Tintos capital projects.
approach to managing its projects, and provides processes and tools, Year Discovery Commodity Location Bowen Basin Coking coal Australia governance, reporting, and assurance to those who are responsible for capital.
2004 Simandou Iron ore Guinea Simandou Iron ore Guinea Performance Throughout this past year of change, PDI remained focused on the safe 2005 La Granja Copper Peru Innovation transition and handover of US$7 billion of capital projects, including: Kestrel In 2013, the Group reduced its exploration and evaluation expenditure to 2005 Caliwingina Iron ore Australia Innovation is the research and development group within T&I.
Its focus is Mine Extension, Argyle Underground Project, Energy Resources of Australias TM US$948 million, exceeding the reduction target of US$750 million by more than on developing step-change technologies, including the Mine of the Future 2008 Sulawesi Nickel Indonesia brine concentrator, Port Waratah Kooragang, Kemano Power Stage 1, and the a third.
This represented a 52 per cent decrease compared to 2012 expenditure programme, which addresses the significant challenges facing the 2008 Mutamba Titanium Mozambique AP60 aluminium smelter.
In addition to gross expenditure, the Group wrote down mining industry.
In 2013, Innovation continued to support the Iron Ore product 2009 Jadar Lithium borates Serbia US$159 million of exploration assets.
Of the 2013 spend, US$178 million group in its drive to capture safety and productivity benefits, by way of ongoing Technical Assurance 2011 Amargosa Bauxite Brazil relates to global Exploration group activity.
In total, Rio Tintos exploration deployment of what will be amongst the worlds largest fleet of autonomous Technical Assurance is a team of internal professionals responsible for and evaluation activity covered ten commodities in 2013, across a range 2013 KP405 Potash Canada haulage vehicles, in its Pilbara mining operations.
The Rio Tinto Mine rigorously reviewing all major project proposals.
Their role is to ensure that of greenfield and brownfield environments.
Automation System and advanced visualisation technology were deployed Rio Tintos Investment Committee and board are provided with independent to selected Group operations with further deployments scheduled.
At the end of 2013, the Exploration group was active in 20 countries, and technical assessments to support their decision-making.
Throughout 2013, Outlook assessing opportunities in others, for a range of commodities including iron ore, Technical Assurance focused its attention on strengthening the Groups due Encouraging progress continues in the area of advanced mineral recovery.
The Exploration group will continue to work on a prioritised portfolio of copper, bauxite, coking coal, nickel, potash, uranium, diamonds and mineral diligence and Investment Committee processes.
Technical Assurance also Innovations copper recovery technology, Peak Air Recovery, progressed greenfield and brownfield projects in 2014.
Exploration activities in China were conducted through CRTX, the joint provides support to the business for a range of other technical compliance through initial trials and is now undergoing final trials prior to commercial pipeline by identifying and securing access to the best quality opportunities venture between Chinalco 51 per cent and Rio Tinto 49 per cent.
Diamond and governance activities such as post-investment reviews, due diligence, deployment.
Building upon experience gained from the Iron Ore Operations will be a key enabler of long-term success.
Continuing challenges are expected exploration was transitioned from the Diamonds & Minerals group back to management of the Groups reserves and resources, and general Centre in Perth, Australia, a new range of systems for remote production to include the decreasing grade and quality for most commodities and Exploration during 2013, and features an active project in India.
process monitoring and optimisation have been commissioned.
This next exploring in more difficult jurisdictions and at depth.
The Exploration group generation Excellence Centre EC technology platform allows for near The Exploration group is organised into regional multi-commodity teams, will focus on project generation in a number of key environments, as well Outlook real-time monitoring and optimisation of remote operating facilities.
It utilises headquartered in Singapore, London, Salt Lake City, Brisbane and Beijing, as testing of targets within the portfolio.
For 2014, the projects at a more advanced data management, integrated with human systems.
The EC provides and supported by a team of technical and commodity professionals.
This T&I will continue to add value to the Group by working with the business advanced stage include: Rio Tinto with the capability for continuous global coverage of managed structure provides a global reach and a local presence that allows for effective units on productivity improvements.
In addition, T&I will look for alternative Project Commodity Country Type Stage business unit production facilities.
The first processing EC was successfully community engagement and development of the Groups social licence approaches for funding of Innovation projects to react to changes in the operated throughout 2013, delivering technical support and measurable value to operate.
Groups cash position and capital spend constraints.
Despite these changes Tamarack Nickel US GF Project of Merit to operating business units.
Connections to remote copper concentrators and challenges, T&I will continue to maintain a culture that places a high Roughrider Uranium Canada GF Order of Magnitude and, most recently, coal washing facilities have been successfully established.
priority on safety and safety improvement.
In 2014, T&I will focus on four Safety Sanxai Bauxite Laos GF Project of Merit The EC platform will be further deployed across the Group and will encompass main areas: partnering with product groups and functions on productivity The Exploration groups all injury frequency rate improved significantly Amargosa orbit Bauxite Brazil GF Order of Magnitude the next generation of advanced remote technical support to operations.
improvement: the safe and efficient development and implementation of capital from 1.41 at the end of 2012 to 0.49 at the end of 2013.
The improvement, Bowen Basin Coking coal Australia BF Project of Merit projects: the pursuit of the Mine of the Future programme as well as the across all regions, coincided with the Exploration group implementing the Innovation uses a network of partnerships with organisations and institutions development of innovative alliances and relationships: and technical assurance.
Pilbara Iron ore Australia BF Project of Merit Improving Project Performance initiative.
This also produced results in around the world, which provides a vast and interconnected group of worldAll of these will create competitive advantage for the Group.
This will position operational performance.
class experts to generate solutions.
The University of Nottingham, UK was GF: Greenfield project T&I to support the business where commercial and technical expertise and added to this network in 2013, with the Rio Tinto Centre for Emergent BF: Brownfield project external networks will have the largest benefit to Rio Tinto and its shareholders.
Performance Technologies inaugurated on 3 December.
Also in 2013, Rio Tinto and Chinalco agreed to explore a partnership to bring forward the next era of The Order of Magnitude study was completed on the Saskatchewan potash mining technology aimed at delivering significant value and re-shaping project in Canada a joint venture with North Atlantic Potash Inc. a subsidiary industry best practice.
of JS Acron in early 2013, and the project handed over to Rio Tinto Minerals.
