Iron Ore to be a focus for future mine expansions, with energy reviews being conducted 30 operational AHS trucks driving 2.4 million kilometres and moving more 70 million tonnes to the 220Mt a Pilbara nameplate capacity.
The port and Financial performance at the project design stage.
Modifications to mine planning and fixed plant will than 130 million tonnes of material at three mine sites West Angelas, rail project was constructed four months ahead of the original schedule, and 2013 2012 deliver significant savings when these projects move into the operational phase.
delivered US$400 million below the approved budget.
In addition to the new US$ million US$ million For instance, the electric motor replacement programme that began in 2012 port, all major coastal and rail infrastructure for the 290Mt a capacity is now Revenue 25,994 24,279 Hope Downs 4, Iron Ores newest mine site, successfully and safely delivered is now replacing failed motors with more energy-efficient alternatives.
constructed and includes: Operating cash flow 17,880 15,830 its one millionth tonne of ore in the third quarter an important milestone Iron Ore Company of Canada IOC operations delivered and contributed leading to the ramp-up of mining operations in 2014. installation of a new 55Mt a ship loader at Cape Lambert: Underlying earnings 9,858 9,247 significantly to the groups reduction in greenhouse gas emissions GHG commissioning of the new car dumper 5 at Cape Lambert and associated Capital expenditure 6,814 7,152 Iron Ores automated train programme, AutoHaul, made progress during intensity in 2013, primarily due to an increase in the proportion of saleable stockyards: and the year with the upgrade of numerous level crossings, hardware and software Net operating assets 21,062 21,057 product produced as concentrate versus pellets.
Concentrate is the less development of the system.
The Iron Ore group purchased 1,100 ore cars and construction of new fuel distribution facilities at Cape Lambert tug fuel GHG-intensive form of IOCs product.
commissioned ten new fully-fitted locomotives in 2013.
Ore cars and existing facility, the 10KP rail yard and the West Angelas fuel hub.
Strategy and strategic priorities Iron Ore met all Australian Federal Government requirements for the National locomotives were also fitted with Electronically Controlled Pneumatic ECP Development of mining operations at Hope Downs 4, Marandoo and Western The Iron Ore product groups strategy is based around three strategic pillars: Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Scheme, Clean Energy Act and Energy brakes, which has resulted in a decrease in train cycle times.
Turner Syncline stage 1, which includes an overland conveyor to the Efficiency Opportunities Act in 2013.
Since 2008, the groups total greenhouse Producing at the right cost, through the utilisation of unrivalled technology Iron Ore progressed key participation agreements with Traditional Owners Tom Price processing plant, are currently in the commissioning and ramp-up gas emissions intensity has improved by 7.4 per cent.
in the Pilbara, allowing the group to secure land access for the life of mining phase.
Construction of the Nammuldi Below Water Table Project continues on Focusing on value-driven growth through disciplined phasing and low-cost operations.
New agreements with the Yinhawangka and Yindjibarndi people schedule for commissioning later this year, and the West Angelas Power Station Review of operations growth options.
were finalised during the year.
Aligned with previous agreements, these is currently in commissioning.
Rio Tinto is the second largest supplier to the worlds seaborne iron ore trade.
recognise a strong commitment to regional standards, and incorporate Maximising portfolio value by leveraging growth options, product strategy, While completing the 290Mt a port and rail expansion, the group made Operations in the Pilbara region of Western Australia comprise 15 mines, mutual obligations to deliver outcomes relating to employment, financial and sales and supply chain capabilities.
significant progress with the infrastructure to support further expansion four ports, the largest privately-owned heavy freight railway in Australia, and compensation, education and training, heritage surveys and practices, towards 360Mt a capacity.
All marine piling activity for 360Mt a was completed supporting infrastructure including the Operations Centre in Perth.
IOC operates environmental care and land use.
Safety at the start of the third quarter.
Two major structural, mechanical and piping a mine, concentrator and pelletising plant in the province of Newfoundland Iron Ores safety performance improved in 2013, attaining an all injury In 2013, the group continued to be one of the largest private employers of packages, valued at approximately US$390 million, were awarded for the same and Labrador, together with port facilities in Sept-les, Quebec.
Rio Tinto Marine frequency rate of 0.70, compared to 0.74 in 2012.
The group achieved Indigenous people in Western Australia employing over 1,700 employees and project during August.
delivers shipping services to the Group, including Iron Ore. this improved level of performance despite facing the safety challenges contractors.
Over A$1.8 billion in contracts for Pilbara expansion were awarded In December 2013, the US$310 million Bungaroo water facility and associated In 2013 the Iron Ore business achieved underlying earnings of US$9,858 of commissioning the 290 million tonne per annum Mt a expansion in to Aboriginal businesses both individually and through joint ventures between 87 kilometre pipeline was commissioned, providing water for Pilbara coastal million, seven per cent higher than 2012, attributable to record sales volumes the Pilbara, and preparation for, and recovery from, four tropical cyclones.
Rio Tinto Iron Ore continues to be an industry operations and domestic requirements in the towns of Dampier and Wickham.
in the Pilbara, a weaker Australian dollar, marginally higher prices, and cost All of these challenges were accomplished without a fatality or serious injury.
leader in regional FIFO programmes across Australia, with eight regional savings initiatives which enhanced earnings by US$240 million US$351 million FIFO centres in Western Australia alone.
A three-year memorandum of In November, the business unveiled a breakthrough pathway to match the The group did experience an increase in significant potential incidents in 2013, pre-tax.
This was partly offset by a royalty claim and higher taxes following understanding was signed with the Shire of Broome in 2013 and a new regional upgraded port and rail capacity, which will see mine production capacity particularly those involving light vehicles.
There was also a trend of more severe the introduction of Mineral Resources Rent Tax in July 2012.
The five per cent office was opened in Busselton.
Community initiatives stemming from the increase towards 360Mt a through a series of low-cost brownfield expansions injuries leading to an increase in lost time at work.
This led to the introduction decline in capital expenditure reflects the early completion of the port and rail programme focused on education, skills development and support for regional at a targeted all-in capital intensity of US$120-130 per tonne.
Combined with of programmes to address the root causes of such incidents, covering element of the 290Mt a Pilbara expansion in August 2013. families, including workshops and online support resources.
low-cost productivity gains, the expansion is now forecast to be delivered at management systems, procedures and training.
US$3 billion below previous expectations.
The Iron Ore groups production levels exceeded previous records in 2013, The Wickham town expansion continued to support the growing Cape Lambert Throughout 2013, Iron Ore continued to embed a number of safety despite volatile weather and a fast-tracked expansion schedule, to produce rail and port operations workforce.
Developments in 2013 included the opening In conjunction with the announcement, US$400 million of capital expenditure improvement programmes and initiatives with a particular emphasis on critical 266 million tonnes of iron ore globally.
Rio Tintos share of production was of Cajuput Village, a 155 room FIFO accommodation and community facility, was approved for plant equipment and modification, and additional heavy risk management, safety leadership, training and hazard awareness, and on 209 million tonnes, an increase of five per cent on 2012. and the completion of phase one of the Wickham South sub-division, machinery for use at various mine sites in the Pilbara.
This will enable a simplifying the way safety is managed and achieved within the organisation.
comprising of 212 new residential homes.
The Wickham project also delivered targeted production of more than 330Mt a in 2015 and support the expected Iron ore prices were marginally higher in 2013, predominantly due to strong Initiatives designed to recognise and reward a positive safety culture were upgrades to town services and local park redevelopments to accompany the delivery of over 350Mt a in 2017.
Iron Ores Pilbara expansion programme demand in China.
According to Chinas National Bureau of Statistics, the also a feature of the groups safety commitment for 2013, with more than recreational precinct finalised in 2012. remains the largest integrated mining project in Australian history and has countrys apparent consumption of finished steel rose by 7.2 per cent in 2013 1,500 employee-led safety improvements recognised and shared through the a proven record of delivering project stages on time and budget.
This reflected strong construction activity supported by In 2013, Rio Tinto Marine shipped 191 million tonnes of dry bulk cargo, an Make a Difference programme.
New safety interaction training and a pre-start favourable credit conditions in the first half of the year.
Iron Ores total global increase of 7.7 per cent on 2012.
The final vessel in the current new build The ramp-up of CEP stage two at IOC in the second half of the year delivered safety pilot project were also introduced.
The Lifesaving Commitments hazard shipments in 2013 were 259 million tonnes.
programme was delivered during December and completed the suite of eight an additional 700,000 tonnes of spiral capacity, allowing the operation awareness programme, which began in 2012, continued roll-out in 2013. new vessels for the year.
Average freight rates rose year-on-year in 2013 and to increase volumes of Concentrate For Sinter CFS processed by gravity Quarter-on-quarter production records were achieved, despite interruptions Iron Ore maintained a major focus on health issues, particularly emerging forward markets suggest stronger freight market conditions in the future, given separation.
The project remains on track to commission an additional ball caused by conveyor belt breakage, cyclone activity and significant flooding issues impacting on the mental health of employees.
A number of programmes slower growth in the industrys fleet and increased cargo tonnages of bulk mill and mining equipment, and to make upgrades to power distribution in the Pilbara following unseasonal weather in the second quarter of 2013. providing support for mental health and depression, rail safety education, and commodities entering the market from mine expansions.
infrastructure during the second quarter of 2014.
Heavy tropical cyclone activity closed the ports in January and December 2013, fly-in fly-out FIFO support networks for workers and their families were the latter impacting the first weeks of January 2014 and causing the closure of IOC Rio Tinto share 58.7 per cent made good progress in 2013.
The company implemented and developed further throughout the year.
Outlook all coastal operations and all inland mine sites.
Throughout these events, the capitalised on the benefits derived from commissioning the first stage of the Operations Centre in Perth was fundamental to ensuring optimal supply chain In line with the overall global economic outlook, the long-term fundamentals Concentrate Expansion Project CEP1, and produced 8.6 million tonnes of Greenhouse gas emissions performance, including minimising any impacts to production.
for iron ore remain sound, with demand growth tightly linked to rapid pellets and 6.8 million tonnes of concentrate for sale, which is an annual Iron Ore implemented a number of measures during the year to ensure full urbanisation and rising incomes in China and the developing world.
However, production record for concentrate.
Despite severe weather disruptions, the final The challenge of operating in remote locations remained in 2013 and Iron Ore compliance with its environmental performance obligations.
In accordance iron ore prices are expected to moderate over the coming years as growth commissioning of CEP1 during the first half of the year provided the capacity will continue to manage this closely in 2014.
During the year, the group ran with the Australian Energy Efficiency Opportunities Act 2006, the group in low-cost seaborne supply outpaces growth in demand.
Seaborne suppliers to deliver a step change in production performance, efficiency gains and overall improvement initiatives that focused heavily on reducing costs and driving conducted energy assessments across 15 operations in the Pilbara region are estimated to have added more than 100Mt a of iron ore supply capacity operational improvement.
This included reducing the use of contractors, reviewing of Western Australia.
in 2013, and exports are expected to continue gaining momentum in the short the supplier base, challenging the tactics used for equipment maintenance, to medium term.
The majority of seaborne supply growth is expected to go More than 80 efficiency opportunities were identified, which have the potential Development projects and optimising support functions.
into China, and supply-side exits from Chinese domestic suppliers and some to reduce energy consumption of the entire Pilbara operations by ten per cent.
The Iron Ore group reached a major milestone in the second half of 2013, The integration of next-generation technology via the Mine of the Future high-cost seaborne suppliers are likely.
With its low-cost position and proximity This includes energy-intensive areas such as rail and utilities and at larger with the commissioning of the 290Mt a port and rail capacity expansion.
programme improved efficiencies further in 2013, across production, health, to China, Rio Tinto is well placed to take advantage of demand growth for mining operations in the east Pilbara.
With this achievement, Iron Ore has delivered the first phase of the major safety and environmental performance.
For example, the autonomous haulage seaborne iron ore through its expansions.
expansion of its integrated iron ore operations in the Pilbara.
The decommissioning of the existing Cape Lambert power station to make system AHS has delivered significant improvements in truck cycle times way for a new combined-cycle power station led to improvement in the and real-time data generation, has extended tyre life, and reduced fuel usage The successful commissioning of this expansion at a capital intensity of less efficiency of Rio Tintos power generation network.
Energy efficiency continued and maintenance costs.
This has been reported through the fleet of than US$140 per tonne 100 per cent added an extra annual capacity of 34 34 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Iron Ore to be a focus for future mine expansions, with energy reviews being conducted 30 operational AHS trucks driving 2.4 million kilometres and moving more 70 million tonnes to the 220Mt a Pilbara nameplate capacity.
This has been reported through the fleet of than US$140 per tonne 100 per cent added an extra annual capacity of 34 35 riotinto.
