STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Sustainable development continued Independent assurance report The way we work is also core to our Integrity and compliance programme, What we found supported by our standards covering antitrust, anti-corruption, fraud, Based on the work described below, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected conflicts of interest, data privacy and third party due diligence.
One of the key subject matter for the year ended 31 December 2013 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance components of our programme focuses on acting with integrity.
This translates with the Reporting criteria.
into our compliance with the law and the Groups own policies and standards.
One of our main objectives is preventing misconduct before it occurs.
Through our training and guidelines, our employees are made aware of their responsibility to act with integrity at all times.
To the directors of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited together Rio Tinto, Responsibilities  The programme reflects the size and geographical spread of the Group What we did as well as the diverse activities of our businesses.
It also implements a Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on the work we performed.
Rio Tinto engaged us to perform a limited assurance engagement on the communications strategy to raise awareness of our values, principles and Rio Tinto selected subject matter within the Sustainable development sections of the internal controls.
Rio Tinto management is responsible for the preparation and presentation Rio Tinto 2013 Annual report and the Rio Tinto 2013 Strategic report for the We encourage employees to raise any concerns directly with management of the selected subject matter in accordance with the Reporting criteria.
year ended 31 December 2013. but, if they are uncomfortable in doing so, they can use Speak-OUT, the Groups confidential and  whistleblowing programme.
Selected subject matter What our work involved Speak-OUT offers an avenue where employees can choose to report Rio Tintos assertion that it has incorporated the requirements of the We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on anonymously, subject to local law, any significant concerns about the business, 10 sustainable development principles of the International Council on Assurance Engagements 3000 Revised Assurance Engagements Other than or behaviour of individuals.
This could include suspicion of violations in financial Mining and Metals ICMM and the mandatory requirements set out in Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information and for selected subject reporting, safety or environmental procedures, or business integrity issues ICMM Position Statements into its own policies, strategies and standards matter relating to greenhouse gas emissions the International Standard on in general.
Rio Tintos assertions regarding the approach that it has adopted to identify Assurance Engagements 3410 Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse During 2013, 618 Speak-OUT reports were lodged, which was approximately and prioritise its material sustainable development risks and opportunities Gas Statements.
These Standards require that we comply with independence eight per cent less than 2012.
Twenty one per cent of cases raised issues and ethical requirements and plan the engagement so that it will be Rio Tintos assertions regarding the existence and status of implementation relating to business integrity, 62 per cent to personnel issues, ten per cent performed effectively.
of systems and approaches used to manage the following selected to safety and sustainability, and the remaining seven per cent of cases raised sustainable development risk areas: Main procedures performed miscellaneous concerns.
Fifty eight per cent of matters raised and closed Safety Making enquiries of relevant management of Rio Tinto through Speak-OUT resulted in action being taken in relation to the reported Greenhouse gas emissions issue after it was examined or investigated.
Evaluating the design and effectiveness of the key processes and controls Energy use for capturing, collating and reporting the performance data within the Rio Tinto is committed, in principle and practice, to maximum transparency Water selected subject matter consistent with good governance and commercial confidentiality.
We issue Testing performance data, on a selective basis, substantively at both an information in a timely way on the Groups operational, financial and The following Rio Tinto performance data related to the selected sustainable operational and corporate level, which included testing at a selection of sustainable development performance through a number of channels.
development risk areas: operations and projects from across Aluminium, Energy, Iron Ore, Copper, We communicate views to governments and others on matters affecting All injury frequency rate and Diamonds & Minerals our business interests.
By furthering public dialogue, we contribute to Number of fatalities due to safety incidents the development of sound legislation and regulation that is relevant Undertaking analytical procedures over the performance data Total greenhouse gas GHG emissions and appropriate to our business interests.
Assessing the results of computer aided data analysis regarding the Greenhouse gas emissions intensity classification of injuries recorded at managed operations and projects Assurance Total energy use Reviewing a sample of relevant management information and Our Group Audit & Assurance function has accountability and responsibility Freshwater withdrawn documentation supporting assertions made in the selected subject matter for providing reasonable assurance to the Rio Tinto board that: Freshwater use per tonne of product percentage change from 2008 We believe that the information we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate Rio Tintos policies, standards and controls are adequately designed and to provide a basis for our conclusion.
effective for their intended purpose: and that Reporting criteria The subject matter above has been assessed against the definitions and these policies, standards and controls are consistently implemented approaches which will be presented at www.
com sustainable by all Rio Tinto sites on a timely basis and as designed.
In addition, we engaged an independent external assurance organisation, , to provide the board of directors of Rio Tinto plc and Liza Maimone  Rio Tinto Limited assurance on selected sustainable development subject Partner Melbourne matters, as explained on the next page.
5 March 2014  assurance statement satisfies the requirements of subject matters 1 to 4 of the ICMM assurance procedure whilst our online Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation GRI report has been checked by GRI, satisfying subject matter 5 of the ICMM procedure.
Inherent limitations Restriction on use the directors have discharged their responsibilities by Inherent limitations exist in all assurance engagements This report has been prepared in accordance with our commissioning an independent assurance report in due to the selective testing of the information being engagement terms to assist Rio Tinto in reporting its connection with the selected subject matter.
Therefore fraud, error or non-compliance may sustainable development performance.
We do not accept Limited assurance occur and not be detected.
Additionally, non-financial or assume responsibility for the consequences of any This engagement is aimed at obtaining limited assurance data may be subject to more inherent limitations than reliance on this report for any other purpose or to any for our conclusions.
As a limited assurance engagement financial data, given both its nature and the methods other person or organisation.
Any reliance on this report is restricted primarily to enquiries and analytical used for determining, calculating and sampling or by any third party is entirely at its own risk.
procedures and the work is substantially less detailed estimating such data.
We consent to the inclusion of this report in the Rio Tinto than that undertaken for a reasonable assurance 2013 Annual report and the Rio Tinto 2013 Strategic engagement, the level of assurance is lower than would report to assist Rio Tintos members in assessing whether be obtained in a reasonable assurance engagement.
