directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 32 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 1.
Chris COle non-executive directors non-executive chairman Chris Cole has been a director since January 2002 and was appointed 6. huGh etheridGe as non-executive chairman in March 2007.
Chris is chairman of senior independent non-executive director the Nomination Committee and a member of the Finance and Hugh Etheridge has been a director, chairman of the Audit Committee Administration Committee.
He is executive chairman of GENIVAR and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees Inc. and, prior to its acquisition by GENIVAR Inc. was chief executive since January 2004.
He was appointed as senior independent of WSP Group plc.
Hugh is also a non-executive director and chairman designate of William Sinclair Holdings plc.
He was formerly chief financial officer of the Waste and Resources Action executive directors Programme WRAP, a non-profit organisation established by the 2.
GeOFF drABBle UK Government to promote sustainable waste management.
Before Chief executive joining WRAP, he was finance director of Waste Recycling Group plc Geoff Drabble was appointed as chief executive in January 2007, and prior to that, of Matthew Clark plc.
having served as chief executive designate from October 2006 and 7.
MiChAel BurrOW as a non-executive director since April 2005.
Geoff was previously an independent non-executive director executive director of The Laird Group plc where he was responsible Michael Burrow was appointed as a non-executive director and for its Building Products division.
Prior to joining The Laird Group, member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees he held a number of senior management positions at Black & Decker.
effective from March 2007 and Chairman of the Remuneration Geoff is chairman of the Finance and Administration Committee and Committee in September 2010.
Michael was formerly managing a member of the Nomination Committee.
director of the Investment Banking Group of Lehman Brothers 3. suzAnne WOOd Europe Limited.
BruCe edWArds Suzanne Wood was appointed as a director in July 2012.
Suzanne independent non-executive director joined Sunbelt as its chief financial officer in 2003.
Suzanne is a US Bruce Edwards was appointed as a non-executive director in June qualified accountant, having trained with Price Waterhouse.
She is 2007 and a member of the Nomination Committee and Remuneration a US citizen and lives in Charlotte, North Carolina but also maintains Committee effective from February 2009 and September 2010 a London residence.
Bruce is the global chief executive officer for Exel Supply 4.
BrendAn hOrGAn Chain at Deutsche Post World Net DPWN, and a member of its Chief executive officer, sunbelt board of management.
He joined DPWN following its acquisition of Brendan Horgan was appointed a director in January 2011.
Brendan Exel plc in December 2005.
Prior to the acquisition, he was a director joined Sunbelt in 1996 and has held a number of senior management of Exel plc and chief executive of its Americas businesses.
Bruce is positions including chief sales officer and chief operating officer.
also a non-executive director of Greif Inc, a NYSE-listed packaging Brendan is a US citizen and lives in Charlotte, North Carolina.
Bruce is a US citizen and lives in Columbus, Ohio.
5. sAt dhAiWAl Chief executive, A-plant 9. iAn sutCliFFe Sat Dhaiwal has been chief executive officer of A-Plant and a director independent non-executive director since March 2002.
Sat was managing director of A-Plant East, one Ian Sutcliffe was appointed as a non-executive director and member of A-Plants four operational regions, from May 1998 to March 2002. of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees in September Before that he was an A-Plant trading director from 1995 and, prior 2010.
Ian was formerly chief executive officer of Keepmoat and to 1995, managed one of A-Plants stores.
managing director, UK Property, at Segro plc where he had been a director since June 2008.
Prior to joining Segro he held senior executive positions with Taylor Wimpey plc and Royal Dutch Shell plc.
Details of the directors contracts, emoluments and share interests can be found in the Directors remuneration report.
Key: Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Finance and Administration Committee Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 33
