Directors report The directors present their report and the audited accounts for the TranSfer of ShareS financial year ended 30 April 2013.
Certified shares i Transfers may be in favour of more than four joint holders, but the directors can refuse to register such a transfer.
Principal activities The principal activity of the Company is that of an investment holding ii The share transfer form must be delivered to the registered office, and management company.
The principal activity of the Group is the or any other place decided on by the directors.
The transfer form rental of equipment to industrial and commercial users mainly in the must be accompanied by the share certificate relating to the non-residential construction sectors of the US and the UK.
shares being transferred, unless the transfer is being made by a person to whom the Company was not required to, and did not Trading results and dividends send, a certificate.
The directors can also ask acting reasonably The Groups consolidated profit before taxation for the year was for any other evidence to show that the person wishing to transfer 216m 2012: 135m.
A review of the Groups performance and future the shares is entitled to do so.
development, including the principal risks and uncertainties facing CreST shares the Group, is given in the Business and financial review on pages i Registration of CREST shares can be refused in the circumstances 8 to 25 and in note 23 to the financial statements.
These disclosures set out in the Uncertified Securities Regulations.
The Company paid an interim dividend of 1.5p per ordinary share in February and the directors recommend ii Transfers cannot be in favour of more than four joint holders.
the payment of a final dividend of 6.0p per ordinary share, to be paid Based on notifications received, the holdings of 3% or more of the on 6 September 2013 to those shareholders on the register at the issued share capital of the Company as at 18 June 2013 the latest close of business on 16 August 2013, making a total dividend for the practicable date before approval of the financial statements are year of 7.5p 2012: 3.5p.
as follows: Share capital and major shareholders % Details of the Companys share capital are given in note 19 to the BlackRock, Inc. 12 financial statements.
5 VoTing righTS Baillie Gifford & Co. 5 Subject to the Articles of Association, every member who is present Kames Capital 4 in person at a general meeting shall have one vote and on a poll every Old Mutual Asset Managers UK Ltd 4 member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for Legal & General Group PLC 3 every share of which he or she is the holder.
The Trustees of the Employee Share Ownership Trust ordinarily follow the guidelines Details of directors interests in the Companys ordinary share capital issued by the Association of British Insurers and do not exercise their and in options over that share capital are given in the Directors right to vote at general meetings.
remuneration report on pages 42 to 53.
Details of all shares subject to option are given in the notes to the financial statements on page 75.
Under the Companies Act 2006, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or any class of meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A corporate member may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting or any class of meeting as a corporate representative.
The deadline for the exercise of voting rights is as stated in the notice of the relevant meeting.
34 ashtead group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Change of control provisions in loan agreements auditor A change in control of the Company defined, inter alia, as a person Deloitte LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in office and in or a group of persons acting in concert gaining control of more than accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution 30% of the Companys voting rights leads to an immediate event of concerning its reappointment and authorising the directors to fix default under the Companys asset-based senior lending facility.
In its remuneration, will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
such circumstances, the agent for the lending group may, and if so directed by more than 50% of the lenders shall, declare the amounts annual general Meeting outstanding under the facility immediately due and payable.
The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 2.30pm on Wednesday, 4 September 2013 at Wax Chandlers Hall, 6 Gresham Such a change of control also leads to an obligation, within 30 days Street, London EC2V 7AD.
An explanation of the business to be of the change in control, for the Group to make an offer to the holders transacted at the AGM has been circulated to shareholders and of the Groups $500m senior secured notes, due 2022, to redeem can be found on the website, www.
them at 101% of their face value.
By order of the Board Directors and directors insurance Details of the directors of the Company are given on pages 32 and 33.
The policies related to their appointment and replacement are detailed on pages 37 and 38.
Each of the directors as at the date of approval of this report confirms, as required by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 that to the best of their knowledge and belief: eriC WaTkinS 1 there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Company secretary auditor is unaware: and 19 June 2013 2 each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken to make himself aware of such information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of it.
The Company has maintained insurance throughout the year to cover all directors against liabilities in relation to the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Policy on payment of suppliers Suppliers are paid in accordance with the individual payment terms agreed with each of them.
The number of Group creditor days at 30 April 2013 was 67 days 30 April 2012: 70 days which reflects the terms agreed with individual suppliers.
There were no trade creditors in the Companys balance sheet at any time during the past two years.
Political and charitable donations Charitable donations in the year amounted to 80,625 in total 2012: 71,178.
No political donations were made in either year.
ashtead group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 35
