What we do At Ashtead we enable our customers to focus on what they do best by renting them the equipment they need when they need it, fully maintained and serviced by us.
They can then be certain that they have the right equipment for the job and that it is ready to work immediately, efficiently and safely.
Our complete range of equipment, from small hand-held tools to the largest aerial work platforms, is available to rent from our national store networks in the US and UK and we back our service commitment with a guarantee.
Providing an on-site hire On-site tool hire Tracking our Facilitating fit-out Advising on health Providing equipment and maintenance equipment for depot and contractors and ongoing and safety aspects of for facilities village for a long-term for new residential customers using maintenance for equipment in use at new management at new construction site.
mobile tracking hospital construction office blocks.
Replacing worn Drying out and Providing Designing, erecting Renting generators, Designing and out sewage cleaning up after temperature control and dismantling powered access equipment, implementing infrastructure.
a flash flood at an solutions for office scaffolding systems.
lighting and temporary traffic management industrial buildings.
Types OF equipMenT Our CusTOMers Our fleet of industrial and construction equipment includes earth We serve all types of customers including construction and moving equipment, aerial work platforms, high reach forklifts industrial organisations, disaster relief agencies, event organisers, and other materials handling units, smaller tools, pumps, power governments, local authorities, facilities management companies generation, temperature control, portable site accommodation, and homeowners.
Some customers we serve in only one location scaffolding, formwork and falsework, and temporary traffic and others nationwide.
speCiAlTy serviCes Our higher margin specialty divisions provide particular services in oil and gas, pump & power, scaffolding, temperature control, traffic control, acrow and industrial resources.
6 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
