Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 70 Directors report SHAREHOLDERS AND SHARE CAPITAL Share capital and voting rights C Shares On 31 December 2013, there were 1,880,301,654 ordinary shares The Company issues non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of 20 pence each, 16,286,039,565 redeemable C Shares of 0.1 pence C Shares as an alternative to paying a cash dividend.
each and one Special Share of 1 in issue.
The ordinary shares are Shareholders can choose to: listed on the London Stock Exchange.
redeem all C Shares for cash: Payments to shareholders redeem all C Shares for cash and reinvest the proceeds in Payments to shareholders will, as before, be made in the form of additional ordinary shares using the CRIP operated by the redeemable C Shares and at the AGM on 1 May 2014, the directors Registrar: or will recommend an issue of 134 C Shares with a total nominal value keep the C Shares.
of 13.4 pence for each ordinary share.
The C Shares will be issued on 1 July 2014.
Together with the interim issue on 2 January 2014 of Any C Shares retained have limited voting rights and attract a 86 C Shares for each ordinary share with a total nominal value of dividend of 75percent of LIBOR on the 0.1p nominal value of each 8.6 pence, this is the equivalent of a total annual payment to share, paid on a twice-yearly basis.
The Company has the option to ordinary shareholders of 22 pence for each ordinary share.
redeem the C Shares compulsorily, at any time, if the aggregate number of C Shares in issue is less than tenpercent of the aggregate You can find out more about payments to shareholders by going to number of all C Shares issued, or on the acquisition or capital the Shareholder information section of this report on page 139 or restructuring of the Company.
by visiting the Groups website www.
On a return of capital on a winding-up, the holders of C Shares are entitled, in priority to any payment to the holders of ordinary shares, Share class rights to the repayment of the nominal capital paid-up or credited as The rights and obligations attaching to the different classes of paid-up on the C Shares held by them, together with a sum equal to shares are summarised below.
The full rights are set out in the the outstanding preferential dividend which has been accrued but Companys Articles of Association, the latest copy of which can be not paid until the date of return of capital.
found on the Groups website at www.
The holders of C Shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote at a Ordinary shares general meeting only if a resolution to wind up the Company is to Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys be considered, in which case they may vote only on such resolution.
They are also entitled: to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company: to appoint one or more proxies or, if they Special Share are corporations, corporate representatives: and to exercise voting Certain rights attach to the special rights non-voting share Special rights.
They have the right to ask questions at the AGM relating to Share issued to HM Government Special Shareholder.
Subject to the business of the meeting and for these to be answered, unless the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Treasury Solicitor may such answer would interfere unduly with the business of the redeem the Special Share at par at any time.
The Special Share meeting, involve the disclosure of confidential information, if the confers no rights to dividends but in the event of a winding-up it answer has already been published on the Groups website or if it is must be repaid at its nominal value in priority to any other shares.
not in the interests of the Group or the good order of the meeting Certain Articles that relate to the rights attached to the Special Share that the question be answered.
Holders of ordinary shares may may only be altered with the consent of the Special Shareholder.
receive a bonus issue of C Shares or a dividend and on liquidation Such Articles include: i the foreign shareholding limit provisions may share in the assets of the Company.
whereby a foreign person cannot hold more than a 15percent voting interest in the Company: and ii the nationality of directors provisions whereby at least the Chairman or the Chief Executive must be a British citizen and at least half of the number of directors must be British citizens.
The Special Shareholder is not entitled to vote at any general meeting or any other meeting of any class of shareholders.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 71 Restrictions on transfer of shares and limitations on holdings Authority to purchase own shares There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding At the 2013 AGM, the Company was authorised by shareholders to of the ordinary shares or C Shares other than under the Articles of purchase up to 187,231,677 of its own ordinary shares representing Association as described here, under restrictions imposed by law tenpercent of its issued ordinary share capital.
or regulation for example, insider trading laws or pursuant to the The Company did not make use of this authority during 2013.
The Companys share dealing code.
The Articles of Association provide authority for the Company to purchase its own shares expires at the that the Company should be and remain under United Kingdom conclusion of the AGM or 18 months from 2 May 2013, whichever control.
As such, an individual foreign shareholding limit is set at is the earlier.
A resolution to renew it will be proposed at the AGM.
15percent of the aggregate votes attaching to the share capital of all classes taken as a whole and capable of being cast on a poll and Voting rights to all other shares that the directors determine are to be included Deadlines for exercising voting rights in the calculation of such holding.
The Special Share may only be Electronic and paper proxy appointments, and voting instructions, issued to, held by and transferred to the Special Shareholder or his must be received by the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours successor or nominee.
Shareholder agreements and consent requirements Voting rights for employee share plan shares There are no known arrangements under which financial rights Shares are held in various employee benefit trusts for the purpose carried by any of the shares in the Company are held by a person of satisfying awards made under the various employee share plans.
other than the holder of the shares and no known agreements For shares held in a nominee capacity or if plan trust rules provide between the holders of shares with restrictions on the transfer of the participant with the right to vote in respect of specifically shares or exercise of voting rights.
No disposal may be made to a allocated shares, the trustee votes in line with the participants non-Group member which, alone or when aggregated with the instructions.
For shares that are not held absolutely on behalf of same or a connected transaction, constitutes a disposal of the whole specific individuals, the general policy of the trustees, in accordance or a material part of either the nuclear business or the assets of the with investor protection guidelines, is to abstain from voting in Group as a whole, without consent of the Special Shareholder.
Authority to issue shares Major shareholdings At the AGM in 2013, authority was given to the directors to allot new At 31 December 2013, the following companies had notified an ordinary shares up to a nominal value of 124,821,118, equivalent to interest in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company in one-third of the issued share capital of the Company.
accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules: This is called the first section 551 amount.
In addition, a special % of issued resolution was passed to effect a disapplication of pre-emption Date ordinary share Company notified capital rights for a maximum of fivepercent of the issued share capital of BlackRock Inc. 03 Sep 2010 5.02 the Company.
These authorities are valid until the AGM in 2014, and Invesco Limited 04 Feb 2008 6.91 the directors propose to renew these authorities at that AGM.
It is Capital Research and Management Company 16 May 2013 3.03 proposed to seek a further authority, at the AGM in 2014 to allot up to two thirds of the total issued share capital, but only in the case of a rights issue.
This is called the second section 551 amount.
The Company had not received any further notifications from 31 December 2013 to 12 February 2014.
The Board believes that this additional authority will allow the Company to retain the maximum possible flexibility to respond to circumstances and opportunities as they arise: and to allot new CShares up to a nominal value of 500million as an alternative to a cash dividend.
Such authority expires at the conclusion of the AGM.
The directors propose to renew the authority to allot new CShares at the AGM.
