Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 127 SUBSIDIARIES, JOINTLY CONTROLLED ENTITIES AND ASSOCIATES At 31 December 2013 Subsidiaries incorporated within the UK directly held Rolls-Royce Group plc Holding company Subsidiaries incorporated within the UK indirectly held Composite Technology and Applications Limited Development of aero engine fan blades and fan cases MTU UK Limited Sales and service of off-highway diesel engines 50% Optimized Systems and Solutions Limited Equipment health management and advanced data management services Rolls-Royce Controls and Data Services Limited Development and manufacture of aero engine controls Rolls-Royce International Limited International support and commercial information services Rolls-Royce Leasing Limited Engine leasing Rolls-Royce Marine Electrical Systems Limited Marine electrical systems Rolls-Royce Marine Power Operations Limited Nuclear submarine propulsion systems Rolls-Royce plc Principal trading company Rolls-Royce Power Development Limited Generation of electricity from independent power projects Rolls-Royce Power Engineering plc Energy and marine systems Rolls-Royce Total Care Services Limited Aero engine aftermarket support services Vinters Engineering Limited Production, repair and overhaul of power generation, transmission and conversion equipment for military and commercial activities The above companies operate principally in the UK and the effective Group interest is 100percent unless otherwise stated.
Subsidiaries incorporated overseas indirectly held Brazil Rolls-Royce Brasil Limitada Industrial gas turbines and aero engine repair and overhaul, energy and marine aftermarket support services Canada Rolls-Royce Canada Limited Industrial gas turbines and aero engine sales, service and overhaul China MTU Engineering Suzhou Company Limited Service centre and spare parts 50% China Rolls-Royce Marine Manufacturing Manufacture and supply of marine equipment and marine aftermarket Shanghai Limited support services Finland Rolls-Royce OY AB Manufacture of marine winches and propeller systems France Rolls-Royce Civil Nuclear SAS Instrumentation and control systems and life-cycle management for nuclear power plants France Rolls-Royce Technical Support SARL Aero engine project support Germany LOrange GmbH Development and production of high-pressure injection systems for diesel engines 50% Germany MTU Friedrichshafen GmbH Development, production and distribution of gas turbines and engines 50% Germany MTU Onsite Energy GmbH Sales and service of gas engines 50% Germany Rolls-Royce Deutschland Ltd & Co KG Aero engine design, development and manufacture Germany Rolls-Royce Power Systems AG Supplier of engines and power trains for marine propulsion, distributed power generation and industrial off-highway sectors 50% Guernsey Nightingale Insurance Limited Insurance services Hong Kong MTU Hong Kong Limited Distributor for off-highway products and after-sales service 50% India Rolls-Royce India Private Limited Diesel engine project management and customer support India Rolls-Royce Marine India Private Limited Provision of marine support services India Rolls-Royce Operations India Private Limited Engineering support services Italy Europea Microfusioni Aerospaziali S. p. A.
Manufacture of gas turbine engine castings Italy MTU Italia S. r. l Distributor for all off-highway applications and after-sales service 50% Netherlands MTU Benelux B. V. Sales and after-sales support for diesel engines 50% Norway Rolls-Royce Marine AS Design and manufacture of ship equipment Norway Bergen Engines AS Design and manufacture of medium-speed diesel engines 50% Singapore Rolls-Royce Singapore Pte.
Limited Aero engine parts manufacturing and engine assembly, energy and marine aftermarket support services Singapore Tognum Asia Pte.
Limited Distributor of diesel engines and spare parts 50% Spain MTU Ibrica Propulsin y Energa S. L. Sales and service of transmission equipment with diesel and gas engines 50% Sweden Rolls-Royce AB Manufacture of marine propeller systems Turkey MTU Motor Trbin Sanayi five Tic.
A. S. Production of diesel engines and manufacturer of control systems 50% Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 128 Other information SUBSIDIARIES, JOINTLY CONTROLLED ENTITIES AND ASSOCIATES Subsidiaries incorporated overseas indirectly held continued US Data Systems & Solutions LLC Instrumentation and control systems and life-cycle management for nuclear power plants US Optimized Systems and Solutions Inc. Equipment health management and advanced data management services US PKMJ Technical Services, Inc. Nuclear engineering services and software solutions US R. Brooks Associates Inc.
Specialist civil nuclear reactor services US Rolls-Royce Corporation Design, development and manufacture of gas turbine engines US Rolls-Royce Crosspointe LLC Manufacturing facility for aero engine parts US Rolls-Royce Energy Systems Inc. Energy turbine generator packages US Rolls-Royce Engine Services Oakland Inc. Aero engine repair and overhaul US Rolls-Royce Defense Services Inc. Aero engine repair and overhaul US Rolls-Royce High Temperature Composites Inc. Production of state-of-the-art composite materials US Rolls-Royce Marine North America Inc. Design and manufacture of marine equipment and marine aftermarket support services US MTU America Inc.
Sales and service of engines and systems 50% The companies above and on page 127 operate principally in the country of their incorporation and the effective Group interest is 100percent unless otherwise stated.
Jointly controlled entities and associates incorporated within the UK indirectly held % of % of Class class held equity held Airtanker Holdings Limited Ordinary 20 20 Strategic tanker aircraft PFI project Airtanker Services Limited Ordinary 22 22 Provision of aftermarket services for strategic tanker aircraft Alpha Partners Leasing Limited A Ordinary 100 50 Aero engine leasing B Ordinary Genistics Holdings Limited A Ordinary 100 50 Trailer-mounted field mobile generator sets B Ordinary Rolls-Royce Snecma Limited UK & France A Shares 50 Aero engine collaboration B Shares 100 Rolls Wood Group Repair and Overhauls Limited A Ordinary 100 50 Industrial gas turbine repair and overhaul B Ordinary TRT Limited A Ordinary 49.5 Aero engine turbine blade repair services B Ordinary 100 Turbine Surface Technologies Limited A Ordinary 50 Aero engine turbine surface coatings B Ordinary 100 Turbo-Union Limited UK, Germany and Italy Ordinary 40 RB199 engine collaboration A Shares 37.5 40 The above companies are incorporated and operate in the UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 129 Jointly controlled entities and associates incorporated overseas indirectly held % of % of Class class held equity held Australia MTU Detroit Diesel Australia Pty.
Limited effective interest 25% Ordinary 50 50 Sales and servicing of diesel engines China Xian XR Aero Components Co Limited Ordinary 49 49 Manufacturing facility for aero engine parts China Shanxi North MTU Diesel Co. Ltd effective interest 24.5% Ordinary 49 49 Manufacture and sale of MTU engines Germany EPI Europrop International GmbH effective interest 35.5% Ordinary 28 28 A400M engine collaboration Germany EUROJET Turbo GmbH UK, Germany, Italy & Spain effective interest 39% Ordinary 33 33 EJ200 engine collaboration Germany MTU, Turbomeca, Rolls-Royce GmbH UK, France & Germany Ordinary 33.3 33.3 MTR390 engine collaboration Germany MTU Onsite Energy Systems GmbH effective interest 37.5% Ordinary 75.1 75.1 Manufacturing and distribution of diesel-powered generating sets Germany N3 Engine Overhaul Services GmbH & Co KG Ordinary 50 50 Aero engine repair and overhaul Hong Kong Hong Kong Aero Engine Services Limited Ordinary 45 45 Aero engine repair and overhaul India International Aerospace Manufacturing Private Limited Ordinary 50 50 Manufacture of compressor shrouds, compressor rings, turbine blades and nozzle guide vanes Israel Techjet Aerofoils Limited A Ordinary 50 50 Manufacture of compressor aerofoils for gas turbines B Ordinary 50 Malaysia Advanced Gas Turbine Solutions Sdn Bhd Ordinary 49 49 Industrial gas turbine aftermarket services Singapore International Engine Component Overhaul Pte Limited Ordinary 50 50 Aero engine repair and overhaul Singapore Singapore Aero Engine Services Private Limited effective interest 39% Ordinary 30 30 Aero engine repair and overhaul Spain Industria fide Turbo Propulsores SA Ordinary 46.9 46.9 Aero engine component manufacture and maintenance US Alpha Leasing US LLC, Alpha Leasing US No.
4 LLC, Partnerships 50 Alpha Leasing US No.
8 LLC, Rolls-Royce & Partners Finance US LLC, Rolls-Royce & Partners Finance US No.
2 LLC Aero engine leasing US Exostar LLC Partnership 18.5 Business to business internet exchange US LG Fuel Cell Systems Inc. Common Stock 39.9 39.9 Development of fuel cells US Texas Aero Engine Services, LLC Partnership 50 Aero engine repair and overhaul Unincorporated overseas indirectly held US Light Helicopter Turbine Engine Company LHTEC Rolls-Royce Corporation has a 50% interest in this unincorporated partnership which was formed to develop and market jointly the T800 engine The above companies operate principally in the country of their incorporation.
The countries of principal operations are stated in brackets after the name of the company, if not the country of their incorporation.
In accordance with section 410 of the Companies Act 2006, the subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates listed on pages 127 to 129 is of those whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the directors, principally affect the financial statements.
A list of all related undertakings will be included in the Companys annual return to Companies House.
