Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 52 Directors report SAFETY COMMITTEE REPORT The safety of our products and our people will always remain a central pillar of our business.
Sir Frank Chapman Chairman of the safety committee management system and on recent developments in safety in the Committee members and attendance aerospace industry.
It also examined the findings of the Australian The safety committee consists exclusively of independent Transport Safety Bureau in respect of the Qantas QF32 event and the non-executive directors and met twice in 2013. actions taken by the Group.
Attendance in 2013 Sir Frank Chapman Chairman 2 2 In September, the committee was briefed by senior manufacturing Iain Conn 2 2 and quality managers from the supply chain units SCUs, the Lee Hsien Yang appointed 1 January 2014 n a Technical and Quality Director and the Head of Product Safety John McAdam 2 2 Assurance on the Rolls-Royce Management System as it applies to safety.
This was followed by an in-depth look at the compressor SCU The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the General and the design to manufacture process for wide-chord fan blades Counsel, the Director Engineering and Technology, the Company as well as the process for monitoring on-going blade production.
Secretary, the Technical and Quality Director and the Head of Product Safety Assurance are also invited to attend meetings.
At our meeting in December, the committee reviewed how the Director Engineering and Technology executes his accountability for product safety on behalf of the Chief Executive through the Key objective: Company Product Safety Review Board and the Quality System.
review and assure the Board on all safety policies, practices and The committee also reviewed its own terms of reference.
procedures and ensure that these operate reliably and to Health, safety and environment appropriate industry standards.
In July, the committee considered how the As Low as Reasonably Responsibilities: Practical ALARP approach is applied to HS&E risks, and received keep product safety, HS&E, and personnel security policies updates on the global improvement programmes being under review: implemented in relation to process safety management and make recommendations as to content and communication electrical safety.
of those policies: In December, we received an update on 2013 HS&E activity, measure and review safety performance: and including briefings on the global improvement programmes related review external issues which relate to safety policies to process safety, electrical safety and occupational health.
Further information on our HS&E performance can be found in sustainability on pages 28 and 29.
Product safety Overall the committee made good progress in 2013, particularly in In all sectors, the Group supplies high value capital products that are relation to examining the processes that manage product safety.
strictly regulated with regard to safety.
Civil aerospace products are Alongside this central theme, the areas of asset integrity, required to meet relevant airworthiness authority standards, whilst occupational safety, occupational health, environmental defence operators define their own standards for military aerospace performance and personnel security arrangements for staff and naval products.
Our Marine and Energy businesses need to working in difficult environments were reviewed.
In 2014, we intend meet industry specific standards with our Nuclear business being to establish a framework for a structured cyclical review of all HS&E particularly highly regulated.
In June 2013, the committee reviewed a Trent case study which This is a Company built on a brand promise of being trusted to demonstrated how the Companys product safety process operates deliver excellence and the safety of our products and our people in practice both in the design stage and during the operational life will always remain a central pillar of our business.
The committee found this product safety process to be Sir Frank Chapman very thorough and of a very high standard.
Chairman of the safety committee At its meeting in July 2013, the committee considered how the Group applied judgements in product safety beyond the levels defined in legislation.
It received an update on the product safety
