Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 22 Strategic report POWER SYSTEMS 2013 proved a challenging year.
However, in 2014 we expect most markets to stabilise.
John Paterson President Marine and Industrial Power Systems OVERVIEW Underlying revenue m Revenue mix 2013 Revenue by market sector 2013 2,846 2,831 2012 2013 71% OE revenue 35% Marine 27% Energy 29% Services revenue 26% Industrial 12% Defence and other 2,831m Underlying revenue 2013 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 23 Highlights Key financial data 2012 2013 Change MTU Powerpacks ordered for UK Intercity Order book m 1,823 1,927 5.7% Express Programme Underlying revenue m 2,846 2,831 -0.5% Fjord Line ordered Bergen engines for Underlying OE revenue m 1,938 2,004 3.4% cruise ferries Underlying services revenue m 908 827 -8.9% Underlying profit before financing m 293 294 0.3% Upgraded Series 1163 engines introduced The table above shows a trading comparison as if both Tognum and Bergen Engines had been fully consolidated in 2012 UK MoD selects MTU gensets alongside as well as in 2013.
MT30 gas turbine Polish partnership to be created to supply and maintain cogeneration plants Mining trucks powered by MTU delivered to Rio Tinto in Australia In 2014, we expect modest growth in revenue The Fjord Line shipping company ordered Rolls-Royce and Daimler AG and good growth in profit driven by growth Bergen gas-powered engines.
Its in marine and land power systems markets.
Stavangerfjord and Bergensfjord cruise each has a 50percent ferries, both 170 metres long, are each to be How we are performing equipped with four Bergen B-gas engines.
shareholding in Rolls-Royce 2013 proved a challenging year.
Headwinds The engines ensure that these ships already confronting the business included the Power Systems Holding meet future IMO Tier III limits as well as Eurozone crisis, US fiscal challenges and satisfying mandatory EU regulations GmbH.
slowing of growth in emerging countries.
projected for 2015, for sulphur emissions General nervousness about the global fromferries.
Power Systems is based in Friedrichshafen economic environment led to constrained in Southern Germany and, together with its order activity within the market.
In addition to these contract wins, we worldwide subsidiaries, employs around continue to build capacity through joint Despite these adverse market conditions, a 11,000people.
It specialises in reciprocating ventures and partnerships.
LOrange has number of significant orders and contracts engines, propulsion systems and distributed established a consortium with Hoerbiger, for were achieved.
The company previously the supply of equipment for large-scale diesel operated under the name of Tognum AG.
As outlined in the Marine segment review, and dual-fuel engines for the Asian market.
In 2013, Bergen Engines AS, including its Power Systems also benefited from contracts Onsite Energy and regional Polish energy subsidiaries, was contributed to the business.
awarded by Chinese customer COSCO and supplier Kogeneracja Zachd intend to form from the UK MoD for the generator sets of a partnership for the supply and maintenance What we do the Royal Navys future Type 26 Frigate.
Over the coming years, The product portfolio includes MTU-brand Type 26 propulsion system will consist of a both companies plan on working exclusively high-speed engines and propulsion systems combination of four MTU diesel gensets and a with each other to supply smallto mediumfor ships, for heavy land, rail and defence Rolls-Royce MT30 gas turbine.
These examples sized Polish cities with , and for the oil and gas industry.
highlight the synergies and benefits of friendly energy from CHPplants.
Under the MTU Onsite Energy brand, the complementary product portfolios.
company markets diesel and gas gensets for Future priorities and opportunities applications such as emergency, base load, MTU introduced the upgraded Series 1163 Our long-term growth relies on five pillars: peak load or cogeneration.
Bergen Engines marine engines for IMO Tier II and IMO power: propulsion: services: regional AS manufactures medium-speed engines for Tier III emission standards.
These are cleaner expansion and, the product portfolio.
marine and power generation applications.
and more fuel-efficient than the previous In 2014, we expect most markets to stabilise.
LOrange completes the portfolio, producing generation and offer a better power-toalthough some segments are expected to fuel injection systems for large engines.
This leads us to expect 2013 financial review For the British Intercity Express Programme, continued volatility in revenues.
Overall we The order book increased 6percent, with new MTU received orders of rail Powerpacks with expect to see a positive performance orders of 2.7billion 2.8billion in 2012.
The Powerpacks will primarily driven by marineapplications.
final quarter of 2013 saw strong sales, driven drive Hitachis future high-speed trains We will invest in future technologies to by the pre-purchase of engines for industrial, which are scheduled to go into service from maintain our technological leadership.
We are including agricultural, applications ahead of 2017 on Great Western Main Line and East configuring our different engine series to the introduction of tighter environmental Coast Main Line routes.
Twenty locomotives meet tougher emission standards.
At the same standards in Europe.
Marine revenue is well built by Chinese manufacturer, Dalian time we will improve efficiency and keep a supported by demand from navies in Asia Locomotive & Rolling Stock and powered by focus on costs and cash in all other areas.
In defence, major programmes to MTU engines went into service in Argentina.
power military tanks provide stability despite Market outlook: We estimate the total China-based Xiangtan Electric Manufacturing continued pressure on government spending.
market opportunity for high-speed engine Corporation shipped its first ever export of Revenue decreased 0.5percent with good original equipment over the next ten years mine dump trucks to the Pilbara mine site growth in the Marine and Industrial to be 280billion.
The forecast data is taken in Australia for Rio Tinto.
Each of the 230 divisions offset by lower revenue in oil from a range of sources including: Global metric-ton trucks is powered by an MTU and gas, medium-speed engines and Insight: Oxford Economics, Diesel and Gas miningengine.
Profit increased Turbine Worldwide, Clarkson Research and 0.3percent, reflecting a strong second half.
our own internal forecasting tools.
