Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 8 Strategic report OUR VISION, BUSINESS MODEL, STRATEGY AND VALUES Rolls-Royce is a global Group, providing integrated power solutions for customers in civil and defence aerospace, marine, energy and power markets.
Our products work in mission-critical environments where safety is paramount.
OUR VISION OUR BUSINESS MODEL Better power for a changing world Our business model places emphasis on reducing costs so that we can generate the funds we need Since its earliest days, Rolls-Royce has been striving to to deliver our vision of better power for a achieve ever higher standards.
Ourvision is delivering changing world.
The business model is built around our core strategic themes Better: we will succeed only by continually raising of customer, innovation and profitable growth.
Weconstantly improve quality, performance systems company based on two technology platforms, gas and cost.
Weareinquisitive, energetic and better every turbines and reciprocating engines.
Even whenwe maybe the best, we must continue in innovation delivers better products and services on behalf toget better.
This allows us to meet their needs and grow profitably to the benefit of our shareholders.
Power: we are a power systems company that develops, sells andservices mission-critical products.
Our customers Around the core strategic themes of the model we: demand innovation that improves performance and Grow sales for original equipment and the associated aftermarket reduces the environmental impact of our power systems.
through developing strong routes to market based on customer relationships, understanding and knowledge.
Allocate capital Changing world: the world around is changing in a disciplined way, choosing where to grow, and where not to.
rapidly andthepace of change is accelerating.
New Reduce costs and generate cash, to enable profitable growth from markets areemerging, shifting the balance ofeconomic our order book and the maintenance of a strong balance sheet.
Regulation is, rightly, driving the requirement for Fund research, development, infrastructure and future cleaner power and setting new standards for business programmes.
Our financial resilience and resources provide a conduct.
Our continuous investment in technology, our firm foundation from which to invest.
Risk and Revenue Sharing ingenuity and our commitment to excellence allow us to Arrangements are a particular feature of the civil aerospace seize theopportunities that change presents andtoface sector as a means of sharing risk due to the scale of thefuturewith confidence.
investment required for large gas turbines.
OUR STRATEGY CUSTOMER Customer: placing the customer We operate in competitive markets.
Our at the heart of our organisation competitors are well-funded, ambitious is key.
Weneed to listen to our andfullofsmart people.
customers, share ideas, really understand their needs and Ourstrategy willenable us to win by focusing then relentlessly focus on onthreepowerful themes: customer: deliveringour promises.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information R e d u c e c o s s e t l a s, s g w e o n r e G r a t e c a s h Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 9 OUR VALUES We say we are trusted to deliver excellence, but simply being Rolls-Royce does not give us the right to make that claim.
Trust takes a long time to earn andcan be lost in an instant.
Trust: is earned by doing what we say wewill.
It demands care, consistency, courage and competence.
Trust commits Customer us to high ethical standards it is central to who and what we are.
Deliver: part of being trusted.
We must deliver on our promises, meeting Profitable our customers requirements for quality, Innovation growth delivery, responsiveness and reliability, always recognising that the safety of our products and our people is paramount.
Excellence: if we are trusted, and wedeliver, then we will be regarded asexcellent.
INNOVATION PROFITABLE GROWTH Innovation: is our lifeblood.
Profitable growth: by We must continually innovate focusing on our customers, to remain competitive.
To drive and offering them a innovation, we create the right competitive portfolio of environment curious, products and services, we challenging, unafraid of failure, will create the opportunity disciplined, open-minded and to grow our market share.
Of able to change with pace.
But course we have got to make most importantly, we ensure sure that we are not just our innovation is relevant to growing, but growing our customers needs.
That means ensuring our costs are competitive.
We look after our cash and we win right.
