Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 24 Strategic report ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY We continued our commitment to recruit and develop the very best engineers and scientists.
Colin Smith CBE Director Engineering and Technology In 2013, we invested 1,118million in gross the 49percent of Composite Technology Research and development research and development R&D of which and Applications Limited CTAL that we Flight test results have shown the Trent XWB 746million was funded by the Group, prior did not already own, giving us 100percent to be the worlds most efficient large, civil, to receipts from risk and revenue sharing ownership.
CTAL is engaged in the aero engine.
development of composite fan blades and The Trent 1000 Package C received EASA containment cases for the next generation We continually pursue innovation that will certification in September and a few weeks of advanced turbofan engines.
improve the performance of our power later powered the newest version of the systems and benefit our customers.
In 2013, we further increased our Dreamliner, the Boeing 787-9 on its first investment in early-stage research and flight from Seattle, USA.
We have developed and actively deployed technology to about 20percent of the net a new innovation portal to improve the The Joint Strike Fighter F-35B, with short take R&D spend.
We have good visibility of stable, exchange of ideas around the world as weoff and vertical landing STOVL capability long-term government match-funding for invest to improve the efficiency of our provided by the Rolls-Royce LiftSystem, research investments in aerospace global R&D footprint.
successfully completed its second set of technologies following the creation in the carrier trials aboard the USS Wasp in August People UK of the Aerospace Technology Institute, 2013.
In September, the T56 engine Series 3.5 We have an engineering resource inside the and in the EU through the Clean Sky 2 Joint technology enhancement program received Group of around 16,600 engineers.
Many Technology Initiative in Horizon 2020 and FAA approval and has now been chosen to work as integrated teams across borders on continuous German support via power the Hurricane Hunter aircraft of our major programmes and a number of our  LuFo V. the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric top engineers, or Rolls-Royce Fellows, are University Technology Centres Administration.
recognised as world-renowned experts in In addition to our significant in-house R&D their fields.
In 2013, we received the Green Ship capability, we pursue advanced technologies Technology Award for our Environship We continued our commitment to recruit via a global network of 29 University concept a design for cargo ships that and develop the very best engineers and Technology Centre UTC partnerships.
reduces CO emissions by up to 40percent 2 scientists, and the first cohort of our Each centre is part-funded by the Group and compared to similar diesel powered vessels.
evolving internal Specialist Academy has works closely with our engineering teams, graduated in October 2013.
The Academy undertaking specialist work led by worldhas been designed for technologists who class academics.
In 2013, Nanyang Gross research and development m have the potential to join the Rolls-Royce Technological University joined this network Fellowship at the very top of our specialist with the launch of the Rolls-Royce@NTU 1,118 career ladder.
Corporate Lab, a joint investment of 923 919 SGD$75million 38.5million between 908 864 Research and technology Rolls-Royce, Nanyang University and the World-class technology gives us competitive National Research Foundation NRF product performance.
We generate the of Singapore.
largest number of patents of any UK company, 549 new patent applications were Our model of developing technology 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 approved for filing in 2013 including through collaboration with academia Rolls-Royce Power Systems AG.
To further and other partners was recognised by the expand our capabilities, we acquired German Fraunhofer Institute for Production Hyper-Therm HTC, a US-based specialist Technology which benchmarked 160 in ceramic materials: and SmartMotor, a European companies: Rolls-Royce was one world leader in permanent-magnet machines of five companies to receive the Successful and drives technology, headquartered in Practices award in technology Norway.
In addition, we acquired from GKN management in 2013.
