Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 4 Market overview Market drivers Many of the markets we serve are recognised as structural growth markets.
The growth may be driven by investment in new infrastructure to support urbanisation or industrialisation, automation or refurbishment of existing plants.
Population growth, the exploitation of new technologies and the desire to extract natural resources from ever more challenging locations are also drivers in some of our markets.
Urbanisation Population growth There are increasing numbers of Whilst the rate of increase has people living in urban areas reduced in the developed world, especially in developing in developing countries we countries.
expect to see the fastest population growth.
Infrastructure Infrastructure is essential in order New technologies to support, sustain or enhance New technological advances living conditions.
enable companies to increase the efficiency of their plant and Automation improve the information being All industry sectors continue to sent to the control centre, automate their operations to ultimately improving the return provide greater efficiency, on investment.
improve safety or increase precision in production.
Remote monitoring is also increasing.
total addreSSable Market controlS Market Fluid SySteMS Market GearS Market inStruMentS Market 1,747m 975m 190m 188m Market SHare 3.1bn rotork addressable market Source: Rotork Internal Data, BFPA, NFPA.
Strategic Report 01-41 5 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 oil & GaS power Growth in global energy demand Urbanisation & population growth Unconventional oil & gas Industrialisation in developing countries Global liquified natural gas LNG trade Need for emissions reductions and increased efficiency Strategic storage and reserves Long term energy security investment in nuclear & Geographic reallocation of refining capacity renewables Greater capital intensity water induStrial and otHer Population growth Demand for metals, minerals and processed goods driven by Water scarcity and urbanisation developing countries Industrialisation water re-use and desalination Increased demand for vehicles from both commercial and Ageing assets in developed economies consumer sectors Tighter environmental regulations Improved standards of living driving demand for Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning HVAC, processed food & drink Rising energy costs creating the need for energy efficient equipment and systems opportunitieS For GrowtH controlS Fluid SySteMS GearS inStruMentS Facility expansion New product launches Valve adaption Product development New product launches Expanding Centres of New markets New markets HVAC market Excellence Acquisitions New markets
