Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 8 progress against strategic priorities We seek to deliver a high return on capital, strong and sustainable margins and consistent year-on-year growth in revenues and profit which, combined with the asset-light model, deliver strong cash generation.
This cash is used to fund the growth of the business, both organically and through targeted acquisitions, and to fund sustainable and consistent growth in our core dividend.
To provide short-term focus, we agree an annual set of key objectives.
The progress against these during the year and objectives for the coming year are shown below.
rotork is focused on growth and our objectives reflect this.
We have always grown through a combination of organic expansion and acquisition and we will continue to pursue both routes in the future.
acHieveMentS 2013 objectiveS 2014 StrateGic prioritieS SaleS GrowtH Deliver profitable sales growth by Expanded or moved to larger facilities in Move into the new factory in Leeds UK as focusing on the customer, increasing our Bath UK, Middle East, Mexico, Malaysia, well as considering locations for new sales international coverage, broadening our end Brazil, Shanghai China and Houston USA.
offices or expansion of existing offices.
markets and continuing to integrate our Gained greater knowledge of new end Continue to build knowledge of a number new acquisitions.
markets outside of our traditional areas.
of less well developed end markets and consider these opportunities.
acQuiSitionS These are a core part of our growth Acquired Schischek January, Flowco July Execute acquisition plan of identified strategy.
Our criteria for acquisitions are and GT Attuatori and Renfro August.
that they bring Rotork a new product, a new geographical market or a new market sector.
Often the target will satisfy two or even three of these criteria.
We retain a rigorous and disciplined approach to acquisition pricing.
cuStoMer Support proGraMMe We continue to develop our Rotork Site Increased the number of service engineers Launch the Client Support Programme Services capabilities to ensure we provide by 9%, expanded the RSS management service platform whilst continuing to expand the level of local support our customers team and expanded the service workshops the service team and establish new have come to expect from us.
workshops where there is customer demand.
the introduction of new technologies and features into actuators has been central to rotorks development.
we continue to look for ways to enhance our products and satisfy our customers requirements.
StrateGic prioritieS acHieveMentS 2013 objectiveS 2014 new product Introduce and develop new products in There were a number of product launches A number of product launches are each of the divisions.
and expansion of product ranges scheduled this year in line with the product certifications during the year in all divisions.
roadmap established for each division.
Development continues in other areas, including nuclear and within the recently acquired businesses.
Strategic Report 01-41 9 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 progress against strategic priorities rotork has operated an outsourced manufacturing model for many years.
in our newly acquired businesses our preference is also to outsource the low value add processes but we review each situation and decide on a case by case basis.
StrateGic prioritieS acHieveMentS 2013 objectiveS 2014 ManuFacturinG excellence Rotork continues to develop world-class A focus within our facilities to drive process In conjunction with the development of manufacturing.
improvements has been supported in some a manufacturing version of our global locations by new or expanded facilities and business system, we will carry out a review enhancements to systems.
of our procedures in order to share best practice within the Group.
Supply cHain ManaGeMent Rotorks outsourced manufacturing model We continued to expand our sourcing team.
Continue to look for opportunities to take means that material costs are the most We managed to mitigate inflationary price costs out of all our products through significant component of direct costs.
We pressures through negotiation and finding sourcing or product development.
Our have always sought to control these costs new suppliers to deliver cost savings proven sourcing capabilities will be and wherever possible leverage our global throughout the year.
supported with increased resources once presence to source materials.
again as we also focus on recently acquired businesses.
Global buSineSS SySteMS Rollout our global system for the sales and The new system is now operational in many Continue the rollout through the sales and service offices and start development of sites and the rollout template is now well service offices and start development of the manufacturing functionality.
in order to support our long-term focus, rotork requires trained and motivated employees to deliver our strategy.
this, together with providing a safe working environment, is key to maintaining the high levels of staff retention we currently enjoy.
StrateGic prioritieS acHieveMentS 2013 objectiveS 2014 eMployee developMent We will invest in our people and encourage The Group training team has initiated a Broaden the range of online and face to internal development to support our future number of training plans targeted at face training programmes to cover more growth plans.
We recognise the benefits of different groups throughout the world.
Continue to grow the graduate diversity amongst our employees and will Groups Statement re: Women on Boards and apprentice programmes and through promote this both through external has set the tone for gender diversity within this, as well as higher level recruitments, appointments and internal development.
Our graduate and apprentice promote diversity.
recruitment programme continues to grow.
corporate Social reSponSibility cSr Our objectives for CSR are monitored by Health and safety audit scores improved in Continue to communicate best practice to four separate committees covering health the year and the associated KPI Accident all locations and provide the necessary and safety, environment, ethics and social Frequency Rate also improved.
Our new training to support local teams.
Focus on issues which report to the CSR Committee environmental KPI, focused on carbon year two carbon emissions and our targeted chaired by the Chief Executive.
Our emissions showed an improvement in the 3% reduction in CO per of revenue in 2 approach in these areas is to communicate year.
The ethics committee continued to 2014.
Encourage our employees to continue best practice throughout the Group, communicate the provisions of the UK in their efforts for our global charity, training those responsible and, where Bribery Act now using online training.
Our WaterAid, as well as other local charities in appropriate, verifying adoption in each employees gave their time and energy to the countries in which we operate.
support a wide variety of good causes around the world.
