Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 70 report of the directors The directors submit their report which incorporates the Existence of branches outside the UK management report required under the Disclosure and The Company has no branches outside of the UK.
Transparency Rules for listed companies and the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 as set out on pages 75 to Share capital 123.
In compiling this report, the directors have consulted with the Details of the Companys share capital including the rights and management of the Group.
obligations attached to each class of shares and the ordinary shares issued during 2013 are summarised in note 17 of the Directors financial statements.
5p ordinary shares represent over 99.9% of The names of the directors in office during the year and their the Companys total share capital and 1 9.5% cumulative biographies and other details are set out on pages 42 to 43. preference shares represent less than 0.1% of the Companys total share capital.
Directors indemnification and insurance The Companys Articles of Association provide for the directors and There are no securities of the Company carrying special rights with officers of the Company to be appropriately indemnified, subject to regard to the control of the Company.
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company purchases and maintains insurance for the directors and officers of the At the Companys last AGM held on 26 April 2013, the shareholders Company in performing their duties, as permitted by section 233 authorised the Company to make market purchases of ordinary shares Companies Act 2006. limited to just under approximately 10% of its issued ordinary share capital at that time and of certain issued preference shares, and to allot Powers of the directors shares within certain limits approved by shareholders.
These authorities As set out in the Companys Articles of Association, the business expire at the 2014 AGM and appropriate renewals will be sought.
of the Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Company did not acquire any of its own shares in 2013.
Appointment and removal of directors The Companys Articles of Association contain customary The Board may appoint a director, either to fill a vacancy or as an restrictions on the transfer of shares as applicable only in certain additional director.
Any director appointed by the Board must retire at the limited circumstances e. g. in relation to transfers to a minor.
Save next AGM of the Company and put themselves forward for refor those provisions, there are no restrictions on the transfer of appointment by the shareholders.
In accordance with the ordinary shares in the capital of the Company other than certain recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, each member restrictions which may be required from time to time by law, for of the Board submits themself for re-election on an annual basis.
In accordance with the Model Code, which forms part of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority In addition to any power of removal conferred by the Companies as adopted by the Company, directors and certain employees are Act, the Company may by ordinary resolution remove any director required to seek the prior approval of the Company to deal in its before the expiration of their period of office and may, subject to shares.
the Articles of Association, by ordinary resolution appoint another person who is willing to act as a director in their place.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Political donations securities and or voting rights.
The Companys Articles of No political donations were made during the year.
The Group has Association contain limited restrictions on the exercise of voting a policy of not making political donations in any part of the world.
rights e. g. in relation to disenfranchised shares following the issue of a notice to shareholders under section 793 Companies Act Dividend 2006.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 30.0p per ordinary share 2012: 26.6p for the year, payable on 19 May 2014 to The Companys share schemes each contain provisions providing shareholders on the register on 11 April 2014.
An interim dividend voting rights to the scheme trustee.
for 2013 of 18.05p per ordinary share 2012: 16.4p was paid on 27 September 2013.
Amendments to the Companys Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by Information required in the Directors report set out in special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Strategic Report Information relating to likely future developments of the Company Significant agreements change of control and its subsidiaries and information relating to research and The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to which development activities of the Company and its subsidiaries is set it is party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 41. control of the Company following a takeover.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees Use of financial instruments that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment An explanation of the Group policies on the use of financial that occurs because of a takeover bid.
instruments and financial risk management objectives are contained in note 26 to the accounts.
Greenhouse gas emissions The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions required by Post-balance sheet events law are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on There have been no important post-balance sheet events.
Strategic Report 01-41 71 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 Substantial shareholders For the Group financial statements, state whether they have At 31 December 2013, the interests in issued share capital which had been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: been notified to the Company under the Disclosure and Transparency For the Company financial statements, state whether applicable Rules DTR 5 of the UK Listing Authority are shown below.
UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Company Size of Nature of financial statements: and Identity holding holding Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Mondrian Investment Partners Limited 3.99% Direct unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
Corporate governance The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting The Companys corporate governance report can be found on records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys pages 46 to 55. transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that Disclosure of information to auditors its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors auditor is aware of that information.
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
Going Concern basis of preparation After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in Transparency Rules operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the pages 42 to 43 confirm that, to the best of each persons financial statements.
In forming this view, the directors have knowledge and belief: considered trading and cash flow forecasts, financial The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the commitments, the significant order book with customers spread applicable set of the accounting standards, give a true and fair across different geographic areas and industries and the significant view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the net cash position.
Group and Company: The Directors Report includes a fair review of the development Statement of directors responsibility for preparing the and performance of the business and the position of the Group Annual Report and Financial Statements and Company, together with a description of the principal risks The following statement, which should be read in conjunction and uncertainties that they face: and with the auditors Statement of Auditors Responsibilities, included Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the annual in the audit report, is made with a view to distinguishing for report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of balanced and understandable and provide the information the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategies.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and the Group and Company financial statements in The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that from legislation in other jurisdictions.
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in External auditor accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs The Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has instigated an orderly as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to wind down of business.
Upon the recommendation of the Audit prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with UK Committee and approval of the Board, a resolution to appoint Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted KPMG LLP as auditor, and to authorise the directors to determine Accounting Practice.
their remuneration are to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial On behalf of the Board statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group and Company for that period.
In preparing each of the Group Stephen Rhys Jones and Company financial statements, the directors are required to: Company Secretary Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: 3 March 2014 Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent:
