Strategic Report 01-41 47 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 Corporate governance Summary of 2013 Board Business Performance and business review including a review of prospective acquisitions.
March Investor relations report from Chief Executive.
Consideration of the Audit Committee recommendation to approve the 2012 financial statements for presentation to the shareholders for their approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Consideration of the 2012 financial statements and potential final dividend amount.
Receipt of a presentation from the Chief Executive and Finance Director of the preliminary announcement of the 2012 final financial results.
Presentations from the Group Human Resources Director, Group Legal Director and Group Operations Director on Corporate Social Responsibility.
April Performance and business review including a review of prospective acquisitions.
Investor relations report from Chief Executive.
2 meetings Consideration of the AGM proxy returns and reports and consideration of the AGM arrangements.
Review of Second Annual Review of Women on Boards and discussion on development of a Board Diversity Policy.
A presentation from Citi, Rotorks joint corporate brokers.
A presentation from the Group Business Development Director.
Consideration of the Audit Committee recommendation to approve the Interim Management Statement.
Performance and business review including a review of prospective acquisitions.
June meeting held at Investor relations report from Chief Executive and report from Chairman on meeting with institutional Rotorks plant in investors.
Lucca, Italy Discussion of the half year interim dividend.
Group strategy presentation by Chief Executive and Board discussion on strategy.
Discussion of Board Diversity Policy.
Consideration of corporate governance developments.
Consideration of the draft 2014 Board timetable.
A presentation from Rotork Fluid Systems Divisional Managing Director and local Italian management.
August Investor relations report from Chief Executive.
Receipt of a presentation from the Chief Executive and Finance Director of the half year results.
Consideration and approval of half year report and consideration of interim dividend.
Consideration of Board Diversity Policy.
Presentations from Rotork Instruments Divisional Managing Director.
September Investor relations report from Chief Executive.
Consideration of legal and corporate governance developments including institutional investor corporate governance and shareholder engagement guidance and changes to narrative reporting legislation.
A presentation from Rotork Gears Divisional Managing Director.
November Investor relations report from Chief Executive.
2 meetings Approval of the 2014 budget.
Consideration and approval of revised employment of former employees of the external auditor policy.
Presentations from the Group Sales and Marketing Director and Group Research and Development Director.
Performance and business review including review of prospective acquisitions.
December Investor relations report from Chief Executive.
Discussion of potential 2013 final dividend amount.
Review of effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems.
Consideration of board performance evaluation.
Approval of Directors situational conflicts of interests disclosures.
Review of risk management and internal control systems.
Presentations from the Rotork Controls Divisional Managing Director and Rotork Site Services Managing Director.
