Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 58 directors remuneration report continued Overview of the directors Remuneration Policy direCtors fUtUre poliCy taBle Element of Purpose and how it How the element operates including remuneration supports the strategy maximum amounts payable Framework used to assess performance Base salary To attract and retain Salary levels and subsequent salary increases are set N A executive directors of after taking into account the responsibilities of the the right calibre and role, the value of the individual in terms of skills, provide a core level of experience and personal contribution, company reward for the role.
performance, internal relativities and pay conditions, and external market data benchmarked against companies of a similar size and complexity and other companies in the same industry sector.
The Committee also considers the impact of any increase to salaries on the total remuneration package.
Salaries are paid monthly and reviewed annually salaries are normally reviewed in December, with any changes effective from 1 January.
Details of the current salaries of the executive directors are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Any salary increase will ordinarily be in line with the typical increase as a percentage of salary applied to the UK workforce.
However, the Committee retains the discretion to award a higher increase if appropriate.
For example, where there is a change in responsibility, progression in the role or to reflect the increased experience of the individual.
Benefits To attract and retain The range of benefits that may be provided is set by N A executive directors of the Committee after taking into account local market the right calibre by practice in the country where the executive is based.
providing a market The executive directors benefits currently comprise a competitive level of car and fuel, or car and fuel allowance, personal benefit provision.
accident insurance for UK executive directors only and private medical insurance.
Additional benefits may be provided, as appropriate.
Executive directors are also entitled to membership of the all-employee Rotork Share Incentive Plan SIP, or Overseas Profit Linked Share Scheme OPLSS, within the maximum limits as set by HMRC.
There is no prescribed maximum level, but the Committee monitors the overall cost of the benefit provision to ensure that it remains appropriately proportionate.
Strategic Report 01-41 59 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 Element of Purpose and how it How the element operates including remuneration supports the strategy maximum amounts payable Framework used to assess performance Annual Cash Drives and rewards The maximum annual bonus potential is 125% of The executive annual bonus is focussed on the Bonus performance against salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of salary for delivery of strategically important performance annual financial and other Executive Directors.
These include demanding financial and operational goals non-financial measures.
The financial measures which are consistent which account for the majority of the bonus with the medium to potential are currently based on annual profit target, long term strategic three year profit growth, earnings per share and cash needs of the business.
The non-financial measures currently include the accident frequency rate and CO 2 emissions.
However, the Committee may use different measures and or weightings for future bonus cycles to take into account changes in the strategic needs of the business.
For each measure, normally a sliding scale of stretching targets is set by the Committee, which apply from the beginning of each financial year.
The threshold level of bonus under each financial measure varies but accounts for no more than one third of the maximum bonus opportunity under any single measure.
Under the terms of the bonus plan, the Committee has the discretion, in exceptional circumstances, to amend previously set targets or to adjust the proposed payout to ensure a fair and appropriate outcome.
Long Term To incentivise long The LTIP permits an annual grant of shares which Awards under the LTIP are currently subject to two Incentive Plan term value creation vest subject to performance and continued performance conditions.
Half of the awards are LTIP and alignment with employment.
The LTIP awards will be granted in subject to an earnings per share performance shareholder interests.
accordance with the rules of the plan, which were condition and half of the awards are subject to a approved by shareholders in 2010, and the relative total shareholder return TSR performance discretions contained therein.
A copy of the rules is condition, each measured over three financial years.
available on request from the Company Secretary.
The TSR performance condition is also subject to an underpin relating to underlying financial performance.
Under the rules of the LTIP, the maximum award size A sliding scale of targets is set for each measure with is 150% of salary.
Details of the proposed award no more than 25% of the award under each level for 2014 are set out in the Annual Report on measure vesting for achieving the threshold Remuneration.
The performance targets are set Awards under the LTIP may be granted in the form prior to the grant of each award.
Different targets of conditional shares, forfeitable shares, nil-cost and or weightings between measures may be set for options or cash where the award cannot be settled future award cycles.
Awards are currently structured as nil-cost Under the LTIP rules approved by shareholders, options.
the Committee has the discretion to amend the The executive directors are also subject to a targets applying to existing awards in exceptional shareholding requirement to build and maintain a circumstances providing the new targets are no shareholding in Rotork equivalent to 150% of salary.
less challenging than originally envisaged.
The Committee also has the power to adjust the number of shares subject to an award in the event of a variation in the capital of the Company.
Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 60 directors remuneration report continued Element of Purpose and how it How the element operates including remuneration supports the strategy maximum amounts payable Framework used to assess performance Pension To provide a market The Company may fund contributions to a directors N A competitive pension as appropriate.
This may include remuneration package participation in the Companys defined benefit to enable the pension schemes which are now closed to new recruitment and members, contributions to a money purchase retention of the scheme and or payment of a cash allowance where executive directors.
Further details on the Companys policy on pension arrangements including maximum entitlements are set out below this table.
Life assurance is provided for executive directors based in the UK only.
Chairman and To attract and retain Fees for the Chairman and non-executive directors N A non-executive non-executive are reviewed periodically.
directors fees directors of the right Non-executive director fees are determined by the calibre.
The fees for the Chairman are determined by the Committee taking into account views of the Chief Executive.
The Chairman excludes himself from such discussions.
The fees for the non-executive directors which are paid quarterly in cash normally comprise a basic Board fee, with additional fees paid to the Senior Independent Director and for chairing a Committee.
The fee levels set are set by reference to rates in companies of comparable size and complexity.
The fee levels are reviewed periodically taking into account the responsibilities of the role and the time commitment of the individual.
The maximum aggregate fee level is 500,000, as set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Performance measures Performance measures are used to determine the extent of any awards made under the variable elements of the executive directors remuneration mix, being the annual cash bonus and the LTIP.
The performance measures used are set out in the directors future policy table above.
The performance measures were selected because of their use as key performance indicators KPIs to assess Company performance and to align the interests of the directors to those of the shareholders.
Non-financial KPIs constitute part of the annual cash bonus award and these are selected to ensure that performance measured by financial KPIs is not delivered at the expense of important non-financial considerations, in this case the safety of Rotorks people and Rotorks impact on the environment.
Clawback and malus The payment of any bonus is at the ultimate discretion of the Committee and the Committee also retains an absolute discretion to reclaim some, or all, of any annual bonus paid in exceptional circumstances, such as misstatement of results, an error in the calculation of the performance targets and or award size and gross misconduct.
In terms of the LTIP, the Committee has the discretion to reclaim some, or all, of a vested LTIP award in exceptional circumstances the categories for clawback being the same as for the annual bonus plan.
In addition, the Committee may lapse or reduce an award prior to vesting where the participant is found to be guilty of serious misconduct.
Pension policy PI France and JM Davis are active members of the Rotork Pension and Life Assurance Scheme a defined benefit pension scheme.
If they remain active members of this pension scheme until their normal retirement age of 60 and 65 respectively, PI France will be entitled to a pension of 66.7% of the earnings cap and JM Davis will be entitled to a pension of 47.5% of the earnings cap which is currently set at 141,000 per annum but may increase in line with inflation.
These figures ignore any benefits transferred from another pension arrangement and the tax implications of remaining in the Rotork Pension scheme until normal retirement age.
In addition, they receive a cash allowance on salary above the cap 22.5% for PI France and 18% for JM Davis.
GM Ogden is a preserved member of the Rotork Pension and Life Assurance Scheme and now receives a cash allowance of 44% of salary in lieu of pension.
RH Arnold is a member of the Rotork Controls Inc. pension scheme and a supplementary executive retirement plan, which in aggregate are targeted to provide a pension of 60% of uncapped basic salary at age 65.
The Companys defined benefit pension schemes in the UK and USA are closed to new entrants.
The pension arrangement that would be offered to a new executive director would be limited to a maximum 25% of salary cash allowance or contribution to one of the Companys defined contribution schemes and or continued participation in a defined benefit scheme if the executive is an existing member of one of the schemes.
Strategic Report 01-41 61 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 Differences between the policy on directors remuneration and the policy on employee remuneration The Board recognises that it is appropriate for a significant proportion of executive directors remuneration to be contingent on the performance of the Company and that such remuneration is at risk subject to the satisfaction of stretching performance conditions.
Consequently, executive directors are invited to participate in the LTIP where shares awarded will vest contingent upon performance conditions over a three-year period.
Executive directors are also invited to participate in the annual cash bonus scheme which will result in a cash bonus payment being made if targets are achieved.
For employee remuneration, the Board considers it more appropriate that employees share in the success of the Company through a profit based bonus plan which is based on the performance of their business unit.
This is coupled with the opportunity, for eligible employees, to receive free shares from the Company, paid from the Companys profits.
Approach to recruitment remuneration Base salary levels will be set in accordance with Rotorks remuneration policy, taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual and their existing remuneration package.
Where it is appropriate to offer a lower salary initially, a series of increases to the desired salary positioning may be given over subsequent years subject to individual performance.
Benefits will generally be provided in accordance with the approved policy, with relocation expenses an expatriate allowance paid for if necessary.
The structure of the variable pay element will be in accordance with Rotorks approved policy detailed above.
The maximum aggregate variable pay opportunity under the policy is up to 275% of salary for the role of Chief Executive and up to 250% of salary for other executive directors.
Different performance measures may be set initially for the annual bonus, taking into account the responsibilities of the individual, and the point in the financial year that the executive joined.
In the case of an external hire, it may be necessary to buy-out incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be forfeited on leaving the previous employer.
This would be provided for taking into account the form cash or shares and timing and expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria of the remuneration being forfeited.
Replacement share awards, if used, may be granted using Rotorks existing share plans to the extent possible, although awards may also be granted outside of these schemes if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
In the case of an internal hire, any outstanding variable pay awarded in relation to the previous role will be allowed to pay out according to its terms of grant.
Fees for a new Chairman or non-executive director will be set in line with the approved policy.
Service contracts and policy on payments for loss of office Under the executive directors service contracts twelve months notice of termination of employment is required by either party except in the case of RH Arnold, see below.
Should notice be served, the executives can continue to receive basic salary, benefits and pension for the duration of their notice period during which time the Company may require the individual to continue to fulfil their current duties or, for PI France or JM Davis, may assign a period of garden leave.
The Company applies a general principle of mitigation in relation to termination payments and the service contracts for PI France and JM Davis which reflect the policy to be used for future hires expressly include the use of monthly phased payments following termination in lieu of notice which can be reduced to the extent that alternative remunerated employment is found.
The service contracts for PI France and JM Davis also enable the Company to elect to make a payment in lieu of notice equivalent in value to twelve months base salary only.
RH Arnold does not have a signed service agreement in place.
Instead the conditions of his employment are governed by local state law he is resident in the USA.
The Company may terminate his employment without notice or compensation providing it meets any employer obligations such as the settlement of unpaid holiday entitlement and sick leave.
In the event of cessation of employment, the executives may still be eligible for a bonus at the discretion of the Committee, payable in cash, on a pro-rata basis, but only for the period of time served from the start of the financial year to the date of termination and not for any period in lieu of notice.
Different performance measures to the other executive directors may be set for the bonus for the period up until departure, as appropriate, to reflect changes in responsibility.
The rules of the LTIP set out what happens to awards if a participant leaves employment before the end of the vesting period.
Generally, any outstanding share awards will lapse when an executive leaves employment except in certain circumstances.
If the executive leaves employment as a result of death, injury, retirement, transfer of employment or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee, then they will be treated as a good leaver under the plan rules.
The shares for a good leaver will vest subject to an assessment of performance, with a pro-rata reduction to reflect the proportion of the vesting period served.
For awards granted in 2013 and prior, the awards for a good leaver will vest on cessation of employment.
For awards to be granted in 2014 and beyond, the awards for a good leaver will vest on the normal vesting date, unless the Committee determines that they should vest early for example, following the death of the participant.
In determining whether an executive should be treated as a good leaver and the extent to which their award may vest up to the pro-rated amount, the Committee will take into account the circumstances of an individuals departure.
Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 62 directors remuneration report continued Outplacement services and reimbursement of legal costs may be provided where appropriate.
Any statutory entitlements or sums to settle or compromise claims in connection with a termination would be paid as necessary.
Illustration of the application of the remuneration policy The charts below illustrate how the remuneration policy would function for minimum, on target and maximum performance for 2014 for each executive director.
Taxable benefits are shown as the cost to the Company of supplying those benefits for the year ending 31 December 2013.
On target performance, for illustrative purposes, assumes achievement of 60% of the maximum available bonus and threshold LTIP vesting 25% of the maximum.
Maximum performance assumes achievement of the maximum bonus and full vesting of the LTIP shares.
The LTIP grant level for all executives is 100% of salary.
No share price growth has been assumed and for simplicity, the benefit derived from participating in the Companys all employee SIP or OPLSS have been excluded.
