Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 6 business model and strategy To maintain a market-leading position, we aim to provide high quality, technically advanced, innovative products coupled with a superior level of service that supports our customers activities around the world.
business model Our global network of offices and manufacturing sites expands each year to ensure that support is local to the customer.
The same Rotork culture is found at all of our sites and it is something we strive to bring to new offices and acquired businesses so that customers get consistently high quality service throughout the world.
We operate an asset-light business model, with most of our manufacturing sites purchasing components in a finished form and then assembling to order.
Competitive strengths tecHnoloGical leaderSHip Understanding our customers and the markets we serve allows us to continue to develop new products and lead the evolution of actuator and flow control products.
Global Footprint Our offices around the world allow us to manage the complex global projects which account for the majority of our sales and to support customers in the field.
Rotork Site Services work with our customers by installing and commissioning our actuators and by meeting their service requirements.
diverSe end Market expoSure Wherever fluids or gases are being moved and the process needs to be automated or contain failsafe controls, actuators and flow control products are required.
We highlight the oil & gas, power and water markets because they use actuators most intensively and in a broad range of applications but we also sell to many other markets.
breadtH oF product portFolio Through product development and acquisitions, we have built up the broadest range of actuators on the market and have started to add a range of flow control instruments.
This ensures we have the appropriate product for the widest range of applications within a site or a project.
aSSet-liGHt buSineSS Model Over 90% of our products are built using an outsourced manufacturing model, with our workforce assembling components and configuring products to match customer orders.
We have developed a global network of suppliers who manufacture the components to our designs and who use our tooling.
Quality Our products are used in demanding environments where consistency of performance is often critical to a process.
Customers expect Rotork products to be reliable and our quality control procedures, which extend to cover our supply chain, are central to delivering this.
Strategic Report 01-41 7 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 business model and strategy INDUSTRY KNOW-HOW INNOVATION SITE SERVICES QUALITY SALES PROJECT CONTROL MANAGEMENT SOURCING PRODUCT PARTNERSHIPS ASSEMBLY Strategy rotork StrateGy Rotorks vision is to be the leader in our targeted segments of the global flow control market.
The targeted Providing high quality and segments comprise the traditional electric, fluid power innovative products and services to and manual actuators used to control the flow of fluids control the flow of fluids and gases and gases.
These markets are addressed by our Controls, Fluid Systems and Gears divisions.
In addition, the Meeting customer needs through broader instrumentation, diagnostics and feedback global expertise delivered locally devices used in pressure control and measurement or flow control and measurement, form the targeted Achieving consistent, sustainable segments for Rotorks Instruments division.
and profitable growth Being the employer of choice
