Strategic Report 01-41 51 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 Corporate governance continued There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and Electronic communications are also used by Rotork to managing the significant risks faced by Rotork, details of which communicate with its shareholders.
All shareholders have been can be found on pages 30 to 31.
In the year under review, the asked whether they would like to receive the Annual Report and annual review of the system of internal control identified no Accounts in electronic form rather than in hard copy form.
Any significant internal control failings or weaknesses.
shareholders wishing to receive corporate documents electronically can do this by registering for the service at www.
co. uk The Groups key risks, changes during the year under review and and clicking on Register under the Portfolio section.
Rotork also details of processes to manage these risks can be found on pages make available electronic proxy appointment for shareholders who 32 to 33. wish to appoint a proxy online to vote at the Companys AGM.
relations with shareholders Board Committees Communication with shareholders is a priority for Rotork and Rotork The Board has Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
maintains a regular dialogue with its major shareholders.
Rotork Each Committee has formal, written terms of reference recognises the value of the UK Stewardship Code.
In 2013 the Board, which are available to download from the Rotork website and in particular the Chief Executive and Finance Director have met www.
com en investors index committees.
All Board with the shareholders in a number of ways including: Committees have four independent non-executive directors within Hosting conference calls: their composition.
The Group Company Secretary advises and acts Hosting webcasts: as Secretary to the Committees.
Attending shareholder events: Hosting investor site visits: All Committees have authority to take external, independent Attending conferences: professional advice at Rotorks expense for matters relating to the Hosting and participating in Roadshows: and discharge of their duties.
Arranging ad hoc meetings with shareholders.
Through the Chief Executive, the Chairman ensures that all directors are made aware of major shareholder issues and concerns and accordingly the Chief Executive reports to the Board at each Board meeting on meetings with analysts and fund managers as well as shareholders.
During 2013, the Chairman and Company Secretary met with a number of institutional investors at the invitation of the Corporate Governance Director of a major shareholder to discuss gender diversity.
The Chairman and Company Secretary also held discussions with a major shareholder on various corporate governance issues after they responded to a letter from the Company Secretary on behalf of the Board seeking feedback on the level of contact they received from the Board and in particular the Chairman and the independent non-executive directors.
All responses received confirmed that the level of contact provided was satisfactory.
The Board also received updates and discussed guidance issued by professional bodies, including the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators and the 2020 Investor Stewardship Working Party which is comprised of major institutional investors on improving methods of effective engagement with shareholders, particularly on issues other than performance such as strategy, board effectiveness and governance arrangements which underpin sustainable long term performance.
The Board also considered the Governments responses following Professor Kays review of UK equity markets and long term decision making including the establishment of an Investor Forum.
Rotork makes constructive use of its AGM as an opportunity for the Board to communicate with and answer questions from those shareholders who attend in person.
The entire Board is normally available during the meeting and for lunch following the meeting to allow direct interaction between its directors and the shareholders.
Rotork also maintains a comprehensive investor relations section on its website which provides a variety of resources for investors including current webcasts, presentations and press releases.
The website can be accessed at www.
