Strategic Report 01-41 35 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 corporate social responsibility The Group believes that the approach it takes EU Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Separate policies define the Companys to CSR, as set out in this report, helps to Electrical and Electronic Equipment expectations on a number of environmental meet the expectations of our stakeholders Directive RoHS 2.
The Groups electronic issues such as recycling, water use and and contributes to the success of our products will need to comply with RoHS 2 energy consumption.
Some Rotork corporate strategy by promoting an effective by 2017.
We are evaluating our products, businesses, which operate in regions that and sustainable business.
systems and procedures in light of RoHS 2 have fewer environmental facilities available and taking action as necessary to ensure for example, recycling facilities, can present The Chief Executive chairs the CSR compliance.
challenges but it is Rotorks expectation that Committee and reports progress to the our environmental policies are implemented Board.
The CSR Committee is a management Features of the Groups legal compliance consistently across the Group.
committee, which has four sub-committees activities include: with each representing one of the aspects of Mandatory carbon reporting, Rotorks Operational control procedures are in place CSR described opposite.
Presentations are scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, through to manage a wide number of environmental given by the Chairmen of the four subenergy use have been independently activities such as the generation and disposal committees to the Board on activity and assessed.
For further details please see the of hazardous waste, storage and use of oil progress in their areas of CSR during the year.
Greenhouse Gases Reporting section of and volatile organic compounds VOC, or this report, on page 37: the maintenance of air conditioning The diagram above sets out our CSR structure.
Waste Packaging Producers Obligation equipment.
Where necessary, emergency Regulation 2007, Rotork is a member of plans are produced and appropriately proGreSS, perForMance and tarGetS the Clarity compliance scheme: communicated to manage and control THE ENvIRONMENT Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment potential incidents which may pollute, Overview Regulations 2006, Rotork is a member of such as oil spills.
Policies, procedures and systems are in place the Clarity-WEEE compliance scheme: to eliminate, reduce or control our Waste Battery and Accumulator Systems are in place to monitor environmental operational impact on the environment and Regulations 2009, Rotork is registered performance across the Group.
This report to ensure compliance with all relevant as a small battery producer: and sets out performance summaries of: legislation.
Legal compliance audits, Use of licensed waste carriers for the Energy consumption: measurement and monitoring are carried out removal of all types of waste from Rotork Waste generation and recycling including to ensure policies are followed and systems facilities.
hazardous waste : and are effective in managing these impacts.
Training is provided to enable employees to Group Environmental Policy and carry out their duties without risk to Procedures Data on VOC and refrigerants HFC is also themselves, others or the environment.
The Groups environmental policy applies to recorded and reported in the Environmental the Company and all its subsidiaries Report, available from the Investors Section The Group considers environmental risks but worldwide.
The policy includes commitments of the Rotork website under Corporate Social given the Groups business model, considers to the prevention of pollution, compliance Responsibility Environment.
An update on the overall risk to the environment from the with all relevant legal and regulatory Group environmental performance is given at Groups activities to be relatively low.
The requirements, search for opportunities to quarterly CSR Committee meetings where Group notes the following operational risks: reduce energy and to the continuous actions are documented and progress EU Registration, Evaluation and improvement of environmental performance.
reviewed at the next meeting.
This years Authorisation of Chemicals REACH The Groups environmental policy can be report encompasses more data than before legislation.
As a downstream user, the found at www.
com in the due to additional locations, including recent Group relies on the manufacturers of Investorssection under Corporate acquisitions.
chemicals and preparations for continuing Responsibility Environment.
We continuously monitor the chemicals and preparations used: and Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 36 corporate social responsibility continued A more detailed report of environmental Waste Generation and Recycling performance for the year ending 31 Waste generation includes packaging waste December 2013 will be given in the card, wood and plastic, metal waste ferrous Environmental Report, published on the and non-ferrous, hazardous materials paint Rotork website in April 2014.
A copy of the waste, oils and adhesives, batteries and Environmental Report containing 2012 waste electrical electronic equipment WEEE.
performance data can be found at www.
com in the Investors section The Groups policy is to recycle where under Corporate Social Responsibility possible.
We have installed recycling Environment.
equipment such as balers and wood crushers at a number of the high volume Progress locations.
To ensure suppliers also play their Energy Consumption part we have introduced our own minimum The Group operates an assembly only packaging requirements for suppliers.
philosophy in all but five of its business units Rotork has made a special donation to One bike, a and we rely on specialist suppliers for most of 2013 Waste Generation and Recycling thousand hopes 2013 campaign in memory of Mauro Talini, the brother of an employee in Lucca, Italy.
our manufactured components and Performance Summary assemblies.
In all facilities energy is used for Waste generation decreased and, IT systems, lighting, heating and cooling.
Exceptions are the Groups operations in The percentage of recycled waste against Losser The Netherlands, Falun Sweden, total waste generated decreased against Mansfield UK and Winston-Salem and 2012 results.
Broken Arrow USA where some machine processes are in operation.
In other locations A detailed report is available in the 2013 test equipment is used to ensure the product Environmental Report.
meets customer operational requirements which can consume large amounts of energy Water Consumption for short periods of time when in use.
Water consumption is measured across the Group.
For the majority of Rotork locations Consumption of electricity, gas and steam is water consumption derives from normal calculated using utility invoices.
Liquid operation and sanitary use.
Exceptions to this Employees from Rotorks Calgary office generously petroleum gas LPG and oil is calculated include our facilities in Winston-Salem USA, donated time to help clean-up homes that were devastated in the Alberta, Canada flooding.
Bangalore and Chennai India, Shanghai China, Bath UK and Lucca Italy, where 2013 Energy Consumption Performance processes involving the use of water are in Summary and 2014 Targets operation.
On a like for like basis, energy consumption increased 4.73% compared 2013 Water Consumption Performance with 2012, slightly below the rate of Summary organic revenue increase.
With the On a like-for-like basis water consumption in inclusion of new reporting companies this 2013 fell by 11% compared to 2012.
With the year, the overall increase was 8.68%.
inclusion of new reporting companies the New acquisitions in USA, Germany, Italy overall water consumption increased 1%.
and the new head office in the UK accounted for 3.77% of the increase.
There were also increases in business A group of 15 Houston, USA employees donned capes activity with small fluctuations in climate and masks, and participated in a 5K race to benefit conditions at some facilities also Court Appointed Special Advocates for children.
Strategic Report 01-41 37 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 corporate social responsibility continued Greenhouse Gases Reporting 2013 Carbon Emissions via Energy Employees Mandatory Greenhouse Gases Emissions Consumption Performance Summary The Group has a firm commitment to all its Reporting On a like-for-like basis, emissions employees regarding wellbeing and During 2013, a Group KPI measuring the increased 1.34% compared with 2012, development.
Many of the Groups offices Groups Scope 1 and 2 emissions was the overall increase was 5.14%.
provide health checks for their employees, as introduced and is measured against turnover.
New acquisitions in USA, Germany, Italy well as encouraging participation in sports During 2013, the Groups Scope 1 and 2 and the UK, including the new head teams or one-off charitable sporting events.
emissions decreased by 7.1% per million office in Bath, accounted for 3.63% of the More details regarding charitable activities pounds of turnover.
There were also increases in can be found in the Community Involvement this KPI can be found on page 29. business activity with small fluctuations in section of this report.
climate conditions at some facilities which The table below shows the Groups contributed to the increase.
Rotork has an objective and fair recruitment greenhouse gas GHG emissions data in process which promotes equal opportunities tonnes for the last two financial years.
2014 Targets across the Group in line with the Respect at Achieve 3% year-on-year reduction in Work and Equality of Opportunity policy.
Emissions tonnes 2013 2012 carbon emissions against revenue.
Employee views and direct communication Scope 1 i 5,024 4,448 are part of our values and we run employee Scope 2 ii 5,317 5,396 ETHICS AND vALUES suggestion schemes, an annual Employee Scope 3 iii 2,284 2,044 Overview Satisfaction Survey and several locations have Ethics and values are central to the way we employee forums where employees can raise i The Groups Scope 1 GHG emissions are derived from do business.
The Groups Ethics and Values issues to be dealt with by management.
the consumption of gas, liquid petroleum gas, oil and Statement can be viewed on our website, in through business travel and the transport of goods via a number of languages, at www.
com Rotork has built a strong partnership with the Rotork owned vehicles en investors index ethicsvalues.
Our ethics Institute of Mechanical Engineers IMECHE ii The Groups Scope 2 GHG emissions are derived from and values can be split into four strands: to support engineers in gaining Incorporated the consumption of electricity and steam iii The Groups Scope 3 GHG emissions are derived from and Chartered accreditation.
The success of well to tank and transmission factors taken from the Human rights and ethical business the new registrants has encouraged other UK Government Conversion Factors for Company The Group is fully committed to respecting Rotork engineers to work towards Reporting.
They have been used for all sites except for internationally proclaimed human rights as accreditation with IMECHE next year.
the USA sites where specific factors are available for transmission losses defined in the International Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour The Group also supports apprenticeship Assurance of GHG emissions report Organisations standards.
The Group does schemes for young men and women which On 28 January 2014, EEF undertook an not accept any form of child or forced labour helps to increase access into all aspects of the assurance audit of the Groups GHG and embracing the UN Global Compact Groups business.
emissions report against the requirements of principles throughout the business is a the Defra Environmental Reporting Guidelines demonstration of this commitment.
In 2013 Rotork produced a diversity policy issued in June 2013.
The audit took place at and targets to be achieved by September the Groups Bath site and consisted of a The Group recognises that an open and 2015.
More details of Rotorks diversity policy desktop review of the GHG report and the honest culture is key to understanding and targets can be found in the Corporate supporting evidence and calculations.
concerns within the business and to uncover Governance report on page 55. and investigate any potential wrongdoing.
In The Group calculates GHG emissions in 2013, the Group launched a refreshed and accordance with the Greenhouse Gas updated whistleblowing policy with an Protocol GHG Protocol developed jointly by independent external whistleblowing hotline.
the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resource Institute.
Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 38 corporate social responsibility continued Bribery and corruption During 2013, the Group developed and rolled The assessments are discussed directly with The Group has a zero tolerance policy on out anti-bribery and corruption training to all the suppliers and any corrective action plan bribery and corruption worldwide, employees working in sales and purchasing is agreed between the Company and irrespective of country or business culture.
roles as well as to senior accountants and all the supplier.
The Groups Ethics and Values statement managers and directors including executive makes clear that our employees will never and non-executive directors.
The anti-bribery Rotork Controls Limited and Rotork UK offer, pay or solicit bribes in any form and is and corruption training is delivered as an Limited, the Groups main UK trading published on the Groups website in a e-learning module which includes an companies, and Rotork plc, are signatories to number of languages.
The Group does not assessment.
The course has been translated the Prompt Payment Code which ensures make political contributions in cash or kind into several local languages.
All users are that suppliers are paid according to the terms anywhere in the world.
given three months to successfully complete agreed and this encourages good practice be the course.
Approximately 1,000 employees passed down supply chains.
The Groups whistleblowing policy gives are required to successfully complete the whistleblowers a platform to alert senior course.
Progress management, anonymously if the employee An updated and refreshed Group wishes, to any suspected bribery or Suppliers whistleblowing policy was launched corruption, through an independent, The Group has continued to invest in its which incorporates the use of an external hotline if necessary.
outsourcing model, selecting suppliers with independent external whistleblowing sound reputations in the marketplace.
Many hotline as an alternative method to raising The Group also makes use of detailed of the suppliers have a long-term working whistleblowing concerns: background checks provided by specialist relationship with the Company, ensuring Following on from a revision of the bribery and corruption due diligence ingrained product knowledge within the supplier audit questionnaire in 2011 to consultants before dealing with unknown supply chain.
Suppliers are subject to include questions centred around CSR, third parties including agents, prospective continuous automated online monitoring the target of auditing a further 20 of the acquisitions and suppliers operating in higher against sanctions lists, watchlists, regulatory top 50 suppliers and all new suppliers to risk jurisdictions or market sectors.
The Group and court records and a large number of Rotorks Bath manufacturing facility set in makes use of objective guidance on country national and international media sources and 2013 was exceeded.
The relationship with risk, such as the Corruption Perception Index the Company is alerted where any one supplier was terminated as a result of by Transparency International.
When working derogatory information is uncovered.
this auditing: with the unknown third party, and after the A FTSE4Good score of 3.8 out of 5 was initial detailed background checks, the Group The supplier assessment programme includes maintained.
This is in excess of UK, global also continually screens these third parties more detailed CSR themed questions and industry averages: against a large number of international associated with equal rights and equal pay, An employee satisfaction survey score of sources which could detect unethical anti-bribery and corruption policies, 3.64 out of 5 was achieved, a small behaviour including watchlists, sanctions charitable giving, environmental impact and increase on the previous year with record lists and the media using its due diligence anti-compulsory or child labour practices.
numbers of employees participating: consultants proprietary databases.
These surveys consider current and Presentations relating to bribery and These third parties are also subject to established suppliers.
In 2013, 23 suppliers corruption given by senior management continual screening.
to the Groups Bath factory were evaluated and the Groups legal department to using this assessment programme.
International Sales Managers regional meetings in the UK, USA and China and the whistleblowing policy was communicated to all employees in every edition of the Rotork e-newsletter: and Bribery and corruption training rolled out to relevant employees in English, Korean, German, Spanish and Chinese.
