Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 10 Strategy in action Focused on growth We will seek to grow our addressable market in Rotork is focused on growth and our three ways: through acquisitions, organic objectives reflect this.
We have always grown through a combination of organic growth in our existing and new markets and expansion and acquisition and we will through product development that will allow us continue to pursue both routes in the future.
to address a wider section of our existing market and take us into new markets.
organic growth Growth by acquisition Our acquisition strategy remains unchanged: GeoGrapHic coveraGe product developMent we continue to look for opportunities to grow through acquisition.
Our target companies will We will continue to invest in our be in the field of flow control and are tested infrastructure to cope with the increased against our set criteria.
They should satisfy at levels of demand and take advantage of the least one of the following criteria: enhance our opportunities in the markets that we serve.
position in an end user market, enhance or Our facilities will provide a safe working extend our product offering or enhance our environment for our staff.
We will continue position in a geographic market.
During 2013 to lease facilities as a preference, in line with we acquired four companies: Schischek, our asset-light business model, and only GT Attuatori, Renfro and Flowco.
purchase a facility as part of an acquisition or if there are specific operational reasons to do so.
By leveraging Group technology and 1.
ScHiScHek expertise we provide our customers with Realise new facility plans innovative and competitive solutions to their Design, manufacture and sale of Review suitability of all locations and needs in a timely manner.
This is supported explosion-proof electric actuators invest or restructure as appropriate by a continuous search for new technology Established in 1975 Continually improve delivery to maintain our market leadership.
HVAC market place performance to exceed customer Part of the Controls division expectations Exposure to attractive new end markets Reduce product development time Continuous improvement in Quality Increase interaction with other product Excellence introduction stakeholders Following the acquisition of the Schischek Drive plant efficiency through the Continual development and utilisation group of companies in January 2013, it has implementation of best practices and of RIDEC now been fully integrated and rebranded as lean initiatives Continue to develop Group processes Rotork Schischek.
Rotork Schischek is a leader Complete move to new Leeds facility through the Group Engineering Forum in the design, manufacture and sale of Focus on cost reduction in existing Leverage Group technology throughout explosion-proof electric actuators, principally plants the product ranges for the heating, ventilation, and air Reduce and maintain inventory to sales Value Engineering conditioning HVAC market place.
ratios at target levels Develop a Group range of nuclear products Strategic Report 01-41 11 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 Strategy in action Focused on growth 1.
Growth by acquisition The acquisition provides Rotork with the 2.
Gt attuatori opportunity to repeat the success of its UK-based valvekits business by expanding the Manufacture a range of pneumatic rack Renfro offering across the USA.
Rotork and pinion actuators Established in 1963 acquired Renfro because it will extend our Based in Milan, Italy and Sinzig, valve adaption capability and allow us to Germany grow the valvekits business in the USA.
Centre of Excellence in Germany Part of RFS division 4.
Flowco The acquisition of GTA has brought one of Dedicated team of service engineers the longest established and best regarded Based near Bath, UK rack and pinion manufacturers in our markets Focus on water industry to Rotork.
GTA has become part of our Fluid Schischek meets all three of our acquisition Part of Controls division Systems division and this acquisition extends criteria.
The acquisition has enhanced our distribution sales, extends our product Rotorks existing range of actuators, provided Flowco is an actuator service company based offering and enhances our distribution Rotork with exposure to an attractive new near Rotorks Bath headquarters, UK.
end market and increased our scope for has excellent relationships with its water growth in Germany and Europe.
utility customer base who value the GTA has a plant in Milan, Italy, and two responsiveness of its service offering.
One of these is a Schischek has its main sites in Langenzenn Referring to our criteria, Flowco was acquired Centre of Excellence, selling packages of near Nuremberg in Southern Germany and in order to extend our service capability in the actuators and valves, and both have been Lutzenberg in Switzerland.
integrated into our new German sales of the largest domestic markets in Europe structure.
and is a global centre for industrial process manufacturers and for this reason we have recently restructured our sales and 3. renFro management team in Germany to leverage our current infrastructure and drive growth.
Design and manufacture valve adaptions Established in 1979 Based in Broken Arrow, Oklahoma Part of Gears division Renfro is another long established business with an excellent reputation for delivering high quality products and services to its customers mainly in the oil & gas, water treatment and food processing industries.
