Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 56 directors remuneration report statement from the Chairman of the remUneration Committee Chairman: GB Bullard Activities of the Remuneration Committee during the year The Committee met six times during the year.
Members: SA James, IG King, JE Nicholas sUmmary of 2013 remUneration Committee BUsiness During 2013, the Remuneration Committee Committee closely monitored developments relating to remuneration and in particular Month Principal activities in relation to the preparation of the Companys first remuneration Approval of LTIP award levels and bonus March policy to be approved by shareholders.
The Directors opportunity for 2013 for executive directors and 2 meetings Remuneration Report is split into two parts: other members of senior management: The Policy Report, which sets out the Companys proposed Approval of the Remuneration Report 2012: and policy on directors remuneration.
The proposed policy is Consideration on executive remuneration principles subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM and of NAPF and others.
after that every third year: and Consideration and approval of Chairmans fees for The Annual Report on Remuneration discloses the payments 2013-2015. and awards made to the directors and shows the link between remuneration and the Groups performance.
The annual report June Review of AGM voting outcome and feedback from on remuneration together with this introductory statement is shareholders: subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
Review of LTIP performance: Consideration of a PwC report on executive Throughout the year the Committee has considered updates on remuneration trends: and best practice from relevant providers of corporate governance Consideration of published new directors remuneration reporting regulations guidance including the Association of British Insurers, the National Association of Pension Funds NAPF and Institutional Shareholder August Consideration of remuneration policy to be Services Research, Recommendation and Electronic Voting approved by shareholders: and ISS RREV.
The Group supports the continued drive for Consideration and approval of New Bridge Street improvement of best practice and for greater focus on NBS as advisor to the Committee.
transparency, moderation, simplicity and a closer alignment Consideration of the first draft of the remuneration November of the interests of the directors with those of the shareholders.
policy to be approved by shareholders.
As set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration, the Company Approval of the Committees schedule of work for December performed well against its targets in 2013 resulting in an annual 2014: cash bonus payout of 94.4% of the maximum bonus opportunity Consideration of current investor guidance from available and a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP vesting rate of 67% Association of British Insurers on remuneration: Consideration of salary benchmarking report from for the 2011 award which vests based on performance to NBS: 31 December 2013.
Setting of basic salary for executive directors: Approval of the remuneration policy to be approved In 2014, the Committee will continue to be mindful of employee by shareholders: and remuneration conditions around the Group when determining Approval of introduction of clawback to the LTIP.
salary adjustments and does not intend to make awards under the LTIP of more than 100% of basic salary.
