RPC Group Plc 04 Annual report and accounts 2013 Injection Moulding Blow Moulding Thermoforming WhAT We dO Rigid plastic packaging is produced by Injection Moulding heating, shaping and cooling polymer Complex designs to create unique moulded products.
RPC High level decoration uses the three main polymer conversion High added value processes that are applied in over 90% of rigid plastics manufacture allowing Injection Moulding is used to produce packaging requiring complex design, rigidity RPC to offer the widest range of plastic and a high level of decoration andis packaging solutions to itscustomers.
generally used in the manufacture of higher value added plastic packaging products The processes employed are Injection Moulding, across all of the Groups endmarkets.
Blow Moulding and Thermoforming, each technology The RPC injection moulding clusters producing different product characteristics that comprise, Superfos, Bramlage-Wiko are suitable for specific packaging applications.
Operations in RPC are structured along market and technological lines into six clusters which are aligned to these three conversion processes.
The mArkeTS We Serve RPC market segments Dairy RPC operates in the rigid plastic products packaging market which has the highest 7% growth rates in the global packaging Long Other shelf-life food industry.
Rigid plastic packaging covers 7% 24% Food a wide range of packaging products, 58% substrates, processing technologies and 9% Coffee end use markets.
The compound annual 11% growth rate to 2016 for global rigid plastic Spreads packaging is forecast to be circa 5%.
RPC manages its business mix to focus on plastic Pharmaceutical packaging end markets which exhibit both stability and growth.
With around 60% of RPCs revenue 4% coming from the relatively stable food sector, a Surface coatings strong focus on non-cyclical end markets such as 8% Other pharmaceuticals, and the development of a number Non-Food non-food 17% ofhigher value added and higher growth niches 42% such as barrier foods and coffee capsules, the Group 13% is able to achieve strong and stable returns for its stakeholders from its investments in these markets.
Personal care and Cosmetics Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 05 Injection Moulding Blow Moulding Thermoforming Injection Moulding Blow Moulding Thermoforming Blow Moulding Thermoforming Re-closable High volume Narrow neck Low cost Pourable Barrier applications Blow Moulding is used for the manufacture Thermoforming produces high volume, cost ofre-closable narrow neckand pourable efficient packaging and barrier applications products with barrier and multilayer capacity mainly for the food industry and products for a diverserange of markets, including include trays and pots for ready meals, personal care, motor oil, agrochemicals salads, fruit, snacks and functional foods, andthe food and drink sectors.
coffee capsules and vending cups.
These operations are managed The RPC thermoforming clusters bytheBlowMoulding cluster.
The rigid plastic market GLOBAL RIGID PLASTICS 1 2 PACKAGING MARKeT PACKAGING MARKeT Flexible Plastic Central and South America Value Glass North America $695bn Rigid Europe Plastic Growth rate Metal 3.3% Rest of World Asia Pacific Paper Source: 1 Pira International, 2011 Global packaging market, materials, by value 2 Pira International, 2011 Rigid plastics packaging market, regions, by weight
