RPC Group Plc 06 Annual report and accounts 2013 A glOBAl fOrce in rigid plASTic pAckAging The Group has over 50 operations in Key facts 17 countries, mainly within Europe but with facilities also in North Africa and the USA.
The Groups broad geographic footprint and trading Annual sales partners allow it to operate close to 50 operations of over its customers and provide them with in 17 countries multi-plant security of supply.
1.0bn Many of the Groups high value added products can be economically transported further afield where one or more product characteristics including functionality, performance, innovationand decorative services outweigh Achieving RONOA shipping costs.
of 21.2% Growth drivers The global packaging industry ispredicted to grow by $150bn between 2010 and 2016 to reach almost $820bn.
Rigid plastic is forecast to be the fastest growing packaging material.
DRIveRs oF PaCKaGInG GRoWTH Demand in both industrial and emerging economies is driving technological developments and enhanced value adding opportunities for more sophisticated packaging with functional and barrier properties, as well as enhanced decoration.
In emerging economies, growing urbanisation, investment in housing and construction and increasing disposable incomes are driving demand for consumer products and thepackaging of these goods.
Corresponding growth in healthcare, the demand for convenience foods and the need for packaging to maximise shelf-life for perishable products is driving the consumption ofrigid plastic as well as other forms of consumer goodspackaging.
Particularly robust growth in the demand for cosmetics, toiletries and household & personal care products is stimulating consumption of rigid plastic packaging.
Suppliers are developing profitable niche applications in Western markets as well as in the faster-growing markets inAsia, Central and eastern europe and South America.
Source: Pira International 2011 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 07 entered the Listed on the Industry leading Leading London Stock FTSE 250 innovator european exchange manufacturer March 2011 1993 utilising all 3 conversion processes Over 7,200 employees Key Countries where we manufacture Countries where we sell
