RPC Group Plc 20 Annual report and accounts 2013 OperATing revieW continued Injection Moulding Blow Moulding Thermoforming THeRMoFoRMInG Thermoforming 12 months to 12 months to 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 m m Revenue 253.1 287.7 Adjusted operating profit 15.9 13.7 Return on sales 6.3% 4.8% Return on net operating assets 20.9% 20.0% The thermoforming operations comprise the The Tedeco-Gizeh business, which in the KeY MaRKeTs Bebo retail food packaging, Tedeco-Gizeh new financial year has been merged into Margarine & spreads food service UK vending and disposables theBebo cluster, saw a significant Coffee capsules and Cobelplast sheet production clusters improvement in profitability following the andare largely based in mainland europe.
exitof the mainland european vending cup Dairy market Although sales volumes were down on last market.
Thesite at Kajrpc Hungary, was Disposable products year, the overall thermoforming business closed and the operation at Deventer the Sheet for form-fill-seal lines performance improved significantly mainly Netherlands refocused on the convenience Fresh, frozen and long shelf-life foods dueto the full year impact of exiting the low food packaging business and coffee Phone cards margin european vending cup market and capsules.
The discontinued european Vending & drinking cups further growth in coffee capsules.
The vending cup business was successfully currency translation impact of stronger transferred to a competitor to ensure that sterlingthrough the year reduced sales there was minimal impact on customers.
The by14.6m and operating profit by 0.6m.
site at Port Talbot UK performed particularly well in the year as coffee capsule production The Bebo cluster had a solid performance increased, following investment in three during the year.
The margarine and spreads production lines in the previous year that market is a significant part of its business and was required to keep pace with the growth the Group has strong market positions in this in demand.
The renewal of major customer contracts in the year has secured this For the Cobelplast business, the overall business.
To ensure profitability is sustained, demand for sheet products was unchanged RevenUe the efficiency of the yellow fats and margarine from last year, but margins remained under business within the cluster was reviewed as pressure and competitor intensity high.
part of the Fitter for the Future programme.
As TheLokeren Belgium business started 253m a consequence the manufacturing facility at aprogramme of restructuring and Beuningen the Netherlands which produces reorganisation during the year to restore its 2012: 288m tubs and lids has been scheduled for closure profitability under the Fitter for the Future and cost efficiency measures have been programme.
This includes exiting from the undertaken at Bremervrde Germany to supply of certain low value added sheet realign demand with capacity and modernise products and refocusing the business on production capabilities to improve profitability thehigher value added multi-layer products, within its spreads business.
including new investment in production capacity.
The Montonate Italy business aDjUsTeD oPeRaTInG hada robust performance.
PRoFIT 15.9m 2012: 13.7m Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 21 Coffee capsule Thermoformed cup Customer: Kraft Foods Product: Thermoformed Cup Processes: Thermoforming THe BeneFITs: Long shelf-life Continues RPC specialism incoffeemarket Single-serve coffee system The development of the new Thermoformed Cup concept for Kraft USA is further evidence of RPCs pre-eminence in the fast growing single-serve coffee capsules market.
The thermoformed PS cup contains a special filter paper.
Coffee or another beverage is placed into the filter and the cup is sealed to ensure a long shelf-life.
To make the drink, the cup is inserted into the brewing machine and pressurised water flows through the pack at .
Pilot tools and initial start-up production were initiated at RPCs Bremervrde facility in Germany, ahead of full production at the Groups US factory in Morgantown.
Injection Moulding Blow Moulding Thermoforming RPC Group Plc 22 Annual report and accounts 2013 OperATing revieW continued Injection Moulding Blow Moulding Thermoforming BloW MoUlDInG Blow Moulding 12 months to 12 months to 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 m m Revenue 180.8 184.5 Adjusted operating profit 11.1 13.0 Return on sales 6.1% 7.1% Return on net operating assets 17.4% 21.8% The blow moulding business operates from The cluster continues to invest in multi-layer KeY MaRKeTs eleven sites based both in the UK and in production equipment to help accelerate the Agrochemicals mainland europe.
The performance was conversion of conventional glass and metal Automotive robust with sales volumes up slightly year on packaging to lighter weight plastic.
Overall profits, however, were adversely generation of high output multi-layer Food & drink affected by negative currency effects and the extrusion blow moulding machines has been Long shelf-life food polymer pass through time lag.
The currency developed and the first of these machines Personal care translation impact of stronger sterling through has been installed at Kutenholz.
To improve the year reduced sales by c. 5m and its position in the agrochemical and lubricant operating profit by 0.2m.
market new machines were also installed in Gent and in the UK a new machine for new There were good volume increases at five litre standard containers was installed in Llantrisant UK for PET containers in food and the Rushden factory.
These investments are beverages, increased demand for extrusion part of a strategy to consolidate and blow moulded products in personal care and modernise the clusters standard container business transferred from a major customer product range.
In addition new product who stopped self-manufacturing bottles.
The designs continue to drive growth: a new Gent Belgium and French sites benefited 20and 25 litre standard container with an from the continued upturn in agrochemicals anti-glug device, which was developed by and new business was obtained in lubricants.
the UK Stock Container business, has proved The UK stock containers business suffered very successful in the UK market.
from weaker demand from industrial RevenUe customers but was able to defend its strong market positions.
Kutenholz Germany experienced lower demand from their customers in the food segment who export to 181m southern and eastern europe, but demand for personal care products was stable.
The 2012: 185m factory in Kerkrade the Netherlands experienced an increased demand for multi-layer products in the food sector and the completion of the new warehouse helped the site optimise its logistics operations.
Sales volumes at the Corby UK site, which receives strong demand for barrier blow moulded aDjUsTeD oPeRaTInG plastic jars and bottles, and exports over half PRoFIT its production, was affected by the weaker euro.
The envases site at Madrid relocated to new, more efficient, premises at Campo Real 11.1m as part of the Fitter for the Future programme aiming to establish a platform for future 2012: 13.0m growth.
envases has become the fourth RPC location equipped for the production of six layer bottles for oxygen sensitive goods.
TheGroup considers the Iberian Peninsula tohave significant growth potential for multi-layer containers.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 23 even-Flo Customer: Westland Product: even-Flo lawn spreader Processes: B low Moulding and Injection Moulding THe BeneFITs: Innovative, reusable spreader design Container is lighter in weight than conventional spreaders Provides even spreading of contents Inter-changeable handle with integrated spreading chute High impact at Point of Sale Westlands even-Flo spreader is the next generation of lawn spreaders, created to help gardeners revitalise, rejuvenate and bring more life to their lawns.
To reflect this positioning, the company required a pack that is market leading in its functionality and design.
Key criteria were to ensure the most even spread of granules during spreading, for the dispensing system to be reusable, and for the refill bottle to be as lightweight and cost efficient aspossible.
The highly advanced and complex dispensing system, comprising six different components, as well as the transit cap and baffles for the refill packs are produced by RPC Market Rasen using hi-tech injection moulding equipment.
The container is blow moulded in HDPe by RPC Rushden.
Injection Moulding Blow Moulding Thermoforming
