R RP PC G C Gr ro ou up P p Pl lc c 1 10 0 A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 13 3 OUr STrATegy And BUSineSS mOdel sTRaTeGY our strategy We achieve and maintain our leading market positions by continued innovation and investment, leveraging our leading technological Our strategy is to grow and develop capability and through strategic corporate development both in our leading positions in our chosen product existing core markets and new geographical regions.
markets and geographical areas in innovation the rigid plastic packaging industry Innovate to maintain a pipeline of novel applications and solutions inall conversion processes to create new high return, niche market by maintaining strong long-term positions that are scalable across existing and new markets.
relationships with our customers and investment by developing high quality, innovative Continue to invest to enhance strong market positions, gain market products that meet customer needs.
share and maintain barriers to entry.
technological capability Leverage technologies across the business using the Groups technological edge to increase our exposure to, or enter, emerging markets where there is a pull for more sophisticated packaging.
strategic corporate development Consolidate and grow our core market positions, acquiring where existing market positions can be further enhanced and available synergies will enhance shareholder value.
expand into new geographical areas through selective investment to create or cement strong or differentiated positions and to participate in high growth emerging markets.
Key features exPeRTs In THe THRee MaRKeT leaDeRsHIP KnoWleDGe anD MajoR ConveRsIon In sPeCIalIsT UnDeRsTanDInG oF In-HoUse PRoCesses TeCHnoloGIes KeY enD MaRKeTs DesIGn FaCIlITIes 90% 32% leading 3 specialised of rigid plastics of revenue from market positions design manufactured use High Added Value markets these processes centres Provides unparalleled choice Barrier technology Specialist in rigid plastic Design capability throughout for customers applications in selected product thebusiness Light weighting market applications Injection Moulding Bespoke and standardised Thin Wall packaging Long and established customer product development Blow Moulding In Mould labelling relationships One-stop-shop to meet Thermoforming High degree of mutual customer packaging needs dependency Stable sectors and end markets Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information R RP PC G C Gr ro ou up P p Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 13 3 11 11 HoW We aDD valUe THRoUGH oUR BUsIness MoDel awards offering unparalleled choice We have expertise across all three conversion processes, offering Industry recognition unparalleled choice in both standard and customised products.
Therefore we can provide the widest range of rigid plastic packaging solutions to our customers.
Excellence in design Where possible we offer a one-stop-shop approach to design that achieves product requirements across brand image, functionality and packaging performance.
Our extensive facilities, including tool and mould making, mean that we can provide customers with a complete service from initial concept to finished pack, thereby reducing the packaging development lead time.
Product innovation We create and grow markets for rigid plastic packaging through technical innovation, supported by the continuing substitution of glassand metal for plastic packaging alternatives.
We are a leader inplastic packaging innovation, developing technically advanced production processes to enhance the functionality and economy of our products and the efficiency of our operations, for the benefit of our customers, shareholders and the environment.
A string of awards during 2012 underlined RPCs Customer service We operate through an autonomous but connected business pre-eminent position in the packaging industry.
structure that meets the diverse needs of global and local A major highlight was the Group being named Packaging customers across a wide geographical area.
With more than 50 Company of the Year at the UK Packaging Awards.
The operations spanning 17 countries, we have close proximity to our award citation acknowledged RPCs mix of excellent customers and access to a wide range of markets.
We develop long management and packaging innovation, with the judges and mutually dependent relationships with our customers by providing excellent quality and service.
describing the Company as a shining example to the industry, remarkable and the perfect business model.
ouR RECENt awaRds: exCellenCe In InnovaTIve qUalITY & PaCKaGInG CUsToMeR seRvICe solUTIons RPC Superfoss SuperLock food pot RPC Oakham were awarded a Green won an international packaging Oscar Apple Gold Award in the category Multiple at the Salon International emballage Packaging that improves the exhibition in Paris.
sustainability of the product supply value awards chain for its Dulux polypropylene paintcan.
Creating value for our Creating and growing markets customers through technical innovation Autonomous but connected Substituting glass and business structure metal for plastic packaging alternatives Investment in efficient manufacture RPC Group Plc won Best RPC Group Plc won Deal of the Year at Industrial Goods & Services Plc at the 2012 UK Stock Market awards for Geographical reach to the 2012 UK Stock Market awards.
service global and local customers
