Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 61 direcTOrS repOrT The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013.
This Annual Report and Accounts 2013 has been prepared solely for RPC Group Plcs shareholders.
The Company, its directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept responsibility to any other person and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
The Report and Accounts contains forward-looking statements, which: have been made by the directors in good faith based on the information available to them up to the time of their approval of the Report and Accounts: and should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business risk factors, underlying such forward-looking information.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements and nothing in the Report and Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
PRInCIPal aCTIvITIes The principal activities of the Group are unchanged from last year and are the manufacture and sale of rigid plastic packaging and associatedequipment.
BUsIness RevIeW A description of the Groups strategy and business model is given on pages 10 and 11.
A review of the Groups activities and performance, including financial performance during the year ended 31 March 2013, its position at that date and the outlook for the Group can be found in the Operating and Financial reviews on pages 14 to 26.
Key financial performance indicators and the principal risks that the Group faces, can be found on pages 27 to 29.
Information concerning environmental matters, employees, social and community issues and reviews of non-financial key performance indicators are included in the Corporate responsibility report on pages 30 to 37.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business review referred to above is to be treated as part of this report.
aCqUIsITIons anD DIsPosals On 21 November 2012 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of BPSW19 Ltd, the holding company for the Manuplastics group of companies based in Wimbledon in the UK for a consideration of 6.1m.
Manuplastics specialises in the design and manufacture of high quality injection moulded containers for the personal healthcare, food and pharmaceutical industries and has an annual turnover of approximately 8.0m.
InSeptember 2012, the Group sold its loss making automotive components business, RPC Neutraubling GmbH, in Germany.
Details of the Groups Fitter for the Future business optimisation programme launched during the year, including withdrawal from the vending cup business in mainland Europe, the closure of the manufacturing site in Kajrpc Hungary and planned closure of operations at Antwerp Belgium and Beuningen the Netherlands are given in the Operating and Financial reviews, together with the completion of the integration of Superfos Industries a s, including the closure of the operation at Runcorn in the UK in June 2012. sHaRe CaPITal The Company had 166,112,355 ordinary 5p shares in issue at 31 March 2013.
Full details of the Companys issued share capital together with the rights, obligations and restrictions attaching to the shares are set out in note 23 to the financial statements.
DIvIDenDs An interim dividend of 4.3p per ordinary share was paid on 25 January 2013.
The directors are recommending a final dividend of 10.6p per ordinary share to be paid on 6 September 2013, subject to approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company, to shareholders on the register on 9 August 2013 making the total dividend for the year 14.9p per share 2012: 14.4p.
Full details of dividends in respect of the year ended 31 March 2013 are given in note 8 to the financial statements.
FInanCInG The Groups policy is to finance its operations through a mixture of retained profits, equity and borrowings.
The Group does not trade in financialinstruments.
The main risks arising from the Groups borrowings are market risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and credit risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks.
The policies, which have been applied throughout the year, are set out in note 21 tothe financial statements.
RPC Group Plc 62 Annual report and accounts 2013 direcTOrS repOrT continued DIReCToRs The directors of the Company who served during the financial year were as follows: J R P Pike I Haaijer appointed 30 May 2012 R J e Marsh S Rojahn M G Towers P R M Vervaat On 1 April 2013 S J Kesterton was appointed as a director initially as Group Finance Director designate and taking up the role of Group Finance Director of the Company from 1 May 2013.
On 1 May 2013 R J e Marsh stepped down as Chief executive and P R M Vervaat acceded to the role.
There have been no further changes to the Board since 31 March 2013 up to the date of this Report.
The rules regarding the appointment and replacement of directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Articles require that any director who has been appointed by the Board since the last AGM must retire from office but is eligible to submit themself for election by the shareholders.
Accordingly, a resolution to elect S J Kesterton as a director will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM on 10 July 2013.
The Companys Articles also require that all directors are subject to re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
However, the Board has adopted a policy of annual re-election of all directors in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Consequently, with the exception of R J e Marsh who is not seeking re-election and will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM, all the directors will retire from office and, being eligible, submit themselves for re-election on an individual basis at the AGM and annually thereafter.
Biographical details of the directors are given on pages 38 and 39 and the Boards recommendations for their election and re-election are given in the explanatory notes to the Notice of AGM.
A performance evaluation is conducted for all directors prior to recommendation for re-appointment orre-election.
Further information on the appointment, re-election and performance evaluation of directors is given in the Corporate Governance report.
Detailsofthe directors remuneration, notice periods under their service contracts or terms of appointment and their interests including any interest of a connected person in the share capital of the Company are shown in the Remuneration report.
The service contracts for executive directors andterms of appointment for non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
Non-executive directors appointments may be terminated with immediate effect.
None of the directors had any interest in any contracts, other than their service contracts, with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during theyear.
Powers of directors The powers of the directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association which may only be amended by resolution passed by the shareholders at a general meeting in accordance with the relevant legislation.
The Articles give powers to the directors to authorise the issue ofshares and for the Company to buy back its shares, subject to authority being given to the directors by the shareholders in general meeting and the relevant legislation.
Resolutions to authorise the directors to exercise these powers are put to shareholders at each AGM.
directors indemnities The Board has provided qualifying third party indemnities to the Companys directors and agreed to provide funds to meet costs incurred defending civil or criminal proceedings in accordance with legislation and the Articles of Association.
The directors are not indemnified against damages awarded to the Company itself, defence costs where the defence is unsuccessful in the case of liabilities owed to the Company, criminal fines, finesby regulators or the legal costs of successful criminal proceedings against the directors.
Defence costs arising from actions brought by third parties, may, subject to certain exclusions, be paid by the Company even if judgement goes against the director.
The indemnities provided to the directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 63 sUBsTanTIal sHaReHolDInGs The Company has received notification under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority of direct and indirect interests in 3% or more of the issued share capital and voting rights in the Company from the following financial institutions at 4 June 2013.
Thenumber of shares and the percentage given are as disclosed at the date of the notification.
Date of notification Number of shares % AXA Investment Managers SA 11 March 2013 16,632,725 10.0 Aberforth Partners LLP 8 April 2013 8,357,620 5.0 SVG Investment Managers Ltd 14 April 2011 7,375,919 4.6 Aviva plc 25 January 2011 6,581,259 4.1 Legal & General Group PLC 1 May 2013 6,013,470 3.6 Norges Bank 9 May 2013 5,018,038 3.0 1 North Atlantic Value LLP 20 January 2011 4,865,830 4.9 1 BT Pension Scheme Trustees Limited 10 January 2011 3,697,671 3.7 1 The date of notification was prior to the date of allotment of shares under the rights issue in January 2011 sIGnIFICanT aGReeMenTs The Company is required to disclose any significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
TheCompanys 200m multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement contains a change of control clause whereby a participating bank may cancel its commitment and require the Company to prepay outstanding loans and interest.
The same terms apply in respect of an undrawn 60m bilateral term loan.
In addition, a holder of the US$216m or 60m seven year or ten year notes issued in the US Private Placement market under the terms of the note purchase agreement has the option to redeem any note at 100% of its principal amount together with interest accrued in the event of a change of control.
The Group has a number of key customers and suppliers of polymer and other essential services and supplies.
The risks and methods employed tomitigate such risks of the termination of a contract or the loss of supply are set out on page 28.
Provisions for change of control in directors service contracts are summarised in the Remuneration report.
There are provisions for the vesting of share options and awards in certain circumstances in the event of a change in control under the rules of the Companys employee share-based payment schemes.
qUalIFYInG PensIon sCHeMe InDeMnITY An associated company, RPC Containers Limited, has granted a qualifying pension scheme indemnity in a form permitted by the Companies Act 2006 to the directors of RPC Containers Pension Trustees Limited, which is the Trustee of the RPC Containers Limited Pension Scheme.
The indemnity was in force during the financial year and up to the date of this report.
ReseaRCH anD DeveloPMenT The Groups research and development activities ensure that it stays at the forefront of rigid plastic packaging technology and innovation withregards to design, functionality, aesthetics and specification with particular attention to weight reduction and the incorporation of recycledmaterials.
CReDIToR PaYMenT PolICY The Group endeavours to agree the terms and conditions under which transactions with its suppliers are conducted prior to placing business, therebeing no specific payment code for the packaging industry.
It is the Groups policy to pay to agreed terms where suppliers have fulfilled their obligations under the relevant contract terms.
During the year the Company confirmed its commitment to the UK Prompt Payment Code issued by the Governments Department of Business Innovation and Skills.
The Company had average creditor days outstanding at 31 March 2013 of 54 days 31 March 2012: 30days.
PolITICal anD CHaRITaBle DonaTIons Charitable donations were made by the Group as follows: 2013 2012 UK 6,216 5,816 Mainland europe 19,188 20,892 25,404 26,708 RPC Group Plc 64 Annual report and accounts 2013 direcTOrS repOrT continued The Group supports local educational and charitable causes, and in particular those where employees and their families are involved in the fundraising.
The Groups policy is to make no political donations, and none were made in the year.
eMPloYees The Group continues to recognise the benefit of both effective communication with employees and achieving a common awareness on the part ofemployees of the financial performance and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
Both individual site and Group wide meetings are held at which employees and management are present and at which key aspects of the Groups activities, performance and other matters of interest to employees are reviewed.
employee participation is further encouraged through share ownership and share option schemes which provide employees with a direct stake inthe growth and prosperity of the business.
The Group aims to provide clear and fair terms and conditions of employment and remuneration wherever it operates.
The Board does not tolerate any sexual, physical or mental harassment of its employees.
It promotes equal opportunities for all present and potential employees and does not discriminate on grounds of colour, ethnic origin, age, gender, race, religion, political or other opinion, disability or sexual orientation.
The Groups policy is to recruit disabled workers for those vacancies they are able to fill.
When existing employees suffer disablement, every effort ismade to retain them in the workforce wherever reasonable and practicable.
Disabled staff have the same opportunities as other employees so far as training, career development and promotion are concerned.
Further information on ethics, communication, training and development in respect of the Groups employees is included in the Corporate Responsibility report.
CoRPoRaTe GoveRnanCe sTaTeMenT The corporate governance statement on compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, and information on how the Company hasapplied the Main Principles of the Code in accordance with the Listing Rules and section 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and other corporate governance matters, can be found in the Corporate Governance report on pages 40 to 48 which is to be treated as part of this report.
CoRPoRaTe ResPonsIBIlITY Information concerning health and safety, environmental matters, business ethics, employees, customers, suppliers and the community is contained in the Corporate Responsibility report on pages 30 to 37, which is to be treated as part of this report.
DIReCToRs sTaTeMenT on DIsClosURe oF InFoRMaTIon To aUDIToRs The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make him herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
GoInG ConCeRn The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Operating review on pages 14 to 23 and the principal risks on pages 28 and 29.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on pages 24 to 26.
In addition, note 21 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk objectives, details of its financial instruments andhedging activities, and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-standing commercial arrangements with a number of customers, suppliers and funding providers across different geographical regions and industry sectors.
The Groups forecasts and projections show that it is able to operate within the level of its current banking and private placement facilities.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and financial statements.
InTeRnaTIonal FInanCIal RePoRTInG Both the Company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance withInternational Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the eU.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 65 FInanCIal RePoRTInG The Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report are intended to provide a balanced and clear assessment of the Groups past performance, present position and future prospects.
A statement by the directors on their responsibility for preparing the financial statements is given on page 66 and a statement by the auditors on their responsibilities is given on page 67. annUal GeneRal MeeTInG The Notice of the Companys AGM to be held on 10 July 2013 and related explanatory notes are included after the financial statements.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the directors are submitting themselves for election or re-election.
Further information is given under the Directors heading in this report.
Information concerning the appointment of the Companys auditors is given in the section headed Auditors below.
Under the special business of the AGM, shareholders will be asked to approve new RPC Group 2013 Approved and Unapproved executive Share Option Schemes and RPC Group 2013 Approved and International Sharesave Schemes to replace the existing employee share option schemes which were approved and adopted by shareholders in 2003 and are due to expire.
Summaries of these schemes are given in Appendix 2 and 3 of the explanatory notes to the Notice of AGM.
The Board is recommending proposals to renew the directors authority to allot shares up to one third of issued share capital and for authority toallot an additional one third of issued share capital in connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of rights issue to existing shareholders.
TheBoard is also recommending resolutions to renew the directors power to disapply pre-emption rights and the authority for the Company to purchase its own shares.
The current authority, approved by shareholders at the 2012 AGM, permits the Company to purchase 16.5m of its own shares 10% ofthe issued share capital.
No shares have been purchased or contracts made to purchase shares by the Company during the year orsince 31March 2013 up to the date of this report.
The Board is proposing a special resolution to continue to enable the directors to call a general meeting that is not an annual general meeting on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Further information on these resolutions is given in the explanatory notes to the Notice of AGM.
aUDIToRs Due to an internal reorganisation, the Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has decided to wind down its audit business and transfer it to KPMG LLP.
As a consequence, KPMG Audit Plc has notified the Company that it is not seeking reappointment at the forthcoming AGM and KPMG LLP has agreed to be appointed in its place.
The statement of circumstances required under section 519 of the Companies Act 2006 is reproduced in Appendix 1 of the Notice of AGM after the financial statements.
In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006 and the recommendation of the Audit Committee, a resolution is to be proposed at the AGM for the appointment of KPMG LLP as auditors of the Company.
By order of the Board R K Joyce Company Secretary 05 June 2013
