RPC Group Plc 02 Annual report and accounts 2013 Bringing pAckAging TO life The diversity of plastic packaging solutions means that you will find our products in many locations.
Design flexibility, convenience and ease of use are many of plastics benefits Kitchen which makes it an ideal RPCs expertise in food packaging is well established, combining packaging solution design skills and a wide choice of materials and technologies to create the ideal packaging solution, tailored to precise requirements for todays modern and delivering effective protection, maximum convenience and premium branding.
We are market leaders in barrier packaging solutions to give products extended ambient shelf-life.
DIY Garden In the DIY sector, RPCs design and manufacture capabilities in paint How does your garden grow?
Beautifully, thanks to RPCs practical packaging and DIY containers are unmatched.
Our containers are and stylish packaging solutions that ensure products are practical, safe and easy to use, while our design skills and appropriately packed, promoted and dispensed.
decoration options help to maximise on-shelf appeal.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 03 Bathroom Foodservice RPC combines design and technical skills to devise packs that are Quality, convenience and style are the essential elements for asgood as they look, the perfect fusion of function and aesthetics packaging in markets that also demand totally hygienic and safe tohelp consumers feel good.
products to meet many government and industrial regulations.
Market knowledge and technical expertise characterise RPCs Our packs provide attractiveness to maximise brand image and leadership in the foodservice sector, with a wide choice of on-shelf impact along with functionality and user-friendliness to packaging solutions and disposable products that satisfy the ensure that their appeal is never diminished.
manydifferent needs of the busy catering environment.
Healthcare Workshop In the personal care and pharmaceutical markets, RPCs renowned RPC produces sturdy, durable, practical and user-friendly packaging, design skills and specialist manufacturing techniques create packs vital for consumers with a job to do, with design and decoration that combine convenience and ease of use with essential safety options which create the required brand image and on-shelf appeal.
features for both standard containers and bespoke designs to We offer a huge range of standard containers and create bespoke ensure complete consumer confidence.
packs to meet customers precise brand and marketing requirements.
