Our strategy for growth consists of the following elements: n as global growth picks up we see Energy, Energy Infrastructure and Urban Infrastructure as being strongly positioned: n in Energy we want to continue to strengthen our skill base internationally: n in North America we want to add to our existing portfolio of services, particularly broadening into Built and Natural Environment as well as building on our energy market presence to capture more of the global energy infrastructure market: n in Europe we see signs of recovery and emerging opportunity: n in AAP after the resources boom the Australian economy is re balancing and will remain our gateway to Asia Pacific.
The Key Performance Indicators the Group employs are those shown on page 2.
These are monitored monthly and provide the means by which the Board measures the success of its strategy.
Group Structure As indicated above our business is an international consultancy providing independent advice that relates to oil and gas and natural resources as well as to the built and natural environment.
The Groups services in relation to energy infrastructure draw upon expertise from within both of these areas.
Energy This is the advice we provide to our clients upon the exploration and production of oil, gas and other natural resources comprises technical, commercial and project management support and training in the fields of geoscience, engineering, health, safety and environment.
It is provided on a multi-disciplinary and integrated basis anywhere in the world.
We aim to assist clients development of their energy resources across the complete life cycle, combining technical and commercial skills with an extensive knowledge of environmental and safety issues.
The business has regional offices in the UK, USA, Canada, Australia, Norway, Singapore and Malaysia and undertakes projects in many other countries.
With the exception of our Australian and Asia Pacific offices they are managed by a single Board supported by a number of operating Boards.
We report the results of the business managed by this single Board as the Energy segment.
Our Australian and Asian offices are managed on a regional basis by a Board that has responsibility for both our Energy and our Built and Natural Environment offices in this region.
Built and Natural Environment This is the advice we provide to our clients upon the built and natural environment includes planning, urban design and regeneration, environmental assessment and management, transport and infrastructure, architecture and landscape, engineering and surveying.
We also provide services in the areas of environmental science, the management of water resources, health safety and risk management, laboratory testing, asbestos consulting, air quality, noise, property and oceanography.
Our advice is provided on a regional basis from offices in Europe, Australia and North America.
Our regional businesses in Europe and North America are each managed by a single board supported by a number of operating boards.
We present the results of each of these two businesses as separate reporting segments.
As noted above and due to the integrated nature of the environmental and energy infrastructure markets in that area, the Built and Natural Environment business in Australia Asia Pacific is managed with the Energy business under a single Board.
The results of this combined business are presented as single reporting segment covering all of our operations in Australia Asia Pacific AAP.
Energy Infrastructure We provide advice on the development of the infrastructure for generating energy from renewable sources, storing and transporting hydrocarbons and transmitting energy and power.
These components are essential for maintaining energy supply and energy security.
These services combine skills from within our Energy and Built and Natural Environment businesses in order to deliver the required multi-disciplinary solutions.
Further Information A sample of the projects and activities that we undertake is described on our website at www.
Report and Accounts 2013 4 Strategic Review 2013 Results Results PBTA for the full year was 63.0 million 2012: 60.1 million in line with market expectations.
PBT for the full year was 43.6 million 2012: 40.2 million.
Adjusted basic earnings per share were 20.22 pence 2012: 19.48 pence.
At the segment level, as revised in October 2013, we focus on underlying profit.
The contribution from each segment was: Underlying Profit m 2013 2012 Energy 37.1 31.2 Built and Natural Environment: Europe 19.2 18.9 Built and Natural Environment: North America 7.6 6.3 Australia, Asia Pacific 10.0 15.2 Total 73.9 71.6 as defined in note 1 g to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Our Energy activities are conducted on a worldwide basis.
In combination with our Built and Natural Environment BNE business in North America and our Australia, Asia Pacific AAP business, we now have about three quarters of our underlying profit generated outside Europe, providing diversity and robustness.
The effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates on the reported profit growth in 2013 was negligible at Group level.
However, sterling appreciated against the Australian, Canadian and US dollars over the course of the year and PBTA for 2013 converted at the rates of exchange as at 31 December 2013 would have been 2.7m less than actually reported.
A significant proportion of our Built and Natural Environment and AAP activity relates to projects providing the infrastructure necessary to process and deliver energy and power resources.
Consequently, over two thirds of our underlying profit is now earned in the global Energy and associated energy infrastructure markets.
The Board believes this gives RPS a good position in markets which are likely to expand significantly in coming years.
However, as previously reported, in AAP our resources clients dealt with softening demand and rising costs by delaying, scaling back and cancelling a significant number of projects.
This prevented the Group delivering the organic growth anticipated, although our acquisition strategy continued to work well enabling Group profits PBTA to increase by 5%.
These acquisitions were funded entirely with cash using our existing borrowing facilities.
Cash Flow, Funding and Dividend The Group continued its strong conversion of profit into cash.
Adjusted operating cash flow was 72.0 million 2012: 76.0 million.
Our balance sheet remains strong, with no material unfunded pension liabilities.
We have bank facilities of 125 million available until July 2016.
These comprise a 90 million committed facility, with an additional 35 million available as required.
The cost of these facilities remains attractive.
Net bank borrowings at the year end were 32.4 million 2012: 13.5 million, after paying out 15.0 million in dividends 2012: 13.0 million and 46.7 million 2012: 24.2 million in respect of payments for acquisitions including acquired debt.
The Board continues to be confident about the Groups financial strength and is recommending a final dividend of 3.84 pence per share payable on 23 May 2014 to shareholders on the register on 22 April 2014.
If approved, the total dividend for the full year would be 7.36 pence per share, an increase of 15% 2012: 6.40 pence per share.
Our dividend has increased at about this rate for 20 consecutive years.
We remain well positioned to continue funding the Groups growth strategy.
Markets and Trading Energy We provide internationally recognised consultancy services to the energy sector from our main bases in the UK, USA and Canada.
These act as regional centres for projects undertaken in many other countries.
The Energy component of our AAP business with offices in Perth, Singapore and Kuala Lumpur provides an integral part of the service offering to our international oil and gas clients.
The 2013 results show the growth anticipated, with a strong margin being maintained: rpsgroup.
com 5 2013 2012 Fee income m 189.5 164.4 Underlying profit m 37.1 31.2 Margin % 19.6 19.0 as defined in note 1 g to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We benefited from good levels of demand in many areas of the world, although, as previously announced, our level of activity relating to potash extraction reduced significantly in Canada, following disruption of the global market early in the year.
Our independent advice in respect of transactions, asset valuations and reserves reporting continued to be highly valued and our training services continued to be used extensively by clients.
In the final months of the year we noticed clients started to manage expenditure more tightly in some projects.
Nonetheless, the high profile we have in a broad range of markets, combined with our geographical diversity, enabled us to continue to take advantage of the generally favourable conditions.
We made acquisitions during the course of the year which: strengthened our training business, gave us exposure to the buoyant North American pipeline construction market and expanded our technical reservoir engineering and specialist geology capabilities.
Most recently we have made a major investment in Norway, where we see significant long term opportunity.
We are also well positioned to benefit from growth in shale gas exploration and production in the UK as that market develops.
Exploration and production spend by oil and gas companies in 2014 will be substantial.
As clients are likely to continue focusing on cost management, we will need to maintain our high level of efficiency in this business.
We are still confident of remaining on a positive growth trajectory Built and Natural Environment BNE Within this segment we provide a wide range of consultancy services to many aspects of the property and infrastructure development and management sectors.
These include: environmental assessment, the management of water resources, oceanography, health and safety, risk management, town and country planning, building, landscape and urban design, surveying and transport planning.
The energy infrastructure market continues to be of particular importance to the Group.
BNE: Europe This business performed well, with an improved margin, despite continuing economic uncertainty.
2013 2012 Fee income m 149.3 157.2 Underlying profit m 19.2 18.9 Margin % 12.8 12.0 as defined in note 1 g to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Our UK commercial development clients, particularly in the house building sector, developed increasing confidence through the year.
Our strategic position in the energy infrastructure market enabled us to continue to win work at rates which reflect our market leading position.
Shifting policy signals in the UK energy market do, however, inevitably delay investment.
Our laboratories in the Netherlands continued to trade strongly following the investment made in 2012.
As previously reported, the excellent performance of our UK water business in 2012, based upon a number of exceptional contracts, could not be repeated.
Our health, safety and risk management businesses are well positioned and continued to perform encouragingly.
Despite continuing fee rate pressure in most businesses in this segment, the improved efficiencies resulting from actions taken previously, sustained a higher level of margin.
Conditions in some of our European markets seem likely to continue to improve.
As a result, organic growth looks possible in this segment.
We also believe market conditions are sufficiently stable to consider acquisitions again.
BNE: North America This business is primarily focussed on the energy infrastructure market and project studies for US government agencies.
It has not, therefore, suffered the market uncertainties seen in Europe and AAP in the property and mining sectors.
2013 2012 Fee income m 30.0 26.9 Underlying profit m 7.6 6.3 Margin % 25.3 23.2 as defined in note 1 g to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Report and Accounts 2013 6 Strategic Review It had an excellent year, with all of its growth being organic.
Both the environmental management businesses in Texas and the oceanographic businesses in Texas, Rhode Island and Washington State performed well.
The exceptional margin in recent years has resulted from a particularly strong performance by our oceanographic businesses.
We continue to position this business to take advantage of the significant market opportunity which is emerging.
Australia Asia Pacific This business is a combination of the former BNE: AAP and the AAP component of Energy.
They have been brought together to take advantage of the opportunities in the integrated energy and energy infrastructure market and, specifically, help counter the impact of the slow down in the resources sector on our business.
Although the benefits of this have begun to develop, the results for the year nevertheless showed the expected substantial decline in profit.
2013 2012 Fee income m 127.2 133.9 Underlying profit m 10.0 15.2 Margin % 7.9 11.3 as defined in note 1 g to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Year on year fee income decline was moderated by contributions from the acquisitions completed in the second half of 2012 and 2013.
The oceanography business acquired in the second half of 2013 has integrated well.
However, the underlying segment profit declined substantially, reflecting the exceptionally poor conditions in the resources market throughout the year and the weakening of the Australian dollar.
Reorganisation costs also increased from 0.9 million to 1.2 million, as a result of removing significant costs from the business, in order to maintain operational efficiency.
2013 saw a significant number of natural resources projects, particularly mining and offshore gas, delayed by our clients, as they reduced their level of capital expenditure materially.
In other sectors of the economy, following the change of the Australian Federal Government in September, some private sector clients, particularly in New South Wales and Victoria, started to consider investments to take advantage of the weaker Australian dollar and lower interest rates.
We also secured a significant inflow of work from public bodies in New South Wales and Victoria to assist them to plan major new infrastructure projects.
As a result of both these trends, our businesses in Sydney and Melbourne performed well.
In order to reflect this emerging trend we recently completed the acquisition of Whelans Corporation Pty Ltd, a development consultancy providing surveying, engineering and urban planning services in the Sydney market.
The maximum total consideration, all payable in cash, is A$3.8 million 2.1 million.
A$2.6 million 1.4 million was paid at completion with the balance payable in two equal instalments over the next two years.
Further details of the transaction are given in Note 32 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The ingredients seem to be gradually coming together for a recovery and rebalancing of the Australian economy.
As a result we have begun to benefit from increased client investment in urban development and public sector infrastructure projects.
We are, however, likely to continue to suffer from unpredictable, but generally low levels of capital expenditure in the resources sector for some time.
A weak Australian dollar is also likely to continue to impact our results on consolidation.
However, the cost reductions we have made should help us improve our performance ahead of market recovery.
Group Strategy and Prospects RPS remains well positioned in markets of importance to the global economy.
Our focus on Energy and energy infrastructure markets underpins the Groups excellent long term prospects.
We remain of the view that our strategy of building multi-disciplinary businesses in each of the regions in which we operate continues to be both attractive and achievable.
We will, therefore, continue to invest to develop our businesses organically, whilst seeking further acquisition opportunities.
Our balance sheet is strong and supports this strategy, which the Board believes should enable the Group to perform well in 2014. rpsgroup.
