Report of the Directors The Directors present their report together with the audited financial statements of RPS Group Plc and its subsidiary undertakings the Group for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Directors The Directors of the Company as at 31 December 2013 were those listed on page 15.
There were no changes in Board membership during the year.
The Directors interests in the share capital of the Company are as shown in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 87.
None of the Directors was materially interested in any significant contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries were party during the year.
Results and dividend The Consolidated Income Statement is set out on page 31 and shows the profit for the year.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.84p 2012: 3.34p per share.
This together with the interim dividend of 3.52p 2012: 3.06p per share paid on 17 October 2013 gives a total dividend of 7.36p 2012: 6.40p per share for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Strategic Review The Groups Strategic Review can be found on pages 2 to 14 and includes information as to the likely future development of the Group.
Financial key performance indicators can be found on page 2.
The Directors review performance using these non-statutory measures as well as segmental and underlying profit, as they consider these to be more meaningful measures of performance.
These performance measures are defined in note 1 g of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Note 3 includes a Group Reconciliation of the adjusted measures to the statutory results.
The Board does not use non-financial key performance indicators to assess the Group as a whole, although parts of the Group do use non-financial key performance indicators from time to time.
The Strategic Review contains certain forward looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of RPS.
These statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that may occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward looking statements.
The Strategic Review includes information as to likely future developments in the business of the Group.
Nothing in the Strategic Review should be construed as a profit forecast.
Consistent with its size and complexity, the Group has a large number of contractual relationships with clients and suppliers.
In the Directors view, however, there is no single contract or client relationship, which is essential to the Groups business.
The principal operating subsidiary undertakings are listed in note 5 to the Parent Company Financial Statements.
Corporate Governance The Directors report on corporate governance can be found on pages 19 to 24 and incorporates other parts of the Report and Accounts as detailed therein.
Employees The Groups policies in relation to employees are disclosed on pages 10 and 11.
Corporate Responsibility The Groups corporate responsibility statement is included on pages 12 to 14.
This includes the disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions that are required pursuant to part 7 of The Companies Act Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
The Group made no contribution to political organisations during the year.
Substantial shareholdings The Company is aware of the following interests in excess of 3% of the ordinary share capital of the Company as at 26 February 2014 No.
of shares Percentage F & C Asset Management 11,446,819 5.19 Aberforth Partners 11,280,945 5.11 Kames Capital 10,103,822 4.58 Threadneedle Investments 9,466,393 4.29 UBS Global Asset Management 8,248,360 3.74 Montaro Investment Management 7,748,101 3.51 Franklin Templeton Fund Management 7,265,000 3.29 Norges Bank Investment Management 6,911,735 3.13 Legal and General Investment Management 6,829,065 3.09 Report and Accounts 2013 16 Management & Governance Going concern The Groups business activities, a review of the 2013 results together with factors likely to affect its future development and prospects are set out on pages 5 to 7.
Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements sets out the borrowings of the Group and considers liquidity risk, whilst note 30 describes the Groups approach to capital management, and financial risk management in general.
The Group has had good cash flow for a number of years, had a modest amount of net bank debt at the year end and operates well within the financial covenants applying to the main bank facility.
The Groups banking facilities were renewed in 2012 and do not expire until July 2016.
The Group has a diverse range of businesses in a spread of geographies and as a consequence the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
They therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
Group Financial Statements In preparing the group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: n properly select and apply accounting policies: n present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: n provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and n make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Parent Company Financial Statements In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: n select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: n make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: n state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and n prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibilities pursuant to DTR4 We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: n the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: rpsgroup.
com 17 n the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and n the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Financial instruments Details on the use of financial instruments and financial risk are included in note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Post balance sheet events As detailed in the Strategic Review since the end of the year the Group has acquired the entire issued share capital of Whelans Corporation for a maximum cash consideration of A$3.8m.
Additional information The following additional information is provided for shareholders as a result of the implementation of the Takeover Directive into UK Law.
As at 31 December 2013 the Companys issued share capital consisted of 220,631,930 ordinary shares of 3p each.
At a general meeting of the Company every holder of ordinary shares present in person is entitled to vote on a show of hands and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share held.
There are no shares in issue that carry special rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than those that may be imposed by law or regulation from time to time.
The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
The Board can appoint a Director but anyone so appointed must be elected by an ordinary resolution at the next general meeting.
Under the Articles of Association any Director who has held office for more than three years since their last appointment must offer themselves for re-election at the next annual general meeting.
It Is the Companys policy, however, that all Directors should stand for annual re-election.
The Directors have power to manage the Companys business subject to the provision of the Companys Articles of Association, law and applicable regulations.
The Directors have power to issue and buy back shares in the Company pursuant to the terms and limitations of resolutions passed by shareholders at each annual general meeting of the Company.
No such power was exercised during the year under review.
Directors interests in the share capital of the Company are shown in the table on page 87.
Substantial shareholder interests of which the Company is aware are shown on page 16.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on 2 May 2014.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting circulated with this Report and Accounts contains a full explanation of the business to be conducted at that meeting.
This includes a resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys Auditors.
By order of the Board Nicholas Rowe Secretary 27 February 2014 Registered Office: 20 Western Avenue Milton Park Abingdon Oxfordshire OX14 4SH Registered in England No.
