Management & Governance The Board Brook Land Dr Phil Williams John Bennett Non-Executive Chairman Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Aged 64.
Brook Land was formerly a Aged 61.
Phil Williams joined the Aged 66.
John was appointed to the senior partner of and is now a consultant Group in 2003 through the acquisition Board in 2006.
He is a Chartered to Nabarro.
He is a director of a number of Hydrosearch Associates Limited Accountant with 30 years experience of private companies.
Until 2008 he was where he held the position of Managing in the house building industry.
He was Senior Independent Director of Signet Director.
Phil had joined Hydrosearch Finance Director of Westbury plc, until Group plc.
He was appointed to the in 1981 and was appointed Managing it was acquired early in 2006.
He has Board in 1997 and is also Chairman of Director in 1983.
Over the next 20 years wide experience of financial management, the Nomination Committee.
he led Hydrosearch as the company capital and debt raising, acquisitions and developed into one of the worlds largest investor relations and he played a leading energy sector consulting groups.
Phil was role in the strategic development of Dr Alan Hearne appointed to the Board in 2005.
Westbury into a top ten volume house Chief Executive builder in the UK.
John is serving a third three-year term.
He is Chairman of the Aged 61.
Alan Hearne holds a degree Robert Miller-Bakewell Audit Committee and a member of the in economics and a doctorate in Independent Non-Executive Director Remuneration Committee.
Following a period of academic research into Aged 61.
Robert joined the Board in environmental planning he joined RPS in 2010 and is serving a second three-year Louise Charlton 1978, becoming a Director in 1979 and term.
Robert was a Senior Director of Independent Non-Executive Director Chief Executive in 1981.
Alan was the plc Investment Research at Merrill Lynch from Entrepreneur of the Year in 2001, was 1998 to 2008 and prior to this worked Aged 53.
Louise was appointed to the made a Companion of the Institute of as an investment analyst with NatWest Board in 2008.
She is Group Senior Management in 2002.
He also became a Markets and its predecessor companies.
Partner of Brunswick Group LLP, the member of the Board of the Companions Over the previous twenty years his focus international corporate communications in 2007, a fellow of Aston Business School was on analysing and advising water, group of which she was a co-founder.
in 2006 and an honorary Doctor of the waste, transport and environmental Louise is also a Director and Trustee of University of Kent in 2011. infrastructure companies both in the UK the Natural History Museum.
She is serving and internationally.
He has also served as a second three-year term and has agreed a member of OFWATs Future Regulation to serve for a third.
She is a member Gary Young Panel.
Robert is a member of the Audit of the Remuneration and Nomination Finance Director and Nomination Committees as well as Committees.
Gary Young graduated from Southampton University in 1982 and Tracey Graham qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1986 Independent Non-Executive Director with Price Waterhouse.
Before joining RPS he held a number of finance director roles Aged 48.
Tracey Graham joined the including positions within Rutland Trust plc Board in 2011 having been Chief and AT&T Capital.
He joined RPS in 2000 Executive of Talaris Limited, an and was appointed to the Board later international cash management business, that year.
Tracey led the management buy-out of Talaris from fide La Rue Plc, backed by private equity house Carlyle in 2008.
Tracey is also an independent NonExecutive Director of Dialight Plc and the Royal London Group.
She chairs the Remuneration Committee and is a member of the Audit Committee.
