Strategic Review Strategy and Business Model RPS is an international consultancy providing independent advice upon: n the exploration and production of oil and gas and other natural resources, and n the development and management of the built and natural environment n the development of infrastructure to ensure the supply of energy resources to market We provide a wide range of services for our clients and accordingly operate in a large number of markets both functionally and internationally.
The long term drivers of our business are: n the worlds need to secure adequate supplies of energy and other natural resources n the commercial advantage resulting from the sustainable development of land and buildings n the need to provide adequate infrastructure such as airports, power stations, public transport, water treatment plants and to deliver energy to market n the need to ensure regulatory compliance and to manage environmental, health and safety risks, including climate change The markets in which we operate develop rapidly and so our strategy needs to be sufficiently flexible to ensure that we can respond quickly to changing conditions.
Our strategy is to operate in those markets that have sound long term prospects and where we can potentially achieve leading market positions.
Our key objectives are to: n focus on delivering value added services which generate high margins: n extend our range of services and geographical cover by bringing high quality specialist companies into the Group and then support them to achieve further growth, and n convert profit into cash and manage our balance sheet effectively.
Each year the Board sets a series of priorities consistent with these objectives as well as prevailing conditions and reviews progress against those priorities on a regular basis.
Within that context we seek to improve continuously the range and quality of the services we offer our clients and where we best can add value to their activities.
We are aiming to build a multi-disciplinary business in North America similar to those we have in Europe and Australia as well as building a presence in the developing world through oil and gas exploration as well as production projects.
The development of our business in this way is also important in attracting and retaining high quality employees.
This is achieved by providing opportunities for professional growth and advancement as well as by providing competitive remuneration and benefits packages, and striving to maintain an open, creative and positive culture.
Client retention and the maintenance of longstanding relationships with our clients are at the heart of our success.
We achieve this by seeking to deliver focussed and cost-effective advice on both well understood problems and emerging challenges.
We also maintain an international reputation for meeting the challenges posed by large complex projects and conducting business in an open and responsible manner.
The scale, increasing diversity and geographical spread of our businesses requires us to monitor continuously and seek to improve the operational efficiency of our businesses.
This entails consideration of management organisation, controls, processes, systems and support services.
We plan to grow organically and through acquisitions that broaden and deepen the services that we can offer our clients.
Acquisitions have played an important part in our growth in the past and will continue to be a key part of our strategy.
We acquire businesses that are well managed, deliver sound results and have good reputations in their markets.
They may be in sectors where we are already operating or offer services that are closely related to our own.
We already have well established and strong businesses in a number of countries, which provide a platform for organic and acquisitive growth there.
During 2013 we successfully completed acquisitions in Australia, Canada, USA, Norway and the United Kingdom.
We are seeking to acquire further high quality businesses in North America, Australia and Europe and the Board will consider larger acquisitions as well as acquisitions in countries in which we do not currently operate that are consistent with our overall strategy and provide our international clients with greater local support.
