Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting In February 2013, we announced that China Share capital their report to shareholders, together with Resources Snow Breweries Limited, our joint During the year, our issued ordinary share theaudited annual financial statements for venture with China Resources Enterprise, capital increased from 1,664,323,483 shares the year ended 31 March 2013.
Limited, had entered into an agreement of 10 US cents each to 1,669,731,799 shares withKingway Brewery Holdings Limited to of 10 US cents each, as a result of the issue Principal activities and business review acquire its brewery business, for a total of 5,408,316 ordinary shares to satisfy the SABMiller plc is a holding company which cashconsideration of RMB5.38 billion exercise of options granted under our has brewing and beverage interests across c. US$864 million.
The transaction was shareincentive plans, details of which are six continents.
Our principal subsidiaries, approved by Kingway shareholders in May shown in note 25 to the consolidated associates and joint ventures are listed 2013, and completion remains subject to nancialstatements.
innote 34 to the consolidated financial requisite regulatory approvals.
Our principal activities are During the year we transferred 4,600,000 themanufacture, distribution and sale In March 2013, SABSA Holdings Limited ordinary shares from treasury to the ofbeverages.
SABSA, a wholly owned South African SABMiller pc Employees Bene t Trust EBT, subsidiary of SABMiller plc, issued ZAR1,000 to be used to satisfy awards outstanding We are required by the Companies Act 2006 million, 7.125% Notes due March 2018.
The under our share incentive plans.
At 31 March to produce a fair review of our business, Notes were issued under its ZAR6,000 2013 we held a total of 67,468,338 ordinary including a description of the principal risks million Domestic Medium Term Note shares in treasury.
and uncertainties we face, our development Programme established in December 2012 and performance during the year, and our and guaranteed by SABMiller plc.
The During the year 1,329,857 ordinary shares position at the end of the year.
These are proceeds were used by SABSA to repay were purchased by the trustee on behalf of allcovered in the business review on pages existing indebtedness.
the EBT at an average price of 25.08 per 2to 43 of this annual report.
Other key share which amounted to 0.080% of the performance indicators and information Also in March we exercised an option to issued ordinary shares of the company, in relating to environmental matters, employee extend the maturity date on our US$2,500 order to ensure that the EBT continued to matters and social and community issues million committed syndicated revolving credit hold suf cient ordinary shares to meet required by the business review are set out facility by one year to April 2018. potential future obligations in respect of inour sustainable development review and performance shares conditionally awarded people section on pages 44 to 49 of this Directors under the Performance Share Award Plans.
The names and biographical details of The total consideration paid amounted to thecurrent directors are set out on pages US$53,291,403.
All the current directors served nancing transactions, investments and throughout the period except for Mr Clark, In addition, we have had 50,000 deferred material developments during the year who was appointed to the board on 26 July shares of 1 each in issue since our In September 2012 the group completed 2012.
Messrs Kahn and Pieterse served as incorporation in 1998.
None were issued thedisposal of Fosters Group Pty Limiteds directors until their retirement on 26 July during the year.
Fosters interests in its Fijian beverage 2012.
As detailed in our corporate operations, Fosters Group Paci c Limited, governance report, it is intended that Mr Purchase of own shares and the disposal of Fosters soft drinks Elliott will join the board as an independent At the last annual general meeting, assets.
These interests and assets were non-executive director on 1 July 2013 and shareholder authority was obtained for us to originally acquired as part of our December that Mr Ramaphosa will retire from the board purchase our own shares up to a maximum 2011 acquisition of Fosters and were sold at the conclusion of the 2013 annual general of 10% of the number of ordinary shares in toCoca-Cola Amatil Limited.
Details of the interests in shares issue as at 8 June 2012.
This authority is andoptions of the directors who held of ce dueto expire at the earlier of the next annual In December 2012, SABMiller Holdings Inc, during the year and any persons connected general meeting or 26 October 2013, and awholly owned subsidiary of SABMiller plc, to them are set out in the directors remains exercisable provided that certain issued 1,000 million, 1.875% Notes due remuneration report on pages 66 to 85. conditions relating to the purchase are January 2020.
These notes were issued met.
The notice of annual general meeting under its US$3,000 million Guaranteed Euro Corporate governance proposes that shareholders approve a Medium Term Note Programme established The directors approach to corporate resolution updating and renewing the in October 2012 and guaranteed by governance, and statements of our authority allowing us to purchase our SABMiller plc.
The proceeds were used by application of the UK Corporate Governance ownshares.
SABMiller Holdings Inc to repay in part its Code are set out in the corporate governance bank borrowings incurred to finance the report, which forms part of this directors We did not repurchase any shares during the acquisition of Fosters.
report, on pages 57 to 65 and in the directors year for the purpose of cancellation, holding remuneration report on pages 66 to 85. in treasury or for any other purpose.
In January 2013, we announced that our subsidiary in Panama, Cerveceria Nacional, Annual general meeting S. A. had agreed to sell its milk and juice Our 2013 annual general meeting will be held business to La Cooperativa fide Productores at the InterContinental London Park Lane, fide Leche Dos Pinos R. L. for a total cash One Hamilton Place, London W1V 7QY, UK consideration of US$86 million.
Following at11.00am on Thursday 25 July 2013. approval from the Panama competition Copies of the Notice of this meeting may be authority the Authority for Consumer obtained from our website.
Protection and the Defence of Competition the transaction completed in May 2013.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 53 Directors report continued Dividends Donations An interim dividend of 24 US cents per share was paid to shareholders on 14 December 2012, During the year the group contributed in respect of the year ended 31 March 2013.
Details of the final dividend proposed bythe US$ 37.5 million to corporate social board for the year ended 31 March 2013 are set out below: investment programmes, of which US$12,746,988 represented charitable donations.
Of this amount charitable Amount of final dividend proposed 77 US cents per share.
donations amounting to US$219,549 bytheboard: weremade by SABMiller plc and our Total proposed dividend for theyear 101 US cents per share.
UKsubsidiary, Miller Brands UK Limited, ended31 March 2013: bothinthe UK and overseas, comprising donations in respect of community If approved, the final dividend will be payable to shareholders on either section of the register development, health and education, on 16 August 2013 in the following way: theenvironment and other causes.
In March 2013 the board announced, Currency of payment: South African rands to shareholders on the following due consideration, that the group RSA section of the register.
would provide funding to political parties in US dollars to shareholders shown as having the 2014 South African elections.
Donations anaddress in the USA and recorded on the of US$1 million ZAR9 million in total were UKsection of the register unless mandated made in May 2013, distributed across the six otherwise.
largest parties in proportion to their seats in the National Assembly.
The group made Pounds sterling to all other shareholders on contributions of ZAR5 million in the run up the UK section of the register.
tothe 1999, 2004 and 2009 elections and Ex-dividend dates: 12 August 2013 for shares traded on the has not made any other political donations JSELimited, SouthAfrica.
inSouth Africa outside the national election 14 August 2013 for shares traded on the cycle.
This years higher donation value in London Stock Exchange LSE.
South African rand follows a number of years of double-digit in ation in South Africa.
The rate of exchange for conversion from US dollars will be calculated on 24 July 2013 andpublished on the RNS of the LSE and the SENS of the JSE Limited on 25 July 2013.
In Australia, our Carlton & United Breweries Since the introduction on 1 April 2012 of a dividend withholding tax in South Africa CUB business paid membership fees to dividendspaid to shareholders registered on the RSA section of the register will, unless registered political parties and incurred ashareholder quali es for an exemption, be subject to a dividend withholding tax at a rate expenditure in attending public policy events of15%.
The dividend withholding tax is only of direct application to shareholders registered by registered political parties.
The total value onthe RSA section of the register, who should direct any questions about the application of the fees and expenditure incurred was ofthe dividend withholding tax to Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited, US$38,387.
All CUB expenditure related to Tel: 27 11 373-0004. participation and attendance at public policy events.
CUB does not provide stand-alone Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements discloses dividends waived.
cash or in kind donations to any political party.
Donations of this nature in Australia arean accepted part of the socio-political environment.
In Honduras the groups subsidiary, Cervecera Hondurea, donated soft drinks to the value of US$5,954 to participants in the primary elections for the bene t of volunteers assisting during the elections.
It remains our policy not to make donations to political organisations in the European Union.
Other political donations are only made by exception, and where permitted bylocal laws, and must be consistent with building multi-party democracy.
Ethical business conduct The SABMiller Code of Business Conduct and Ethics sets out the high ethical standards with which all SABMiller employees are expected to comply, and forms part of our wider programme of policies and procedures throughout the group for combating bribery and corruption.
We are committed to conducting business in a way that is fair, ethical and within the framework of applicable laws and regulations.
We offer 54 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information independent con dential whistleblower Research and development These indemnities are categorised as hotlines in the countries in which we operate To ensure improved overall operational qualifying third-party indemnity provisions so that our employees can report any breach effectiveness, we place considerable asde ned by Section 234 of the Companies of our Code, including bribery, fraud or emphasis on research and development in Act2006.
They will continue in force for the corruption.
This enables bene t of directors and of cers in respect of us to develop new products, packaging, their periods of of ce.
Employment, environmental and social processes and manufacturing technologies.
policies Continued progress was made in our Substantial shareholdings Our aim is to be the employer of choice in research in the key areas of raw materials, Details of noti cations received by the each country in which our group companies brewing, avour stability, packaging materials company in accordance with the Disclosure operate.
To achieve this, each operating and energy and water saving.
and Transparency Rules as at 3 June 2013 company designs employment policies and of persons with signi cant direct or whichattract, retain and motivate the highest Payment of suppliers indirect holdings known to the company quality of staff.
We are committed to an Our policy is to pay invoices in accordance atthe year end are set out in the ordinary active equal opportunities policy, from with the terms of payment agreed in shareholding analyses on page 182 of this recruitment and selection, through training advance.
At the year end, the amount we annual report.
and development, appraisal and promotion owed to trade creditors was equivalent to to retirement.
Within the constraints of local 48.6 days 2012: 49.4 days of purchases Financial instruments law, it is our policy to ensure that everyone is from suppliers.
Information on our financial risk management treated equally, regardless of gender, colour, objectives and policies and details of our nationality, ethnic origin, race, disability, Overseas branches exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk marital status, sexual orientation, religion or SABMiller plc does not have any branches and cash ow risk are contained in note 22 trade union af liation.
We value the bene ts registered overseas.
of employing people of different races, genders, creeds and backgrounds.
If Going concern and audit Other disclosures required by the employees become disabled, efforts are Page 86 details the directors responsibilities Companies Act and the Disclosure made to allow them to continue in their role, for preparing the consolidated financial andTransparency Rules or a suitable alternative role, through making statements.
As set out in that statement, We do not have any contractual or other reasonable adjustments.
Full consideration thedirectors are satis ed that SABMiller arrangements that individually are essential isgiven to applications for employment from plcis a going concern.
to the business of the company or the group disabled persons, having regard to their as a whole.
 LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in The structure of our share capital, including We are committed to the 10 principles of of ce as auditors and resolutions proposing the rights and obligations attaching to each theUnited Nations Global Compact, which their reappointment and authorising the class of share and the percentage of the sets out universally accepted principles in board to set their remuneration will be share capital that each class of share theareas of human rights, labour, the submitted to the forthcoming annual comprises, is set out in note 25 to the environment and anti-corruption.
There are websitesets out these principles and our no securities of the company that grant the progress towards achieving them.
Directors indemnities holder special control rights.
The company has granted rolling indemnities We are committed to regular communication to the directors, uncapped in amount, in At 31 March 2013 our employees bene t and consultation with our employees and relation to certain losses and liabilities which trusts held 8,339,106 ordinary shares in the weencourage employee involvement in our they may incur in the course of acting as company.
By agreement with the company, performance.
We have global distribution of directors of the company or of one or more of voting rights attached to these shares are not real time news through our global intranet, its subsidiaries and associates.
The company exercised unless shares are bene cially which is available to all of the groups secretary and deputy company secretary owned by a participant and that participant businesses to help inform employees about have also been granted indemnities, on has instructed the underlying shareholder to what is happening in our global operations.
similar terms, covering their roles as vote.
As at 31 March 2013 there were no Further information is provided to employees company secretary and deputy company bene cially held shares in our employees at regional and country level by way of secretary respectively of the company and bene t trusts.
asdirectors or as company secretary of one Certain employees throughout the group are or more of the companys subsidiaries and eligible to participate in the groups share associates.
The board believes that it is in incentive plans.
thebest interests of the group to attract and retain the services of the most able and The sustainable development review on experienced directors and of cers by offering pages 44 to 47 gives an overview of the competitive terms of engagement, including progress against our 10 sustainable the granting of such indemnities.
development priorities and of the impact ofour business on the environment.
More detailed information is provided in our sustainable development report 2013, available on our website.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 55 Directors report continued The directors are responsible for the The company does not have any agreements Pursuant to our code for securities management of the business of the company with any director or of cer that would provide transactions, directors and persons and may exercise all the powers of the compensation for loss of of ce or discharging managerial responsibilities, and company subject to the articles of employment resulting from a takeover.
employees may in certain circumstances, association and relevant statutes.
Powers require approval to deal in the companys ofthe directors relating to the issuing and Our articles of association allow directors, in shares.
buying back of shares are set out in the their absolute discretion, to refuse to register articles of association.
These powers are the transfer of a share in certi cated form Unless the directors otherwise determine, subject to renewal by our shareholders each which is not fully paid or the transfer of a noshareholder is entitled in respect of any year at the annual general meeting.
share in certi cated form on which the share held by them to vote either personally company has a lien.
If that share has been or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to Our articles of association give the board admitted to the Of cial List, the board may exercise any other right conferred by ofdirectors power to appoint directors.
not refuse to register the transfer if this would membership in relation to shareholders Thearticles of association may be amended prevent dealings in our shares from taking meetings if any call or other sum presently by special resolution of the shareholders.
place on an open and proper basis.
The payable by them to the company in respect Directors appointed by the board are board may also refuse to register a transfer of that share remains unpaid.
In addition, required to submit themselves for election by ofa share in certi cated form unless the noshareholder will be entitled to vote if they the shareholders at the next annual general instrument of transfer is lodged, duly have been served with a notice after failing meeting.
Additionally, as disclosed in the stamped if stampable, at the address at toprovide the company with information corporate governance report on pages 57 to which our register is held or at such other concerning interests in those shares required 65, Altria Group, Inc. Altria and BevCo Ltd place as the directors may appoint, and to be provided under Section 793 of the BevCo have power under their respective except in the case of a transfer by a financial Companies Act 2006.
Restrictions on the relationship agreements with the company institution where a certi cate has not been rights of the holders of convertible shares tonominate directors for appointment to issued in respect of the share is and deferred shares are set out in note 25 theboard and certain committees.
These accompanied by the certi cate for the share tothe consolidated financial statements relationship agreements also regulate to which it relates and such other evidence although there are no convertible shares processes applicable in relation to the as the directors may reasonably require to currently in issue.
acquisition or disposal of shares by Altria show the right of the transferor to make the andBevCo.
transfer, is in respect of only one class of Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, share and is in favour of not more than four or in relation to corporate members, by a We have a number of facility agreements transferees jointly.
The deadline for withbanks which contain provisions giving delivering proxy forms is 48 hours before rights to the banks upon a change of control Transfers of shares in uncerti cated form thetime for holding the meeting.
A change of control of the must be made in accordance with, and company would also give The Coca-Cola subject to, the Uncerti cated Securities Company certain rights under its bottling Regulations the Regulations, the facilities agreements with various subsidiaries and requirements of the relevant CREST John Davidson ofthecompany, and in certain limited system and such arrangements as the General Counsel and circumstances may give China Resources boardmay determine in relation to the Group Company Secretary Enterprise, Limited the ability to exercise transfer of certi cated shares subject to For and on behalf of the certain rights under a shareholders theRegulations.
board of SABMiller plc agreement in relation to the companys associate CR Snow.
A change of control Transfers of shares listed on the JSE in 5 June 2013 mayalso give the Molson Coors Brewing uncerti cated form must be made in Company the ability to exercise certain accordance with, and subject to, the rightsunder the MillerCoors operating Securities Services Act 2004, the Rules agreement, and would result in certain andDirectives of the JSE and STRATE Ltd. minority protection rights contained in our Certi cated shares may be transferred prior relationship agreement with the Anadolu to dematerialisation, but share certi cates Group and Anadolu Efes ceasing to apply.
must be dematerialised prior to trading in theSTRATE environment.
