Operations review Asia Paci c I n Asia Paci c lager volumes for the year grewby 6% on an organic basis, with reported volume growth of 16% re ecting the Fosters acquisition and some acquisitions in China.
Ari Mervis Managing Director, SABMiller Asia Paci c In Asia Paci c lager volumes for the year Our strategy to restore the core has resulted Strategic focus areas grew by 6% on an organic basis, with in strong volume resurgence by both Victoria reported volume growth of 16% re ecting Bitter in the second half of the year and Reinvigorate our Carlton & United theFosters acquisition and some acquisitions Crown Lager for the full year, while Carlton Breweries CUB brands and commercial in China, all of which were completed in the Dry continued with solid growth compared functions while delivering cost synergies prior year.
Reported EBITA grew by 166% with the prior year.
Focus on premium and group revenue per hl grew by 40% growthopportunities has seen volumes for Further build market leadership in primarily due to the inclusion of Fosters.
Peroni and Miller Genuine Draft grow on a Chinawhile enhancing pro tability 1 EBITA margin increased by 590 bps on pro forma basis compared with the prior areported basis also due to the bene t year, due to increased marketing campaigns Continue to drive Snow, the largest of the Fosters acquisition.
and from leveraging CUBs extensive beerbrand in China, with additional distribution network.
In addition we have premium variants to increase revenue 1 In Australia lager volumes on a pro forma introduced a number of innovative cider 2 continuing basis delivered an improving variants to continue the strong growth Pursue market liberalisation in India trend, with 3% growth in the fourth quarter withinthis premium margin market segment, andfocus investment on growth and 1 versus the prior year.
This strong performance delivering full year pro forma volume growth pro tability in selected states has been underpinned by agship brand, of 7% compared with the prior year.
Victoria Bitter, returning a second consecutive quarter of sales growth since its relaunch Promotional optimisation strategies inOctober 2012: the first such growth in over implemented post acquisition focused a decade.
The fourth quarter performance ondelivering greater value both for our was further supported by strong growth in customers and ourselves resulting in 1 thecontemporary mainstream and premium pro forma group revenue per hl up 4%.
segments, with brands such as Carlton Dry, Thisresult was underpinned by an increased Great Northern Brewing Co, Peroni and Miller focus on pro table revenue growth, as well all performing strongly.
as strong execution behind our premium portfolio.
The integration programme continues Full year volumes were lower by 5% on a pro to progress well and ahead of expectations, 1 2 forma continuing basis, while total volumes, with half the anticipated annual net operating including discontinued brands, were down pro t synergies already delivered for the 13%.
Weak underlying market growth in the group.
Initiatives driving this bene t include first three quarters of the year underpinned the integration of the Paci c Beverages 1 the majority of the pro forma decline.
business, world class manufacturing and Signi cant business with production operations Selling operations and major export markets Organic, Associates Net constant acquisitions currency Reported Reported and Currency Organic Reported growth growth Financial summary 2012 disposals translation growth 2013 % % Group revenue including shareofassociates US$m 3,510 2,171 106 110 5,685 3 62 1 EBITA US$m 321 524 12 22 855 7 166 EBITA margin % 9.1 15.0 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 58,121 5,960 3,211 67,292 6 16 1 In 2013 before exceptional charges of US$104 million being integration and restructuring costs of US$74 million and impairments of US$30 million 2012: US$70 million being transaction-related costs of US$109 million, integration and restructuring costs of US$26 million, business capability programme costs of US$1 million and a gain on remeasurement of existing interest in joint venture on acquisition of US$66 million.
30 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information procurement programmes and grid and Jiangsu, Guizhou, Shanxi, Inner Mongolia, transaction was approved by shareholders of logistics improvement initiatives.
The integration Guangdong and Heilongjiang, although Kingway on 9 May 2013 but remains subject programme has also increased capability market share was lost in Sichuan, Anhui and to regulatory approval.
across all functions, with deliberate prioritisation Zhejiang provinces.
of revenue and people management, marketing Lager volumes in India grew 20% with and manufacturing via the roll out of SABMillers strong performance across the year and Capability Ways.
All of these factors combined thecycling of trade restrictions in Andhra In Australia lager volumes on 1 enabled solid pro forma domestic EBITA Pradesh to the end of August 2012.
Good 1 2 1 a pro forma continuing basis growth with pro forma EBITA margin growth was achieved in most states in which advancing in excess of 300 bps.
the business operates including the key delivered an improving trend, states of Karnataka, Haryana, Madhya with 3% growth in the fourth The sale of Fosters interests in its Fijian Pradesh, Punjab, Maharashtra and Andhra beverage operations, Fosters Group Paci c quarter versus the prior year.
Pradesh underpinned by strong performance Limited, to Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd CCA from the core mainstream brands and wascompleted on 7 September 2012 and innovation in the premium segment with the Fosters soft drinks assets were also sold continued roll-out of Miller High Life.
Group Group revenue per hl on a reported basis was toCCA on 28 September 2012.
There was revenue per hl increased by 7% on a broadly level with the prior year impacted by nogain or loss on either disposal.
With constant currency basis, re ecting price provincial mix.
The underlying trend continues effectfrom 1 October 2012, our associate increases in certain states and a continued to be positive in most provinces driven by distribution business in Dubai previously focus on higher margin brands, packs and CRSnows strategy of premiumisation of the reported as part of Australia was transferred states.
The strategy of focusing resources on portfolio underpinned by the growth of key to our Europe division.
areas of greater pro tability continues to yield Snow variants, notably Snow Draft and Snow strong results and EBITA increased more Brave the World.
The rising costs of raw In China lager volumes grew 6% on a than 70% when compared with the prior year.
materials, higher labour costs and shifting reported basis 5% on an organic basis.
product mix have increased operating costs Ourassociate, CR Snow, continued to expand substantially but EBITA margin increased driven its national market share although market by cost-control and ef ciency initiatives with growth was affected by heavy and prolonged 1 Pro forma volumes and financial information are based adouble digit increase in EBITA as a result.
rains and cooler temperatures that affected onresults reported under IFRS and SABMiller accounting policies for the period from 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012, certain key provinces particularly during the as if the Fosters and Paci c Beverages transactions had In February 2013 CR Snow entered into an first and third quarters of the financial year.
occurred on 1 April 2011. agreement to acquire the brewery business 2 Pro forma continuing basis adjusts for the impact of Market share increases were delivered in of Kingway Brewery Holdings Limited.
The discontinued licensed brands in all comparative information.
Australias Big Cold Beer is back Reversing a decade of declining sales with two consecutive quarters of growth, CUBs iconic Victoria Bitter has been restored to its original strength and avour, regaining its place as the countrys best cold beer.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 31 Operations review Asia Paci c continued Replenishing groundwater in India At our Rochees brewery in Rajasthan, we have funded the construction of six dams to help restore groundwater levels.
The subsequent rise in aquifer levels has replenished almost as much water as the brewery extracted last year.
New pride among CUBs brewers Over recent months, CUB in Australia has applied our global brewing standards to all its processes.
The resulting improvements in taste across the portfolio have been validated by feedback from consumers and customers alike.
Our team of delighted brewers claim theyve nally got their beers back.
Snow reinforces its position as the worlds biggest beer brand CR Snow in China has increased its capacity and widened its coverage with the addition of seven new breweries during the year.
The Snow brand continues to grow ahead of the market with a rising share of the fastergrowing premium segments.
Showcasing the best new hops CUBs partnership with Hop Products Australia is devoted to building hop expertise and developing new varieties that areshowcased in the Cascade First Harvest beereachyear.
Brewed in India, for India Designed for the Indian palate, Indus Pride is the first Indian beer tobe brewed with authentic Indian herbs and spices.
Four new variants based on cardamom, coriander, cinnamon and fennel are the result of months of innovation to capture Indias essence.
