Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Key performance indicators Measuring our progress The key performance indicators KPIs outlined below are used to monitor progress against our overall financial goal and our four strategic priorities.
Further detail is contained within the Chief Financial Of cers review and the Sustainable Development review.
Detailed fide nitions and an explanation of the change since last year are on pages 180 and 181.
Financial goal What we measure Why we measure How we have performed 2013 2012 2011 To deliver a higher return to our shareholders Total Shareholder Return in Monitor the value created 140% 89% 73% than our peer group over the longer term.
excess of the median of our forour shareholders over peer group over five-year thelonger term relative to periods 2012 and 2011: alternative investments in three-year periods.
Growth in adjusted earnings Determine the improvement 11% 12% 19% per share.
in underlying earnings per share for our shareholders.
Track cash generated to US$ US$ US$ paydown debt, return to 3,230m 3,048m 2,488m ourshareholders and invest in acquisitions.
Strategic priority What we measure Why we measure How we have performed 2013 2012 2011 Creating a balanced and attractive The proportion of our total Gain an overall picture of the 95% 93% 94% global spread of businesses.
lager volume from markets in relative strength of our market The wide geographic spread of our operations which we have No.
allows us to bene t from growth in volumes and national market share positions.
value in beer markets around the world.
We The proportion of group Assess the balance of our 72% 76% 79% continue to look for opportunities to strengthen EBITA from developing and earnings exposure between our geographic footprint in both developing and emerging economies.
regions of the world economy developed markets through green eld entries, with highest growth potential alliances, mergers and acquisitions.
Developing strong, relevant brand Organic growth in lager Track underlying growth of 3% 3% 2% portfolios that win in the local market.
We seek to develop attractive brand portfolios Group revenue growth Assess the underlying rate 7% 7% 5% that meet consumers needs in each of our organic, constant currency.
ofgrowth in sales value of markets.
This includes expanding our offerings ourbrand portfolios.
to address new consumer segments and Revenue growth in premium Monitor progress in building 10% 14% 7% drinking occasions, strengthening our brands constant currency.
our portfolio of global and mainstream brands, building a differentiated local premium brands.
portfolio of global and local premium brands and channelling the right brands to the right outlets at the right time and price.
Constantly raising the pro tability EBITA growth Track our underlying 9% 8% 12% of local businesses, sustainably.
Our aim is to keep enhancing our operational EBITA margin.
Monitor our underlying 18.6% 17.9% 17.8% performance through top-line growth and operational pro tability.
continuous improvement in costs and Hectolitres of water used at Gauge our progress in 3.7 hl hl 4.0 hl hl 4.2 hl hl productivity.
Its also important that we maintain our breweries per hl of lager reducing the amount of and advance our reputation, protect our licence produced.
to trade and develop our businesses sustainably for the bene t of our stakeholders.
Fossil fuel emissions from Assess progress towards 11.1 kg 12.4 kg 13.8 kg energy use at our breweries reducing fossil fuel emissions CO2e hl CO2e hl CO2e hl per hl of lager produced.
Leveraging our skills and global scale.
Cumulative financial bene ts Track the payback from US$ US$ US$ Our global spread presents increasing from our business capability ourinvestment in the 1,229m 890m 620m opportunities to gain value from the scale programme.
groupbusiness capability andskills of the group, not least by leveraging programme.
our scale and expertise in procurement, standardising our back-of ce functions and integrating our front-of ce systems.
We are alsobene ting from ongoing collaboration and the sharing of skills between our businesses.
