Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Global beer market trends Developing markets continue to grow Trends in 2012 2013 USA where premium imports and craft beers fourbrewers have embarked on regional Developing markets remain the engine of continued to strongly outperform mainstream expansion, both organic and through volume growth for the global beer industry.
Even in the declining UK beer market, acquisition, increasing their collective share of Per capita alcohol consumption continues the premium brand segment has done well the market at the expense of smaller players.
torise as disposable incomes increase and and gained share.
CR Snow remains the clear leader by volume.
consumers trade up from informal alcohol often spirits to professionally brewed beer.
One feature of mature markets is that the Industry consolidation has left many The result is strong volume growth in premium segment tends to fragment over companies with fragmented IT and backAfrica, Asia and Latin America.
In contrast, time as consumers seek a broader repertoire of ce systems, presenting opportunities to consumption in Western Europe continues of brands hence the growing popularity of improve global ef ciency without losing local toslide.
local premium, imported and local craft beers.
Three of the four major global brewers SABMiller, Heineken and Carlsberg There has been an increasing realisation that Industry consolidation has continued apace.
are currently carrying out programmes to not all developing markets are equally ABInBev announced the intended acquisition restructure and cut costs.
Industry structures vary widely from of the Mexican brewer, Grupo Modelo.
country to country, with African and Latin Heineken completed the acquisition of New developments American markets being in general much AsiaPaci c Breweries and Molson Coors With unemployment falling among key more concentrated, putting them in the global acquired StarBev in Central and Eastern sections of the population, the US beer sweet spot of combining strong long-term Europe.
CRSnow SABMillers joint venture market appeared to turn the corner with 1 volume growth and high EBIT margins.
with CRE announced the intended 1.1% volume growth, making 2012 the acquisition of Kingway Brewery in China.
As well as trading up into beer, consumers At the same time global commodity are trading up within the beer category.
The debate continues about the long-term pressures started to ease.
Although grain Localpremium brands increased their share pro t prospects for China, the worlds markets remain volatile with extreme in developing markets with international biggest beer market by far in volume terms.
weather affecting the price of wheat and premium brands often growing just as Growth remains strong, as does the potential corn, barley markets improved after better strongly, albeit from a lower base.
This trend for future growth.
That said, unit pricing and harvests in Western Europe.
In addition, is also clear in mature markets such as the margins are still extremely low.
All the big the spot price of aluminium fell sharply.
Outlook The beer category remains a very attractive 1 Regional beer volume growth vs. EBIT margin long-term investment opportunity.
European large cap brewers outperformed the stock market, as measured by the MSCI Europe index, by 24% in 2012, following an C&S average 11% outperformance every year for America the last 10 years.
North America Africa Prospects for future growth remain strong with volume growth primarily driven by developing markets.
In developed markets the focus will be on premium brands, new variants and pricing.
Together with increasing Western C&E Europe Europe Asia economies of scale and ef ciency savings, Pacic these trends should ensure steady margin expansion and strong cash ow.
0% 3% Regional Volume CAGR 2001-11 Source: Company data, Plato, Bernstein Research.
1 Normalised EBIT margin is fide ned as EBIT adjusted for exceptional items.
Note: European large cap brewers include AB InBev, Carlsberg, Heineken and SABMiller.
Scottish & Newcastle is included for the period 2001-2007.
2 The MSCI Europe Index is a free oat-adjusted market capitalisation weighted index, designed to measure the equity market performance of 16 developed markets in Europe.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 5 5% 20% % Normalised EBIT Margin
