Operations review North America M illerCoors EBITA increased by 1% as the impact of lower volumes, increased costs of goods sold and higher marketing spend was more than offset by strong revenue management and favourable sales mix.
Tom Long Chief Executive Of cer, MillerCoors The North America segment includes multicultural outreach, while Miller Lite has Strategic focus areas thegroups 58% share of MillerCoors and continued to invest in the Its Miller Time 100% of Miller Brewing International and the campaign.
The Tenth and Blake division saw Win in premium lights with Coors Light, groups North American holding companies.
double digit volume growth driven by Blue Miller Lite and Miller 64 Total North America reported EBITA was 2% Moon and Leinenkugels and their seasonal higher than the prior year, driven by rm variants, with Leinenkugels Summer Shandy Expand MillerCoors position in abovepricing and favourable mix.
The economy premium with big new innovations segment declined by mid-single-digits as MillerCoors consumers continued to trade up to other Create value through strong revenue For the year ended 31 March 2013, categories.
The premium regular segment andcategory management in partnership MillerCoors US domestic sales to retailers was also down by mid single digits, with a with chain and independent customers STRs declined by 2% on a trading day double-digit decline in Miller Genuine Draft adjusted basis amid weaker industry partly offset by mid single digit growth in Support and develop the three-tier performance.
Domestic sales to wholesalers Coors Banquet.
Other brands in the distribution system to drive effectiveness STWs were down by 2% on an organic above-premium segment grew by low single and value basis.
EBITA increased by 1% as the impact digits following the national launch of Redds of lower volumes, increased costs of goods Apple Ale and Third Shift Amber Lager.
sold and higher marketing spend was more than offset by strong revenue management and favourable sales mix.
MillerCoors revenue per Premium light volumes were down by low hectolitre grew by 3% due to single digits, as the continued growth in strong pricing and favourable Coors Light was offset by a mid single digit brand mix.
Coors Light has bene ted from the brands Refreshment as cold as the Rockies campaign and focus on Signi cant business with production operations Selling operations and major export markets Organic, Net constant acquisitions currency Reported Reported and Currency Organic Reported growth growth Financial summary 2012 disposals translation growth 2013 % % Group revenue including shareof associates US$m 5,250 9 96 5,355 22 1 EBITA US$m 756 4 19 771 32 EBITA margin % 14.4 14.4 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager excluding contract brewing 41,346 32 793 40,585 2 2 MillerCoors volumes Lager excluding contract brewing 39,848 32 612 39,268 2 1 Sales to retailers STRs 39,760 n a n a 38,818 n a 2 Contract brewing 4,549 n a n a 4,760 n a 5 In 2013 before exceptional charges of US$nil 2012: US$35 million being the groups share of MillerCoors impairment of the Sparks brand.
24 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information MillerCoors revenue per hectolitre grew Increased media investment behind the by3% due to strong pricing and favourable premium light portfolio, together with higher brand mix, following growth in the Tenth spending on new products and packaging andBlake division and the above-premium innovation, led to an increase in marketing segment, together with a decline in the spend.
Our share of impairment charges economy segment.
Cost of goods sold per relating to the discontinuation of Home Draft hectolitre increased by low single digits, due packaging and of information systems assets to higher brewing material costs and adverse related to MillerCoors Business Transformation pack mix linked to product innovation, partly project was taken during the year.
offset by cost saving initiatives.
Leinenkugels the shandy that became a cult Launched in 2007, Leinenkugels Summer Shandy has become the largest seasonal beer in the USA and gained a cult-like following.
Despite calls for year-round sales, it remains available only from March to August supported in summer 2013 bynational TV advertising.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 25 Operations review North America continued Rapid growth for Coors Light By building on its Rocky mountain cold refreshment positioning, in 2012 Coors Light recorded the greatest growth by volume of any established beer brand in the USA, and became the countrys number two brand.
Encouraging a knowledge and appreciation of ne beer As consumers have become more beer-literate, MillerCoors crafts and imports division has stepped up its beer education programmes.
Over 500 employees, distributors and retailers have completed the companys week-long training course and all employees must prove their skills in beer sales and service.
The master craftsman Keith Villa intended to be a doctor until an internship ignited his passion for brewing.
After training in Belgium, he returned to the USA and crafted one ofthe countrys most popular beers, Blue Moon Belgian White.
He continues to create awardwinning beers for MillerCoors.
Safe rides home Since 1987, the Miller Lite Free Innovation revitalises TM Rides programme has provided Miller Lites can business safe transport home for over The introduction of Miller Lites punch top can three million people after public Nomatter how you punch it, its Miller Time celebrations.
In 2012 our US hascreated intense interest among retailers and jointventure became the first consumers, stimulating social media and reversing corporate sponsor of Chicagos a downward trend in Miller Lites can sales.
New Years Eve Penny Rides programme, taking 130,000 revellers safely home.
26 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Photograph by Don Cudney
