Graham Mackay BSc Eng, BCom 4.
B. hons, CA, ATII Chairman Chief Financial Of cer Graham Mackay joined the South African Jamie Wilson was appointed as Chief Breweries Limited SAB Ltd in 1978 and Financial Of cer in 2011.
He joined has held a number of senior positions in SABMiller in 2005 and has held a the group, including Executive Chairman numberof senior positions in the group, of the beer business in South Africa.
includingSenior Vice President, Market Development and Strategy, Miller Brewing He was appointed Group Managing Company, USA: Managing Director, Director in 1997 and Chief Executive 1.
SABMiller Russia: Managing Director for ofSouth African Breweries plc upon its SABMillers Central European businesses, listing on the London Stock Exchange and Finance Director for SABMiller Europe.
In July 2012 he was appointed Executive Chairman of SABMiller plc.
Before joining SABMiller he held a numberof senior roles in the global He is a director of Philip Morris beverage industry.
International Inc. and a non-executive director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Mark Armour MA, FCA Mr Mackay was diagnosed with a brain tumour in April 2013, leading the board Mark Armour joined the board in 2010.
He toaccelerate the planned promotion of is a non-executive director of the Financial 3.
Alan Clark to Chief Executive with Reporting Council.
He was Chief Financial MrMackay becoming non-executive Of cer of Reed Elsevier Group plc and of Chairman.
Atthedate of this annual its two parent companies, Reed Elsevier reportMrMackay is on medical leave PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, from 1996 to ofabsence while continuingtreatment.
Prior to joining Reed Elsevier in 1995 he was a partner in the London 2.
John Manser CBE, DL, FCA of ce of Price Waterhouse.
From 2002 until 2004, he was the Chairman of The Acting Chairman and Senior Hundred Group of Finance Directors.
He IndependentDirector succeeds Mr Manser as chairman of the 5.
John Manser joined the board in 2001, audit committee on 5 June 2013. was appointed Senior Independent Director in July 2010 and became Deputy 6.
Geoffrey Bible FCA Aust, ACMA Chairman in 2012.
He is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and Geoffrey Bible joined the board in 2002 was, until his retirement in February 2013, asa nominee of Altria Group, Inc. Altria Chairman of Shaftesbury plc.
He has following completion of the Miller Brewing formerly held a number of senior Company transaction.
He served as Chief positions, both in listed companies and Executive Of cer of Altria from 1994 until the financial services industry, including April 2002 and as Chairman of the Altria Chairman of Robert Fleming Holdings and board from January 1995 until August 7.
Chairman of the London Investment 2002, when he retired.
He also served as Banking Association.
He is currently the Chairman of the board of Kraft Foods Inc. Chairman of Trustees for Marlborough from March 2001 until his retirement in 2002.
College and is Deputy Chairman of the College Council.
Dinyar Devitre BA hons, MBA He has assumed the role of acting Dinyar Devitre joined the board in 2007 Chairman while Mr Mackay is on medical asa nominee of Altria.
He is a member of leave of absence.
In light of his additional the board of Altria, a director of Western responsibilities and time commitment as Union Company and a special advisor to acting Chairman, he will stand down as General Atlantic LLC.
He was senior vice chairman of the audit committee and as president and Chief Financial Of cer of amember of the audit and remuneration Altria between 2002 and 2008 and was a committees on 5 June 2013. director of Kraft Foods Inc. between 2002 and 2007.
Alan Clark MA, DLitt et Phil He is a director of Pratham USA, serves Chief Executive as a Trustee of the Brooklyn Academy of Alan Clark was appointed as Chief Music and is a Trustee Emeritus of the Executive in April 2013.
He joined SAB Ltd Asia Society.
in 1990 as Training and Development Manager.
He has since held a number of 8.
Lesley Knox MA senior positions in the group, including Chief Operating Of cer, SABMiller plc: Lesley Knox joined the board in 2011.
Managing Director, SABMiller Europe: Sheis a non-executive director of Marketing Director, SAB Ltd: Managing Centricaplc and is a Trustee of the Director, Amalgamated Beverage Grosvenor Estates and Chairman of Industries Ltd SAB Ltds soft drinks Grosvenor Group Limited.
She originally division and Chairman, Appletiser South quali ed as a solicitor, and then spent Africa Pty Ltd. 15years with Kleinwort Benson before becoming Governor of the British Linen Before joining the group, he received his Bank and a founder director of British Doctorate of Psychology degree from the Linen Advisers.
Most recently, she was University of South Africa.
Chairman of Alliance Trust plc.
She is involved with a number of arts and charitable organisations.
She will succeedMr Morland as chairman of theremuneration committee following the2013 AGM.
Corporate accountability and risk assurance committee CARAC Executive committee Nomination committee Remuneration committee Audit committee 50 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 9.
John Manzoni BEng, MEng, MBA 14.
Alejandro Santo Domingo Dvila BA John Manzoni joined the board in 2004.
Alejandro Santo Domingo joined the Between 2007 and 2012 he was President board in 2005, as a nominee of the Santo and Chief Executive Of cer of Talisman Domingo Group following completion of Energy Inc.
Prior to joining Talisman he the Bavaria transaction.
He is a Managing was Chief Executive of Re ning and Director at Quadrant Capital Advisors, Marketing of BP plc.
He joined BP in 1983 Inc. and serves on the boards of Valorem and was appointed to the BP plc board in S. A. Comunican S. A. and Caracol 2003.
He is a member of the Accenture Television S. A.
He is the treasurer of Aid 9.
for AIDS Charity, a member of the board of trustees of The Metropolitan Museum 10.
Miles Morland ofArt and is also a member of the board of the US-based DKMS Americas Miles Morland joined the board in 1999.
Foundation, WNET Channel Thirteen He is founder and Chairman of two andthe Wildlife Conservation Society.
companies investing in Africa, Blakeney Management and Development Partners 15.
Helen Weir CBE, MA, MBA, FCMA International.
He is also a director of various companies investing in the Helen Weir joined the board in 2011. emerging world.
He will stand down as Sheis Group Finance Director of the 11.
12. chairman and as a member of the JohnLewis Partnership.
Between 2008 remuneration committee following the and 2011 she was Group Executive 2013 AGM.
Director Retail at Lloyds Banking Group plc.
She has formerly held a number of 11.
Dambisa Moyo BSc, MPA, senior positions in both Lloyds TSB plc MBA, Ph.
D and King sher plc and was a nonDambisa Moyo joined the board in 2009. executive director of Royal Mail Holdings She is an international economist who and the City of London Investment Trust.
writes on the macro economy and global She will replace Cyril Ramaphosa as a affairs, and is a non-executive director of member of the nomination committee Barclays PLC and Barrick Gold Corporation.
She is a contributing editor to CNBC, the She is a member of the Said Business business and finance news network.
She School Advisory Council and was has previously worked at Goldman Sachs previously a member of the Accounting and the World Bank in Washington D. C. Standards Board.
Howard Willard BA hons, MBA BA, MPhil Howard Willard joined the board in 2009 Carlos Prez joined the board in 2005 as as a nominee of Altria.
He is Executive a nominee of the Santo Domingo Group Vice President and Chief Financial Of cer following completion of the Bavaria of Altria and also oversees the financial 15.
He is a Managing Director at services business of Philip Morris Capital Quadrant Capital Advisors, Inc. Chairman Corporation and the Strategy and of the Board of Caracol TV S. A. and Business Development organisation.
serves on the board and executive Priorto this he was Executive Vice committee of Valorem S. A.
He is also President, Strategy and Business aDirector of Comunican S. A. Cine Development for Altria and has held Colombia S. A. and the Queen So a various leadership positions at Philip Spanish Institute.
He was previously an Morris USA Inc. Before joining the Altria investment banker at Goldman Sachs & family of companies in 1992 he worked at Co. S. G. Warburg & Co. and Violy, Bain & Company and Salomon Brothers Byorum & Partners.
He currently serves on the Executive 17.
Advisory Council for the Robins School of 13.
Cyril Ramaphosa Bproc LLD hc Business at the University of Richmond.
Cyril Ramaphosa joined the board of 17.
Guy Elliott MA, MBA SABLtd in 1997 and was appointed to Guy Elliott will join the board on 1 July 2013 theboard of South African Breweries plc and become a member of the audit and upon its listing on the London Stock remuneration committees.
He is a senior Exchange in 1999.
He is the founder and executive director of Rio Tinto plc and Chairman of Shanduka Group and holds RioTinto Limited and served as Chief directorships in MTN Group Ltd, The Financial Of cer from 2002 until April Bidvest Group, Standard Bank and 2013.
He has been a non-executive Alexander Forbes.
director of Royal Dutch Shell plc since 2010 and the chairman of its audit He was elected deputy president of committee since May 2011.
He has been theAfrican National Congress ANC on the UK Takeover Panel since 2012. inDecember 2012 and in light of the increasing amount of time which he He was previously a non-executive willneed to devote to his public service director of Cadbury plc from 2007 until its commitments, he will retire from the acquisition by Kraft in 2010, and during boardfollowing the 2013 AGM.
his tenure he served as chairman of the audit committee until April 2009 and as senior independent director from 2008 until 2010.
