Nick Fell BA hons MBA Marketing Director, SABMiller plc Chairman, SABMiller Beverages Nick Fell was appointed Marketing SouthAfrica Director, SABMiller plc in 2006.
Prior to Norman Adami was appointed to the role this, he worked for Cadbury Schweppes of Chairman, SABMiller Beverages South Plc, as President, Global Commercial Africa in January 2013 and has overall Strategy and also as Director of strategic responsibility for SABMillers Marketing, Cadbury Trebor Bassett.
beverage business in South Africa.
Prior Hepreviously worked for Diageo plc to this he was Chairman and Managing for15years in a number of senior roles 1.
Director of The South African Breweries including Global Brands Director, Johnnie Limited SAB Ltd.
He first joined SAB Ltd Walker, and Group Marketing Director, in 1979 and has held a number of senior Guinness Brewing.
These include Regional Director, Operations Director, 7.
Tony van Kralingen BA hons Chairman and Managing Director, Director: Supply Chain & Human SABLtd, President and Chief Executive Resources, SABMiller plc Of cer, Miller Brewing Company and Tony van Kralingen was appointed President and Chief Executive Of cer, Director: Supply Chain & Human SABMiller Americas.
Resources for the SABMiller group in October 2008.
He joined SAB Ltd in 1982 He is an independent non-executive 3.
4. and has held a number of senior positions director of Allied Electronics Corporation in the group.
Director and Marketing Director, SAB Ltd: Chairman & Chief Executive Of cer, 2.
Mark Bowman BCom, MBA Plzensk Prazdroj a. s. and, most recently, Managing Director, SABMiller Africa Chairman and Managing Director: SAB Mark Bowman was appointed Managing Ltd.
In his current role he is accountable Director of SABMiller Africa in 2007. for Group Procurement, Technical and Hejoined SABMillers beer division in R&D and Human Resources.
1993 and has held various senior positions in the group.
Karl Lippert M. Eng Mechanical 5.
Managing Director of SABMillers Polish President, SABMiller Latin America subsidiary Kompania Piwowarska S. A. Karl Lippert was appointed President, Managing Director of Amalgamated SABMiller Latin America in 2011.
He joined Beverage Industries Ltd now the soft the group in 1992 and has extensive drinks division of SAB Ltd and Chairman experience in the global brewing industry.
Prior to his appointment as President of He is an independent non-executive Bavaria S. A. in Colombia in 2006, director of Tiger Brands Limited.
hewasManaging Director of Kompania Piwowarska S. A. in Poland, and 3.
Sue Clark BSc hons, MBA previously held senior positions as Managing Director, SABMiller Europe Managing Director of Dreher in Hungary, 7.
Sue Clark was appointed Managing Sales and Distribution Director for Director, SABMiller Europe in June 2012, SABMiller Europe, and various positions previously having held the position of within SAB Ltd in South Africa.
Corporate Affairs Director, SABMiller plc since 2003.
Catherine May BA hons number of senior roles in UK companies, Corporate Affairs Director, SABMiller plc including Director of Corporate Affairs, Catherine May was appointed Corporate Railtrack Group from 2000 to 2003 and Affairs Director, SABMiller plc in October Director of Corporate Affairs, Scottish 2012.
She joined SABMiller from Centrica Power plc from 1996 to 2000. plc, where she served as Corporate Affairs Director from 2006 until December 9.
She is a Trustee of the Clore Social 2011, having previously been Group Leadership Programme.
Director of Corporate Relations at the The executive committee excom is appointed by the Chief Executive.
global information publishing business It comprises the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Of cer, regional 4.
John Davidson MA, BCL Reed Elsevier Group plc.
managing directors and directors of group functions.
Its purpose is to General Counsel and Group Company support the Chief Executive in carrying out the duties delegated to him Secretary, SABMiller plc She is a non-executive director of the by the board.
In that context, excom executes the strategy and budget John Davidson joined the group as English National Opera and a trustee of approved by the board.
It also ensures that regular financial reports are General Counsel and Group Company the UK National Funding Scheme and the presented to the board, that effective internal controls are in place and Secretary in 2006.
Before joining Foundation for World Capitals of Culture.
functioning, and that there is an effective risk management process in SABMiller, he spent his entire legal career operation throughout the group.
at Lovells, a leading international law rm, 10.
Ari Mervis BCom where he had been a partner since 1991, Managing Director, SABMiller Asia Paci c specialising in international corporate and Chief Executive Of cer, Carlton & finance, cross border mergers and United Breweries acquisitions, and corporate governance Ari Mervis was appointed Managing advisory work.
He was the Chairman Director Asia Paci c and Chief Executive for2010 and 2011 of the GC100 group Of cer of Carlton & United Breweries in the association of general counsel and 2011, having been Managing Director of company secretaries of companies in SABMiller Asia since 2007.
Ltds soft drinks division, Amalgamated Beverages Industries Ltd, in 1989 and 5.
Domenic fide Lorenzo BCom hons, hasheld various senior positions in sales, CA SA marketing, finance and general Director, Corporate Finance and management.
He has been Managing Development, SABMiller plc Director of Swaziland Bottling Company Domenic fide Lorenzo joined SABMillers and Appletiser as well as Managing corporate finance team in 1996 from UAL Director of SABMiller operations in Russia Investment Bank in South Africa.
became Director, Corporate Finance and He is a director of the Melbourne Business Development for Europe and the Americas School, and Chairman of China in 2000 and the Director of the global Resources Snow Breweries.
