Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Operations review South Africa Th e continued focus on market-facing activities and enhanced retail execution helped drive good volume growth.
Norman Adami Chairman, SABMiller Beverages South Africa Beverages Lager volumes grew 2% despite the Strategic focus areas The South Africa: Beverages business worsening consumer environment, and we reported a 3% decline in reported EBITA due continued to gain market share as volumes Create growth by further developing to the weakness of the South African rand bene ted from innovative through-the-line ourbeer and soft drinks portfolio while against the US dollar but delivered strong promotional campaigns.
Castle Lite gained ensuring that the core brands continue constant currency EBITA growth of 10% and additional market share in the premium to resonate with consumers improved EBITA margins.
The continued segment, increasing its share of the total beer focus on market-facing activities and industry to more than 10%.
This was Leverage scale to drive productivity and enhanced retail execution helped drive achieved by continuing to leverage its unique reinvest savings in market-facing activities goodvolume growth, in spite of a deterioration Extra Cold brand positioning.
Castle Lager in consumer con dence towards the latter continued its strong growth following the Engage the competition in all part of the year.
success of the It all comes together with alcoholcategories aCastle campaign which draws on its Group revenue declined by 5% on a reported combination of the nest home-grown Shape a culture of partnership and basis, due to the continued depreciation ingredients.
Carling Black Labels rate of superior beer and soft drinks service ofthe rand, but was up 8% on a constant decline was reversed, supported by the offering in all classes of trade currency basis.
Group revenue per hl grew award-winning marketing campaign Carling by6% on a constant currency basis while Cup.
In addition, Carlings Be the Coach Show leadership in shaping our role netrevenue growth, after excise, was campaign won four Cannes Lions awards, andpurpose in society curtailed by the 10% beer excise increase the first ever South African Breweries has implemented in February 2012.
revenue bene ted from strong growth in thepremium beer portfolio and a moderate Lager sales bene ted from innovation in price increase in February last year.
In the retailexecution as well as continuing soft drinks portfolio, revenue growth was improvements in customer service.
There tempered by well below in ationary price was a strong focus on key trade marketing increases across the portfolio.
and customer loyalty programmes tailored tospeci c key classes of trade.
There was We continued to make signi cant asigni cant increase in the sales force and investments in market-facing operations, the role of the customer interaction centre funded largely by savings in non-marketwas enhanced.
Signi cant business with production operations Selling operations and major export markets Organic, Net constant acquisitions currency Reported Reported and Currency Organic Reported growth growth Financial summary 2012 disposals translation growth 2013 % % Group revenue including shareofassociates US$m 5,815 762 487 5,540 8 5 1 EBITA US$m 1,168 155 116 1,129 10 3 EBITA margin % 20.1 20.4 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 26,859 421 27,280 22 Soft drinks 17,979 389 18,368 22 Other alcoholic beverages 1,565 48 1,613 33 1 In 2013 before exceptional charges of US$22 million being charges incurred in relation to the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment scheme of US$17 million, integration and restructuring costs of US$17 million, net of business capability programme credits of US$12 million 2012: US$41 million being Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment scheme charges of US$29 million and business capability programme costs of US$12 million.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 33 Extra cold proposition Operations review revives Castle Lite South Africa continued Castle Lite has regained momentum and become South Africas largest local premium brand after a campaign to highlight its ExtraCold credentials.
The new positioning has included  labels, specialised fridges and advertising featuring USrappers Vanilla Ice and MC Hammer.
A number of measures were implemented todrive social responsibility during the year, including the development of a detailed waterrisk map for the supply chain which ledto the first-time introduction of sustainable agriculture principles to 500 farmers.
Inaddition, our efforts to promote responsible consumption continued through a new public private partnership established with the National Institute for Crime Prevention and the Reintegration of Offenders Nicro to further our work on tackling drink driving.
Soft drinks volumes grew 2%, cycling a strong performance in the second half of theprior year and despite a more challenging consumer landscape and a double digit price increase on the core returnable glass pack inDecember 2012.
The growth in volumes was driven largely by increased market penetration, improved customer service levels and focused channel execution, with particularly strong growth in two litre PET packs.
Improved market penetration was achieved through the use of market logistics partnerships and reward structures.
Growth in the still drinks portfolio was well above the portfolio average with strong performances from Powerade and Play.
Lager sales bene ted from innovation in retail execution as well as continuing improvements in customer service.
On a reported basis our associate Distell posted a decline in group revenue but on anorganic, constant currency basis group revenue grew in double digits, driven by an increase in sales volumes in both domestic and international markets, the latter bene ting from a weaker rand.
EBITA fell on a reported and organic, constant currency basis, impacted by a one-off excise charge, caused by the reclassi cation of wine aperitifs by the South African Revenue Service.
Both the beer and soft drinks businesses bene ted from planned productivity Supporting female employees initiatives, which included vendor contract We seek to promote diversity in the workplace negotiations, marketing spend effectiveness and create an environment supportive of femaleemployees.
Recent years have seen and optimising spend on freight, as we rapid growth in the numbers of women sought to limit the cost impact of high single employed in our South African business at all digit raw material cost increases and various grades with a 77% increase in female middle market-facing initiatives.
Reported EBITA executives since 2008. declined by 3%, but was up 10% on a constant currency basis due to the revenue growth and productivity improvements, Backing South Africas withreported EBITA margin increasing smallerbrewers by30 bps to 20.4%.
We continue to show our support for the growing craft beer industry in South Africa by sponsoring craft beer festivals and events.
We also help our fellow South African brewers to access raw materials, transfer skills and work on issues such as maintaining the quality of the countrys hops.
34 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Rewarding innovation Promoting cans Our annual Social Innovation Awards were setupinSouth Africa to recognise innovations Our 2012 Summer of Cans programme in thatcouldbene t disadvantaged people.
Last SouthAfrica has helped to shift consumers from years ZAR1 million winner was an affordable traditional bulk packs to the more convenient and andpotentially life-saving malaria diagnosis pro table 440ml cans.
The promotion of 12-packs kitdeveloped by two young South African of cans for outdoor occasions has lifted our sales entrepreneurs, Ashley Uys and Lyndon Munger.
and share of value in the can format.
Every man an expert with Carling Black Label Fronted by football legend Ruud Gullit, our highly successful Be the Coach campaign is based on the insight that every man secretly believes hes a sports expert.
It breaks new ground in digital engagement by allowing consumers to take on the role offootball coach, select their players and be rewarded with aCarling Black Label.
Hotels and Gaming showing good growth despite the dif cult The South African hotel industry continued to SABMiller is a 39.7% shareholder in the economic climate.
show signs of improvement during the year.
Tsogo Sun Group, which is listed on the South African market occupancies averaged Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
Gaming revenues were 8% up on an organic, 61% in the year compared with 57% in the constant currency basis.
The gaming industry prior year.
Group-wide occupancies ended Our share of Tsogo Suns reported revenue in the major provinces of South Africa the year at 65% against prior year was US$466 million, a decrease of 4% from experienced varying levels of growth over the occupancies of 62%.
the prior year with organic, constant currency prior year with the largest province in terms growth of 7%.
The operations of Tsogo Sun of gaming win, Gauteng, reporting 7% growth Reported EBITA for the year declined by 1%, remain highly geared towards the South African and with KwaZulu-Natal growing by 9%.
Three with growth of 11% on an organic, constant consumer in gaming and the corporate and of Tsogo Suns four large casinos in these currency basis.
The underlying growth was government markets in hotels: both sectors provinces outperformed the market growth.
driven by improved gaming and hotel revenues together with cost savings.
Organic, Net constant acquisitions currency Reported Reported and Currency Organic Reported growth growth Financial summary 2012 disposals translation growth 2013 % % Group revenue share of associates US$m 487 8 63 34 466 7 4 1 EBITA US$m 135 2 19 16 134 11 1 EBITA margin % 27.7 28.8 Revenue per available room Revpar US$ 69.39 n a n a n a 66.20 n a 5 1 In 2013 before exceptional charges of US$nil 2012: exceptional gains of US$23 million being the groups share of pro ts on transactions in associates.
