Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Operations review Europe D espite a challenging economic backdrop, volume growth was delivered through successful launches of brand and pack innovations.
Sue Clark Managing Director, SABMiller Europe In Europe lager volumes were up 3%, or 6% brands.
Tyskie gained market share Strategic focus areas on an organic basis.
Organic information supported by the successful 5th stadium includes our share of Anadolu Efes results campaign and the launch of Tyskie Klasyczne Drive revenue and margin growth for March 2013 and excludes trading in while growth of mainstream brand Zubr was through enhanced consumer Russia and Ukraine in the prior year, following driven by effective promotional activities.
perceptions of the beer category, the conclusion of our strategic alliance in Thelaunch of Lech Shandy helped develop progressive development of our brand March 2012.
Despite a challenging economic anew category and boosted the performance portfolio and innovative marketing backdrop, volume growth was delivered of premium brand Lech.
EBITA was level through successful launches of brand and withthe prior year as increases in revenue Continue to drive differentiation pack innovations.
Except for the Czech per hl and volumes were offset by raw amidstructural market challenges Republic, all our markets saw improved material cost increases and higher marketing through innovation in product, domestic volume performance.
Beer market investment to support key campaigns and packaging and dispense systems trends continued with growth of the modern innovation launches.
trade, especially the discounter channel, and Leverage scale, cost advantage declining on-premise channels together with Domestic volumes in the Czech Republic andfocus increased relevance of economy brands and were down 3%.
Reported EBITA was down 6% performance with the continuing consumer impacted by the weakening of European shift from the high-value on-premise channel currencies against the US dollar.
Organic, to the off-premise channel, along with constant currency EBITA was up 1% compared selective price increases in the off-premise with the prior year with a margin decline of channel in October which impacted the 70 bps on the same basis driven by increased thirdquarter.
Consequently our performance raw material costs and negative mix effects.
in the super-premium and mainstream segments was adversely impacted, as Pilsner In Poland lager volumes were up 8% Urquell and Gambrinus respectively are bene ting in the first half from the Euro 2012 heavily skewed to the on-premise channel.
football tournament and the cycling of a weak Premium segment performance was boosted comparative period with performance in the by Kozel 11, with outlet expansion driving second half assisted by brand innovations growth along with the successful launch and buying ahead of price increases at the ofGambrinus Radler.
EBITA declined due end of March 2013.
Selective resetting of tochannel mix and increased input costs price points assisted the growth of our core despite operational cost ef ciencies.
Signi cant business with production operations Selling operations and major export markets Organic, Associates Net constant acquisitions currency Reported Reported and Currency Organic Reported growth growth Financial summary 2012 disposals translation growth 2013 % % Group revenue including shareofassociates US$m 5,482 455 387 217 5,767 55 1 EBITA US$m 836 7 63 4 784 1 6 EBITA margin % 15.3 13.6 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 43,951 730 2,110 45,331 63 Soft drinks 533 6,903 145 7,581 28 1,322 1 In 2013 before exceptional charges of US$64 million being business capability programme costs 2012: net exceptional gains of US$1,135 million being net pro t on disposal of businesses of US$1,181 million, a refund of a previous anti-trust ne of US$42 million and business capability programme costs of US$88 million.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 21 Operations review Europe continued In Romania lager volumes grew by 24% In the Netherlands domestic lager primarily driven by the growth of economy volumeswere up 1% in a highly competitive brand Ciucas in a new PET pack launched environment impacted by low consumer atthe end of the prior financial year.
con dence resulting from economic Mainstream brand Timisoreana performed uncertainty.
In this environment the onahead of prior year bene ting from growth premise channel was negatively impacted inPET and marketing activity associated but growth was delivered in the off-premise withthe national football team sponsorship.
Volume growth and revenue per hl Our premium brand Ursus also grew assisted improvements resulted in increased EBITA by the launch of a new bottle in the second compared with the prior year.
half of the year along with a supporting promotional campaign.
Increased investment in discounts and marketing resulted in EBITA In Romania lager volumes below the prior year.
grewby 24% primarily driven Domestic lager volumes grew 4% in Italy by the growth of economy despite a particularly challenging economic brand Ciucas in a new PET environment and poor consumer sentiment.
Growth was mainly driven by the mainstream pack launched at the end and economy segments with Peroni ofthe prior financial year.
bene ting from the expansion of draught volumes and economy brand Wuhrer performing well in the off-premise channel.
In the Canaries lager volumes grew 2% against Premium brand Nastro Azzurro performed a backdrop of weak consumer sentiment in ahead of the prior year with the subdued achallenging economic environment driven market impacting performance in the by strong performance in the off-premise on-premise channel while off-premise growth channel while the on-premise channel was supported by promotional activities.
Volumes grew 8% Despite negative sales mix and higher input in Slovakia driven by the successful launch costs, volume growth resulted in EBITA growth.
ofSmadny Mnich Radler along with growth of Kozel and Pilsner Urquell.
In Hungary In the United Kingdom the continued volumes were up 5% boosted by strong growth of Peroni Nastro Azzurro through promotional support in the on-premise on-premise expansion resulted in volume channel along with the successful launch growth of 4%.
EBITA grew ahead of the ofHofbrau Radler.
prioryear with revenue per hl growth and volume increases.
1 1 Pro forma volumes are based on volume information On a pro forma basis, our associate Anadolu forthe period from 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012 using Efes grew total volumes by 6% for the year, SABMillers fide nition of volumes for the enlarged Anadolu Efes group as if the strategic alliance had commenced on with an 8% decline in lager more than offset 1 April 2011. by soft drinks growth of 14%..
The innovative Ksiaze ce collection.
Ksiaze ce is a collection of premium speciality beers.
Its three variants lend themselves to different occasions and ways of serving and have proved asuccess with Polish beer consumers looking for new taste experiences.
22 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information A fresh take on Italian style Playing on the theme of Italian style, our Opera di Peroni and Amici programmes for Peroni Nastro Azzurro in the UK have brought al fresco opera to city audiences and aperitivo and dining evenings to urban trend-setters, helping to drive share and reinforce the brands premium positioning.
Dutch business wins Lean and Green award As part of the Dutch governments Lean and Green initiative, our business in the Netherlands undertook to cut itsCO2 emissions by 20% between 2007 and 2012.
With actions that included modifying road transport operations, we achieved almost22%.
reduction in CO2 emissions intheNetherlands Seizing the shandy opportunity By launching Lech Shandy in April 2012, our Polish business beat its main competitor into the shandy segment, enabling it to establish a favourable price point and position in the market.
The product exceeded its annual target within five months.
Internship scheme attracts the best In collaboration with two universities in Pilsen and Prague, our internship programme in the Czech Republic offers talented young people a highquality, mentored development programme within the business.
Miloslava Kovac kov and Lucie vejdov are two of 16 trainees selected from more than 150 candidates in 2012.
Brewery fresh The delivery of tanked, unpasteurised Pilsner Urquell direct from the brewery to the pub in the Czech Republic has raised the image of beer and strengthened links with the trade.
Pilsner Urquell fresh from the tank is now also available in Slovakia.
