Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Operations review Africa I n Africa lager volumes grew 6% despite cycling strong comparative growth of 14% in the prior year.
Mark Bowman Managing Director, SABMiller Africa In Africa lager volumes grew 6% despite Aspart of our affordability strategy, traditional Strategic focus areas cycling strong comparative growth of 14% beer is now available in 10 markets as we inthe prior year.
Double digit volume growth continue to expand our geographic footprint Drive growth in beer and soft drinks was achieved in a number of territories but and is taking share from informal alcohol.
through full brand portfolios, wider this was partially offset by the impact of Chibuku Super, a traditional beer that is price ranges and expansion into asigni cant excise increase in Tanzania bottled in PET and has a longer shelf life, adjacent categories dampening sales and softer trading in isperforming particularly well in Zambia Uganda driven by a weaker economy.
andwas recently launched in Zimbabwe.
Step up investment behind our TheCastle brand family continued to deliver mainstream brands and differentiated robust growth, with the premium offering, Reported EBITA growth of 13% 20% on premium portfolio Castle Lite, growing by 43% for the year.
anorganic, constant currency basis was Wecontinue to invest in the future growth achieved through a combination of volume Increase share of alcohol through ofthe region with the commissioning of two growth, improving group revenue per hl accessible brand and package offerings new facilities at Onitsha in Nigeria and Ndola driven by pricing and positive segment mix in Zambia during the year.
Increased local sourcing of raw Further develop sales and distribution capacity constraints were further alleviated materials, ef ciencies gained through our toenhance our outlet presence and during the year by expansions in Ghana, capacity expansion and synergy bene ts extend our geographic coverage South Sudan and Zimbabwe.
from the combination of our Angolan and Nigerian businesses with Castel underpinned Mitigate high imported input costs Soft drinks volumes on an organic basis EBITA growth.
This was partially offset by through innovation and local supply chains grewstrongly at 9% supported by continued costs associated with our capacity expansion growth in the non-alcoholic malt beverages and increasing market-facing investment, category, most notably in Nigeria and including growing our sales force and Tanzania, and sparkling soft drinks growth increasing marketing spend in markets.
inGhana, Zambia, Zimbabwe and Castel.
Strong EBITA margin expansion of 150 bps, Reported soft drinks volumes declined to 21.7%, was principally driven by synergies asaresult of the prior year management in Angola and Nigeria as well as geographic ownership changes related to the Angolan mix bene ts.
Other alcoholic beverages organic growth of 6% was dampened by In Tanzania, where we were cycling a strong adecline in Botswana due to the zoning comparative, lager volumes declined by 8% legislation enacted during the year which mainly due to the negative impact of the 25% negatively impacted Chibuku volumes.
excise increase and softer consumer Signi cant business with production operations Associates Organic, Net constant acquisitions currency Reported Reported and Currency Organic Reported growth growth Financial summary 2012 disposals translation growth 2013 % % Group revenue including shareofassociates US$m 3,686 210 221 598 3,853 18 5 1 EBITA US$m 743 2 46 143 838 20 13 EBITA margin % 20.2 21.7 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 17,374 35 1,036 18,445 66 Soft drinks 13,475 1,570 1,058 12,963 9 4 Other alcoholic beverages 5,330 75 321 5,726 67 1 In 2013 before net exceptional credits of US$72 million being pro t on disposal of business US$79 million net of US$5million share of associates impairments 2012: net exceptional gains ofUS$185 million being pro t on disposal ofbusiness of US$67 million, pro t on disposal of investment in associate of US$103 million and the groups share of thepro ts on transactions in associates of US$23 million, net of US$8 million business capability programme costs.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 27 Operations review Africa continued spending.
However lager volumes returned Lager volumes in Uganda ended in line with togrowth at the end of the year and the the prior year as a result of softer consumer In Nigeria lager volumes grew fourth quarter was in line with the prior year.
spending following a sustained period of high signi cantly, both as reported Castle Lite outperformed the market with in ation.
In Ghana lager volumes grew by growth of 17% despite the tough trading 15% driven by the continued growth of Club and organically, due to the conditions.
The wines and spirits business lager.
In addition we launched our second additional capacity provided continued to grow driven by new product African cassava-based lager in March 2013. andpack innovations.
Despite challenges in South Sudan, by the commissioning of our particularly in the second half of the year, green eld brewery in Onitsha Lager volumes in Mozambique grew by double digit growth in lager volumes was inAugust 2012.
11%underpinned by our full portfolio offering.
achieved led by the White Bull brand.
In the mainstream segment both 2M and InZimbabwe lager volumes at our associate Manica posted double digit growth while Delta were dampened by excise-related Castle Lite grew at a signi cantly higher rate pricing in November 2012 and a more In Nigeria lager volumes grew signi cantly, in the premium segment in the first full year subdued economic landscape.
Lager volume both as reported and organically, due to since its launch.
Impala, our cassava-based growth of 4% on an organic basis was theadditional capacity provided by the affordable offering, continues to impress as achieved through an increased focus on commissioning of our green eld brewery we begin to expand its reach.
market activations on premium brands, while inOnitsha in August 2012, the successful traditional beer volumes declined marginally.
launch of Hero lager and the continued Capacity constraints that had previously growth of the Trophy lager brand.
1 limited growth in Zambia have now been Our associate Castel delivered pro forma alleviated with the commissioning of the lager volume growth of 6% with good volume Botswana continued to feel the impact of brewhouse at Ndola in November 2012. performances in Cameroon, Ethiopia and anti-alcohol sentiment with the introduction 1 Lager volume growth of 12% was achieved Burkina Faso.
Pro forma soft drinks volumes of zoning legislation and a further increase through improved availability and an grew by 9%.
Total alcoholic beverage improved economic environment.
The volumes declined during the year with premium portfolio bene ted from strong marketshare gains in lager volumes more growth of Castle Lite, while Castle Lager than offset by the decline in traditional beer andMosi performed well in the mainstream volumes as a result of the impact of the segment.
Soft drinks delivered strong volume newzoning regulations.
Traditional beer volumes also posted 1 Pro forma volumes are based on volume information good growth aided by the launch of Chibuku forthe period from 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012 for theCastel business as if the management combinations Super in the first half of the year which has inAngola and Nigeria and the Castel acquisition begun to revolutionise the category.
inMadagascar had occurred on 1 April 2011.
New brewery, new brand To mark the opening of its new brewery in Onitsha, our Nigerian business launched a newmainstream brand in September 2012.
Rooted in Nigerias south east, Hero is now contributing to the strong annual growth rateacross the business.
Ghanas original lager continues to grow Repositioned to appeal to young professionals, Club Premium Lager grew by 32% this year andhas become Ghanas largest selling lager.
28 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Impala bene ts consumers and farmers alike Launched in Mozambique in 2011 and the first commercial beer to be made from cassava, Impala delivered a strong performance by providing an affordable alternative to home brews and creating anew market for local growers.
Developing talent in Africa Under our Africa Nationals programme, 30 managers have been given international experience in African countries outside their home market.
Our aim istodevelop their capabilities through practical involvement as opposed to formal training and toensure a pipeline of high quality candidates forkey positions in the future.
30 Managers on foreign assignments in African markets Safari Lager beats 50entries to become Chibuku Super brings innovation Africas Grand Champion totraditional opaque beer The Africa Beer Awards in Ghana In the first major change to the Chibuku brand since in March 2013 were the first-ever the 1960s, the higher-margin Chibuku Super is awards from the Institute of pasteurised and lightly carbonated and has a much Brewing and Distilling for beers longer shelf-life than the original.
Its now produced brewed in Africa.
We scooped in Zimbabwe as well as Zambia.
12of the 13 awards on offer with Safari Lager from Tanzania taking the Grand Champion Beer award.
