Chief Executives review continued Why customers choose us Sage is a business guided by the diverse needs of a customer base that spans the globe.
Through our products and services, we want to give our customers the confidence to be successful The fundamentals of our business are geared towards providing an extraordinary Support customer experience.
Were delivering this through harnessing new technology, Innovation providing market-leading support, utilising our local expertise, offering exibility through choice and meeting the challenges that really matter to our customers.
Why customers Choice choose us Brand Localised products and services 8 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Support Measuring our success We are in regular contact with our customers over the telephone or online.
We have over 35,000 conversations with them each day on topics ranging from accounting questions and advice on new legislation, to technical aspects of our software.
Delivering an extraordinary We also expand our support services during periods of peak activity, such as during the customer experience is tax ling season or when new legislation comes into effect, to help our customers when they need us most.
Innovation Our customers choose Were bringing our customers the latest technology innovations to help them run their businesses more effectively.
us because we meet Were harnessing the benets of cloud computing, mobile applications and connected services to bring our customers new experiences that offer greater exibility, are more their fundamental needs cost-effective and fundamentally change the way they interact with their core successfully.
It is important accounting system.
that we continue to do this, Choice We understand that each of our customers is unique.
which is why we measure This is why we provide business software that can accommodate a range of needs, how satisfied our customers circumstances and preferences.
Our product offering includes solutions for accounting, ERP, payroll, tax, practice management, accounts production, integrated CRM, are with what we do using the business intelligence BI and payments.
They are available under a range of different pricing options and an increasing number incorporate connected features and services, Net Promoter Score NPS or are hosted entirely in the cloud.
We have made In an era of technological change, we believe our customers value the exibility we give them to embrace new features, services and relationships with us whenever they decide significant improvements to they are ready to do so.
both our product and service Brand scores this year, some of Sage has been providing businesses with accounting, payroll and tax software for more than 30 years.
which are best-in-class, which The Sage brand is synonymous with supporting small and medium sized businesses.
Together with our business and accountant partners, we work to identify the real proves to us that were still businesses challenges that affect our customers by seeing things from their perspective.
focusing on the right things.
We use this insight to bring them clarity and confidence through the products and services we offer.
By striving to be our customers greatest supporter, we remain their trusted partner.
Localised products and services Business legislation differs from one country to another, is often complex, and is always evolving.
We tailor our products and services so that our customers can manage the local business and reporting challenges that are relevant to them.
Our skill at localising our solutions has allowed us to contend with the range of legislative differences that exist across the world.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 9
