Sage One Easy to use small business accounting software that saves time and is available anytime, anywhere with Sage One.
Lorna Syson London, United Kingdom Lorna Syson is an interior accessories design and manufacturing business that draws Sage One inspiration from the British countryside.
Sage One is our cloud accounting and payroll product for start-up and small businesses.
It makes bookkeeping Im a sole trader, and although its a business it is very much me, its got my heart and payroll simple and easy, allowing our customers to and soul in it, Lorna explains, When things go wrong I take it to heart.
I want to make concentrate on building successful businesses.
They go hand in hand: when the business is going well, everythings going have an edition for accountants, which lets them access well.
When something is wrong, I take it home with me.
and edit their clients books and records in the cloud.
Lorna built the business herself, and moved to London after a year of trading.
After a further 18 months, she moved into her own premises where she now designs and makes all of her products.
The business is expanding, and my biggest challenge is working out the best 22,400 way to facilitate that expansion, the best places to invest, the best places to save Sage One paying subscriptions globally money, and how to organise everything.
at 30 September 2013 Lorna uses Sage One Accounts to manage her business nances and also uses Sage Pay to take payments from her customers.
Its amazing that I can manage everything online with Sage One.
When I go places, I can do work on the go.
When I arrive and work with the client, I can look back at all their past orders, when theyve paid, and get a complete history.
Sage have 24-hour, seven days a week support, so I can ring them up if things go wrong and theyre friendly, theyre nice.
They understand small businesses and they dont speak down to you.
They treat you how you would treat your own customers.
Scan this code to watch a video about this case study on our YouTube channel 38 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 39
