Chief Executives review continued Understanding our changing markets The market is changing, but much remains the same Exciting technological advances are changing our industry.
By combining cloud technology, mobility and connected services with new pricing models, we can offer our customers more freedom, exibility and efficiency than ever before.
However, while customers are keen to embrace new technology and its benets, they tell us they still value the trust they have in Sage that their data is secure, their software just works and a real person is available to them whenever they need help and support.
It is important to strike the right balance between embracing new products and services and preserving what our customers like most about what we already provide.
Core Extraordinary Technology customer customer and pricing needs experience Security Cloud Intuitiveness Mobile Knowledgeable support Connected services Efficiency Subscription Greater control 12 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Core customer needs Combining the benets Weve been meeting our customers core needs for many years.
The evolution of our product and service of technology with the offering reects the insight we have into what our hallmarks of Sage to customers want.
Our software gives our customers greater control deliver an extraordinary over their business processes and is designed to customer experience.
be efficient and secure but also familiar and intuitive.
Our support offering has developed from an appreciation The pace of change that small and medium sized businesses often need The pace at which new technologies are being adopted somewhere to turn when faced with reporting and differs across our customer segments and varies by legislative challenges.
Our connected services comprise business application.
a range of other complementary features, including integrated payments, CRM and BI, so that we are For example, the industry is seeing faster take-up of delivering a rounded and more complete user online CRM tools, whilst the move to cloud accounting, experience to our customers.
tax and payroll is more measured.
Technology and pricing Start-ups typically dont have an existing infrastructure, Our technology strategy involves building cloud so theyre happy to go straight for a fully online solution.
products that address the specic needs of our Conversely, SMB and mid-market customers already have systems that work and on which their people are customer segments by incorporating the benets trained, which are factors they take into consideration of connectivity, integration and mobility.
when they think about moving to the cloud.
For start-up and small businesses weve built Sage One, which is our low cost, easy to use accounting and Its about choice payroll solution that runs entirely in the cloud.
To ensure were meeting our customers established needs, as well as bringing them new innovations, For our SMB customers were bringing our agship we offer choice.
products to the cloud as part of our hybrid cloud strategy.
These solutions are designed to make the Were doing this by introducing new products that transition from the on-premise world easier and harness cloud technology, whilst also maintaining our take advantage of the power of mobile applications existing on-premise offerings so that our customers can and connected services by providing access to business make their own decisions and move when theyre ready.
Sage 200 Online in the UK and Sage As our technology solutions are designed with the Murano ERP Online in Spain were the first products prevailing needs and characteristics of our customer to go live this year, and several more are due to follow segments in mind, were making it possible for them to in 2014. move to the cloud at a rate that is comfortable for them.
Weve also launched new subscription pricing models We believe success lies in delivering the right choices, for many of our products, which gives our customers at the right pace, and at the right time.
even greater exibility and choice.
Technology and pricing are hugely important opportunities for Sage because they offer us the chance to do more for our customers and have much more active relationships with them.
To read about our technology solutions and what this means for our customers, turn to Capturing the technology opportunity on pages 22 and 23 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 13
