Chief Executives review continued Our geographical presence Leading positions in established and emerging markets Sage has a presence in 24 countries and sells software all over the world.
In our larger markets, which include the UK & Ireland, France, Spain, South Africa, Canada and Brazil, we have market-leading positions.
We are also the second largest provider of ERP to small and medium sized businesses in the US.
Our expertise in delivering solutions that are tailored to the legislative, tax and accounting requirements of specic countries is one of the many things that differentiates us.
Our established market positions provide us with a strong platform, giving us opportunities to sell new products and services to new and existing customers.
We have access to both mature and high-growth markets, which diversies our exposure to regional macroeconomic trends, and our global infrastructure means we can release centrally developed products across multiple world markets quickly.
Our global products A key part of our strategy is taking a more centralised approach to developing global products so that we are more efficient, take advantage of our scale, share best practice across our business and utilise our global talent more effectively.
This development work is combined with local deployment to ensure we continue to meet the needs of local markets.
Two of our most important global products are Sage One and Sage ERP X3.
Sage One Sage ERP X3 Sage One is our cloud solution for start-ups and small Sage ERP X3 is our global ERP solution for the businesses.
Following its launch in the UK & Ireland mid-market, with 50% of revenue generated outside in 2011, Sage One is also available in North America, of the products home market of France.
The main Canada, Germany, France, Spain and Portugal.
The main development team is based in France and they are Sage One development team is based in the UK at our supported by teams across the business who work headquarters in Newcastle upon Tyne.
The architecture on tailoring the product to local legislative requirements.
of Sage One is modular so that regional development We also look to leverage expertise where it exists teams can build functionality addressing local legislation in the business.
For example, our North American that seamlessly plugs in to the core product.
Examples development teams have contributed to much of the of these modules include quotations in France and debit work weve done to address the needs of manufacturing notes in Spain.
companies because there is a concentration of industry knowledge based in that region.
For more information on Sage For more information on Sage ERP One, see Capturing the technology X3, see Capturing the technology opportunity on pages 22 and 23 opportunity on pages 22 and 23 Read our regional operating reviews, starting on page 34 16 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Europe Revenue 776.9m EBITA 220.2m 28% margin 7,208 employees Americas Revenue 448.2m EBITA 115.0m 26% margin 3,546 employees AAMEA Revenue 151.0m EBITA 40.6m 27% margin 2,006 employees Revenue contribution by region 11% 33% 56% Americas AAMEA Europe The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 17
