Directors report The directors present their report together with the audited consolidated directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2013.
Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt Strategic report the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Companies Act 2006 requires us to present a fair review of the business during the year to 30 September 2013 and of the position Research and development of the Group at the end of the financial year along with a description During the year, the Group invested 144.6m 2012: 159.4m of the principal risks and uncertainties faced.
The Strategic report in research and development.
Political donations Corporate governance statement No political donations were made in the year.
The Disclosure and Transparency Rules require certain information to be Directors and their interests included in a corporate governance statement in the Directors report.
Information that fulls the requirements of the corporate governance A list of directors, their interests in the ordinary share capital of the statement can be found in the Corporate Governance report on pages Company, their interests in its long-term performance share plan and details of their options over the ordinary share capital of the Company 62 to 69 and is incorporated into this Directors report by reference.
are given in the Directors remuneration report on page 85.
No director Disclaimer had a material interest in any significant contract, other than a service The purpose of this Annual Report & Accounts is to provide information contract or contract for services, with the Company or any of its to the members of the Company.
The Annual Report & Accounts have operating companies at any time during the year.
been prepared for, and only for, the members of the Company, as a The names of all persons who, at any time during the year, were body, and no other persons.
The Company, its directors and employees, directors of the Company can be found on page 60 under The Board agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other and Changes to the Board.
person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
As at the date of this report, indemnities which are qualifying third-party indemnity provisions under the Companies Act 2006 are in place under The Annual Report & Accounts contain certain forward-looking statements which the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors of the with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Company and the former directors of the Company who held ofce Group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future during the year ended 30 September 2013, to the extent permitted events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ by law and by the Companys articles of association, in respect of materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reect all liabilities incurred in connection with the performance of their duties knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this as a director of the Company or its subsidiaries.
Copies of these Annual Report & Accounts and the Company undertakes no obligation indemnities are available for review at the Companys registered ofce.
to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report & Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
Employment policy Results and dividends The Group continues to give full and fair consideration to applications The results for the year are set out on page 94.
Dividends paid and for employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their proposed are set out on page 111.
The Board is proposing a final respective aptitudes and abilities.
The policy includes, where practicable, dividend of 7.44p per share following the payment of an interim dividend the continued employment of those who may become disabled during of 3.69p per share on 7 June 2013, which is equivalent to 3.88p per their employment and the provision of training and career development share on a post-consolidation basis.
The proposed total dividend for and promotion, where appropriate.
The Group has continued its policy the year is therefore 11.32p per share on a post-consolidation basis, of employee involvement by making information available to employees excluding the special dividend.
The special dividend of 17.1p per share on matters of concern to them.
Many employees are stakeholders that was paid on 28 June 2013 equivalent to 17.99p per share on in the Company through participation in share option schemes and a post-consolidation basis increases the total dividend for the year a long-term performance share plan.
Further details of employment to 29.31p per share on a post-consolidation basis.
policies are given on pages 49 to 51.
Information provided by the Company pursuant to the Disclosure and Going concern Transparency Rules is publicly available via the regulatory information The following statement has been included in accordance with the Listing services and on our website www.
Rules: Based on normal business planning and control procedures, the Substantial shareholdings At 28 November 2013, the Company had been notied, in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in its ordinary share capital: Direct Indirect Total Name shares % shares % shares % Aviva plc 46,201,344 3.84 15,574,236 1.29 61,775,580 5.13 1 Schroders plc 55,038,549 5.01 55,038,549 5.01 2 Blackrock, Inc. 54,013,745 4.91 54,013,745 4.91 Notes: 1 In addition to the number of shares noted in the table above, Schroders plc hold an additional 182,997 shares by way of contracts for difference, taking their overall voting rights to 5.02%.
2 In addition to the number of shares noted in the table above, BlackRock Inc. hold an additional 1,037,772 shares by way of contracts for difference, taking their overall voting rights to 5.00%.
70 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic r Strategic report eport Gover Governance finance Financial statements Future developments usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The Important events since the financial year end are described on page 33 Board may, in its absolute discretion, decline to register any instrument of the Strategic report and future developments are described in the of transfer of a certicated share which is not a fully paid share although strategy section of the Strategic report on pages 18 to 25. not so as to prevent dealings in shares taking place on an open and proper basis or on which the Company has a lien.
Share capital The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a certicated share The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided unless the instrument of transfer is: i left at the ofce, or at such other 4 into ordinary shares of 1 77p each.
Following the 77 for 81 share place as the Board may decide, for registration: and ii accompanied by consolidation on 10 June 2013, the issued share capital consisted the certicate for the shares to be transferred and such other evidence 4 of 1,148,232,855 new ordinary shares of 1 77p each 1,207,881,315 if any as the Board may reasonably require to prove the title of the ordinary shares of 1p each prior to the share consolidation.
intending transferor or his or her right to transfer the shares.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares The Board may permit any class of shares in the Company to be held Voting in uncerticated form and, subject to the articles of association, title to In a general meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of the uncerticated shares to be transferred by means of a relevant system articles of association and to any special rights or restrictions as to voting and may revoke any such permission.
Registration of a transfer of an attached to any class of shares in the Company of which there are none : uncerticated share may be refused where permitted by the statutes as dened in the articles of association.
On a show of hands, a qualifying person being an individual who is a member of the Company, a person authorised to act as the Repurchase of shares representative of a corporation or a person appointed as a proxy The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last Annual of a member shall have one vote, except that a proxy has one vote General Meeting 1 March 2013 to buy back up to 120,380,408 for and one vote against a resolution if the proxy has been appointed ordinary shares.
This authority was replaced at the Extraordinary by more than one member and has been given conicting voting General Meeting held on 3 June 2013 to approve the share instructions by those members, or has been given discretion as consolidation, by a new authority to buy back up to 110,893,630 to how to vote: ordinary shares.
The authority granted on 3 June 2013 remains On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall outstanding until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting have one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder.
The minimum price which must be paid for each ordinary share is its nominal value and the maximum price is the No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class higher of 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for meeting in respect of any shares held by him or her if any call or other an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily sum then payable by him or her in respect of that share remains unpaid.
Ofcial List for the five business days immediately before the purchase Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
is made and the amount stipulated by article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Deadlines for voting rights Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each case exclusive of expenses.
Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect On 30 September 2013, the Company appointed Citigroup Global of the resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting Markets Limited Citi to manage an irrevocable buyback programme to be held on 6 March 2014 will be set out in the Notice of Annual during the close period which commenced on 1 October 2013 and will General Meeting.
From 1 October 2013 to 28 November Dividends and distributions 2013, the last practicable date prior to publication of the Annual 4 77 Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company Report & Accounts, 5,507,000 ordinary shares of 1 p each were may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the repurchased through Citi at a weighted average price of 333.4p members, but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended per share.
The highest and lowest prices paid for these shares were by the Board.
350.0p per share and 312.3p per share respectively.
The purchased shares have not been cancelled and are held as treasury shares.
The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any xed rate dividend, These shares represent 0.5% of the issued share capital.
The total whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the number of ordinary shares in issue excluding shares held as treasury Board, justifies its payment.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid shares at 28 November 2013 is 1,096,898,597. pro-rata according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
In the year under review treasury shares were cancelled on three Liquidation occasions: 124,525,800 ordinary shares on 16 January 2013, If the Company is in liquidation, the liquidator may, with the authority 43 ordinary shares on 3 June 2013 and 35,000,000 ordinary shares of a special resolution of the Company and any other authority required on 4 September 2013. by the statutes as dened in the articles of association : Amendment of the Companys articles of association Divide among the members in specie the whole or any part of the Any amendments to the Companys articles of association may be assets of the Company: or made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 Vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such trusts by way of special resolution.
for the benefit of members as the liquidator, with the like authority, shall think t. Appointment and replacement of directors Transfer of shares Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 15 in number.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or Subject to the articles of association, any member may transfer all or any of his or her certicated shares by an instrument of transfer in any by the Board.
A director appointed by the Board holds ofce only until The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 71 Directors report continued the next Annual General Meeting and is then eligible for election by the unless at least 15 business days prior to such action it shall have given shareholders.
The Board may from time to time appoint one or more to each holder of notes written notice containing and constituting an directors to hold employment or executive ofce for such period subject offer to prepay all notes on a date specified in such offer which shall be to the Companies Act 2006 and on such terms as they may determine a business day occurring subsequent to the effective date of the change of control which is not less than 30 days or more than 60 days after the and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
date of the notice of prepayments.
Where a holder of notes accepts the Under the articles of association, at every Annual General Meeting of offer to prepay, the prepayment shall be 100% of the principal amount the Company, every director shall retire from ofce but shall be eligible of the notes together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon and shall for election or re-election by the shareholders.
The Company may be made on the proposed prepayment date.
No prepayment under a by special resolution or by ordinary resolution of which special notice change of control shall include any premium of any kind.
has been given remove and the Board, by unanimous decision, may Under a note purchase agreement dated 20 May 2013 relating remove any director before the expiration of his or her term of ofce.
The ofce of director shall be vacated if: i he or she resigns: ii he or to US$50,000,000 senior notes, Series D, due 20 May 2018, she has become physically or mentally incapable of acting as a director US$150,000,000 senior notes, Series E, due 20 May 2020, and may remain so for more than three months, or by reason of his or US$150,000,000 senior notes, Series F, due 20 May 2023 and her mental health a court has made an order that prevents the director US$50,000,000 senior notes, Series G, due 20 May 2025 between from acting and, in either case, the Board resolves that his or her ofce Sage Treasury Company Limited and the note holders and guaranteed is vacated: iii he or she is absent without permission of the Board by the Company, on a change of control of the Company, the Company will not take any action that consummates or nalises a change of control from meetings of the Board for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his or her ofce is vacated: iv he or she becomes bankrupt unless at least 15 business days prior to such action it shall have given or makes an arrangement or composition with his or her creditors to each holder of notes written notice containing and constituting an generally: v he or she is prohibited by law from being a director: or vi offer to prepay all notes on a date specified in such offer which shall be he or she is removed from ofce pursuant to the articles of association.
a business day occurring subsequent to the effective date of the change of control which is not less than 30 days or more than 60 days after Powers of the directors the date of the notice of prepayments.
Where a holder of notes accepts The business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may the offer to prepay, the prepayment shall be 100% of the principal amount exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the of the notes together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon and shall Companys articles of association, the Companies Act 2006 and any be made on the proposed prepayment date.
No prepayment under a ordinary resolution of the Company.
change of control shall include any premium of any kind.
Under the terms of all three agreements, a change of control occurs Shares held in the Employee benefit Trust if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of The trustee of The Sage Group plc Employee benefit Trust EBT has the Company.
agreed not to vote any shares held in the EBT at any general meeting.
If any offer is made to shareholders to acquire their shares the trustee Greenhouse gas emissions will not be obliged to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares All disclosures concerning the Groups greenhouse gas emissions which are at that time subject to subsisting awards, but will have regard as required to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic to the interests of the award holders and will have power to consult Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 are contained in the them to obtain their views on the offer.
Subject to the above the trustee Corporate responsibility report forming part of the Strategic report on may take the action with respect to the offer it thinks fair.
pages 52 to 56. significant agreements Financial risk management The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the The Groups exposure to and management of capital, liquidity, credit, counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of interest rate and foreign currency risk are summarised below.
a change of control of the Company: Capital risk Under a dual tranche US$271,000,000 and 214,000,000 five-year The Groups objectives when managing capital dened as net debt multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement dated 24 August 2010 plus equity are to safeguard our ability to continue as a going concern between, amongst others, the Company and Lloyds Banking Group plc in order to provide returns to shareholders and benets for other as facility agent, on a change of control, if any individual lender so stakeholders, while optimising return to shareholders through an requires and after having consulted with the Company in good faith for appropriate balance of debt and equity funding.
The Group manages not less than 30 days following the change of control, the facility agent its capital structure and makes adjustments to it with respect shall, by not less than 10 business days notice to the Company, cancel to changes in economic conditions and our strategic objectives.
the commitment of that lender and declare the participation of that lender The Group has set a long-term minimum leverage target of 1x net debt in all outstanding loans, together with accrued interest and all other to EBITDA and will work to maintain this going forward.
Further detail amounts accrued under the finance documents, immediately due and is provided in the Strategic report on page 25. payable, whereupon the commitment of that lender will be cancelled and all such outstanding amounts will become immediately due and payable.
Liquidity risk The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by reviewing the cash Under a note purchase agreement dated 11 March 2010 relating resources required to meet its business objectives through both short to US$200,000,000 senior notes, Series A, due 11 March 2015, and long-term cash ow forecasts.
The Company has committed US$50,000,000 senior notes, Series B, due 11 March 2016 and facilities which are available to be drawn for general corporate purposes US$50,000,000 senior notes, Series C, due 11 March 2017 between including working capital.
The Companys Treasury function has a policy the Company and the note holders, on a change of control, the Company of optimising the level of cash in the businesses in order to minimise will not take any action that consummates or nalises a change of control external borrowings.
72 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic r Strategic report eport Gover Governance finance Financial statements Credit risk parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting The Groups credit risk primarily arises from trade and other receivables.
Under company law the directors must The Group has a very low operational credit risk due to the transactions not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they being principally of a high volume, low value and short maturity.
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the The Group has no significant concentration of operational credit risk, Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
with the exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
Continued strong credit control ensured that in the year In preparing these financial statements the directors are required to: ended 30 September 2013 the Group did not see deterioration in days Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: sales outstanding.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The credit risk on liquid funds is considered to be low, as the State whether IFRS as adopted by the EU, and applicable UK Board-approved Group treasury policy limits the value that can be Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material invested with each approved counterparty to minimise the risk of loss.
departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent All counterparties must meet minimum credit rating requirements.
Company financial statements respectively: and Interest rate risk Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on oating rate deposits and is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The US private placement loan notes, which comprise 98% The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records of borrowings, are at xed interest rates and bank debt, which comprises that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and 2% of borrowings, are at oating interest rates.
At 30 September 2013, disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position the Group had 82.9m of cash and cash equivalents.
of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the The Group regularly reviews forecast debt, cash and cash equivalents financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with and interest rates to monitor this risk.
Interest rates on debt and the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Groups financial statements, deposits are xed when management decides this is appropriate.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding At 30 September 2013, the Groups principal borrowings comprised the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable US private placement loan notes of 432.3m 2012: 185.8m, which steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
have an average xed interest rate of 3.88% and bank debt of 9.6m The directors as at the date of this report, whose names and functions 2012: 15.0m, which has an average oating interest rate of 1.44%.
are listed in the Board of directors on page 60, confirm that, to the best Foreign currency risk of their knowledge: Although a substantial proportion of the Groups revenue and profit The Groups financial statements, which have been prepared in is earned outside the UK, operating companies generally only trade accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view in their own currency.
The Group is therefore not subject to any of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and significant foreign exchange transactional exposure within these The Directors report and the Strategic report include a fair review subsidiaries.
The Groups principal exposure to foreign currency, of the development and performance of the business and the position therefore, lies in the translation of overseas profits into sterling.
of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and This exposure is partly hedged to the extent that these profits are offset uncertainties that it faces.
by interest charges in the same currency arising from the nancing of Each of the persons who is a director as at the date of this report the investment cost of overseas acquisitions by borrowings in the same confirms that: currency.
The Group is also exposed to a foreign exchange transaction exposure from the conversion of surplus cash generated by its principal So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information overseas subsidiaries, which would be hedged where appropriate.
of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and The director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken The Groups US Dollar denominated borrowings are designated as as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant a hedge of the net investment in its subsidiaries in the US.
The foreign audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are exchange movements on translation of the borrowings into sterling have aware of that information.
been recognised in the translation reserve.
The Groups other currency exposures comprise only those exposures that give rise to net currency This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with gains and losses to be recognised in the income statement.
Such the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. exposures reect the monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that In addition, the directors as at the date of this report consider that the are not denominated in the operating or functional currency of the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and entity involved.
At 30 September 2012 and 30 September 2013, these understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders exposures were immaterial to the Group.
to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Statement of directors responsibilities By Order of the Board The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report & Accounts, the Directors remuneration report and the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group M J Robinson, Company Secretary financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 4 December 2013 Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and the The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 73
