Sage Payment Solutions Reducing processing times and the risk of error, and providing greater control with integrated payments.
Electronics Inc. Mishawaka, Indiana, USA Electronics Inc. is a global industrial electronic equipment manufacturing company that Sage Payment Solutions primarily serves automotive, medical and aerospace businesses.
They have used Sage Sage Payment Solutions is our North American 100 Standard ERP since 2004. payments business, which provides e-commerce, card-holder present and merchant acquirer services: Electronics Inc. realised that their system of entering credit card orders into a standalone Sage Virtual Terminal is just one of the ways our point of sale terminal wasnt working.
There wasnt a system of good checks and customers can take payments electronically and balances in the process, explains Kara Schmucker, Treasurer, Too many people were seamlessly integrate transaction data into their using the system, and I had concerns that money was falling through the cracks.
I saw accounting system: evidence of this in the bank reconciliations, which werent balancing, because some All of our payments solutions are robust, secure, transactions werent being entered into Sage 100. reliable and are accessible 24 7: and Integrating Sage Virtual Terminal with Sage 100 helped Electronics Inc. to reduce errors, Our online Sage Exchange platform consolidates gain better visibility over receipts, exercise greater control of the payments process and all payment activity into one place, giving our improve security.
customers a complete picture of the cash theyre Once we had the system up and running, it worked really well and satisfied all my collecting in real time.
I would highly recommend Sages integrated payments solution to businesses using Sage 100.
13,800 Integrated payments customers globally at 30 September 2013 20% Increase in global integrated payments underlying revenue this year 40 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 41
