About Sage Our vision is to be recognised as the most valuable supporter of small and medium sized companies by creating greater freedom for them to succeed.
We provide accounting, enterprise resource planning ERP, payroll, accountancy and related software to start-up and small businesses through to mid-market companies that is backed by market-leading business support.
We also offer adjacent products and services typically involving technology which is highly integrated, such as payments and customer relationship management CRM.
In this years Annual Report & Accounts, we highlight why customers around the world, both existing and new, trust Sage to support their business needs in a changing world.
Further content is available where you see these symbols: Further related content is available A video is available on our website for in the report.
These codes will Content is linked to KPIs.
More information is available online.
enable video content through smart phones or tablets.
2 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2013 performance highlights Delivering on our strategy for accelerated growth Organic revenue growth of 4% 2012: 2%, and 5% in the second half of the year, demonstrating good acceleration in growth: Underlying basic earnings per share EPS of 22.27p, an increase of 12%: Strong acceleration in adoption of Sage One, our cloud solution targeting smaller businesses, with 22,400 paying subscriptions 2012: 6,190, an increase of more than three-fold in 12 months: Sage ERP X3 underlying revenue growth of 12% 2012: 5%, our global ERP solution for mid-market customers, delivering on our double-digit growth target: and Organic new customer additions of 256,000 2012: 229,000 during the year, and renewal rate on contracts increasing to 82% 2012: 81%.
This year we are reporting the number of paying subscriptions.
Denitions of underlying measures: Organic revenue neutralises the impact of foreign exchange in prior year gures and excludes the contribution of current and prior year acquisitions and disposals.
Underlying revenue neutralises the impact of foreign exchange in prior year gures.
Underlying operating profit EBITA excludes amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related items, goodwill impairment, fair value adjustments and exceptional items that include a 188.2m exceptional charge primarily relating to non-core disposals.
The impact of foreign exchange is neutralised in prior year gures.
EBITA is divided into underlying revenue to derive EBITA margin.
Underlying basic earnings per share is dened as underlying profit divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held as treasury shares.
Underlying profit is dened as profit attributable to owners of the parent excluding amortisation of intangible assets, acquisition-related items, goodwill impairment, fair value adjustments, exceptional items and imputed interests.
All of these adjustments are net of tax.
Underlying cash conversion is calculated as cash ows from operating activities, adjusted for cash acquisition-related items and cash exceptional items of 1.9m 2012: nil, divided by EBITA.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 3
