Sage ERP X3 Combining cloud-based connected applications with the power of Sage ERP X3 to make smarter, more informed business decisions.
Universal Paper and Plastics, Johannesburg, South Africa Universal Paper and Plastics is a nationwide supplier of printed napkins, bathroom Sage ERP X3 tissue, kitchen towels and related products.
They turned to Sage ERP X3 for their Sage ERP X3 is our global ERP solution for the core ERP needs, but wanted greater inventory management capability to help mid-market and is a key part of our technology improve forecasting.
It is a sophisticated solution for businesses that need to manage a range of functions, We supply over 400 stock keeping units to chain stores around the country, explains including manufacturing, purchasing, inventory, David Sher, GM of Universal Paper and Plastics, We maintain a 48 to 72-hour lead time sales, warehousing, CRM and finance.
for orders, so it is critical that we have stock where we need it, when we need it.
Before Sage ERP X3, everything was done manually.
We had Excel spreadsheets and sales reports pulled from old systems which we would manually analyse and forecast three to six months ahead.
12% Universal Paper and Plastics was recommended Sage Inventory Advisor, which is a cloud-based service available via an internet browser and mobile application, Growth in global Sage ERP X3 underlying by their business partner.
revenue this year The module gathers historic data from Sage ERP X3 and uses it to model expected inventory behaviour, identifying potential shortfalls ahead of time and reducing overstocking and waste.
On its own it is more of a visual tool.
We do all our work in Sage ERP X3, and if we need to know how much stock well need for the next three months, Sage ERP X3 projects that based on gures from Sage Inventory Advisor.
Planning production on Sage ERP X3 has saved us a lot of time, and were much more accurate.
42 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 43
