Strategic report Governance Financial statements Executive Committee Our Executive Committee has individually and collectively set growth as their primary objective, and they are mobilising their teams throughout Sage to deliver this The Committee is committed to the sound running of Sage and comprises eight senior leaders from across the business who benefit from a diverse range of backgrounds and experiences.
Guy Berruyer, Chief Executive Richard Drury, Group Human Amanda Jobbins, Group Chief Resources Director Marketing officer Klaus-Michael Vogelberg, Group Pascal Houillon, Chief Executive Ivan Epstein, Chief Executive Chief Technology officer officer, North America and Brazil officer, AAMEA Read the Executive lvaro Ramrez, Chief Executive Michael Robinson, Company Secretary Committees biographies on page 61 officer, Europe and Group Legal Director Note: Steve Hare was appointed Chief Financial officer after the year end with effect from 3 January 2014.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 19 Chief Executives review continued Our strategy continued 1 Focusing our business Focusing our business captures a number of initiatives Harvest products are mature, high-margin products, Total spend on that weve undertaken: and we will continue to invest in them appropriately Invest products % to maintain their market positions.
Changing the way we work: Sunset products have lower growth potential and, Streamlining our product portfolio and reallocating 50% 49% in most cases, the needs they serve are better met investment to our best growth opportunities: 42% by another product within our portfolio.
These products Disposing of non-core businesses: and have begun a sunset process and associated 35% Transforming our brand.
investment will be redirected towards our Invest Working with greater focus has led to a transformation product portfolio.
in how we define success and in the way we collaborate This rigorous framework for managing the portfolio with each other across the globe.
gives us clearer focus on the strategic drivers that will influence growth in both the near and medium term.
Changing the way we work 2012 2013 2012 2013 Although were executing on our strategic priorities We see Sage ERP X3, our payments businesses, Research and Sales and locally, we have dened them globally.
This is a new Sage One and our exposure to high-growth international development marketing way of working for Sage, but we believe it is the only markets as some of our best opportunities for growth way to create the right conditions for success: in the near term.
It ensures all of our people are pursuing the same Looking further ahead, were excited about being able Organic revenue goals in a consistent way: to further accelerate our growth with our hybrid cloud by category It means we make products that can be deployed products and mobile applications.
globally whilst maintaining our focus on meeting Disposing of non-core businesses the local needs of our customers: and A number of our products did not meet with the It encourages closer working practices and denition of our core business and were categorised knowledge sharing across the organisation.
These products were either not integrated Streamlining our portfolio and reallocating with the core or were addressing the very specic needs investment of particular industries.
To help us identify which products and services During the year, we disposed of several non-core represent our best growth opportunities we conducted products, including: Invest 47% a review of our product portfolio last year to identify: Sage Saleslogix Automotive Harvest 45% The closeness of products to our core business: and Sage ACT!
C&I Sunset 8% The potential for products to create value.
Sage Nonprot Solutions Aytos The review led us to categorise our core products as ATL UK Construction Invest, Harvest and Sunset.
We use this categorisation The disposals are an important strategic milestone to determine our investment priorities.
Invest products and are evidence of our progress.
Their successful represent our best current and future growth completion allows us to sharpen our focus on opportunities and receive signicantly more research and development R&D and sales and marketing opportunities that offer better future growth potential.
Turn to our strategic KPIs on page 45 See note 16 in the Financial statements to see how were doing in reallocating starting on page 134 for details on our resources the disposals 20 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transforming our brand to capture the essence of who Sage is and what we provide for our customers.
Amanda Jobbins, Group Chief Marketing officer Our brand transformation journey began in 2011.
As we revised our business strategy and refocused Sage it became clear that brand had to be at the heart of our transformation.
A global brand vision was needed that captured the essence of who Sage is and what we provide for our customers.
Our global brand is now interconnected with the heart of our business strategy and informs every decision we make.
A key initiative is around the relationship between our product brands and the Sage masterbrand and we have introduced a new naming model in order to provide a more consistent experience for our customers.
In the last 12 months our Group businesses have been moving under the Sage brand umbrella.
Products in Sage North America have been renamed and in February 2013 our South Africa business Softline rebranded to Sage.
The global partnerships we have formed with Microsoft and Google have strengthened our position as a trusted brand.
They have elevated our technology strategy by enriching our products with new capability and third-party integration, such as with the incorporation of Google Drive into Sage One.
In 2014 well continue this journey with the roll-out of the first ever global brand campaign.
We will also be streamlining and simplifying our digital presence online with a new user experience and consistent visual identity across our websites.
Since joining the Group last year, I am delighted with the progress we have made.
I am very confident that our transformation journey will continue to execute at pace and with continued focus.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 21 Chief Executives review continued Our strategy continued 2 Capturing the technology opportunity The advent of cloud computing, smartphones and We dont just make software products tablets, and faster mobile connectivity are leading to changes in the way businesses use and access their and provide support: we use technology data.
They are increasingly looking to take advantage to support the success of small and medium of the cost, infrastructure and efficiency benets offered by cloud technology.
sized businesses around the world, aiming to These changing technology trends offer us an incredibly deliver an extraordinary customer experience.
important opportunity to accelerate our growth.
In the start-up and small business segment, we are attracting a new generation of customers to Sage with Sage One.
In the SMB segment we are looking to ease the transition to the cloud for our existing customers with connected services, features and applications that can complement existing systems and provide a wider range of users with access to business information.
In the mid-market, Sage ERP X3 is attracting new customers in many markets around the globe because it addresses Cloud solutions for each of our segments the particular needs of larger businesses that have limited resources.
Our approach to technology is guided by the insight we have into the specic needs of each of our market segments.
This is why were developing a different solution for each segment.
Hybrid Cloud solutions for each of our segments cloud Sage One SMB Sage One is our simple and efficient cloud bookkeeping, accounting and payroll product that is designed to address the needs of start-ups and small businesses.
Sage Sage One These customers are typically choosing their first ERP X3 accounting solution and are very conscious about cost.
Start-up and As a result, they tend to be comfortable with products small business Mid-market that operate entirely in the cloud and prefer to pay with a low monthly subscription.
Customers access Sage One through an internet browser, which means they have the freedom to run their business from any connected location and on any device.
We also store their data securely so they dont have to worry about backups or data loss.
Integrated Integrated Business Mobility Sage One currently comes in four versions: Cashbook, payments CRM intelligence Accounts, Payroll and Accountant Edition.
Cashbook and Accounts offer bookkeeping and accounting capability, Payroll lets customers manage payroll for up to 15 employees, and Accountant Edition allows our accountant partners to access and edit their clients Sage One data in the cloud.
Since the start of the new financial year we have introduced Sage One Accounts Leveraging connected services, connected Extra, which has a broader range of features to address the needs of businesses with up to 25 employees.
features and connected applications 22 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Hybrid cloud Connected services, connected features and connected applications Our SMB customers have existing systems that work, so not all of them want to move their accounting system Connectivity is the backbone of our new generation to the cloud immediately.
This is why our hybrid cloud of technology solutions.
We believe that tightly integrated solutions are bringing them the benets of the cloud connected services, features and applications that are in a seamless way that doesnt disrupt what they smart, useful and well designed can add value to our already have.
Providing integrated solutions also increases customer loyalty.
For example, our research tells us our Hybrid cloud is combining all of the great features of our customers are much less likely to consider changing existing leading ERP products with the power of the their ERP provider when they use both our accounting cloud, and means we can develop both the on-premise software and our integrated payments service.
and cloud versions of these solutions under a single Integrated payments code base.
Our international payments businesses allow our Hybrid cloud also offers our customers a range customers to take payment via their website, over of benets: they dont need to maintain their own the telephone, through a card terminal and even IT systems, they dont need to worry about backups directly from invoices that they can issue electronically.
or data loss, and any applications they use that are interoperable with their on-premise system will Through payments integration, we can automatically automatically work with the cloud version.
They can record these transactions in our customers accounting also take advantage of the convenience of mobile systems for them, which saves them time and reduces applications and connected services because their the risk of error.
data is accessible in the cloud.
Typically, our hybrid Mobility cloud offerings are paid for on a subscription basis, Our mobile applications give our customers access so the cost of ownership is also much more to their data anywhere and anytime, helping them stay manageable for smaller businesses.
in touch with every aspect of their business and make We have a number of highly successful on-premise faster, more informed decisions.
products, including Sage 200 in the UK, Sage Murano Were building mobile applications which have a in Spain, Sage 100 in France, Sage 300 in North universal architecture enabling them to work with America and Ofce Line in Germany, which were all of our leading products.
Were also building mobile making available in the cloud on Microsofts Azure applications that are tailored to the needs of users such cloud computing platform.
Earlier this year, we To read about our as salespeople and engineers, who nd having access completed the work we have done on Azure that technology progress to up-to-date business information particularly valuable allows our on-premise products to run in the cloud during the year, turn when they are travelling.
with the launch of Sage ERP Online.
to the CEOs review Integrated CRM and business intelligence starting on page 26 Sage ERP X3 CRM helps our customers monitor and record the Sage ERP X3 is a global product designed to address contact they have with their customers, which helps the needs of mid-market customers, who typically with progress tracking, securing repeat business and require the sophistication of large corporate systems improving cash collection.
but have the more limited resources of an SMB.
BI allows our customers to smartly and efficiently Sage ERP X3 offers us opportunities to attract new interrogate the data contained within their systems, customers to Sage who want a sophisticated ERP leading to greater insight into business performance Commercial success solution that can be tailored to their needs, but without and better decision making.
from our technology the licence costs and the protracted installation time initiatives is an associated with enterprise level systems.
We also have important indication the opportunity to migrate our existing customers onto of our progress.
Turn Sage ERP X3 and away from other legacy products.
to page 45 to view We currently have 4,200 customers in more than our strategic KPIs and 60 countries and 275 business partners who bring see how were doing Sage ERP X3 to our markets.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 23 e u l a v e m i t e f i l r e t a e r G M e a s u r e d Chief Executives review continued Our strategy continued 3 The benets of subscription The way our customers want to pay for our products and services has been changing over time.
Weve designed new pricing models that reect and capitalise on this evolution.
Were already well progressed in our transition from services.
This also allows us to manage the financial a perpetual licence model, where customers pay a impact on Sage of moving from a model where customers one-off fee to use the core application, to a recurring prepay us, to a model where we receive payment on a revenue model offering annual premium support monthly basis.
Over time, subscription will become the contracts and connected services.
Weve now entered default option on our leading products and, in the longer a new phase where subscription pricing gives access to term, we will likely phase out perpetual licensing altogether.
all of our features and services for a single monthly fee.
We recognise that subscription pricing represents a Not everyone wants to embrace subscription pricing significant change for some of our business partners, Turn to our strategic immediately, so we are transitioning to subscription so we have worked with them to design commission KPIs on page 45 to in a measured way.
Typically, this involves a dual model structures that are compatible with these new see how we measure approach where we provide our customers with a relationships.
Ultimately, subscription will lead to higher, our transition choice around how they pay for our products and more resilient and sustainable revenues for both our to subscription partners and Sage.
More active relationships with new and existing customers through subscription Subscription pricing offers us multiple levers to forge a much broader and more active relationship with our customers.
It is attractive to them because it makes our products more affordable and gives them the exibility of only paying for what they use, which can mean lower-risk IT investment decisions.
Traditionally, under the perpetual licence model, some customers would have been unable to buy a Sage product because of the high initial cost.
Subscription removes this barrier because customers pay a much lower amount each month.
Subscription also offers us opportunities with our existing customers because it provides access to The subscription products with richer functionality by removing high model initial upgrade costs.
In addition, subscription bundles the full package of Sage features and services together: the core application, premium support, connected services, new technology and all future product updates.
This proposition is compelling, and were seeing customers who have previously chosen not to maintain a support contract relationship with us moving to subscription because they can see the value in what were offering.
The ongoing and more active nature of subscription relationships mean they have a much greater lifetime value and offer us much more opportunity to bring new experiences to our customers.
24 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 t r a n s i t i o n s r e v e l e l p i t l u M Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial strength supporting growth Delivering on our leverage target commitment With our consistent, strong cash ows, we In December 2011, we committed to reaching a net debt level equivalent to 1x our EBITDA within an retain considerable financial exibility.
In June 2013, we delivered on this strategic priority remains an acceleration of objective, which represents the culmination of a capital allocation programme involving acquisitions M&A, growth, both organically and through targeted share buybacks, a re-based ordinary dividend and a 198.7m special dividend.
In meeting this target we acquisitions, and we will invest in support of have returned almost 1bn to shareholders.
This will enable us to support growth Going forward, we are committed to maintaining our net debt leverage at a minimum of 1x our EBITDA.
of the ordinary dividend, with any surplus This leaves us with the exibility to react to the right capital being returned to shareholders from M&A opportunities should they present themselves and make further returns of capital to our shareholders.
Our M&A strategy Our approach to M&A is disciplined, and acquisition opportunities are judged against strict criteria.
They must: Demonstrate earnings accretion in year one: and Deliver a return in excess of our risk-adjusted cost of capital.
Investment Targeted We are focused on acquisition opportunities which fall and R&D M&A into three broad areas: Technology bolt-ons that offer us opportunities to cross-sell into our installed base: Businesses in existing geographies that yield immediate synergies and offer short payback periods: and Rigorous Businesses in new geographies where we are Selected Through prepared to wait longer to achieve target returns capital disposals cycle gearing in exchange for access to higher-growth markets.
allocation This year, we acquired EBS Empresa Brasileira fide Sistemas Ltda.
which is the third acquisition we have made in Brazil following the Folhamatic and Cenize acquisitions we made last year.
Capital Sustainable returns and progressive dividends 7XUQ WR RXU QDQFLDO.
3, V RQ page 44 to see how we monitor our QDQFLDO VWUHQJWK The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 25 Chief Executives review continued 2013 performance review Its been a year of delivery Weve achieved a great deal this year, and have made good progress on all of our key initiatives.
We remain on course to deliver on our strategic and financial goals.
October 2012 March 2013 October 2012 December 2012 Acquisition of EBS Completion Empresa Brasileira Launch of Sage Pay Launch of Sage Pay of disposal of fide Sistemas Ltda.
April 2013 May 2013 April 2013 March 2013 Completion of Launch of Sage One Sage ERP X3 global Launch of Sage One disposal of European in Spain.
June 2013 July 2013 Achieved net debt July 2013 June 2013 leverage target of 1x Launch of Sage Data Launch of Sage ERP Launch of Sage One EBITDA with payment Cloud at the Online for hybrid in France.
of special dividend North America cloud products.
26 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements I am pleased to report a strong set of results, with good growth across all regions and our strategic initiatives progressing well.
These results highlight the strong appeal of our offering to SMEs, great execution in delivering on our plans and the benefit of a clear strategy, which focuses on our most significant growth opportunities.
The strategy is working and growth is accelerating.
We remain confident of achieving our target of 6% organic revenue growth in 2015 and anticipate further progress during the year ahead.
Overview of the year Strategy for growth We delivered a strong trading performance in 2013, Our aim is to achieve organic revenue growth of 6% with organic revenue growth of 4%, representing in 2015, with an associated increase in EBITA margin acceleration on the 2% organic revenue growth of 100 to 200 basis points, and to sustain higher-growth achieved in the prior year.
Organic recurring revenue over the longer term.
Our success will be determined grew by 6% 2012: 6%, reecting the continued by execution on our most important initiatives and these strength of our premium support offering and are captured by our three strategic cornerstones encouraging growth in both software subscription Focusing our business, Capturing the technology revenue and payment services.
SSRS revenue was opportunity and The benets of subscription.
at organically against the prior year 2012: 5% The acceleration in growth we are reporting shows contraction.
North America and AAMEA delivered the strategy is working, with greater focus on our good SSRS growth, led by a particularly encouraging most important opportunities delivering results.
It is encouraging to see these results reected in our performance from Sage ERP X3.
Organic SSRS revenue in Europe contracted modestly, reecting key performance indicators KPIs, which track our new licence weakness, particularly in the French progress in delivering on our key strategic and financial mid-market and in Spain.
SSRS revenue is variable initiatives.
Notable developments for the year in respect and we continue to see the shift to recurring revenue of these initiatives are covered in the commentary as a core part of our strategy to deliver accelerated below, with the complete set of KPIs set out on growth on a sustainable basis.
Recurring revenue pages 44 and 45. now represents 71% of Group revenues 2012: 69%.
Focusing our business A feature of the year has been successful execution Aligning our resources and investment to products driving good results across all regions.
North America with the highest growth potential is a key enabler reported organic revenue growth of 6% for the year, a of our growth strategy.
Our approach to managing significant acceleration from the 2% reported in 2012. our portfolio, which categorises core products as Highlights included good growth from premium support Invest, Harvest and Sunset, is driving a marked and the success of Sage ERP X3.
Europe achieved increase in the allocation of resources to Invest organic revenue growth of 2% for the year, a positive products.
During the year, the direct spend on Invest performance given the macroeconomic environment and products increased to 50% of total research and an improvement on growth of 1% in 2012.
The highlight development R&D expenditure 2012: 35% and was the UK & Ireland, with organic revenue growth of 5% 49% of sales and marketing S&M expenditure for the year, although it was encouraging to see France 2012: 42%.
This reects a combined increase in and Germany return to growth in H2 and for Spain investment in Invest products of 32%.
The existing to exit the year with modest growth.
AAMEA delivered portfolio is self-funding this investment in our most good organic revenue growth of 9% 2012: 12%, significant growth opportunities, whilst supporting with a very strong performance in South Africa offset our margin commitment.
Highlights for South We can see the results of greater focus with Africa included a strong mid-market performance and good progress during the year on our major areas strong growth in the rest of Africa.
Whilst Brazil is not of investment including Sage One, Sage ERP X3 and included in organic growth until 2014, the business payment services.
The disposal of non-core products delivered good growth notwithstanding the slowdown announced earlier in the year has streamlined the in the economy.
Approximately 15% of Group revenues portfolio, allowing greater focus on the core.
are now generated from attractive growth markets in AAMEA and Brazil.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 27 Chief Executives review continued 2013 performance review continued Capturing the technology opportunity businesses, with over 35,000 paying subscriptions across a range of products including, in addition to Technology is a catalyst for growth because it helps Sage One, einfachLohn in Germany, and Sage Pastel us attract new customers and allows us to offer more My Payroll Online and Sage Pastel My Business Online features and services to existing customers.
of adoption varies across the SME space, which is why we focus on offering choice, allowing businesses to Hybrid cloud adopt new technology on their own terms.
By providing Expanding our cloud product portfolio for SMBs is also SME customers with a well-rounded offering that an important part of our strategy.
As with Sage One, includes leading on-premise and cloud products, we have developed a robust technology platform, called connected services and support, Sage is differentiated Sage ERP Online, which allows us to bring our leading and is in a strong position to drive growth.
ERP solutions to the cloud quickly.
For the customer, Sage One Sage ERP Online offers the benets of outsourced infrastructure, mobility, more exible pricing models We continue to drive innovation to capture this and a measured transition to the cloud, alongside significant growth opportunity.
Sage One, our global market-leading support.
Sage 200 Online in the UK & software as a service SaaS solution for smaller businesses, is intuitive and easy to use, complemented Ireland market and Sage Murano ERP Online in Spain by first-class support and is built on a modern are the first of our SMB products to launch on Sage technology platform.
This platform supports extension ERP Online, with Sage 100 in France, Ofce Line in into new products and the accelerated launch into Germany and Sage 300 in North America becoming commercially available in 2014. new markets, whilst crucially satisfying localisation requirements effectively.
Sage ERP X3 The model is scaling well, with 22,400 paying Sage ERP X3, our global solution for the mid-market, subscriptions for Sage One products at the end delivered organic revenue growth of 12% 2012: 5%, of September 2013 2012: 6,190.
We have seen which meets our double-digit growth target.
The strong acceleration in adoption in the UK & Ireland product is performing very well internationally, growing market, where we have over 21,000 subscriptions organically by 34% outside of its home market at the end of September 2013, which is an increase of France.
Non-French revenue now accounts for of more than three-fold in 12 months.
This progress 50% of global Sage ERP X3 revenue.
North America has been based on Sage One Accounts Standard performed particularly well, with new customer Edition, a solution targeting very small businesses with acquisition, migration and support from the channel relatively straightforward accounting needs.
October helping to drive a step-change in growth.
The strong 2013 saw the commercial launch of Sage One performance of Sage ERP X3 globally demonstrates Accounts Extra in the UK & Ireland, which targets our strategy is working, with greater investment and businesses in the 5 to 25 employee space.
Commercially, Sage One Accounts Extra is important Connected services as it expands our addressable market, has a higher Delivering further value through integrated connected price point and offers a natural migration path for services is a key part of our growth strategy.
The value Sage One Accounts Standard Edition users.
In tandem of integration is apparent in higher customer satisfaction with our marketing around the launch of Sage One scores, lower churn rates and higher revenue per Accounts Extra, we have seen an increase in adoption customer.
The cross-sell of an integrated payments of Sage One Accountant Edition, with accountants solution to existing accounting customers is a recognising the opportunity this product offers them particularly significant opportunity for us.
North America to expand their practices.
As at the end of September continues to demonstrate good momentum, with over 2013, over 5,000 accountants had registered to use 12,400 accounting customers adopting integrated Sage One Accountant Edition in the UK & Ireland.
payments, which has driven cross-sell integrated We have also made progress in taking Sage One payments revenue growth of 20%.
Innovation is a key to new geographies and it is now available in eight factor in this success, with our Sage Exchange platform markets across Europe and North America.
It is early differentiating our offering in North America.
Sage days in continental Europe the number of users Exchange is a market-leading payments platform that remains low in the US.
This is consistent with our can manage a customers entire payments ecosystem.
experience in the UK & Ireland market and we would All our North American accounting-based solutions expect to see the adoption rates in these countries are integrated with this platform, which gives us a improve over time, as the product becomes more competitive advantage and a significant cross-sell established in the marketplace.
We have reorganised opportunity with our installed base.
in the US to strengthen our product marketing and Mobility we will expand the product portfolio with launches of We see mobility as an attractive future growth Sage One Accounts Extra and Sage One Accountant Edition.
We also launched Sage One in Canada in opportunity because it makes the core accounting October 2013.
Sage One is part of our wider SaaS and ERP data accessible to both financial and portfolio of payroll and accounting products for smaller non-financial users on smartphones and tablets.
28 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The goal of our mobile strategy is to offer customers this year, around 40% of them were with previously value-adding, integrated and connected cloud and inactive existing customers.
mobile services that will increase our revenue per Financial discipline customer and drive subscription adoption.
North The Group remains highly cash generative and we America has led the development of Sage Data Cloud, retain considerable financial exibility going forward.
a common infrastructure and framework that connects We remain disciplined in our capital allocation approach, mobile applications with our accounting and ERP whether using cash within the business or returning products.
At the North America Sage Summit in it to shareholders.
Our financial discipline is evident July 2013, we launched three mobile applications in our performance this year, where we maintained built on this platform: Sage Mobile Sales, Sage EBITA margin through managing costs whilst increasing Mobile Service, and Sage Billing and Payments.
investment in our growth initiatives.
We are also Customer satisfaction disciplined in our approach to M&A, focusing on Our approach to technology is guided by understanding opportunities which support growth in our core business the requirements of our customers and recognising the and meet our established returns criteria.
Consistent trust they have in Sage to support their move to the with our focus on shareholder value, we returned 571.8m this year to shareholders through our ordinary cloud.
Whilst technology is a great opportunity for Sage, we will only be successful if we continue to provide an dividend, the payment of a special dividend and our extraordinary customer experience.
We track customer share buyback programme.
We remain committed satisfaction using the Net Promoter Score NPS to the disciplined allocation of capital to support our metric, which measures customers willingness to strategy and drive shareholder returns.
promote the Sage products and services they use.
People NPS is an important indicator of long-term success During the year, we announced a number of changes and we will maintain our focus on ensuring we meet to the Board.
Tamara Ingram, Mark Rolfe and Ian Mason our customers needs.
retired from the Board, each having made a significant The benets of subscription contribution to Sage over many years.
Paul Harrison, The third cornerstone of our growth strategy involves formerly CFO for 13 years, departed Sage for a new executive challenge.
Paul made a considerable the migration of customers to a subscription pricing relationship.
Whilst software subscription is a relatively contribution to Sage during his time with the business, small proportion of our revenue today, it is important not least in establishing the strategy in recent years, strategically in delivering sustainable growth over the and in supporting me as CEO.
They leave with our longer term.
Subscription pricing has been rolled out gratitude and best wishes for the future.
across all our major markets, where we typically adopt Jonathan Howell and Neil Berkett joined the Board a dual model approach by offering customers a choice in July 2013, alongside Jo Harlow.
Unfortunately, between a subscription relationship and a perpetual Jo stood down from the Board in September 2013 licence.
We are encouraged by the early progress we due to a conict arising with her executive role following are making, which is evidenced by the 27% increase the announcement by Microsoft of the acquisition of in the annualised value of our subscriber base on an Nokias Devices and Services division.
On 11 November organic basis, which grew to 108m 2012: 85m.
2013, we announced the appointment of Steve Hare We will continue to drive the adoption of subscription as the new CFO, effective from 3 January 2014. pricing across our business on a measured basis.
Summary and outlook We have seen how subscription can be an attractive I am pleased to report a strong set of results, with option for new and existing customers.
In North America, good growth across all regions and our strategic for example, we have attracted a new type of customer initiatives progressing well.
These results highlight the to Sage 100 and Sage 300, with subscription making the strong appeal of our offering to SMEs, great execution up-front cost of a more sophisticated ERP solution more in delivering on our plans and the benefit of a clear affordable to smaller businesses by removing the initial strategy, which focuses on our most significant growth perpetual licence cost.
We have seen the same principle opportunities.
The strategy is working and growth is apply to existing customers who are looking to migrate: accelerating.
We remain confident of achieving our target in France, the successful Sage 100 i7 upgrade of 6% organic revenue growth in 2015 and anticipate programme secured 14,000 subscription contracts.
further progress during the year ahead.
We also use subscription to reactivate existing customers who have chosen not to maintain a support contract, a particular opportunity with smaller businesses where support attachment rates are lower.
By offering premium features on subscription, we are encouraging these customers to move to subscription.
Our French small Guy Berruyer, Chief Executive business product Ciel Flex has connected services functionality that is only available on subscription, and of the 4,700 subscription contracts we secured The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 29
