s t e k r a m O d n u r a p s e r e o p m l o e t s u c r u O Chief Executives review continued Our business model We deliver value through a model based on our core strengths We have a strong business model that offers significant growth potential, together with high levels of profitability and cash generation.
Sustainable growth Financial discipline Strong cash generation 14 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 O u r s o f s t r w e n a t r r e a a p n r d u O s u p p o r t Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our partners Our customers and markets We are supported by a network of over 40,000 Our markets span the globe and our customers range accountants and 22,600 business partners who from start-up entrepreneurs to finance directors of promote our products and provide advice and mid-market companies, as well as accountants.
We want to be our customers greatest supporter, and As well as being key advocates of our products to working so closely with them gives us great insight into their customers, many accountants are also direct the challenges they face.
We use this insight to guide us Sage customers themselves, and use our products when we are designing and building new products and and services to build successful practices.
Our business partners are important because they provide local expertise to our customers and work with them to tailor our products to specic business needs.
Our people Our software and support We have over 12,700 people at Sage who are We strive to offer our customers products and services committed to delivering on our vision and strategy.
that solve real business problems, harness the benets They are our greatest asset, our most important of new technology, are simple and efficient, and a resource and are critical to our future success.
Their talent, dedication and experience mean they However, were much more than just a software are the essential component of our ability to support company.
We light the way for our customers by taking our customers.
the lead in foreseeing the implications new legislative and business changes will have on them, and use this insight to deliver training and support services that help our customers to run their businesses with confidence.
Sustainable growth, financial discipline and strong cash generation The four elements of our business model combine to provide an opportunity for us to deliver higher and more sustainable revenue growth, high levels of profitability through disciplined resource allocation, and strong cash generation.
Our business model is highly cash generative.
Turn to page 25 to read about our approach to FDSLWDO PDQDJHPHQW 7R VHH KRZ ZH WUDFN RXU JURZWK SURWDELOLW DQG FRPPHUFLDO VXFFHVV WXUQ WR SDJHV DQG WR YLHZ RXU QDQFLDO DQG VWUDWHJLF.
3, V The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15
