PORTFOLIO developing a portfolio of autonomous but  units, within a well-defined control framework, whilst promoting best practice sharing and developing complementary capabilities isthe foundation of seniors business model.
EXPANDING CAPABILITIES ATLAS CASE STUDY The Groups strong level of free cash flow In February 2013, Senior acquired Atlas generation allows it to target a select Composites Atlas a small UK-based number of complementary strategic developer and manufacturer of composite acquisitions in growth markets to expand structural products.
Atlas brings its capabilities, accelerate growth and complementary capabilities intothe enhance its asset portfolio.
Groupand is managed through one oftheGroups existing UK operations, PORTFOLIO ENHANCEMENT Senior Aerospace BWT.
Portfolio enhancement through focused acquisitions and disposal of non-core assets, with decisions in both cases being subject tostrict financial criteria, the operations long-term outlook and the Groups anticipated funding position.
The Group has a good track record of CONTRIBUTING TO COMMUNITIES acquiring and successfully integrating new The Groups operations are encouraged businesses, and also of rationalising and to involve themselves in their local enhancing the overall asset portfolio communities and to support local charities.
through disposals, utilising a framework These relationships are normally managed that has been developed as part of the at a local level, where the employees strategic planning process.
The key typically select non-profit-making enabler of this programme is the organisations and charitable interests significant balance sheet capacity that has active within their community.
These are been generated in recent years through often long-standing relationships and strong free cash flow generation.
involve employees volunteering their time, making financial donations and raising DEVELOPING AN INTEGRATED funds to help those in need of support GLOBAL FOOTPRINT within their local communities.
Senior continues to develop an integrated global commercial and operational footprint to enable it to supply key programmes to itsOEM customers cost-effectively and tomeet growing THERMAL ENGINEERING CASE STUDY domestic demand in emerging markets.
In November 2013, Senior acquired Thermal NEW FACILITIES Engineering Ltd Thermal.
Thermal is a In 2014, the Group is investing in leading aerospace components manufacturer, expanding a number of existing facilities supplying aero engine and airframe OEMs within its portfolio.
For example at SSP and their Tier 1 suppliers globally.
anadditional 59,000 sq ft building is under Using high-technology processes, the construction to support growth, principally business specialises in: for the A320neo.
In Thailand we are expanding capacity threefold adding hotand cold-formed components in processing capability at a total cost hightemperature aerospace alloys: of6mover the next three years.
complex fabricated assemblies: and thermal insulation heat shields and systems Thermal has 20 years of experience of thequality standards in the aerospace industry with certification to AS9100 revCand is accredited by NADCAP for itsspecial processes.
8 Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
