STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 1 2 The Executive Committee, although not formally appointed as a Committee of the Board, oversees the running of all Senior Group operations.
The purpose of the Executive Committee is to assist the Group Chief Executive in the performance of his duties, including: 3 4 the development and implementation ofstrategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets: the monitoring of operating and financial performance: the assessment and control of risk: the prioritisation and allocation of resources: and 5 6 the monitoring of competitive forces ineach area of operation.
The Committee is also responsible for theconsideration of all other matters not specifically reserved for consideration by the Board.
A report on the activities of the Executive Committee is provided to the 6 BINDI FOYLE Board by the Group Chief Executive at 7 each Board meeting.
A Chartered Accountant, she joined the Group in 2006 as the Group Financial Controller.
She The Committee is comprised of two is a member of the Executive Committee and members of the Board, Mark Rollins and acts as its Secretary: she also sits on the Derek Harding, together with Launie Groups Treasury Committee.
Prior to joining Fleming Chief Executive of Aerospace Senior, she held a number of finance positions Fluid Systems, Jerry Goodwin Chief at Amersham plc and GE Healthcare.
Executive of Aerospace Structures, Mike Sheppard Chief Executive of Flexonics, 1 MARK ROLLINS 7 PETER WOOLFREY Peter Woolfrey Group Head ofBusiness See biography on page 29 The Group Head of Business Development, Development and Bindi Foyle Group hejoined the Group in 2009.
He has an 2 DEREK HARDING Financial Controller.
Simon Nicholls, the engineering background with extensive See biography on page 28 former Group Finance Director, sat on the international experience in the aerospace Executive Committee until he resigned 3 LAUNIE FLEMING industry, having worked for Smiths from the Board in April 2014 to take up a A US citizen, he has worked for the Group Aerospace and GE Aviation in a number new role.
Biographies of the Committee for around 15 years.
He joined the Executive of business development roles.
members are set out opposite.
Bindi Foyle Committee upon his appointment as Chief In early 2014, Peter Woolfrey is to take up also acts asSecretary to this Committee.
Executive of Aerospace Fluid Systems in a newly created divisional role in Business September 2008.
Prior to that appointment HEALTH, SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT Development, which will be on a part-time he had been Chief Executive of Senior transitional basis leading up to his retirement.
The HSE committee is also not formally David Beavan will become the Group 4 JERRY GOODWIN appointed as a Committee of the Board, Head of Business Development.
David joined but officially oversees all health, safety and A US citizen, he joined the Group in June the Group in 2004, when he was appointed 2007 as the Chief Executive of Senior environmental matters across the Group.
the Chief Executive of Senior Aerospace Aerospace AMT.
He was appointed Chief Throughout 2013, the members of this BWT.
Prior to joining Senior, David had Executive of Aerospace Structures in committee were: Mark Rollins Chairman, general management experience within December 2010.
Prior to joining Senior, Jerry Mike Sheppard Chief Executive of automotive and commercial aircraft 1st served as Vice President and General Manager Flexonics, Jerry Goodwin Chief Executive tier supplier industries.
at C & D Zodiac, a composites aerospace of Aerospace Structures, Launie Fleming manufacturingcompany.
APPROVAL Chief Executive of Aerospace Fluid The Strategic Report from pages 1 to 27 Systems andJames Pomeroy Group HSE 5 MIKE SHEPPARD was approved by the Board of Directors on Manager.
The Committee met four times A US citizen, he has worked for the Group 28February 2014 and signed on its behalf by during the year.
for30 years and is the Chief Executive MArK rollinS of Flexonics.
A qualified engineer, Mikes previous positions within the Group Group Chief Executive included operational roles at the two largest Flexonics businesses, Pathway and Bartlett.
com Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 27
