reMuneration rePort: annual stateMent forexecutive Directors.
The conclusion In line with the new disclosure regulations, ofthereview was that Seniors current in2013 we formalised our recruitment and remuneration policies have served the termination policies.
Derek Harding was business well and only a small number appointed as Group Finance Director from of changes are being proposed to the 2September 2013.
The recruitment policy existing remuneration practices.
was used as the basis for determining the remuneration package to facilitate his We decided, for administrative ease, to recruitment as detailed on page 52.
By joining bringforward proposals to replace the 2005 Senior, Derekforfeited entitlements from his Long-term Incentive Plan 2005 Plan which previous employer, which had no expires in April 2015.
We, therefore, seek performance conditions attaching approval for areplacement long-term incentive and were close to vesting or maturity.
plan at the same time as the Companys first In structuring his recruitment package, binding vote on Seniors Directors Dear Shareholder the Committee sought to partly compensate Remuneration Policy at the 2014 AGM.
The From 6 December 2013, I took over the him with awards that vest over longer time 2014 Plan will be substantially thesame as the periods, some of which are subject to responsibility of chairing the Senior plc 2005 Plan, except for thefollowing changes: Remuneration Committee the Committee performance conditions based onthe An amount equivalent to the dividends that longer-term performance of Senior, from Ian Much who retired in December having would have accrued on vested shares during contributed greatly to the Committee over the andtake into account the expected the vesting period will be paid to executives value ofthe awards foregone.
I am very grateful forthe work upon the vesting of the award.
In line with that Ian led during 2013 relating in particular to: Finally, in 2012 we made various changes current investor thinking, nodividend reviewing the executive remuneration policies to the Remuneration Report in preparation equivalent will be paid in respect of the and practices: developing the remuneration for the introduction of the new reporting period between vesting andexercise where policy forexecutive Directors that will be regulations and following the finalisation awards are delivered as nil cost options.
operated from 2014 to 2017: formulating the of these regulations we have once again Consistent with current best practice, proposals for a replacement Long-term amended our reporting to meet these theRemuneration Committee will have Incentive Plan the 2014 Plan : and overseeing requirements.
We have endeavoured to ensure thepower to claw back all or part of the composition of the remuneration package that our remuneration arrangements are theawards payments for three years forthe recruitment of Derek Harding, described in a succinct and transparent manner.
followingvesting in the event of material GroupFinance Director.
misstatement, error or inaccurate or This years Remuneration Report consists of In accordance with the 2013 Regulations, misleading information or gross misconduct.
three sections: resolutions inviting shareholders to approve It remains the Committees policy to provide 1. t his Annual Statement: the remuneration policy and this executive and senior management 2. a P olicy Report, which describes the Remuneration Report will beput to the remuneration packages which reward Companys policy for the remuneration Annual General Meeting on 25April 2014. performance and are competitive, but not of executive and non-executive Directors The past few years have seen Senior deliver market leading.
Taking into consideration for the coming year and which is not robust performance against a background boththe performance of Senior and current subject to audit: and ofmixed markets.
While the civil aerospace levels of remuneration for Seniors executive 3. t he Annual Report on Remuneration on industry continues to grow strongly, the Directors, the Committee wishes to have the pages 47 to55, produced in accordance markets for land vehicles have been more flexibility to increase, as it feels appropriate, with the Large and Medium Sized challenging, particularly for passenger the normal award limit under the LTIP from Companies and Groups Accounts and vehicles in Western Europe.
Adjusted EPS 100% to 150% of salary.
The exceptional limit Reports Amendment Regulations and the has increased by nearly 80% over the most will remain at 200% of salary.
The quantum relevant provisions of the Listing Rules of recent five financial years and Seniors share ofawards and shareholding guidelines will the Financial Conduct Authority.
Parts of price has grown by over 680% from the remain unchanged in 2014. the Annual Report on Remuneration are endof 2008 to the end of 2013.
We believe Assuming that our proposals for the subject to audit, which provides details of that Seniors remuneration package for the 2014 Plan areapproved, we would intend the Directors emoluments, shareholdings, executive Directors has been supportive to grantperformance shares using the long-term incentive awards and pensions ofthis growth as it has incentivised new planfrom 2015. for the yearended 31 December 2013 and management to deliver sustained earnings intentions for 2014.
It is proposed that in the future the maximum growth and strong cash flow performance.
pension allowance offered in lieu of joining a Celia BaXter As preparation for the publication of the first retirement plan will be 20%.
However, there Chair of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Report under the new BIS are no plans to amend the overall quantum of regulations, the Committee conducted a pension contribution pension allowances detailed review of its remuneration policy currently in place.
40 SEnior Plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
