BoarD of DireCtors Charles Berry Celia BaXter DaviD Best Chairman Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Appointment to the Board Charles Berry Appointment to the Board Celia Baxter Appointment to the Board David Best joined was appointed to the Board in March 2012 joined the Board on 2 September 2013.
David is the Chairman andbecame non-executive Chairman and became Chair of the Remuneration Committee of the Audit Committee.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee in December 2013 when Ian Much retired from Previous Experience on27April 2012. the Board.
He was formerly Group Finance Director of External Appointments Chairman of Drax External Appointments She is the Director Xansa plc and worked in the United States Group plc and of TheWeir GroupPLC.
for a number of years, most recently with Previous Experience He was an Executive Previous Experience Her early HR career was Lockheed Martin.
Director of Scottish Power plc from 1999 with Ford Motor Company and KPMG.
She has Qualifications Chartered Accountant to2005 and Chief Executive of their UK held executive HR positions with Hays plc, andCertified Public Accountant USA.
Enterprise Oil Plc and Tate & Lyle Plc.
David Best is to retire from the Board in April 2014.
Priortojoining Scottish Power, he was Group Qualifications Doctor of Philosophy PhD Development Director of Norwest Holst, a andMember of Chartered Institute of subsidiary of Compagnie General des Eaux, Personnel &Development.
and held management positions within subsidiaries of Pilkington plc.
He is a former non-executive director and Chairman of Eaga plc and Thus Group plc, and a former non-executive director of Impax Environmental Markets PLC and Securities Trust of Scotland plc.
Qualifications BSc Hons in Electrical Engineering and MSc in Management.
DereK harDinG Giles Kerr Simon Nicholls joined the Board in 2008, Group Finance Director Independent Non-executive Director when he was appointed Group Finance Appointment to the Board Derek Harding Appointment to the Board Giles Kerr joined Director.
He left Senior at the end of April joined the Board on 2 September 2013. the Board on 2 September 2013.
Giles will 2013 to become Chief Financial Officer Previous Experience He joined Senior from become Chairman of the Audit Committee, ofCobham plc.
Wolseley plc, where he had worked for 11 years, when David Best retires in April 2014. most recently as Finance Director of Wolseley External Appointments He is Director of UK.
Prior to this, he undertook a number of Finance of Oxford University and is a nongroup roles including Director of Group Strategy executive director of BTG Plc and Victrex plc.
Ian Much joined the Board in 2005 and & Investor Relations and Head of Mergers Previous Experience Giles held a number of retired from it on 5 December 2013: hewas &Acquisitions.
He qualified as a Chartered positions with Amersham PLC within finance an independent non-executive Director of Accountant with  and corporate development, culminating in the Company during that period.
in1998 following which he fulfilled audit hisrole as Group Finance Director.
He was andtransaction services roles in the UK formerly a Partner with Arthur Andersen& Co. andUSA before joining Wolseley in 2002.
Qualifications BA Hons in Economics Qualifications BSc Hons in Banking & andaChartered Accountant.
28 SEnior Plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION BoarD anD CoMMittee MeMBershiP Membership and the attendance record of the main Board and its Committees is shown in the table below.
Audit nominations remuneration Main Board committee committee committee Ian Much chair Charles Berry David Best Charles Berry Celia Baxter Total number ofmeetings 9 3 3 6 Charles Berry 9 9 3 3 6 6 1 Celia Baxter 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 David Best 9 9 3 3 3 3 6 6 anDy haMMent Andy Hamment 9 9 3 3 3 3 6 6 Senior Independent Non-executive Director 2 Derek Harding 3 3 Appointment to the Board Andy Hamment 3 Giles Kerr 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 joined the Board in April 2011.
In December 4 2013 he became the Senior Independent Ian Much 8 9 3 3 3 3 6 6 5 Director, when Ian Much retired from Simon Nicholls 3 3 theBoard.
Mark Rollins 9 9 External Appointments He is a nonMark E. Vernon 8 9 2 3 5 6 executive director of Chemring Group plc.
1 Previous Experience He was formerly Group Celia Baxter appointed a non-executive Director on 2 September 2013 and became chair of the Remuneration Marketing Director of Ultra Electronics plc.
He Committee on 5 December 2013 following the retirement of Ian Much.
2 Derek Harding appointed as Group Finance Director on 2 September 2013 to replace Simon Nicholls.
has worked in the aerospace and defence 3 Giles Kerr appointed a non-executive Director on 2 September 2013.
Will become Chairman industry for most of his career, mainly in of the Audit Committee upon David Bests retirement from the Group in April 2014. business development and management roles.
4 Ian Much Senior Independent non-executive Director until he retired from the Board on 5 December 2013.
He joined Dowty in 1988 as Managing Director 5 Simon Nicholls Group Finance Director until he left the Board on 30 April 2013. of the Controls business and participated in themanagement buyout that created UltraElectronics.
Qualifications BA Hons in Economics.
MarK rollins MarK e. vernon anDrew BoDenhaM Group Chief Executive Independent Non-executive Director Group Company Secretary Appointment to the Board Mark Rollins Appointment to the Board Mark E. Vernon Andrew Bodenham, joined as Group became Group Finance Director in 2000, when joined the Board in April 2011.
He acts as he joined the Board.
He became Group Chief External Appointments He is adirector Secretary to the Senior plc Board and its Executive in March 2008. ofLiqTech International, Inc.
Committees and also sits on the Groups External Appointments Non-executive Previous Experience He was the Group Chief Treasury Committee.
director of The Vitec Group PLC.
Executive of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc until Qualifications LLB Hons and Previous Experience He joined the Group his retirement in January 2014.
He was long career in the industrial engineering industry, formerly a non-executive director of serving previously as Group Vice-president of WSPGroup plc.
Flowserves Flow Control Business Unit, Group Qualifications BEng Hons in Vice-president of Durco International and Civil&Structural Engineering and President of Valtek International, a global aCharteredAccountant.
com Senior plc | AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 29
