rePort of the DireCtors The Directors present their Report and share CaPital finanCial instruMents supplementary reports, together with the The Company has one class of ordinary Note 21 contains disclosures on audited Financial Statements for the year shares, which carries no right to a fixed FinancialInstruments.
Each share carries the right to vote at DireCtors general meetings of the Company.
Changes aCtivities anD Business review Details of the Directors who served throughout inthe Companys issued share capital during Senior plc is a holding company.
The nature the year can be found on pages 28 and 29.
2013 were: ofthe Groups operations and its principal TheDirectors interests in the shares of the Shares in issue at 1 January 2013 413,851,869 activities are set out in the Strategic Report Company are included in the Directors Senior plc Long-term IncentivePlan 2,039,740 onpages 1 to 27.
Its Principal Group Remuneration Report on page 53.
None of the Senior plc Savings-Related undertakings are shown on page 105.
The Directors has any interest in contracts with the Share Option Plan 42,422 Strategic Report includes details of the Company or its subsidiary undertakings.
Shares in issue at marketoverview: key growth drivers: our The provisions of the UK Corporate 31 December 2013 415,934,031 business model: strategic objectives: risk Governance Code require that all Directors of anduncertainties: key performance indicators Further share capital details are given in FTSE 350 companies should be subject to and asummary of 2013 performance.
Charles Berry, aCquisitions anD DisPosals Andy Hamment, Mark Rollins and Mark E. Details of employee share plans are set out On 8 February 2013 Senior acquired 100% of Vernon will all stand for re-election at the onpages 98 to 100. the issued share capital of Atlas Composites Annual General Meeting the AGM in There are no specific restrictions on the size of Limited, together with its holding company.
Celia Baxter, Derek Harding and a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which On29 November 2013 Senior acquired Giles Kerr were all appointed to the Board in are both governed by the general provisions 100%of the issued share capital ofThermal September 2013 and offer themselves for ofthe Companys Articles of Association and Engineering Limited, together with its holding election at the AGM.
The Directors are not company, fora total consideration of 28.3m BoarD Diversity aware of any agreements between holders less cash acquired of 0.2m.
Further details of The Board remains committed to diversity, ofthe Companys shares that may result in these businesses are given on pages 8 and 95. previously having an aspirational goal of 15% restrictions on the transfer of securities or results anD DiviDenDs female Board representation by the end of onvoting rights.
No person has any special The results for the year are shown in the 2013.
The appointment of Celia Baxter to the rightsof control over the Companys share Consolidated Income Statement on page 60.
Board means this goal was broadly met.
The capital, and all issued shares are fully paid.
engineering sector suffers from a shortage An interim dividend of 1.52 pence per share With regard to the appointment and of female personnel and as a result it can be 2012 1.38 pence has already been paid and replacement of Directors, the Company is hard to find appropiate candidates.
It should be the Directors recommend a final dividend of governed by its Articles of Association, the UK noted that Senior takes into account all aspects 3.60 pence per share 2012 3.27 pence.
The Corporate Governance Code, the Companies of a potential candidate, not justdiversity.
final dividend, if approved, will be payable on Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles 30 May 2014 to shareholders on the register DireCtors inDeMnities may be amended by special resolution of the atthe close of business on 2 May 2014.
This Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for shareholders.
The powers of Directors are would bring the total dividend for the year to the benefit of the Directors were renewed by described in the Matters Reserved for the PLC 5.12 pence per share 2012 4.65 pence.
the Company during the year and remain in Board, which may be found on the Companys force at the date of this Report.
Each year, shareholder approval is sought to renew the Boards authority to allot researCh anD DeveloPMent relevant securities.
In 2013, the Group incurred 12.9m 201212.8m on research and development, There are also a number of other agreements before recoveries from customers of 3.1m that take effect, alter or terminate upon a 20121.3m.
Product development and change of control of the Company, such as improving manufacturing techniques represent commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, the primary focus of the Groups research and property lease arrangements, and employees development activities.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact PolitiCal Donations on the business of the Group as a whole.
No political donations were made during Furthermore, the Directors are not aware of theyear.
any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
30 SEnior Plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION eMPloyees So far as is known, no other shareholder had a auDitor The Group promotes the dissemination of notifiable interest amounting to 3% or more of Each of the persons who is a Director of relevant information, so that employees are the issued share capital of the Company, and the Company at the date of approval of this kept regularly advised of Group and local the Directors believe that the close company Annual Report confirms that: operation developments.
Where appropriate, provisions of the Income and Corporation so far as the Director is aware, there is local briefing sessions are held concerning Taxes Act 1988 as amended do not apply no relevant audit information of which such matters as health and safety, pension tothe Company.
theCompanys Auditor is unaware: and plans and healthcare benefits.
CoMPlianCe with the uK CorPorate the Director has taken all steps that he she PoliCy on PayMent of CreDitors GovernanCe CoDe ought to have taken as a Director in order The Groups policy is to set the terms of The statements of compliance with the to make himself herself aware of any payment with its suppliers when agreeing provisions of the UK Corporate Governance relevantaudit information and to establish theterms of each transaction, and to seek to Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council thatthe Companys Auditor is aware of adhere to those terms.
In 2013 the Company are set out on page 32. that information.
signed up to the UK Prompt Payment Code, DireCtors reMuneration rePort anD PoliCy which promotes the fair treatment of suppliers.
This information is given and should be The Companys policy on executive Directors Based on the ratio of Company trade creditors interpreted in accordance with the provisions remuneration is set out in the Directors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 55.
The during the year by suppliers, the number of Annual Report on Remuneration is to be put Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as days outstanding at the year-end was 18 days to shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM.
the Companys Auditor and to authorise the 2012 12 days.
Payment terms adhered to Directors to set the Auditors remuneration bythe Company are typically in the range of The Directors Remuneration Policy is also to will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
be put to shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM: the Remuneration Policy is set out on By Order of the Board Greenhouse Gas eMissions pages 41 to 46.
The Group has followed 2013 UK Government anDrew BoDenhaM reporting guidance on greenhouse gas annual General MeetinG Group Company Secretary emissions: details of the Groups emissions The Notice of Meeting describes the business 28 February 2014 canby found on page 17. to be considered at the AGM to be held at11.30 am on Friday 25 April 2014 at Major shareholDinGs Watersmeet, High Street, Rickmansworth The Company had been notified that WD3 1EH.
the following shareholders were interested in 3% or more of the issued share capital aCquisition of the CoMPanys of the Company: ownshares The Company purchased no ordinary shares 12.02.14 31.12.13 % % of 10p each in the capital of the Company BlackRock Investment during the year.
At the end of the year, the Management 14.05 14.52 Directors had authority, under the shareholders Henderson Global resolutions dated 26 April 2013, to make Investors 7.44 7.44 market purchases of the Companys shares Legal & General upto an aggregate nominal amount of Investment Management 4.98 5.09 41m, which represented approximately 10% Scottish Widows oftheissued share capital of the Company.
Investment Partnership 4.32 4.32 Aresolution to renew this authority will be Schroder Investment proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Management 3.79 3.84 Kames Capital 3.52 3.52 Old Mutual Asset Managed 3.32 3.35 www.
com Senior plc | AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 31
