STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CUSTOMER ALIGNMENT Working with customers to provide market-leading solutions in the groups chosen principal markets is the primary objective of customer alignment.
OPTIMISING VALUE AND  The Group seeks to deliver competitive products utilising its engineering expertise to optimise customer value and exceed EDUCATING TOMORROWS WORKFORCE OPERATING ETHICALLY their expectations whilst continuing to Education and skills, particularly Science, Senior is committed to conducting its meet its performance objectives.
Technology, Engineering and Mathematics business with integrity, honesty and fairness STEM are key to the future success and operating with the highest degree of This is achieved through advanced process ofboth Senior and its customers.
Several ethical standards in everything it does.
The engineering and excellent operational Senior businesses focus their community cornerstone of managements commitment execution, leading to market differentiation activities on educational outreach programmes to ethics is the Senior Code of Business and continued growth in organic revenue, supporting local schools, technical colleges Conduct that provides a clear framework operating margins and cash flow delivery.
For instance, Senior fordecision-making, highlighting the values TARGETED INVESTMENT Aerospace BWT works on STEM initiatives and behaviours it expects its employees Targeted investment in new product with several local schools.
Two BWT todemonstrate at all times.
development, technologies and employees are National STEM Ambassadors The Codes applies Group-wide including geographic regions, for markets having whose work includes supporting STEM itsagents and joint ventures and defines higher than average growth potential, Clubs in local schools, mentoring and standards in areas such as: anti-bribery, tofurther enhance organic growth supporting students with Career Academies, corruption and fraud, managing conflicts opportunities.
and helping students gain invaluable work ofinterest and engaging in fair competition.
experience through paid work placements.
Many of the Groups products are developed to help customers to achieve their objectives for improved operating costs, particularly fuel efficiency in aircraft 1 SHIPSET VALUE PROGRESSION LARGE COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT platforms and land vehicle engine % CAGR applications, and to meet increasingly stringent global emission regulations.
TheGroups level of investment in these Dec-06 $k growth areas and on expanding its Dec-07 geographic footprint, which now includes 3% Dec-08 800 Thailand and China, continues to increase.
Dec-09 Dec-10 700 Dec-11 Dec-12 600 Dec-13 through Aligning 11% 500 8% With our customers 3% 26% 400 We Are Able to increAse our shipset 300 7% vAlue on mAJor 200 3% plAtforms, for 100 exAmple on lArge 0 commerciAl AircrAft.
737 777 787 A320 A330 A380 A350 1 Average based on programme share and estimated engine variant.
com Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 9
