Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Effectiveness Corporate Governance Report The work of the Board At each Board meeting, the Group Chief Executive presents a comprehensive update on the strategy and business issues across the Group together with an update on transformation and portfolio management activity.
The Group Chief Financial Officer presents a detailed analysis of the financial performance, both at Group and divisional levels.
Senior executives below Board level attend relevant parts of the Board meetings in order to inform the Board of developments and activities in their areas of responsibility.
This provides the Board with access to a broader group of executives and helps Directors make assessments of the Groups emerging talent as succession to senior management roles this was an agreed action arising from the 2012 Board evaluation.
During the year, the Board held some of its meetings at divisional locations and conducted in depth reviews of operations and strategy as well as gaining more presence and visibility amongst management and staff.
Individual Board members also conducted several visits to contract sites in the UK and internationally.
At its meetings during the year, the Board discharged its responsibilities and, in particular, reviewed the following areas.
In addition the Board gave specific focus to the issues that arose in 2013 in relation to certain of its contracts with the UK Government, reviewing their root causes and agreeing the resulting programme of corporate renewal and the restoration of the Groups relationship with government: Strategy and transformation The Group and divisional corporate strategies, transformation plans, portfolio management and the Groups health and safety strategy Investor relations Investor feedback and analyst meetings following the release of the full year 2012 and half year 2013 annual results Business performance The operational performance of each of the divisional businesses, and periodic updates presented by the divisional management teams Governance Review of the Groups Treasury policy, risk appetite, work undertaken with regard to the corporate renewal programme referred to above and in particular forming the Corporate Responsibility Committee of the Board and the recruitment of three Non-Executive Directors Financial and risk management The Groups business plans, presentations on the Group risk register and significant areas of risk Diversity, talent and succession Presentation from Group Human Resources and Talent Directors on talent management and development across the Group Board effectiveness Balance To be effective, the Board must understand the dynamics of Sercos rich mix of complex businesses across its many diverse markets, including the issues and factors upon which sustained success depends.
A balance of experience, skills and viewpoints within the Board promotes overall Board effectiveness and enhances Company performance in the long term.
The directors are drawn from different backgrounds and industries, and each has extensive experience of other international businesses in sectors that help inform and augment Board debate.
Induction, training and ongoing development On joining the Board, each director receives a personalised induction programme including: An overview of the Groups businesses, risks, governance arrangements and relations with investors Structured meetings with a range of relevant senior managers from across the Group Meetings with key advisors and shareholders as appropriate to the directors role Site visits to gain first-hand insight into operational contracts with major customers.
Legal and regulatory updates are essential for good governance, to ensure that directors understand the operational environment of the business.
The Board and Committee meetings incorporate briefings periodically on changes to the business, legislative and regulatory environment, and on other relevant topics, such as changes to the corporate and remuneration reporting landscape in 2013.
As part of its annual evaluation process, the Board considers the training needs of the directors and the Company Secretary.
Development needs fall within the remit of the Chairman, who reviews and agrees these with each individual.
All Board members are encouraged to attend relevant external training courses at the Companys expense.
More information on Board evaluation can be found on page 69.
An induction programme for Malcolm Wyman was successfully completed on his appointment and a programme for Mike Clasper, Tamara Ingram and Rachel Lomax, who joined the Board on 3 March 2014, is already underway and includes site visits and meetings with senior executives of, and advisers to, the Group.
The Chairman continues to undertake an extensive programme of contract visits.
Board independence The Board considers all of the Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
In coming to this conclusion, it has determined that each Non-Executive Director is independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgements.
In particular, they are independent of management and have no cross-directorships or significant links that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Non-Executive Directors meet separately without the Chairman or executive directors being present at least once a year principally to appraise the Chairmans performance.
This meeting is chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
