Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic Report Corporate responsibility Bybeingresponsible, wewillenhanceour its effective implementation across the Group.
The issues we faced in the second  The Executive Committee is responsible for  value for our shareholders.
The importance implementing our Group CR objectives.
reinforce our view that for Serco  CR meansthat to be successful and sustainable, we have built it into the way we operate,  embedding it in all aspects of the Serco is somebody they can turn to discuss potential  ManagementSystem SMS.
This means living up to our  or when transitioning or operating contracts, responsibilities to our customers, behave, operate and deliver our strategy.
so the matter can be discussed openly and we the public, our employees,  .
Towardsthe and standards, covering subjects ranging from endof2013,  partners, suppliers, communities health,  HSE to lead in each division, who will be answerable and the environment.
During2014, to a divisional ethics committee, which has we will further develop the SMS, including now been established.
 our values and code of conduct, as part of meansensuringthatwe: our corporate renewal programme.
More Developing our CR strategy  Each element of CR has its own strategy, always do the right thing programme can be found on page 60. : The way we manage our responsibilities and our  are open and transparent with performance in the year are summarised below.
strategy, which is developed through the our customers, our people and We also publish a fuller CR report online, which .
Theforum the societies we serve isavailableatwww.
includes divisional HR directors and other senior corporate function members.
deliver on our commitments Managing corporate responsibility :our  and comply with the law people:healthandsafety:communities:the sponsors our HSE strategy.
This is based environment:ourmarketplace, whichcovers  engage with and motivate our relationships with our customers, suppliers .
TheHSEOversight our people andotherparties:andourcommitmentto Group is made up of senior corporate ethics and business conduct.
function members and divisional HSE leads.
act safely and with respect for    the environment and those with responsibility for our Group business strategy Committee GRMSC.
TheGRMSCreviews whomwework and therefore approves our Group CR strategy.
the HSE strategy and monitors performance  at its quarterly meetings.
The chair of the  sponsor for CR and chairs the CR Committee.
GRMSC reports and presents the HSE strategy to the Executive Committee.
 InOctober2013, weannouncedthatwe , Our community strategy is developed returns, and , through a CR Oversight Group.
The , riskmanagement Executive Committee then reviews and develop and safeguard our and HSE matters.
This committee, which met monitors our community strategy.
, willmeet quarterly to receive formal progress reports Serco operates across many countries, .
jurisdictions and cultures, so we adopt a More information on the CR Committee can .
This be found in the Corporate Governance Report , on page 81.  makedecisions.
 The Chief Executive is a member of the our overall business strategy.
CR Committee and is responsible for   of apprentices.
