Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic Report Corporate responsibility topreviousyears.
 Environment Continued as the baseline for future reporting.
 much to the environment as it does to health We have calculated our emissions using a andsafety.
 materiality threshold of 5%, meaning we are protect our reputation and reduce our energy %of consumption and environmental impact.
These calculations have been environmental policy is also driven by the desire , anindependent to do what is right for the world we live in.
More information on our greenhouse gas emissions can be found  onpages58to59.
Wehavealsopublisheda managed at a local level, we are united in our  strategy of measuring our impact and reducing website www.
This supports many initiatives in our operations around the world.
Objective 3: To use the Serco25 We continue to contribute to the Carbon We also have contracts that help our customers campaign to encourage our people DisclosureProject.
In2013, Sercoachieved to improve their environmental performance.
to raise money for charities ascoreof92% 18thequalintheFTSE For example Serco provides environmental 350  services to UK local authorities, which help our We wanted Serco25 to enable our employees LeadershipIndex.
customers to reduce the volumes of waste sent , tolandfillsites.
 Objective 2: Zero environmental fundraising and other community events during prosecutions, fines and enforcement For2013,  2013.
 notices from our activities objectives: volunteering days to helping communities affected by natural disasters.
We once again received no environmental Objective 1: To reduce our carbon prosecutions, .
emissions headcount intensity rate by To showcase their efforts, we created a 3% to 1,967 tonnes of CO equivalent 2 dedicated website so our people could see 2014 objectives CO e per 1,000 employees 2 what their colleagues around the world were For 2014, we have set the following doing.
The site had 220,000 visits, 14,444 environmentaltargets: Duringtheyear, wechangedthebasison registrations and more than one million which we calculate our carbon emissions, in page views.
to improve the materiality threshold of our  greenhouse gas emissions reporting for .
WeadoptedISO As part of the Serco25 campaign, our people all divisions to 5% 14064-1 2012 Specification with guidance not only raised over 400,000 for our nine at the organisation level for quantification and child-related charities, but also raised more to reduce our carbon emissions intensity reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and than 200,000 for other charities of their tonnesofCOeperFTE by3%, and removals, which resulted in us collecting a far 2 own choice.
more comprehensive data set across all our to agree targets for divisional environmental operations globally.
2014 objectives initiatives, so we can monitor their impact For 2014, we have set the following community .
objectives: Marketplace Forexample,  , whichwetookoverin to continue to invest 1% of Adjusted pre-tax July2012, andDMSMaritime, whichwetookfull Customers  ownership of towards the end of 2012.
This had  , asthese relationships with our customers is central to promote and support the Serco  to our business.
The events of the last year Foundation, and Groupstotal.
have demonstrated that being clear and transparent with our customers is fundamental to recognise exceptional contributions made As a result of these factors, our emissions to maintaining trusting relationships.
While dayby our people to the communities in which  e  2 theyliveandwork  FTE isnotcomparable needs lies with our contract directors, our  company and we used our Serco25 campaign  our communities.
56 Strategic Report corporate renewal plan aims to increase the  frequency and transparency of our customer medium-sized SME suppliersandwe engagement.
This will help to ensure we identify continue to improve our interaction with them.
and respond promptly to their concerns.
We are  also placing customer satisfaction at the core is made up of representatives of SMEs from of our management reporting and incentive acrossthebusiness.
TheBodyguidesus structures, so we are fully focused on ensuring on our communications with and support to our customers receive the high-quality services SMEs.
IntheUS,  they deserve from us.
programme, which provides guidance to small  We will maintain relationships at all levels with their businesses and creating budgets.
our customers, so they are aware of how we can help them and we can anticipate their InJune2013,  changing needs.
These relationships lie with of conduct.
This sets out the principles and our divisional and Group leaders.
 with, to ensure we operate not just legally, Our reputation with our existing customers is but ethically and fairly.
also vital to our success and to our prospects offuturegrowth.
 Joint venture partners reputation, including: Serco has many joint ventures with commercial partners and customers.
Strong relationships, the quality of our service based on mutual trust and respect and clarity of roles, are essential ingredients if a joint the trust of our customers venture is to deliver excellent customer service.
our values and service ethos Our divisional management teams are responsible for relationships with our joint our capacity to innovate, and venture partners, supported by members of  our engagement with our employees and other as appropriate.
This includes holding regular stakeholders, .
strategy and review meetings with our partners.
Suppliers Strategic partners Effective procurement helps us to achieve We often deliver services as part of a our vision and deliver high-quality service to consortium, either as prime contractor or as a customers.
We aim to be professional in all subcontractor.
This allows us to bring together our dealings with suppliers and to establish  .
Procurement and Supply Chain function, which is responsible for putting this approach into Our values and the open and honest way practice.
Each division has its own dedicated  procurement business partner embedded within partner for voluntary sector organisations, the divisional management team.
Our businesses have many common Responsibility for relationships with our strategic  partners lies with the relevant contract and preferred suppliers, enabling us to achieve divisional management.
Serco provides environmental services to UK local authorities, which help our customers to reduce the .
