Strategic Report We support the Royal Navys Fleet Air Arm at RNAS Yeovilton.
18-month extension was signed with a value Defence & Science and expanded its services to Airbus for air traffic of approximately 100m.
Operations across Defence & Science control, manoeuvring area safety training, air accounted for approximately 30% of UK traffic engineering and facilities management Ferry services to the Northern Isles of Scotland & Europe Adjusted revenue.
We also successfully rebid our support completed their first full year under Sercos to the United States Air Force in Europe, which management.
This has seen the refurbishment Our management and operation of AWE, provides transportation, supply and facilities of all three passenger vessels and numerous as part of a joint venture with Lockheed Martin management.
For the British Army, our preother improvements delivered to assist and Jacobs Engineering, began the next deployment training Contemporary Operating increasing usage of the lifeline freight and five-year pricing period in April 2013.
Strong Environment Force contract was extended for passenger services.
In similar operations, operational performance and programme a further year.
Serco and its local joint venture partner delivery has continued.
Projects that became Strmma Turism & Sjfart AB were selected fully operational in the period included Orion, Operations in Europe have similarly been during the year to manage and operate AWEs new laser facility, which is now one of the successfully rebid during 2013.
Serco four ferries currently carrying over two million worlds most powerful lasers and of immense will continue to manage the European passengers annually in Stockholm.
interest both internationally and to the wider Space Agencys operational control centre academic community working in areas such as infrastructure and tracking stations network, Serco delivered the phase 3 expansion of fusion energy and astrophysics.
Meanwhile, at under a five-year contract worth over 30m.
Barclays Cycle Hire for Transport for London, Sercos strategic partnership with Dstl, further We rebid our contract providing telephony, adding approximately 5,600 new docking points target service options such as procurement videoconferencing and cabling support across and 2,400 new bikes to western boroughs.
have been added to the existing prime contract.
European Parliament sites, and expanded it Serco was also awarded an innovative new further to cover TV distribution, in a new contract contract to provide end-to-end on-street parking In our support services for the Armed Forces, valued at approximately 17m over a maximum enforcement for the West London Alliance, Serco extended and then subsequently of six years.
a partnership between Ealing, Hounslow rebid successfully its Multi-Engine Pilot and Brent borough councils.
Training contract at RAF Cranwell, valued at Home Affairs approximately 36m over five years.
Serco Operations across the Home Affairs market In Local Direct Services, Serco successfully provides up to 5,500 flying hours annually accounted for approximately 20% of UK & extended or rebid its contracts for environmental in the King Air B200 aircraft, as well as up to Europe Adjusted revenue.
services for Canterbury City Council, Welwyn 2,700 aircraft simulator hours.
Other extended Hatfield Borough Council and Breckland Borough contracts included maintenance for the Search During the year a detailed independent forensic Council, valued in total at over 100m.
Our and Rescue fleet of Sea King aircraft, our audit of our Electronic Monitoring EM contract operations for Sandwell Metropolitan Borough Multi-Activity Contract at RAF Brize Norton was completed with Sercos full cooperation, Council saw the opening of a new 10m waste and our Air Traffic Services at Wattisham, for the with the audit identifying issues with billing.
transfer station in Tipton, handling more than British Armys Apache helicopter fleet.
In related A settlement of 64.3m with the MoJ reflected 1,700 tonnes of waste and recycling each week.
services for the private sector, Serco has rebid the difference in contract interpretation From left: Our Defence Business Services contract for the Ministry of Defence was our first pure back-office contract in the UK public sector.
Our joint venture continues to achieve strong operational performance and programme delivery at the Atomic Weapons Establishment.
