Directors Report Internal audit An integral part of risk management is assurance that the controls identified to manage risks are operating and effective.
Internal audit is responsible for reviewing the design and operation of risk management processes and controls operated across the Group, providing objective assurance around the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
During 2013, there was a change in administrative reporting lines of the Group Head of Internal Audit from the Group Chief Financial Officer to the Group Chief Executive.
Functionally, the Group Head of Internal Audit reports to the Chair of the Audit Committee and is responsible for delivery of the internal audit programme, ensuring that it is risk-based and aligned with the overall strategy of the Group.
Internal audit is delivered at Group and divisional levels, using a mix of co-sourced and in-house resources, with each division operating an Audit and Risk Committee, which reviews the results of relevant internal audits three times a year.
The findings of the overall internal audit programme are reported directly to the Boards Audit Committee.
The effectiveness and resourcing of our internal audit capability has been specifically reviewed as part of our programme of corporate renewal.
In addition to internal audit, many parts of our business are subject to other reviews of their controls by third parties, including industry regulators, ISO Standards, customers and other external audits.
This third-party scrutiny significantly increases the scope of independent assurance conducted across the Group each year.
Management assurance Management assurance is part of the business assurance process.
Each division is required to carry out a programme of management assurance to provide comfort that the division is managing its risks effectively and in compliance with the SMS.
The results of the programme are reviewed by the divisional Audit and Risk Committees.
Business conduct Serco Group operates within a management system that defines the policies, standards and processes to be applied wherever we operate.
Integral to this is our policy on Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to all business divisions, operating companies and business units throughout the world.
This policy outlines the Groups position on a wide range of ethical and legal issues including conflicts of interest, financial inducements, human rights and legal and regulatory compliance.
It applies to directors and to all employees regardless of their position or location.
Recognising that ethical dilemmas may arise in a growing company, the Group has an ethics consultation process that is to be followed to determine the Groups position on particular issues.
To support this process the Investment and Ethics Committee, comprising members of the Executive Team with a quorum of three and chaired by the Director, Risk and Acquisitions, meets as required.
As the leadership of the Company, the Executive Team will make judgements about what it considers acceptable.
Under the Corporate Renewal Programme, we have established the Corporate Responsibility Committee of the Board to take the lead in determining the Groups ethical compass, supported by the creation of formal Ethics Committees and the appointment of Ethics Officers in each division.
We have also redesigned our whistle-blowing process, with input from the Institute of Business Ethics, to benchmark against the highest international standards.
Sercos outsourced Ethics Hotline operated throughout the year, which enabled employees to report any concerns, or report any wrongdoing, that they did not feel able to raise with their line manager, human resources colleagues or through other reporting channels.
In addition to the Hotline, which is available 24 hours a day toll-free worldwide in several languages, employees can also make reports via email or the internet.
The Company Secretary independently investigates, with external specialist support where required, any issues raised and reports back to the Audit Committee and, as appropriate, the Board.
The Group maintains a position of neutrality with respect to party politics.
Accordingly, it does not contribute funds to any political party.
It does, however, contribute to the public debate of policy issues that may affect the Group in the countries in which it operates.
The Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary are being taken to remedy the failings and weaknesses which it has determined to be significant from its review of the internal controls across the Group.
Going concern The Directors have acknowledged the guidance Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 and An update for Directors of Listed Companies: Responding to increased country and currency risk in financial reports, published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009 and January 2012 respectively.
This is discussed in the Finance Review starting on page 42.
