Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic Report Divisional reviews AMEAA In Australia, Serco offers systems integration to provide road and parking facilities AMEAA consists of Australasia, and complex project management, as a key management services at the Hong Kong the Middle East, Asia and Africa, provider for the Australian Defence Force.
where we provide services marine arm, DMS Maritime, makes us one of including transport, justice, the countrys largest marine services providers.
The Middle East is home to some of Sercos Our work in justice and corrections, focused longest standing air traffic control contracts.
immigration, health, defence on reducing reoffending, was again publicly We are also the regions largest international and other direct services such recognised by further awards in 2013.
In health, operator in urban surface transport.
we have taken over responsibility for Western notably, we operate the Dubai Metro, the Australias flagship Fiona Stanley hospital site, worlds longest and most-advanced driverless where we are integrating facilities management light rail system.
Our technology business and support services.
We also provide medical serves the telecommunications, marine and logistic services to the military.
We operate the biomedical sectors, and we provide integrated national network of immigration centres for facilities management to the education and the Australian Department of Immigration and commercial sectors.
In transport, our services range from operating customer services and In India, Serco operates and maintains the processing information to developing and new Bus Rapid Transit System, in the city of maintaining infrastructure.
Serco also owns Indore in the state of Madhya Pradesh.
We Great Southern Rail, which operates Australias have implemented a pilot project for electronic iconic trains, the Indian Pacific and the Ghan.
road toll collection with ICICI Bank, intended to pave the way for a long-term partnership and In New Zealand, we manage Mt Eden nationwide implementation.
Corrections Facility, which is currently the countrys only privately operated prison, and are AMEAA 2013 review part of the consortium which is building and will Adjusted revenue from ongoing activities on operate the new prison at Wiri, South Auckland, a reported currency basis grew by 19% to under a public-private partnership.
On a constant In Hong Kong, we are the market leader currency basis, before the effect of local in managing, operating and maintaining currency weakness against the average road tunnels, bridges and related tollway sterling rate, growth was 22%.
We provide domestic and contribution from the prior years acquisition transportation services to two major hospitals, of the remaining 50% equity stake in DMS and in 2013 we commenced our first contract Maritime, organic growth was 18%.
A significant From left: During 2013, management of the Fiona Stanley hospital site passed to Serco.
By early 2015, we will be managing more than 1,000 non-clinical staff at the hospital.
Our work in justice and corrections was again publicly recognised by awards in Australia in 2013.
34 Strategic Report From left: Our portfolio of air traffic control contracts includes Baghdad International Airport, Iraq.
We are one of Australias largest marine services providers.
35 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic Report Divisional reviews AMEAA volume of work carried out under contracts Sercos presence in the health market Continued Serco has for the management and operation of elsewhere in the AMEAA region is developing the detention services and the related transport well.
Serco was awarded a new healthcare arrangements.
This resulted in further growth support services contract in the Middle East at in revenue to over 450m for the Group in Healthpoint in Abu Dhabi.
Healthpoint is a fully 2013, and the employment of more than 3,000 integrated, primary care and multi-specialty people across Australia.
Following significant hospital, offering a wide range of outpatient changes to government policies, the population and inpatient services.
In Hong Kong, where in our care declined to below 5,000 by the end we currently employ more than 600 people of February 2014.
A six month extension to in health-related businesses, we extended 10 December 2014 was awarded for our main our facilities management services contract, contract for the detention centres.
covering four hospitals and one rehabilitation centre in the western districts.
In justice services, operational improvements at Mt Eden Corrections Facility have continued to Also in Hong Kong, Serco was awarded a new proportion of this was due to the volume of our be recognised.
A new performance grading of all transportation management, operation and work providing immigration services in Australia, prisons in New Zealand has placed Mt Eden in maintenance contract for the Tsing Sha Control with other incremental revenue coming from the exceeding category.
In Australia, Southern Area, with a total estimated value to Serco growing our transport and health operations Queensland Correctional Centre was honoured of HK$960m approximately 80m over the in the wider AMEAA region.
with a prestigious Australian Business Award in the six-year base period.
Our extensive air traffic Innovation category, recognising a ground-breaking control services in the region, while no longer Adjusted operating profit from ongoing activities education project being trialled at the prison, with serving Abu Dhabi, were strengthened with a grew by 28% on a reported currency basis the ultimate aim of reducing reoffending.
new 18-month, 24m contract for the Iraq Civil to 82.1m 2012: 64.3m, with the margin Aviation Authority and a new framework contract increasing to 7.8% 2012: 7.3%.
The increased Sercos pre-operational support for the Fiona for the Qatar Civil Aviation Authority.
margin reflects principally the beneficial effect of Stanley hospital in Perth continued to build over operational leverage, particularly in immigration 2013 and management of the site transferred to During the year, Serco signed an extension to services, and other cost management activity Serco in December.
The hospital is the largest its contract with the Dubai Government Roads undertaken in the period.
public tertiary health facility in Western Australia, and Transport Authority RTA to operate and with Serco providing an extensive range of maintain the Dubai Metro.
Serco has continued In Immigration Services in Australia, a record facilities management and support services.
to deliver world class safety and operational number of people arrived by boat without a The first patients will be admitted in October standards, including 99.9% of trains on time, valid visa: over 20,000 individuals arrived in this 2014 and by early 2015 Serco will be managing while also expanding ridership to over 137 manner in 2013 and the number of people in more than 1,000 non-clinical staff required to million journeys in 2013.
The five-year extension our care averaged 7,400.
This increased the operate the hospital.
is valued at approximately 355m, with an From left: Serco operates the Dubai Metro, the worlds longest and most-advanced driverless light rail system.
We manage Mt Eden Corrections Facility, which is currently New Zealands only privately operated prison.
