Strategic Report In the welfare market, Government statistics establishing a 24-hour care coordination centre.
Bids and market for the Work Programme show that the national However, demand on the service has increased development in other areas continue to be picture is improving and that Serco continues and it is taking longer than anticipated to bring pursued, including direct services for local to achieve good results in its two contracts.
about the operational performance levels that government, non-clinical and community To date, we have helped 20,000 long-term are expected.
At all times Serco has ensured healthcare services, and other frontline support unemployed people into employment across that the service is properly resourced to deliver to organisations in the UK and Europe.
In the South Yorkshire and West Midlands regions.
a safe, quality service and will continue to do addition, middle and back office opportunities The NCS Network, a partnership of Serco, so.
Serco remains committed to the community for local and central government will be Catch22, the National Youth Agency, UK Youth healthcare market and to the service in Suffolk.
pursued, in conjunction with the skills and and vInspired, is delivering the National Citizen capabilities of our Global Services division.
Service across six regions in the UK.
More Provisions for estimated losses in future years than 10,000 young people have completed the on the Suffolk and Cornwall contracts, together New bid opportunities that are expected to be programme in the first year, gaining skills useful with provisions against the underlying assets decided over the next two years include: for their future working lives.
of the Braintree contract, led to a non-cash exceptional charge of 17.6m in the year.
Strategic partner to the MoD to deliver further Health efficiencies to the Defence Infrastructure Operations across Health accounted UK & Europe future developments Organisation for approximately 10% of UK & Europe The 2014 financial year will be impacted by Adjusted revenue.
a greater level of attrition, which includes the Management of decommissioning activities ending of contracts such as the Electronic at 12 UK nuclear sites, in partnership with Core to our strategy in the UK is providing Monitoring service and the anticipated transition CH2M HILL and AREVA healthcare organisations with integrated of the management and operation of the facilities management.
For example, Serco UKs National Physical Laboratory.
These two Operational and engineering support for signed an extension to continue providing significant contracts together have previously the Defence Fire and Risk Management support services to Plymouth Hospitals NHS accounted for around 5% of divisional revenue.
Organisation Trust, valued at approximately 40m over three The overall level of attrition is expected to have years.
Our UK skills and capabilities in this a greater impact on profitability.
A reduced Transport operations including the sector have also continued to be important level of project-related work is also anticipated Caledonian Sleeper rail service and Clyde references for contracts won in other regions.
& Hebrides ferry services Operations at certain clinical health contracts Over the next two years, significant Operational support for Programme have proven challenging in 2013.
Our Serco contracts that require extending GATEWAY at RAF Brize Norton management of Braintree Hospital has been or rebidding include: impacted by lower levels of patient referrals Engineering and support services to UK than predicted, with Sercos ability to improve Northern Rail, where the existing contract military air traffic management utilisation of the hospital being limited.
At our is due to expire in April 2014 and revenue Cornwall GP out-of-hours contract, overall in 2013 was approximately 13% of the UK Non-clinical health support services to patient feedback is positive and the Care Quality & Europe division: Serco is in advanced an NHS trust Commissions report noted the improvements stages of agreeing an extension to continue made and that essential standards of quality operations through to early 2016, at which Numerous environmental and integrated and safety were being fully met.
However, the point the franchise would be retendered waste management services for local councils implementation of the NHS Pathways IT system during the year proved an additional challenge Docklands Light Railway, where the existing As previously noted, from 2014 the for a contract that Serco has acknowledged contract is due to expire in September 2014 operations of this division will split into two, publicly that it has not delivered as successfully and revenue in 2013 was approximately with a separate division for our UK Central as it should have.
As announced in December 3-4% of the UK & Europe division: Serco Government work to achieve a focus on 2013, Serco will end these two contracts early.
is currently one of three shortlisted parties government as a collective customer.
bidding for the next contract Serco began a significant new contract for the NHS in Suffolk in October 2012, providing a Future growth is expected to be driven by wide range of community health services.
The competitive outsourcing continuing to support contract is one of the first of its kind and runs the UK Governments aim of achieving savings, for three years.
Serco has delivered some early whilst improving services and social outcomes.
benefits in 2013, such as reducing the length The reform of public services provision is an of stay in community hospitals by around a ongoing process, with the Cabinet Office and week and improving access to the service by spending departments continuing to bring From left: Our community health services contract in Suffolk is one of the first of its kind.
Serco continues to deliver good results in its two Work Programme contracts.
