Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic Report Our strategy Setting our strategic direction Although Serco faces its own challenges and Strategy Description Key achievements in 2013 there are some uncertainties in both developed and emerging economies, our markets are growing and we see that continuing.
This growth is driven by economic and demographic Our strategy aims to build a balanced portfolio across developed and emerging We delivered Adjusted revenue growth of 4.7%.
fundamentals, which have strengthened over Building markets, frontline and BPO services, and public and private sectors.
Citizens are demanding more We saw strong organic growth in our AMEAA division and held our and better services within constrained public a balanced This reduces our exposure to market fluctuations, enables us to select the best Americas revenues steady, despite a further year of shrinkage in the sector budgets.
There is a desire for new public opportunities wherever they arise, and allows us to transfer expertise from one US Federal outsourcing market.
New contracts supporting US healthcare services in countries where the size and wealth market to another.
eligibility and state transportation services have successfully broadened portfolio of the population is growing.
Demographic our portfolio in this region.
shifts continue to underpin demand, with more To support our organic growth, we consider acquisitions and strategic and more pressure being put on physical and partnerships, which add to the depth of capabilities we can take to our Growth was also achieved in the UK and in our Global Services division.
social infrastructure, especially healthcare, customers, or enable us to enter new markets for existing service lines.
Reviews such as that covering UK clinical health have led to decisions social services, transport and immigration.
to exit early from certain contracts.
Our proactive portfolio management also involves ongoing assessment of Despite the specific challenges Serco faced in our contracts and businesses for strategic fit, expected performance and riskIn 2013, we divested some operations that had become non-core, 2013, our strategic approach remains centred adjusted returns.
This results in our exit from markets no longer core including UK transport maintenance and operational health services.
on organic growth, while also emphasising the to the Groups future development.
factors that will support that growth service quality, efficiency and people development.
Where it is valuable to add capabilities that complement our existing service offering, or we want to establish a presence in new markets that offer opportunities for our existing service lines, we will consider acquisitions to take our strategy forward.
Underpinning our strategy is our ability to consistently deliver efficient and In 2013, we experienced significant issues with two contracts for the Our Group strategy Driving high-quality services across the world.
As Serco grows, we increasingly look UK Ministry of Justice MoJ.
Audits of all our other MoJ contracts and Our strategy is focused on three key pillars: for opportunities to transfer our capabilities across geographies, so that more reviews of all our major UK Central Government contracts concluded building a balanced portfolio, driving improved of our capabilities are available to more of our customers.
Our corporate renewal programme will improved service and margin, and enhancing our people, also support further service improvement alongside changing attitudes.
Growth allows us to drive economies of scale, providing the opportunity service to support our portfolio with shared services, processes and platforms.
2013 was an important year for transitioning operations on major These also help bind teams and businesses across sectors and countries.
contracts such as Shop Direct Group and Fiona Stanley Hospital, as well and margin as starting new, large operations such as those for the US Department of Health and Human Services Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services We therefore continue to develop and share global best practices and aim and Virginia Department of Transportation.
to maximise the efficiency of our operations.
The principal drivers of margin reduction included: increased cost investment in contract bidding and new market development in Global Services: reduced discretionary and project work: and the general challenge Serco faced in progressing UK contract awards given the issues with our UK Government customer.
In addition there were other margin mix effects, such as lower margins on the initial stages of new contracting areas and the start of the new five-year pricing period at the Atomic Weapons Establishment.
Our people are our greatest asset, so getting our people strategy right is In 2013 we developed a new leadership model which covers everyone Enhancing essential to meeting our strategic goals.
Our people strategy therefore aims to in Serco and will be launched in 2014 see page 53. drive the right behaviours, capabilities, structures and incentives.
Our focus is on further developing our leaders, equipping our staff to deliver the very best to our people, We continued to focus on driving engagement.
Our annual Viewpoint our customers and having employee engagement processes designed to make survey highlighted a generally positive culture but overall levels of Serco a great place to work.
engagement declined slightly in the last 12 months, in part reflecting systems the challenging environment Serco has faced.
We also look to have the right information technology to support our business, and brand and to actively manage our brand and reputation, which is increasingly We also continued to enhance our MyHR human resources system, important as we enter new markets.
positioning us to add new functionality which will support our people strategy see pages 53-54.
Following the events of 2013, we recognise the need to rebuild our relationships and reputation with our UK Government customer and the public at large, and have started a programme of reputation recovery.
Within our programme of corporate renewal, which was developed during the last quarter of 2013 and is now being implemented, we are working to embed a change in our approach to doing business and to enhance our framework of reporting, systems and controls.
10 Strategic Report Strategy Description Key achievements in 2013 Our strategy aims to build a balanced portfolio across developed and emerging We delivered Adjusted revenue growth of 4.7%.
Building markets, frontline and BPO services, and public and private sectors.
We saw strong organic growth in our AMEAA division and held our a balanced This reduces our exposure to market fluctuations, enables us to select the best Americas revenues steady, despite a further year of shrinkage in the opportunities wherever they arise, and allows us to transfer expertise from one US Federal outsourcing market.
New contracts supporting US healthcare market to another.
eligibility and state transportation services have successfully broadened portfolio our portfolio in this region.
To support our organic growth, we consider acquisitions and strategic partnerships, which add to the depth of capabilities we can take to our Growth was also achieved in the UK and in our Global Services division.
customers, or enable us to enter new markets for existing service lines.
Reviews such as that covering UK clinical health have led to decisions to exit early from certain contracts.
Our proactive portfolio management also involves ongoing assessment of our contracts and businesses for strategic fit, expected performance and riskIn 2013, we divested some operations that had become non-core, adjusted returns.
to the Groups future development.
Underpinning our strategy is our ability to consistently deliver efficient and In 2013, we experienced significant issues with two contracts for the Driving high-quality services across the world.
Audits of all our other MoJ contracts and for opportunities to transfer our capabilities across geographies, so that more reviews of all our major UK Central Government contracts concluded of our capabilities are available to more of our customers.
Our corporate renewal programme will improved also support further service improvement alongside changing attitudes.
