Directors Report Conflicts of interest The Companys Articles of Association include provisions reflecting recommended practice concerning any directors conflicts of interest.
The Board has in place procedures for directors to report any potential or actual conflicts to the other members of the Board for their authorisation where appropriate.
In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict of interest, only non-interested directors i. e. those that have no interest in the matter under consideration are able to take the relevant decision acting in a way they consider, in good faith, is most likely to promote the Companys success.
The directors may impose conditions or limitations when giving any authorisation, if they think this is appropriate.
The process of reviewing conflicts disclosed, and authorisations given, is repeated at least annually.
Any conflicts or potential conflicts considered by the Board and any authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes and in a register of directors conflicts, which is maintained by the Company Secretary.
How the Board operates The Board and its Committees Currently the Board has nine members: the Chairman, two Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
The Board organises itself with clear divisions of responsibility so that no individual or group of individuals has unfettered powers of decision-making.
Whilst each constituent of the Board carries out distinct but complementary roles and responsibilities, collectively all directors work for the long-term success of the Company.
Many key board responsibilities are referred to four standing board committees: the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility Committees.
This structure is recommended under the Code as best practice for UK quoted companies and allows particularly detailed or complex matters to be given special scrutiny and oversight.
The Board has a fifth committee, the Approvals and Allotments Committee, which comprises the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary, which meets on an ad hoc basis to approve proposals that have more operational significance but do not merit full Board consideration.
Except where decisions are specifically delegated, each committee reports and submits recommendations back to the Board for its review and, where necessary, decision.
Each committee operates within clearly defined terms of reference, which are reviewed annually by the respective committees and, if necessary approved by the Board, to ensure they remain appropriate and reflect any changes in good practice and governance: these are available online at www.
Committees are authorised to obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice if they consider it necessary.
The Board and the four standing committees meet with sufficient frequency to fulfil their respective responsibilities, using structured but flexible agendas to ensure that regular matters are addressed properly, while allowing time to discuss significant new issues.
More information on the work and performance of the Board can be found in the following pages.
Separate reports describing the activities of the Audit, Nomination, Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration Committees are presented on pages 75 to 81.
Conduct of meetings Board meetings are scheduled six times a year, of which two are held over three days at a time, two over two days and two meetings are held for one day each.
The directors receive meeting packs in paper and electronic form ahead of each meeting.
Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion of the strategy and trading and financial performance of the Group.
To facilitate a proper understanding of the Groups businesses, Board and Committee meetings are held at varying locations and the opportunity is used to combine the formal business of the Board with site visits and divisional presentations and discussions.
Additional Board meetings are held as required.
Board decisions are usually taken by consensus.
Exceptionally, if a decision is to be taken by vote, the Chairman does not have a second or casting vote.
Reserved matters There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
This schedule, which is reviewed annually, includes approval of: The Group strategy Annual financial and operating plans Major capital expenditure, acquisitions or divestments Annual and half-year financial results and satisfying itself as to the integrity of financial information The Companys dividend policy Ensuring there are adequate succession plans for the Board and senior management Appointing and removing directors, the Company Secretary and committee members Setting and reviewing risk management and treasury policies Setting levels of operational delegated authorities Agreeing the Groups culture, values, and ethical compass Reviewing the Groups overall governance arrangements, and Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management processes.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to Board Committees which operate within clearly defined terms of reference.
Details of the responsibilities delegated to the Committees are given on pages 75 to 81.
Each Committee has an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Group.
