Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Engaging with Shareholders Corporate Governance Report How we engage with shareholders Serco uses a variety of means to gain insight into the views of shareholders and other stakeholders, and the Board is regularly briefed on the feedback received through these engagement channels.
Primary responsibility for engaging with shareholders rests with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders should these normal communication channels fail to resolve an issue, or are inappropriate for any reason.
We have formal arrangements for engaging with shareholders, including those described below.
Investor meetings The Executive Directors and the Investor Relations team regularly meet with analysts and major investors to maintain effective dialogue.
The Chairman also offers to meet with the Companys largest institutional investors each year.
The Board reviews an investor relations report each quarter.
This highlights share price movements, changes in the share register, the Companys recent and planned investor relations activities, analyst recommendations, and significant news from the market and the support services sector.
This report significantly contributes to the Boards understanding of investors views.
Annual General Meetings AGMs The AGM provides an opportunity to communicate with all shareholders, especially our private shareholders.
Individual shareholders have the opportunity to question the Chairman and, through him, the Chairs of the various Board committees and other directors.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the resolutions being proposed at the AGM to be held on 8 May 2014.
It is the Companys policy at present to take all resolutions at a general meeting on a poll.
A poll reflects the number of voting rights exercisable by each member and is considered by the Board to be a more democratic method of voting.
Shareholders are advised of the total number of votes lodged for each resolution, in the categories for and against together with the number of votes withheld.
This information is also posted on the Groups website www.
Formal consultations When a material change in remuneration policy is being considered, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee consults with major investors and seeks their views.
From time to time, we seek the views of major shareholders on other Company proposals.
Direct communications initiated by shareholders and representative bodies From time to time, we receive enquiries and circulars directly from major shareholders and representative bodies, such as the Association of British Insurers, the National Association of Pension Funds and Pensions Investment Research Consultants.
We also review the various environmental, social and governance reports published about us annually and consider whether any changes are needed to respond to any specific comments.
External advisors Legal, financial, remuneration and communications advisors gain insights into shareholder attitudes in the course of conducting specific research or through their work with other clients.
Relevant insights are shared when the Board or its Committees are considering important issues and external advice has been sought.
Corporate website The Group website www.
com is a primary source of information on the Group.
The site includes an area tailored for investors, including information such as an archive of all reports, announcements, presentations and webcasts, share price tools, the terms of reference for all Board Committees, the Corporate Responsibility Report, and information on voting at the Annual General Meeting.
It also has a link directly to the Companys registrars, allowing shareholders to view their shareholding online and to vote on the resolutions set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: John Hickey Secretary 3 March 2014 74
