Directors Report Meeting Regular items Ad hoc items February Consider salary review proposals for the Executive Directors, members of the Executive Committee and the Company Secretary: review of achievement of performance conditions for LTI vesting: review final draft of the remuneration report March Confirmation of bonus payable: approve the salary increases for the Executive Directors, members of the Executive Committee and the Company Secretary: review bonus objectives: approve LTI awards: finalisation of remuneration report May Review the share scheme performance August Review performance of the Executive Directors against bonus objectives: review the share scheme performance: review of Remuneration Committee advisors November Review the Committee Terms of Finalisation of termination package for Reference: review the share scheme Christopher Hyman: Consideration of performance remuneration package for Ed Casey Advisors to the Remuneration Committee The Committee has been advised during the year by  LLP PwC.
PwC were selected as advisors to the Committee through a competitive tendering process in 2012 and no conflicts of interest were identified.
PwC have provided advice throughout the year mainly around the following key executive reward areas: Benchmarking the Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees Benchmarking the Board and Executive Committee total remuneration Support in reviewing the DRR Advice in relation to design of remuneration arrangements and treatment of leavers and joiners Responding to general and technical reward queries A representative from PwC attends each meeting of the Remuneration Committee.
Consulting services have also been provided to the Group by the advisors in relation to retirement benefits and pay data, accounting and taxation services.
Fees paid to PwC as advisors to the Committee during the year totalled 144,600, fees are charged on an hourly rate basis.
PwC are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group which oversees the voluntary code of conduct in relation to executive consulting in the UK.
The Committee reviews the objectivity and independence of the advice it receives from PwC each year.
It is satisfied that PwC is providing robust and professional advice.
In the course of its deliberations, the Committee considers the views of the Group Chief Executive on the remuneration and performance of the other members of the Executive Committee.
The Committee have also received legal advice from Linklaters LLP and Clifford Chance LLP during the year.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: John Hickey Secretary 3 March 2014 105
