Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic Report Divisional reviews This section is presented according to the four The section includes references to contract divisions, based around our principal markets: awards which are significant because of their value or their strategic contribution to our business.
UK & Europe Further details of these, as well as other medium Americas and smaller-sized contracts, can be found on AMEAA Australasia, Middle East, our website www.
Asia and Africa, and Global Services UK & Europe Transport & Local Direct Services We also support the Royal Navys three main The UK & Europe division We are a key provider of transport services in UK bases and operate and maintain strategic includes our frontline services in: the UK.
With our partner Abellio, we run both assets such as secure satellite communications, Transport & Local Direct Services: Northern Rail, the UKs largest train franchise, the Defence Academy of the United Kingdom, Defence & Science: Home Affairs and Merseyrail, the UKs most punctual train the Emergency Planning College on behalf of operator.
In London, we run the Docklands Light the Cabinet Office, and the UKs ballistic missile encompassing justice-related Railway and the Barclays Cycle Hire scheme, early warning system.
operations, immigration and supporting growth in regular journeys as well border security, and welfare : as major events such as the London Marathon, We provide systems engineering, safety and Health.
the Diamond Jubilee and the 2012 Olympic assurance and risk management services, Games.
During 2013, we also provided traffic and support the essential research carried management operations and local authority out at the Defence Science and Technology parking enforcement in the capital.
Our joint venture with Serco runs lifeline passenger and freight ferry Lockheed Martin and Jacobs Engineering services to the Northern Isles.
manages the Atomic Weapons Establishment AWE, which provides the warheads for the Serco provides environmental services and UKs nuclear deterrent.
manages leisure facilities for local councils and community leisure trusts across Britain.
Our Home Affairs environmental services include refuse collection, Serco is a leading custodial accommodation recycling, street cleansing and grounds provider, operating six adult prisons in England maintenance.
Our leisure business provides a and Scotland.
These include HMP & YOI comprehensive range of health, leisure, fitness, Doncaster, which has been piloting Payment well-being and community focused services.
by Results, and HMP Thameside, one of the worlds most technologically advanced Defence & Science prisons.
We also run the secure training centre Serco works for the Royal Air Force, the Army at Hassockfield in County Durham, for young Air Corps and the Royal Navys Fleet Air Arm, people aged between 12 and 17 years who providing services such as training, engineering are either awaiting trial or serving sentences.
From left: We extended our Multi-Activity Contract at RAF Brize Norton during 2013.
In 2013, we achieved all-time high performance at the Docklands Light Railway in London.
