Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Directors Report Remuneration Report Future policy table The remuneration package for Executive Directors consists of base salary, annual bonus, long-term share-based incentives, pension and other benefits.
The Companys policy is to ensure that a significant proportion of the package is related to performance.
The following table sets out each element of reward and how it supports the Companys short and long term strategic objectives.
Whilst the table is focused on Executive Directors, the table set out on page 90 provides further information of how pay policies are set for the broader employee population.
How the element Operation of Maximum potential Performance metrics supports our the element value and payment used, weighting and strategic objectives at threshold time period applicable Base Salary Pay levels are designed to be Over the policy period, base None competitive and fair and reflect salaries for Executive Directors To help recruit and retain the skills and performance will be set at an appropriate level executives of the necessary of individuals.
within the peer group and will calibre to execute Sercos normally increase at no more strategic objectives and to Salaries are benchmarked from than the greater of inflation recognise an individuals time to time against salaries and salary increases made to experience, responsibility and for the Companys relevant the general workforce in the performance.
peer group, with the market jurisdiction the Executive Director positioning dependent on the To ensure base salaries are is based in.
scale of challenges intrinsic competitive in the market in to the individuals role and Higher increases may be made which the individual is employed.
individuals ability, experience in exceptional circumstances, for and role.
In some circumstances example when there is a change there may be phased movement in role or responsibility.
Salaries are reviewed annually and any changes are effective from 1 April in the financial year.
Benefits Serco pays the cost of providing The maximum opportunity for None the benefits on a monthly benefits is defined by the nature To provide a competitive level basis or as required for one-off of the benefits and the cost of of benefits.
events such as receiving providing them.
As the cost of financial advice.
providing such benefits varies based on market rates and These include but are not limited other factors, there is no formal to car allowances, private maximum monetary value.
medical insurance, permanent healthcare insurance, life cover, annual allowance for independent financial advice, and voluntary health checks every two years.
Relocation benefits will be provided in a manner that reflects individual circumstances and Sercos relocation benefits policy.
For example, relocation benefits could include temporary accommodation for the Executive and dependents and tax equalisation.
Benefits are reviewed annually against market practice and are designed to be competitive.
86 Directors Report How the element Operation of Maximum potential Performance metrics supports our the element value and payment used, weighting and strategic objectives at threshold time period applicable Annual Bonus Bonus result is determined by Maximum bonus opportunity: Bonus is earned on the basis of the Committee after the year end, achievement of a mix of financial Incentivise executives to achieve 150% of salary for CEO based on performance against and non-financial objectives of specific, predetermined goals 130% of salary for CFO objectives and targets.
which at least 50% are financial.
On-target bonus: Annual bonuses are paid after Financial measures are based on Reward ongoing stewardship 75% of salary for CEO the end of the financial year end the Companys Key Performance and contribution to core values.
65% of salary for CFO to which they relate.
There is Indicators KPIs and the nonThreshold bonus is 20% of an optional deferral of 50% financial measures are based maximum bonus opportunity.
of the total earned bonus into on key strategic objectives.
Performance is measured over On change of control the the financial year.
Remuneration Committee may The Committee has discretion pay bonuses on a pro-rata basis to vary the weighting of measured on performance up to performance metrics over the life the date of change of control.
Also the Committee has discretion in exceptional circumstances to vary performance measures part-way through a performance year if there is a significant event such as a major transaction or transition in role which causes the Committee to believe the original performance conditions are no longer appropriate.
Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Executive Directors can elect to For maximum performance, each Earnings Per Share EPS is the defer, for three financial years, up investment share is matched by sole measure to determine the This plan is to incentivise to 50% of their annual bonus by two matching shares.
executives to achieve superior purchasing investment shares.
returns for shareholders and For threshold performance each The performance condition is to align executives to Each individual investment investment share is matched by measured over three years.
share purchased will be half a matching share.
In exceptional circumstances the matched on a gross investment Committee retains discretion to basis by a maximum of two change performance measures matching shares.
and targets and the weightings Dividends are reinvested and attached to performance distributed only in respect measures part-way through the of shares that vest at the end performance period if there is of the performance period.
a significant event for example a major transaction which The Committee, at its discretion causes the committee to may attach a post-vesting believe the original measures, holding period for awards.
weightings or targets are In circumstances such as fraud, no longer appropriate.
misconduct and or misstatement The Committee has discretion to by a participant, the Company vary the proportion of awards that will be entitled to withhold before vest, to ensure that the outcomes the vesting date the value of are fair and appropriate and any shares to be released or the reflect the underlying financial payment of cash equivalents performance of the Group.
On a change of control awards vest pro-rata for time and performance up to the date of change of control unless the Committee decides otherwise.
As provided in the plan rules approved by shareholders, the Committee has discretion to adjust awards in the event of, for example, corporate restructuring or capital events.
87 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Directors Report Remuneration Report How the element Operation of Maximum potential Performance metrics supports our the element value and payment used, weighting and strategic objectives at threshold time period applicable Performance Share Plan Awards of nominal cost options Face value on grant of 200% Vesting is dependent on at least PSP conditional shares made annually.
of base salary for the CEO two performance conditions and 175% for the CFO.
chosen from: To drive achievement of longer Dividends are reinvested and term objectives, increase distributed only in respect 25% of the award vests for EPS shareholder value aligned of shares that vest at the end threshold performance.
Relative TSR closely to creating shareholders of the performance period.
Share Price or absolute TSR interests.
The Committee, at its discretion, The measures are independent, may attach a post-vesting and are measured over three holding period for awards.
The weighting of each In circumstances such as fraud, is determined prior to award.
misconduct and or misstatement The Remuneration Committee by a participant, the Company has discretion to adopt other will be entitled to withhold before measures following consultation the end of the holding period with major shareholders.
the value of any shares to be In exceptional circumstances the released or the payment of cash Committee retains discretion to equivalents under the PSP.
change performance measures On a change of control awards and targets and the weightings vest pro-rata for time and attached to performance performance up to the date measures part-way through the of change of control unless the performance period if there is a committee decides otherwise.
significant event such as a major As provided in the plan rules transaction which causes the approved by shareholders, committee to believe the original the Committee has discretion measures, weightings or targets to adjust awards in the event are no longer appropriate.
of, for example, corporate The Committee has discretion to restructuring or capital events.
vary the proportion of awards that vest, to ensure that the outcomes are fair and appropriate and reflect the underlying financial performance of the Group.
Pension Executive Directors may Since 2010, Andrew Jenner None participate in tax-approved ceased accruing benefits in the To provide funding for retirement.
pension plans operated by pension scheme and has been in the Company.
receipt of a cash allowance equal to 33% of base salary in lieu of A cash allowance is available further pension provision.
for those not participating in a pension scheme or whose Andrew remains entitled to participation exceeds one lump sum and widows pension or more tax allowances.
benefits should he die before retirement and while still employed by Serco.
Ed Casey participates in the US 401k pension and receives a cash allowance in lieu of pension equal to 30% of base salary less the cost of participation in the US 401k plan.
Shareholding Requirement Unvested performance shares CEO 200% of salary None or options are not taken into To support long-term CFO 150% of salary account.
Share price is measured commitment to the Company The Committee has the at end of each financial year.
and the alignment of employee discretion to increase the interests with those of Executives are required to shareholding requirements shareholders.
retain in shares 50% of the of the Executive Directors.
net value of any performance shares vesting or options exercised until they satisfy the shareholding requirement.
