Directors Report Our governance framework Our governance structure has been developed over several years to meet the increasing span and complexity of our businesses.
We have clearly defined roles and responsibilities at Board level and below it, to seek to ensure that decisions throughout the organisation are soundly based and risks are appropriately controlled and monitored.
At a glance Board Corporate Approvals Audit Nomination Remuneration Responsibility and Allotments Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Pages 75 to 79 Page 80 Pages 82 to 105 Page 81 Page 67 Executive Management Group Chief Executive Executive Committee Composition Sub-Committees Group Chief Executive Executive Remuneration Group Chief Financial Officer Group Risk Management and Safety Divisional Chief Executives Investments and Ethics Group Functional Heads Nomination Divisional Chief Executives Divisional Boards Composition Sub-Committees Divisional Chief Executives Audit and Risk Divisional Finance Directors Operating & Financial Review Senior Independent Internal Remuneration Ethics The role of the Board The Board drives the development and performance of the Group to deliver sustainable shareholder value over the long term, by setting the entrepreneurial and governance framework that supports the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives within an acceptable risk profile.
It is responsible for setting the Groups ethical compass and its risk appetite, balancing risks and reward in the interests of shareholders having regard to the implications for other stakeholders, in particular customers and employees, and for achieving the Groups commercial potential, whilst effectively addressing the Groups weaknesses.
It is responsible for oversight and review of the way in which the Group does business: of the Groups performance in meeting its commitments to customers, shareholders, and its employees: of the contribution of the Groups executive management: of the Groups principal risks: and of its internal control and risk management processes.
Sercos business culture and standards of conduct are established and monitored by the Board to ensure that the Groups goals are achieved in a manner that also benefits society as a whole.
The Corporate Responsibility Report is available online at www.
com and illustrates how Sercos approach to corporate assurance and responsibility translates from the Board into everyday working practices.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive The roles of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive are separately held and the division of their responsibilities is clearly established, set out in writing, and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures that it operates effectively and the Group Chief Executive has primary responsibility for the development and delivery of strategy and the operational performance of the Group.
This separation of the two central board roles safeguards plurality and a balance of viewpoints on the Board, which promotes better decision-making.
Senior Independent Director This role is set out under written terms available on the Companys website www.
The Senior Independent Director provides an alternative point of contact to the Chairman, both for shareholders and other directors, should the need arise.
The role would also deputise for the Chairman should the need arise.
