Strategic Report What we do We deliver services that make a positive difference to peoples lives Our customers are local, state and national governments and major private companies.
They face an increasingly complex and competitive world.
People and communities have rapidly changing needs and expect the services they use to make a positive and tangible difference to their lives.
The organisations that serve them our customers have limited resources.
Many are having to do more with less.
Delivering service, and doing it well, is more difficult than ever.
To overcome these challenges, our customers want a partner who can improve the quality and efficiency of their services and help them keep their promises to their own customers and citizens.
All of this means that service has never been more important or more challenging.
We specialise in service delivery Serco has specialised in service delivery for more than 50 years.
The combined capabilities we offer, across frontline, middle and back office services, are unique.
Our customers know what outcome or service they want to deliver and we find new and more effective ways to achieve it for them.
Together, we make a difference to the lives of millions of people around the world.
Our people are always looking for ways to improve our service delivery.
We transfer our skills, insights and ideas from one sector or region to another, so we can meet new challenges for customers.
Drawing on this broad experience is at the heart of what makes us different.
It ensures we deliver well today and use what we learn to anticipate our customers needs tomorrow.
It transforms good service into great.
Great service can look different from sector to sector and from country to country, but the values and capabilities it needs are broadly the same.
Our service specialism means our customers can focus their time and people on what they do best, confident that our experience, innovation and scale will deliver the business and customer benefits they want.
Our capabilities allow us to work around the world on behalf of defence, transport, justice, health, and state and local government customers in the public sector, and to provide customer contact and business process activities for private sector customers in finance, retail, travel and telecommunications.
We have a strong service ethos Our people have a strong service ethos and a real desire to deliver the promises we make to our customers.
We value working with our customers in a collaborative, flexible and imaginative way.
We understand the principles and passions that motivate public sector managers and we seek to share their ethos and standards of conduct.
We encourage social responsibility and try to treat people in the way we would wish to be treated.
Our most powerful tool in improving performance is to instil a more stimulating culture, where people feel they can personally make a difference.
We have honed this tool into four Governing Principles: we foster an entrepreneurial culture: we enable our people to excel: we deliver our promises: and we build trust and respect.
Following the challenges of 2013, we launched an independent review of our culture and ethics, and were reassured to find a workforce that believes strongly in Sercos commitment to service excellence.
Our employees spoke openly and candidly, with the clear intent of providing constructive feedback to senior leadership as to how to restore Sercos good name.
The events of 2013 were painful and embarrassing for our people, who care deeply about Serco and the customers it serves.
There was no evidence that Serco has a corrupt culture or that the Company knowingly encourages improper or unethical behaviour.
What was identified was an environment in which Serco employees could make inappropriate decisions to achieve commercial success, and it is this environment that we are committed to change as a fundamental part of our corporate renewal.
