Strategic Report Our business model Our business model is built on a set of key strengths, which enable us to compete effectively and create value for our shareholders and other stakeholders.
These competitive advantages derive from our focus on delivering the best service for our customers, the unique breadth of our business, our structure and our people.
Our strategy see pages 10 to 11 builds on and reinforces these strengths.
Delivering excellent service for our customers and the public is at the heart of our offering.
It enables us to build long-term relationships, which allow us to grow our contracts and retain them at rebid.
It also helps us to win new work and enter new markets.
We use our 50 years of experience to bring fresh perspectives to customers problems, for example by creating new contracting or partnership models.
Our track record of innovation and delivery also makes us an attractive partner for other organisations, so we can combine our skills to produce unique and compelling customer offerings, through joint ventures or through our supply chain.
Customer focus Serco has unique breadth.
No other company can match our range of services, Serco is a people-based business, so we which combine frontline delivery with middle seek to employ excellent people with a strong and back office processing.
We have real depth service ethos.
Their insight, experience of service of expertise in the sectors we work in and delivery and desire to make a difference for the capabilities we offer.
With operations our customers underpin everything we do.
in over 30 countries, we also have Committed Value Broad significant international reach.
people creation business To enable our people to deliver their best, we continue to invest in engaging Our broad business allows us to target the best and developing them, along with the opportunities, in whichever market or country systems and leadership framework they occur.
This reduces our reliance on any one that support them.
market and allows us to transfer skills honed in one market to others around the world, Local opening up new opportunities.
responsibility, global scale We devolve day-to-day decision making to the contract level, empowering our people to deliver excellent service.
This also helps makes our business scalable, as we take on more contracts.
At the same time, we use our scale to drive efficiency and support our service delivery, through shared services and common processes.
The Serco Management System SMS is designed to ensure local decisions are in Sercos best interests, as well as the customers.
Following the issues in 2013 in two of our UK Government contracts, we have reviewed the SMS as part of our corporate renewal programme, strengthening and expanding it to ensure it provides a robust control framework into the future.
something different, including anticipating their The competitive environment As we enter new markets, we meet competitors changing needs and working with them to drive Competition is necessary for our markets to who specialise in those areas.
operate, as it encourages customers to put effective competitors in every market, no services out to tender, provides a benchmark organisation competes with us in all of them Our business model makes us a strong to ensure they are getting best value and and only a few operate in more than one.
competitor in our markets and allows us to drives innovation.
target opportunities where we can differentiate The overall level of competition is rising in our ourselves from other providers, for example Our business breadth means we have many markets and customers are increasingly seeing through innovation, the depth of our expertise competitors for both public and private sector assured service delivery as a prerequisite, rather and the breadth of our capabilities.
These competitors are primarily than as a differentiator.
They want providers companies but for government contracts they that bring confidence, experience and insight, can include public sector and voluntary bodies.
and who can partner with them to deliver 09
