Strategic Report We support the Royal Navys Fleet Air Arm at RNAS Yeovilton.
18-month extension was signed with a value Defence & Science and expanded its services to Airbus for air traffic of approximately 100m.
Operations across Defence & Science control, manoeuvring area safety training, air accounted for approximately 30% of UK traffic engineering and facilities management Ferry services to the Northern Isles of Scotland & Europe Adjusted revenue.
We also successfully rebid our support completed their first full year under Sercos to the United States Air Force in Europe, which management.
This has seen the refurbishment Our management and operation of AWE, provides transportation, supply and facilities of all three passenger vessels and numerous as part of a joint venture with Lockheed Martin management.
For the British Army, our preother improvements delivered to assist and Jacobs Engineering, began the next deployment training Contemporary Operating increasing usage of the lifeline freight and five-year pricing period in April 2013.
Strong Environment Force contract was extended for passenger services.
In similar operations, operational performance and programme a further year.
Serco and its local joint venture partner delivery has continued.
Projects that became Strmma Turism & Sjfart AB were selected fully operational in the period included Orion, Operations in Europe have similarly been during the year to manage and operate AWEs new laser facility, which is now one of the successfully rebid during 2013.
Serco four ferries currently carrying over two million worlds most powerful lasers and of immense will continue to manage the European passengers annually in Stockholm.
interest both internationally and to the wider Space Agencys operational control centre academic community working in areas such as infrastructure and tracking stations network, Serco delivered the phase 3 expansion of fusion energy and astrophysics.
Meanwhile, at under a five-year contract worth over 30m.
Barclays Cycle Hire for Transport for London, Sercos strategic partnership with Dstl, further We rebid our contract providing telephony, adding approximately 5,600 new docking points target service options such as procurement videoconferencing and cabling support across and 2,400 new bikes to western boroughs.
have been added to the existing prime contract.
European Parliament sites, and expanded it Serco was also awarded an innovative new further to cover TV distribution, in a new contract contract to provide end-to-end on-street parking In our support services for the Armed Forces, valued at approximately 17m over a maximum enforcement for the West London Alliance, Serco extended and then subsequently of six years.
a partnership between Ealing, Hounslow rebid successfully its Multi-Engine Pilot and Brent borough councils.
Training contract at RAF Cranwell, valued at Home Affairs approximately 36m over five years.
Serco Operations across the Home Affairs market In Local Direct Services, Serco successfully provides up to 5,500 flying hours annually accounted for approximately 20% of UK & extended or rebid its contracts for environmental in the King Air B200 aircraft, as well as up to Europe Adjusted revenue.
services for Canterbury City Council, Welwyn 2,700 aircraft simulator hours.
Other extended Hatfield Borough Council and Breckland Borough contracts included maintenance for the Search During the year a detailed independent forensic Council, valued in total at over 100m.
Our and Rescue fleet of Sea King aircraft, our audit of our Electronic Monitoring EM contract operations for Sandwell Metropolitan Borough Multi-Activity Contract at RAF Brize Norton was completed with Sercos full cooperation, Council saw the opening of a new 10m waste and our Air Traffic Services at Wattisham, for the with the audit identifying issues with billing.
transfer station in Tipton, handling more than British Armys Apache helicopter fleet.
In related A settlement of 64.3m with the MoJ reflected 1,700 tonnes of waste and recycling each week.
services for the private sector, Serco has rebid the difference in contract interpretation From left: Our Defence Business Services contract for the Ministry of Defence was our first pure back-office contract in the UK public sector.
Our joint venture continues to achieve strong operational performance and programme delivery at the Atomic Weapons Establishment.
27 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic Report Divisional reviews UK & Europe A second significant contract issue also arose of health and welfare initiatives to improve Continued during the year.
Serco and the MoJ jointly operational performance at this new London referred misreporting of data on the Prisoner prison.
Supporting the MoJs programme Escort & Custody Services PECS contract to to modernise the UK prison estate, we are the City of London Police.
Under the contract, increasing the capacity of HMP Thameside Serco is required to deliver defendants to with a contract expansion valued at 120m Court with performance measured against over 22 years, which includes a 36m 18-month the defendant being Designated Ready and construction phase.
During the year, Serco Available for Court Time DRACT.
Serco transitioned HMP & YOI Ashfield from being identified misreporting of DRACT data locally, a Young Offender Institution to being an Adult such that performance reported to the customer Male prison.
At HMP & YOI Doncaster, our was overstated.
A settlement of 2.0m was payment by results pilot programme saw reached in repayment of profit earned since significant improvement in reoffending rates for the contract was renewed in 2011: this was prisoners serving less than 12 months: this work included as an exceptional cost in the year.
and our London Community Payback contract regarding the billing arrangements since Significant cost was incurred to deliver service will conclude by the end of 2014, in order 2005, together with a repayment of past profit improvements that enabled the MoJ to confirm for them to be rolled into the Governments earned on the contract, interest and the UK that Serco could retain this contract whilst new Transforming Rehabilitation programme, Governments costs of the audits and reviews.
forgoing any future profits: this cost is included where Serco will look at opportunities to support The difference in contract interpretation led within managements estimate of other indirect others in the development of the new probation to instances of daily charges being applied costs in relation to the UK Government reviews.
when there was an open Court Order but where no active monitoring was taking place.
Separate audits of all of our MoJ contracts, As reported by the National Audit Office in January The settlement was full and final in respect as well as the Cabinet Offices wider review 2014, our contract under the Home Offices of contractual claims, with the proviso that across the range of our other major UK Central COMPASS programme to provide accommodation additional payments might be sought in limited Government contracts, concluded in December and support services to almost 10,000 asylum circumstances, such as if criminality were to be 2013.
Beyond the EM and PECS contracts, applicants in the North West of England and in established.
Serco continues to cooperate fully no further material issues were raised.
Scotland and Northern Ireland, has experienced a with the ongoing investigations by the Serious challenging transition since taking over the service Fraud Office.
The settlement was included as Within our custodial operations, at HMP in late 2012.
Whilst the report recognised that an exceptional cost in the year.
The EM contract Thameside, Her Majestys Chief Inspector Serco had worked hard to raise standards, there underwent an accelerated transition to the new of Prisons and more recently the Independent remains scope for further improvement and we service provider, with the associated costs of this Monitoring Board have recognised the are committed to working with our customer and reflected within managements estimate of other progress that has been made since the prison our partners in local government, the NHS and the costs in relation to the UK Government reviews.
first opened, which has included a number voluntary sector to achieve that.
At HMP Thameside, we are supporting the Ministry of Justices programme to modernise the UK prison estate.
