Directors Report Our approach to risk within the Serco Management System The Serco Management System SMS sets out policy standards, systems and processes that identify, review and report risks at all levels of our business, and in the Group as a whole, that impact upon strategic objectives, with the aim of safeguarding our shareholders investments, the Groups assets and its reputation.
At each level within our business, risk management processes reflect the nature of the activities being undertaken and the business and operational risks inherent in them, and therefore the level of control considered necessary to protect our interests and those of our stakeholders.
These controls and processes fall into four main areas: Identification, Assessment, Planning and Control and Monitoring, so that we: Identify business objectives that reflect the interests of all stakeholders and the risks associated with the achievement of these objectives Regularly assess our exposure to risk, including through the regular measurement of key risk indicators Control and reduce risk as far as reasonably practicable or achievable through cost-effective risk treatment options, and Identify new risks as they arise and remove those risks that are no longer relevant.
Risk identification In identifying the potential risks associated with the achievement of our business objectives, we consider both external factors arising from the environment within which we operate, and internal risks arising from the nature of our business, its controls and processes, and our management decisions.
Once identified, we document risks in risk registers, which are maintained at contract, programme, business unit, divisional and Group levels.
These risk registers change as new risks emerge and existing risks diminish, so that the registers reflect the current threats to the relevant strategic objectives.
We review the Group and Divisional Risk Registers at least quarterly and more frequently as required.
The GRMSC reviews the Group Risk Register quarterly ahead of formal review by the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Risk assessment We assess the potential effect of each identified risk on the achievement of our business objectives and wider stakeholder interests.
To do so, we use a risk scoring system based on our assessment of the probability of a risk materialising and the impact if it does.
This is assessed from three perspectives: The risks significance to the achievement of our business objectives The risks significance to society, including its impact on public safety and the environment, and Our ability to influence, control and mitigate the risk.
Analysis of our key risks allows us to assess the impact of disruption to our business objectives, the probability of this occurring and highlight critical areas that require management attention.
Risk planning and control We assign each identified and assessed risk to a risk owner who is responsible for controlling, managing, and developing a robust and effective plan to reduce or mitigate the risk.
Risk owners are required to report to the GRMSC or, as appropriate, the Board on specific risks.
Either may ask for additional information or request an audit to provide additional assurance.
Risk reduction involves taking early management action to remove or reduce identified risks before they can affect the bid, programme, project or contract.
We consider options to eliminate, reduce or control the risks as part of the risk identification and analysis process.
Risk mitigation involves us identifying appropriate measures, including contingency plans, to reduce the severity of the impact of the risks, should they occur.
This includes developing crisis management plans in response to risks whose potential impact warrants a specific management process.
The SMS requires every contract to develop a risk management plan reflecting assessed risks and supported by appropriate measures and contingency plans to mitigate the impact of the risks.
Risk monitoring Changes in our external environment, internal structures and management decisions may all affect the nature and extent of the risks to which the Group is exposed.
Our risk monitoring process therefore regularly monitors changes to our business and the external environment, to ensure that we have sight of and respond appropriately to reduce the impact of emerging risks.
Managing and mitigating risk The objective of our risk management process is to provide a governance overview of our operational risk profile.
Operational risk can never be eliminated: risks are necessary to achieve targeted benefits risk management informs decisions.
However, while risk is necessary, we seek to minimise the probability and impact of threats through the consistent implementation of the SMS, ensuring that appropriate infrastructure, controls, systems, staff and processes are in place.
A comprehensive review of the SMS forms part of the corporate renewal programme in order to address those areas identified by the 2013 independent review of systems and controls as having contributed to the issues that arose last year on contracts with the UK Government.
