Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Leadership Corporate Governance Report Non-Executive Directors Although the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not carry any executive responsibilities, together with the Executive Directors they are collectively responsible for the Companys direction.
In particular, Non-Executive Directors apply their skills, experience, and independent judgement to constructively challenge and contribute to the development of the Groups strategy and business plans, and to hold management to account for Group performance.
Company Secretary and independent advice The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all corporate governance matters, assisting the Chairman in ensuring that all Board procedures are followed and that there are good information flows, together with facilitating induction programmes for newly appointed directors.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Board has approved a procedure for directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Key Roles and Responsibilities Chairman Group Chief Executive Leads the Board and ensures that it is effective in all aspects of its role.
Leads the business to develop and deliver the Groups strategy and business plans as agreed with the Board.
Takes a leading role in determining the structure and composition of the Board, and its capabilities.
Provides inspirational leadership across the Group, setting the tone from Manages the business of the Board, ensuring that it facilitates the Board the top to promote the Companys values and the highest ethical behaviour to fulfil its role and function and, in doing so, ensuring that: by all employees.
the directors receive timely, accurate, concise and clear information: and Develops, motivates and retains a strong, professional and internationallythe Board invests sufficient time on each matter for effective consideration minded senior management team capable of meeting the challenges and decision-making, in keeping with the relative importance of each associated with the Companys long-term growth strategy.
matter and especially for complex or strategically important issues.
Identifies strategic opportunities to enable the Group to grow and differentiate itself, and agrees with the Board a roadmap to realising those opportunities.
Provides appropriate counsel and support to the Group Chief Executive whilst Accountable for the Groups performance and operational management, respecting executive responsibility.
including its: Takes a leading role in the development and succession needs of the Board, operational governance: and the effective performance of each director, including: ethical compass: promoting the effective contribution of the non-executive directors: profitability: ensuring that new directors receive an effective induction: and competitive market position: and assisting directors in determining individual training needs and ensuring risk management and internal control systems.
that they update as appropriate their knowledge and capabilities.
Maintains a close relationship of trust with the Chairman, seeking appropriate Takes a leading role in the performance evaluation of the Board and counsel and support whilst preserving executive responsibility.
Leads the executive team, setting a personal example, building team spirit, Promotes the highest standards of corporate governance.
ensuring clear lines of communication, developing individual and team Ensures that the Board has effective channels of communication with capabilities, and ensuring that robust succession planning processes are shareholders and that the views of principal shareholders on significant in place.
matters are taken into account.
Acts as an effective ambassador for the Group, developing and maintaining strong relationships with current and potential customers, and key stakeholders.
Proactively promotes the Groups investment case to investors and listens to the views of major shareholders on key issues affecting the Group.
Communicates both internally and externally the Groups culture and values, key strategic imperatives and performance of the business, ensuring that a clear sense of purpose is conveyed.
Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and assists him in the Constructively challenge and contribute to the development of the delivery of his objectives as requested.
Groups strategy and business plans.
Provides an alternative point of contact for principal shareholders if Ensure that the Group upholds high standards of integrity and probity they have any concerns that are unresolved through normal channels with appropriate oversight over the effective embedding of the agreed of communication.
culture, values, and ethical compass.
Seeks to maintain a balanced understanding of the views and Maintain effective oversight and review of the Groups performance concerns of principal shareholders.
against agreed goals and objectives, and of the performance of the Takes a leading role in the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Should it become necessary, leads an orderly succession process for Maintain an effective understanding and oversight of the Groups the Chairman.
In the unlikely event that there is a serious failure in Board governance, Satisfy themselves as to: or where normal Board functioning is seriously impaired or the the integrity of the financial statements and all other formal Chairman is unable to act: announcements: will act as an intermediary where necessary: whether, taken as a whole, the annual report and accounts is fair, will intervene to resolve the issues and restore the Board to effective balanced and understandable: functioning.
whether the Groups risk management and internal control processes, including those relating to the financial reporting process, are robust and defensible: and whether the Board has robustly assessed the solvency and liquidity risks faced by the Group.
Taking primary roles in: appointing and, if necessary, removing Executive Directors, and in Board succession planning: the Boards determination of remuneration policy for the Chairman: the Executive Directors, the Executive Committee members and the Company Secretary.
