Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic Report Divisional reviews UK & Europe Service in six regions across the country, the second half of the year.
As a consequence, Continued enabling 16 and 17-year-olds to develop skills revenue in the second half declined against through projects that contribute to society.
the comparable period in 2012, given the lower contribution from new contract starts and less Health discretionary and ad hoc project work.
Serco delivers GP out-of-hours services in Cornwall and provides a comprehensive range The margin reduction reflected the initial stages of clinical services in the community in Suffolk.
of the major new contract starts, which tend to We are the largest independent provider of involve greater upfront investment, the effect custodial health services.
We are also a major of the new five-year pricing period for our supplier of support services to a number management and operation of AWE and the of UK hospitals.
GSTS Pathology, our joint lower margin on managing capital projects venture with two major NHS teaching hospitals, for certain customers.
is the UKs leading independent pathology services provider.
Transport & Local Direct Services Operations across Transport & Local Direct During 2013, we have provided prisoner escort UK & Europe 2013 review Services accounted for approximately 40% and custody services in London and the South Adjusted revenue from ongoing activities of UK & Europe Adjusted revenue from East of England, and electronically monitored grew by 3% to 2,514m 2012: 2,436m, and ongoing activities.
defendants and offenders subject to home represented 49% of the Group 2012: 51%.
In partnership with the London Probation On an organic basis, revenue also grew by At Northern Rail, in the most recent National Trust, we have delivered Community Payback, 3%.
Adjusted operating profit from ongoing Passenger Survey NPS, overall customer which requires offenders to do unpaid work for operations declined by 8% to 150.7m 2012: satisfaction was broadly level on a year earlier.
On behalf of the Home Office, 163.4m, with the margin declining to 6.0% We continue to invest in areas that will improve we run two immigration removal centres and 2012: 6.7%.
Including the impact of disposals, our customers experience with us, including the provide technology services for border control Adjusted revenue was broadly flat at 2,557m upkeep of our trains and keeping passengers and security.
We also provide accommodation 2012: 2,561m and Adjusted operating profit informed.
The challenge of increasing capacity and transport services for asylum applicants declined by 11% to 157.3m 2012: 177.1m.
will be a major focus for the successor in the North West of England, Scotland and franchise, which we would anticipate bidding Northern Ireland.
Whilst the first half of 2013 grew strongly, driven on during 2015, ahead of its start in February principally by the additional revenue of the 2016.
At Merseyrail, we are very pleased that it As part of the Department for Work & new contracts that started in the second half of has continued to be ranked top in the NPS for Pensions Work Programme, Serco and its 2012, as well as additional project-based work overall customer satisfaction.
At the Docklands partners are placing thousands of jobseekers on certain contracts, the issues that arose with Light Railway, all-time high performance into sustainable employment.
A Serco-led the UK Government impacted our business in metrics were achieved in the year and an consortium also operates the National Citizen From left: We provide a comprehensive range of community health services in Suffolk.
Merseyrail is the UKs most punctual train operator and continues to be ranked top for overall customer satisfaction in the National Passenger Survey.
