Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic Report Chairmans statement Twelve months ago I wrote: In all parts of no further material issues raised.
During the The events of last year are well Serco, when I visit our contracts I meet people fourth quarter of last year, we developed and documented: in July the Secretary who have the same commitment to service, set in train a comprehensive programme of of State for Justice announced that to making a difference through helping those corporate renewal.
At its heart this programme an independent audit of the billing with whom they work, whilst at the same time aims through leadership, training, guidance, delivering against our promises.
I still believe and appropriate performance management arrangements of the Electronic that at the core of Serco is a combination of to change the balance of drivers within our Monitoring contracts Serco a strong ethos of public service with a real business, such that the commitment to do what operates had highlighted potential entrepreneurial drive to succeed and deliver is right and to deal with our customers fairly and overbilling and in September, against commitments, inside and outside the transparently always transcends that sustained company.
The independent reviews that we drive to outperform.
This will be supported by materials were provided to the have performed of our culture and systems the right management structures and controls Serious Fraud Office on this confirmed a high commitment to client service and best-in-class lines of assurance, to ensure matter.
In August, the Ministry with no evidence of a corrupt culture, and key that through early identification of risks and of Justice MoJ and Serco made procedures and controls that were adequate but issues and their swift resolution, we never again could be improved.
However the reviews also compromise on our values and ethics.
I was announcements regarding the demonstrated the need for attitudinal change, very pleased that at the end of January, the referral to the City of London a change I, our Board, and Ed Casey, our Cabinet Office published a positive assessment Police of the misreporting of data Acting Group Chief Executive, are committed of our programme and, as a consequence, on the Prisoner Escort & Custody to implementing.
The reviews showed that Serco can now be considered on an equal basis culturally there was a drive to succeed and to other suppliers for the award of new contracts.
The issues deliver that could lead our people at times to that were identified on these make decisions that prioritised commercial It is hard for those outside the company to two contracts should never objectives over ethical behaviour.
Also, whilst appreciate how disruptive were the events of have happened and we have our systems and controls formed a solid basis last year to the normal conduct of our business.
for a management framework, there was a lot Not only was our pipeline of contracts with the apologised unreservedly for them.
more we could do to ensure that if there are UK Government impacted by the suspension issues, they are identified early, acted upon, of awardability last summer, but the associated May I take this opportunity on and lessons learned.
reputational damage also adversely affected behalf of the Board to make an our ability to win contracts with the private equally fulsome apology to our I recognise that such inappropriate actions sector.
We have made significant management shareholders.
We are doing and decisions undermine the confidence changes at the most senior level, with new people have in us.
Our company relies upon people, sometimes in an acting capacity, everything in our power to make the confidence of our customers and the needing to assimilate their responsibilities sure that such issues cannot confidence of the public, and anything that and determine how to take forward their reoccur anywhere in our business damages that, damages us.
But it is not just parts of the business.
Absolutely correctly, around the world.
Our objective our company: the whole industry relies on management has focused on the development such confidence.
If it is damaged, we lose and implementation of our programme of continues to be the delivery of the opportunity to show the difference corporate renewal, diverting focus from where excellent public services with outsourcing can make, and we lose the ability they would otherwise be concentrating their openness and transparency, to show how the private sector and competition efforts to make our business more efficient, and I believe the actions we have can contribute to excellent, efficient, low-cost extend existing lines and explore new ones.
This is why your Board has The inevitable consequence has been a material taken and are taking will support taken these matters so seriously.
loss of momentum, particularly in the UK, this now more than ever.
which translates itself into lower organic revenue I was very pleased to reach a settlement with growth and profitability than we would otherwise the UK Government prior to the end of the have aimed to achieve in 2014.
In addition, 2014 financial year, in respect of issues arising will be impacted heavily by a major change of on the Electronic Monitoring contract.
The government policy affecting one of our largest separate audits of our other MoJ contracts and contracts, that for the Australian Department of the Cabinet Offices wider review across our Immigration and Border Protection, whilst there other major UK Central Government contracts is also a greater known impact of attrition from also concluded by the end of the year, with lost contracts such as Electronic Monitoring.
Our experience at Forth Valley and other UK hospitals helped us to win the contract at Fiona Stanley hospital in Perth, Western Australia.
