Directors Report Service contracts and loss of office payments The policy for service contracts for new Directors is shown in the table below.
Existing Directors have service contracts entered into before 27 June 2012 which have aspects that differ from policy as highlighted underneath the table.
The Committee may under this policy at any time, with the agreement of a Director, alter aspects of their existing contracts so that they are in line with the policy for new Directors.
Copies of the directors service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The date of appointment for each Director is shown in the table below.
Provision Detailed terms Notice period 12 months notice from the Company 12 months notice from the Director Termination payment Payment in lieu of notice comprising: Base salary Pension allowance Selected benefits All of the above would be paid in instalments in accordance with the Directors contractual payment schedule, subject to an obligation on the part of the Director to mitigate his loss such that payments will either reduce or cease completely, in the event that the Director gains new employment remuneration.
In the event of a compromise or severance agreement, the Committee may make payments it considers reasonable in settlement of potential legal claims.
It may include in such payments reasonable reimbursement of professional fees incurred by the Director in connection with such agreements and reasonable payments in respect of restrictive undertakings.
The Remuneration Committee may agree that if a Director steps down from the Board then for a transitional period notice including payment in lieu of notice would continue to be based on the equivalent of up to twelve months notice based on their rate of salary and benefits while a Director, payable in instalments and subject to mitigation.
The reimbursement of repatriation costs or fees for professional or outplacement advice may also be included in the termination package, as deemed reasonable by the Committee, as may the continuation of benefits for a limited period.
Treatment of annual bonus on No payment unless employed on date of payment of bonus except for good leavers: defined as death, termination under plan rules disability, redundancy and other circumstances at the Committees discretion.
Good leavers are entitled to a bonus pro-rated to the period of service during the year, subject to the outcome of the performance metrics and paid at the usual time.
The Committee has discretion to reduce the entitlement of a good leaver in line with performance and the circumstances of the termination.
Treatment of unvested All awards lapse except for good leavers: ill-health, injury or disability, death, redundancy, retirement, performance shares or options change of control as defined in the plan rules and other circumstances at the Committees discretion and unvested matching deferred to the extent that they allow good leaver treatment for particular awards.
share awards on termination For good leavers vesting is pro-rated on a time basis and is dependent on the achieved performance under plan rules over the performance period.
The Committee has the discretion to vary the level of vesting to reflect the individual performance, and may, depending on the circumstances of the departure allow some awards to vest while lapsing others.
Change of control Where the Director leaves the Company following a change of control, whether or not he is dismissed or he elects to leave on notice, he will be entitled to receive a payment equivalent to up to one years remuneration.
Exercise of discretion Intended only to be used to prevent an outcome that is not consistent with performance.
The Committees determination will take into account the particular circumstances of the Executive Directors departure and the recent performance of the Company.
NEDs Appointed for initial three-year term.
Appointment may be terminated on three months written notice.
All NEDs are subject to annual re-election.
No compensation or other benefits are payable on early termination.
Notes: Contractual terms for current Directors existing before 27 June 2012 and not subsequently amended have principal areas that deviate from the policy above as follows: In respect of Andrew Jenner, the notice period from the Director is six months and in the event of Change of Control notice reduces to one month in the six months following the date of the Change of Control.
In respect of Ed Casey, the notice period is six months from the Company and two weeks from the Director.
In respect of Andrew Jenner and Ed Casey, there are no clauses for termination payments to be paid in instalments or for such payments to be mitigated.
Whilst unvested Awards will normally lapse, the Committee may in its absolute discretion allow for Awards to continue until the normal vesting date and be satisfied, subject to achievement of the performance conditions.
In such circumstances, Awards vesting will normally be prorated on a time apportioned basis, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Any such discretion in respect of leavers would only be applied by the Committee to good leavers where it considers that continued participation is justified, for example, by reference to past performance to the date of leaving, or by the requirement to achieve an orderly transition.
The claw back provisions would continue to apply in the event that such discretion were exercised.
Service contracts outline the components of remuneration paid to the individual but do not prescribe how remuneration levels may be adjusted from year to year.
