Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Directors Report Directors Report Annual Report and Accounts The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Annual Report and Accounts of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Comparative figures used in this report are for the year ended 31 December 2012.
The Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 60 to 74 forms part of the Statutory Directors Report.
The Chairmans Statement and the remainder of the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 59, provide a description of the business model and report on the activities during the year, post balance sheet events, and likely future developments.
Share capital The issued share capital of the Company, together with the details of shares issued during the year is shown in note 35 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The powers of the Directors to issue or buy back shares are restricted to those approved at the Companys annual general meeting.
The rules relating to the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
Dividends An interim dividend of 3.10p 2012 : 2.65p per ordinary share was paid on 18 October 2013.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 7.45p 2012 : 7.45p per ordinary share which, if approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 14 May 2014 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 14 March 2014.
Interests in voting rights As at 3 March 2014 the Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares: Number of shares millions millions % held Invesco Limited 71.8 14.37 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 24.7 4.96 UBS Investment Bank 29.1 5.90 Morstan Nominees Limited 25.1 5.11 AXA S. A.
24.4 4.95 Fidelity International Limited 24.5 4.90 Baillie Gifford & Co 24.0 4.92 FMR LLC 24.3 4.86 Newton Investment Management Limited 23.6 4.85 BlackRock Inc 24.1 4.82 HBOS plc 20.5 4.22 The Directors are unaware of any restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company or on voting rights.
There are also no known agreements between holders of the Companys securities which may result in such restrictions.
Directors The current members of the Board together with biographical details of each Director are set out on pages 62 to 64.
On 25 October 2013, the Company announced the appointment of Edward J Casey Jr as an Executive Director of the Company with effect from the same date.
On 3 March 2014, the Company announced the appointments of Mike Clasper, Tamara Ingram and Rachel Lomax as Non-Executive Directors of the Company with effect from the same date.
Mike will serve as a member of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility and Nomination Committees.
Tamara will join the Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility Committees.
Rachel will Chair the Corporate Responsibility Committee and serve as a member of the Audit Committee.
Ed, Mike, Tamara and Rachel will all stand for election at the Companys AGM on 8 May 2014.
As in previous years, and in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all other Directors will stand for re-election at the AGM.
Directors interests With the exception of the Executive Directors service contracts and the Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment, there are no contracts in which any Director has an interest.
Certain change in control conditions are included in the service contracts of Directors which provide compensation or reduction of notice periods in the event of a change in control of the Company.
Details of the Directors interests in the ordinary shares and options over the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 102.
106 Directors Report Annual general meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the offices of Clifford Chance LLP, 10 Upper Bank Street, London E14 5JJ on 8 May 2014 at 11.00am.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting together with explanatory notes is sent to shareholders with this Annual Report.
Financial risk policies A summary of the Groups treasury policies and objectives relating to financial risk management, including exposure to associated risks, is shown on pages 152 to 157.
Employment policies The Board is committed to maintaining a working environment where staff are individually valued and recognised.
Group companies and divisions operate within a framework of human resources policies, practices and regulations appropriate to their own market sector and country of operation, whilst subject to Group-wide policies and principles.
The Group is committed to ensuring equal opportunity, honouring the rights of the individual, and fostering partnership and trust in every working relationship.
Policies and procedures for recruitment, training and career development promote diversity, respect for human rights and equality of opportunity regardless of gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability, race, religion or other beliefs and ethnic or national origin.
The Group promotes diversity so that all employees are able to be successful regardless of their background.
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment, career development and promotion received from the disabled and offers employment when suitable opportunities arise.
If employees become disabled during their service with the Group arrangements are made wherever practicable to continue their employment and training.
Further information on gender breakdown is provided in the Strategic Report at pages 54.
The Group recognises and applies the principles in the Universal Declaration on Human Rights.
These are embedded in the Companys policies and standards and considered when reviewing business opportunities.
Further information on Human Rights is provided in the Strategic Report at page 54.
The Group remains proud of its record of managing employee relations and continues to believe that the structure of individual and collective consultation and negotiation is best developed at a local level.
Over the years, the Group has demonstrated that working with trade unions and creating effective partnerships allows improvements to be delivered in business performance as well as in terms and conditions of employment.
Where employees choose not to belong to a trade union, employee communication forums such as works councils exist to ensure involvement of staff within the business.
Participation by staff in the success of the Group is encouraged by the availability of sharesave schemes, a share option scheme, and long term incentive arrangements for senior management, which effectively align their interests with those of shareholders by requiring that performance criteria are achieved prior to exercise.
Corporate Responsibility The Group maintains a focus on corporate responsibility through a model that is applied across the business focusing on our people, safety, the environment and the communities we serve.
This model forms an integral part of our Management System and is supported by defined policies in all of the areas it covers.
More information on Corporate Responsibility, including Greenhouse Gas Emission reporting, can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 52 to 59.
Political Donations During the year neither the Company nor the Group made political donations and they intend to continue with this policy.
Within the US business there exists a Political Action Committee PAC, which is funded entirely by employees and their spouses.
The Serco PAC and its contributions are administered in strict accordance with regulatory requirements.
Employee contributions are entirely voluntary and no pressure is placed on employees to participate.
Under US law, an employee-funded PAC must bear the name of the employing company.
Financial statements At the date of this report, as far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: John Hickey Company Secretary 3 March 2014 As at 25 March 2014 the Company had not been notified of any changes or additions to these interests 107
