Directors Report All Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
Thereafter, subject to satisfactory performance, they may serve one or two additional three-year terms.
The Board considered the Chairman to be independent on his appointment in 2010.
The Nomination Committee keeps the Boards diversity, balance and independence under review, the details of which can be found on page 80.
The terms and conditions of the appointment of the directors are summarised in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 93 and are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Re-election of directors The Companys Articles of Association stipulate that each director shall retire but be eligible for re-election at the annual general meeting held in the third calendar year following the year in which he or she was elected or last re-elected by the Company.
Any directors appointed by the Board since the last annual general meeting must stand for re-election at the next annual general meeting.
Any Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, who have served for more than nine years will be subject to annual re-election.
Notwithstanding the above, in accordance with provisions contained within the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors retired and stood for re-election at the 2013 Annual General Meeting and will do so on an annual basis at each annual general meeting.
Their names are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Time commitment and external directorships As part of the Board evaluation process, the available time and commitment of each director is considered.
The Board considers that the Executive Directors can gain valuable experience and knowledge through appropriate and limited non-executive appointments in other listed companies or independent sector organisations.
The Board is careful to ensure that any such appointments do not present any material conflicts of interest to Serco, or compromise the effective management of the Group, and these are approved in advance of any appointments being taken up.
Details of the fees received by executive directors for external appointments can be found in the Remuneration Report on page 102.
Alastair Lyons is non-executive Chairman of Admiral Group plc and of the Towergate Insurance Group and Deputy Chairman of Bovis Homes Group PLC.
The Board believes that Alastair holds a balanced portfolio of positions which allow him to perform his duties as Chairman appropriately.
Board attendance Board meetings were held on a bi-monthly basis with ad hoc meetings in between as required.
The frequency and content of Board meetings are reviewed by the Board annually.
The attendance of the individual Directors at Board and Committee meetings of which they were members during 2013 was as follows: Corporate Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Responsibility No.
Held 6 3 11 5 0 Alastair Lyons 6 2 3 9 11 5 Christopher Hyman 5 5 n a n a n a Andrew Jenner 6 3 n a n a n a Edward J. Casey, Jr. 1 1 n a n a David Richardson 2 2 1 1 5 5 2 2 n a Angie Risley 6 3 11 5 n a Ralph D. Crosby Jr. 6 n a n a n a n a Malcolm Wyman 6 3 11 5 n a Notes: 1.
The table excludes attendances of directors who attended committee meetings by invitation only.
Where a number is given in brackets against a directors attendance, this is the number of meetings which took place during their tenure.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee was designed during 2013 but not formally constituted until 2014.
As well as meetings detailed above, 14 additional Board meetings were held during the year, to discuss issues highlighted on the previous pages, principally around the Corporate Renewal Programme.
Performance evaluation This year the Board did not undertake a formal internal review of the effectiveness of the Board, its committees and individual members and did not, therefore, comply with Code B.
The Board last carried out an externally facilitated review with CTMC&A Limited in 2011.
CTMC&A Limited has no connection with Serco other than facilitating Board-level performance evaluations.
In line with the Code, the next external review will take place in 2014.
In addition, an evaluation of the Chairmans performance led by the Senior Independent Director taking into account the views of both the non-executive and executive directors was carried out during the year.
It is considered that the Chairman continues to provide strong leadership of the Board, and there is a good level of trust between him and the Acting Group Chief Executive.
The Chairmans commitment to contract and site visits, and the value derived from these by the business, was also acknowledged.
His very well informed view of the Groups operations also enables him to provide a strong sounding board for the executive directors.
69 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Accountability Corporate Governance Report Financial reporting process The Company has a thorough assurance process in place in respect of the preparation, verification and approval of periodic financial statements.
The process includes: The involvement of qualified, professional employees with an appropriate level of experience in Group Finance and across the divisions Formal sign-offs from divisional Chief Executive Officers and Finance Directors Comprehensive review and, where appropriate, challenge from key internal Group functions A transparent process to ensure full disclosure of information to the external audits.
Engagement of a professional and experienced firm of external auditors Oversight of the Audit Committee, involving amongst other duties: A detailed review of key financial reporting judgements which have been discussed by management Review and where appropriate, challenge on matters including the consistency of, and any changes to, significant accounting policies and practices during the year: significant adjustments resulting from an external audit: the going concern assumption: and the Companys statement on internal control systems, prior to endorsement by the Board.
The above process and the review by the Audit Committee of a comprehensive note from management that sets out the details of the preparation, internal verification and approval process for the Annual Report and Accounts, provides comfort to the Board that the Group has undertaken an appropriate process to include the necessary information for it to consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
During the year, as part of our programme of corporate renewal, the reporting lines of divisional and business unit finance executives were changed such that these now have a direct reporting relationship to the Group Chief Financial Officer whilst also remaining a part of the divisional and business unit management teams.
Managing business risks and internal control Serco has a system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, designed to safeguard shareholders investments, our assets and our reputation.
The various reviews and audits undertaken by the UK Government which were completed during the year found no further evidence of wrongdoing or malpractice.
The Board has overall responsibility for our internal control system and for reviewing its effectiveness, and has delegated to management the implementation of policies on risk and control.
Risk management is fundamental to how we manage the business: it informs decision making and aligns to the organisations strategic objectives.
The systems and processes we have developed to identify and manage the key risks facing each of our businesses and the Group as a whole and the resources that are committed to risk management, were reviewed during the year as part of the corporate renewal programme and a series of actions identified to further develop and strengthen our structure of internal control and risk management having regard to the breadth and depth of the Groups activities.
All parts of the business have appropriate crisis management plans that meet defined policy standards.
Whilst Divisional Boards review quarterly the risks they face, the Group Risk Management and Safety Committee GRMSC, a formal committee of the Executive Committee, meets quarterly to provide governance and oversight of risk across the Group.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee of the Board receives a quarterly report on the GRMSCs assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the action being taken by management to mitigate risks that are outside of the Groups risk appetite.
Our risk management policies, systems and processes align to the guidance contained within the UK Corporate Governance Code and form part of the Serco Management System SMS.
Such systems and processes, however, can only be designed to mitigate, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that this process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
