Directors Report Notes to the policy table: Performance measures and targets The table below sets out a rationale for the performance conditions chosen for annual bonus, Deferred Bonus Plan and Performance Share Plans and how targets were set.
Element Performance measures How targets are set and rationale Annual bonus Financial and non-financial performance The performance targets are determined measures.
annually by the Committee taking into account analyst consensus and the The Committee selected the financial Companys forecasts.
measures based on the Companys Key Performance Indicators KPIs and the non-financial measures were individually set and based on key strategic goals.
Deferred Bonus Plan EPS is the sole measure to determine the vesting of matching shares.
The Committee selected EPS as it is a key performance indicator both for the Company and its major shareholders.
EPS targets are set in reference to analyst forecasts, Company business The Committee believes EPS can plans, and levels of EPS required be directly influenced by executive to support our share price goals.
decision-making while also reflecting shareholder value.
Share price targets will be set to reflect what the Committee determines as Performance Share Plan EPS, Relative TSR and Share Price or stretching, taking into account the absolute TSR.
recent fall in share price and historic share price levels, but also what is As set out above EPS is an important realistic and consistent with achievable measure of shareholder value which levels of financial performance.
can also be influenced by executive decision making.
The Committee consults with a selection of the largest shareholders Relative TSR reflects our performance and the voting guidance services when relative to other companies in which determining targets for the Companys investors could chose to invest.
The rationale for the share price measure is explicitly to recognise the recent falls in share price and to ensure that the full award is not delivered unless shareholders benefit from a significant recovery in value over the next three years.
