Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Directors Report Remuneration Report Approach to Recruitment Remuneration Serco operates in diverse markets and geographies and many of its competitors for talent are outside the UK.
In the event of hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will typically align the remuneration package with the above Remuneration Policy, which provides for a maximum total incentive under bonus, PSP and DBP combined of 500% of salary in any one year assuming maximum bonus, maximum investment in the DBP and maximum achievement of all performance conditions.
This is the maximum level of incentives excluding buy-outs that will apply to new recruits.
Different performance conditions may apply for new recruits from those set out in the policy, depending on the particular circumstances at the time which could, for example, include the appointment of an interim Executive Director.
In determining appropriate base salary on hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will take into account all factors it considers relevant including their experience and calibre, current total remuneration, levels of remuneration for companies in the Committees chosen peer group, and the remuneration required to attract the best candidate for Serco.
The Committee will seek to ensure that the arrangement is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders without paying more than is necessary.
New promotes or recruits to the board may on occasion have their salaries set below the targeted policy level while they become established in their role.
In such cases, salary increases may be higher than inflation or the general UK workforce increase until the targeted market positioning is achieved.
Where it is necessary to compensate a candidate for entitlements and or unvested long-term incentive awards from an existing employer that are forfeited, the Committee will seek to match the quantum, structure and timeframe of the award with that of the awards forfeited.
In determining the form and quantum of replacement awards, the Committee will consider whether existing awards are still subject to performance requirements and the extent to which those are likely to be met, with the aim of providing an opportunity of broadly equivalent value.
The principle will be to seek to replace awards that remain significantly at risk for performance at the candidates current employer with awards subject to performance at Serco and to seek to make any other replacement awards in the form of Serco shares, subject to appropriate vesting or holding requirements.
Any compensation for awards forfeited is not taken into account in determining the maximum incentive award level.
The recruitment policy also includes the additional provision of benefits in kind, pensions and other allowances, such as relocation, education and tax equalisation in line with Serco policies as may be required in order to achieve a successful recruitment.
The policy for recruitment also includes benefits that are either not significant in value or are required by legislation.
It is anticipated that any new Executive Director would be offered a pension allowance equal to 30% of base salary in lieu of pension.
Where a new Executive Director is an internal promote, the Committee reserves discretion to allow the new Executive Director to continue to benefit from existing awards granted, or benefit entitlements such as pension prior to appointment to the Board.
The policy on the recruitment of new Non-Executive Directors is to apply the same remuneration elements as for the existing Non-Executive Directors.
It is not intended that day rates or benefits in kind be offered, although in exceptional circumstances such remuneration may be required in currently unforeseen circumstances.
The Committee will include in future Annual Reports details of the implementation of the Policy in respect of any such recruitment to the Board.
Element of remuneration Maximum percentage of salary Maximum variable pay: 500% normally comprising: 150% Annual bonus 350% Long-term incentives Pension allowance 30% cash allowance in lieu of pension Note: Maximum percentage of salary for annual bonus and long-term incentives excludes compensation for awards forfeited.
