Strategic Report At HMAS Watson in Sydney, Australia, we apply the highest standards of engineering, software development and technical skills to simulator-based maritime warfare training.
opportunity to extend for a further two years to 50% in 2014.
As the Groups single largest New bid opportunities that are expected to be 2021.
Also for the RTA, Serco signed a contract operation, accounting for around 9% of Group decided over the next two years include: for the new Dubai Tramway, valued at 18m revenue, and achieving a margin reflecting the over five years.
Further extending our range of complexity of the services involved, this is the A new-build prison design, construct and services in the region, a six-year contract valued single largest factor underlying the Groups operate contract in Victoria, Australia, with at approximately 30m was awarded to provide anticipated reduction in financial performance Sercos SecurePathways consortium one facilities management services in the United for 2014.
Having secured an extension through of two shortlisted Arab Emirates, and a contract for employment to December 2014, the operations are then support and training services was awarded in subject to rebid.
Service operation of the Sydney North West the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Rail link, with Sercos TransForm consortium Over the next two years the only other one of two shortlisted for the proposed new In defence services, Serco extended and significant rebid in the AMEAA division relates rapid transport system expanded its contract with the Australian to our various Australian regional defence Defence Force ADF to provide logistics and garrison support services contracts, operated in Operation and maintenance of public bus base support services in the Middle East.
These have accounted services in Bahrain Valued at approximately 18m for a further for approximately 8% of revenue of the AMEAA year, we continue to deliver fully integrated division, are due to expire in June 2014 and are Oman air navigation services support for ADF bases, to ensure the provision under evaluation currently.
of high-quality services in areas such as Traffic management services in Abu Dhabi maintenance and accommodation, and will There remain significant market opportunities also assist through a complex programme to achieve further growth in the AMEAA region.
Further support and operation of metro of demobilisation from Afghanistan.
We also These include: the justice market in Australia systems in the region, including the secured our first direct contract to provide and New Zealand: non-clinical healthcare Sydney Light Rail project, with Sercos training services in the Middle East defence support services across the region: defence SydneyConnect consortium one of three market in the period.
support services: and transport operations shortlisted including the rail, bus and aviation sectors.
AMEAA future developments Serco has strong skills and capabilities in Non-clinical support services to health The 2014 financial year is expected to be each of these operational areas within the organisations in the Middle East significantly impacted by reduced activity levels AMEAA region, and the ability to leverage for Sercos Immigration Services in Australia.
referenceability from across the Group.
Activity levels have proven unpredictable in the past due to a number of factors: however, they have fallen following recent changes in government policy and we estimate that the contract could reduce by as much as From left: We operate and manage parking meters for 18,000 street parking spaces in Hong Kong.
Serco owns Great Southern Rail, which operates Australias iconic trains, the Indian Pacific and the Ghan.
37 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic Report Divisional reviews Global Services Global Services operates in more than 100 Global Services 2013 review Global Services brings together locations across 13 countries and employs Adjusted revenue from ongoing activities on a our customer contact, middle 60,000 people.
Worldwide, we conduct more reported currency basis grew by 10% to 772m and back office skills, allowing than 90 million multi-channel interactions in 2012: 702m, and represented 15% of the us to provide broad end-to-end 20 languages each year, as well as 600 million Group 2012: 15%.
On a constant currency calls and 60 million back office transactions.
basis, before the effect of local currency BPO services to public and Our widespread presence allows our customers weakness against the average sterling rate, private sector customers.
to choose the onshore, nearshore or offshore growth was 12%.
Excluding the contribution Our combination of our BPO delivery location that best matches their skill from the prior years Vertex acquisition, organic expertise and frontline services and cost requirements.
Adjusted operating profit from ongoing operations on a reported currency sets us apart from other providers.
We offer three lines of service: business basis declined by 35% to 39.9m 2012: process outsourcing BPO, consulting and 61.3m, with the margin declining to 5.2% technology services.
Including the impact of disposals, address customers needs across functions, Adjusted revenue on a reported currency basis including HR, finance and accounting, increased by 8% to 772m 2012: 716m and procurement, customer services management Adjusted operating profit declined by 36% to and consulting.
and delivery expertise in the areas of operations strategy, transformation, programme delivery, The major contract awards that began in the outsourcing, people performance and selection, second half of 2012, including Shop Direct and change management and research.
We are also AEGON UK, helped to drive strong revenue experts in handling large workforce transfers growth in the first half of 2013.
However, and managing confidential data.
performance weakened in the second half of the year.
There was less success in winning Our solutions are industry-specific, for new contract awards, and there was a lower customers in Banking & Financial Services, level of UK Central Government discretionary Insurance, Retail, Travel, Telecoms, Utilities, and ad hoc project work.
The significant margin Healthcare and the public sector.
We build reduction reflected increased costs of contract customised solutions assisted by industry bidding and new market development activity, experts, whether our customer is a bank looking the reduced level of typically higher margin to improve the quality of its mortgage portfolio, project work and the transitional stage of the a city council with a need to transform its local major new contracts, which tend to involve services or an airline wanting to reduce its costs.
Global Services operates in more than 100 locations and employs 60,000 people.
38 Strategic Report Worldwide, Global Services conducts more than 90 million multi-channel interactions in 20 languages each year.
39 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic Report Divisional reviews Global Services collection for a further leading UK high street Standards Agencys emergency helpline.
The adoption of an integrated contact For our Child Maintenance Group operations, centre approach saw Serco transition customer Serco won the Value for Money Award at services to our centre in Sheffield, as part of the DWP Supplier Excellence Awards 2013, a ten-year contract worth approximately recognising our continuous improvement 50m.
Of particular importance are Sercos ethos and innovative approaches to enhancing capabilities in multi-channel contact, with customer experience, whilst driving down costs specific developments for those customers for the DWP.
who are using tablet or mobile devices for their shopping and account management needs.
In our local authority strategic partnerships, at Hertfordshire County Council we continue At the Anglia Support Partnership ASP, to transform the way services are delivered.
where we provide shared service support Expanded services have included a pioneering to NHS organisations, we have continued to new telecare service for adults in receipt of see expansion of our platform and framework social care.
With an initial value of 12m over contract.
A further contract was signed with a five years, there is potential for further growth In our first full year of providing all customer large NHS hospital trust, to provide strategic as the service is extended to provide wider contact services across Shop Directs brands, procurement and finance and accounting support.
At Thurrock, Serco has introduced we have delivered our transformation plan services, involving the transfer of the trusts a new debt collection programme and for the rationalisation of UK operations, the systems to the ASP shared service platform.
is providing additional ICT support, as part of delivery of new digital services from our The four-year contract is expected to generate the councils wider transformation programme.
centre in Cardiff and the establishment of revenue of approximately 112m.
offshore and nearshore locations in India and In an important development in our Middle South Africa.
This has included the transfer Serco secured extensions in the year for East operations, Serco was awarded a of around 2,000 Shop Direct employees to a number of UK Central Government BPO new contract for shared services to over 50 Serco, the introduction of three new sites and contracts valued at over 100m in total, with government departments within the United the closure of two legacy sites.
Similarly with an average extension period of three years.
Serco will initially provide citizen the transformation programme at AEGON UK, The contracts include the provision of specialist contact and issue resolution management during our first year of operation we have complex case management services for the regarding the supply of public services, with successfully transitioned over 300 staff Child Maintenance Group at the Department for potential for the scope of the contract to be to Serco and have around 500,000 polices Work & Pensions DWP, managing enquiries increased in the future to include other back under management.
on behalf of Jobcentre Plus and the Universities office processing.
Contact will be delivered on & Colleges Admissions Service, supporting the a unique multi-channel basis, including voice, New contract awards in the year for private delivery of the Department of Healths Healthy email and web chat.
As per the agreement, the sector customers included providing a range Start programme and operating the Food contract will provide employment opportunity of BPO services such as sales and payments We secured extensions for a number of UK Central Government BPO contracts in 2013, valued at over 100 million in total.
40 Strategic Report Serco is now the sole contact centre service provider for Indias largest public sector bank.
to only Middle Eastern nationals.
In particular, Serco has strength outsourcer to a BPO player, using technology four-year contract is estimated to be valued in offering a blend of onshore, nearshore to support innovation and transformation in at approximately 24m.
We also the front and back office.
We have also been have excellent capabilities in areas such recognised as a top tier BPO service provider In Indias banking and financial services market, as multi-channel customer contact services.
by industry analysts and third party advisors Serco is now the sole contact centre service such as Gartner, Everest, NelsonHall and HFS.
provider for the countrys largest public sector For the private sector, the Global Services bank.
For Indias largest private sector bank, division has added to and expanded the scope New bid opportunities that are expected to be additional work awarded has led to Serco now of existing customer relationships over time, decided over the next two years include: supporting more than 75% of the collections and sees further potential to continue growing services and becoming the largest supplier in this manner in the future.
Referenceability and European telecom operator customer supporting card issuance on behalf of the bank.
prospects are spread across large and diverse contact services and digitisation Expanding our support to the Indian public industry groups: Banking, Financial Services & sector, we were awarded a customer support Insurance: Travel, Hospitality & Transportation: Expanded existing and new operations for contract for energy services in the state of Retail, Healthcare, Utilities & Manufacturing: life and pensions companies Punjab.
Amongst other rebids and contracts and Telecom, Technology, Online Services & won, we successfully rebid a contract valued Media.
With significant presence to build from Retail multi-channel customer management at approximately 14m, supporting a leading in the UK and India domestic markets, we are services US credit bureau with customer services for also continuing to target opportunities in other mortgage-related queries.
Lincolnshire County Council BPO support, covering finance, HR, ICT and citizen contact Our network of BPO delivery centres saw, during For the public sector, the Global Services 2013, the opening of our first centre in Cape division is working alongside the regional Further local authority opportunities, covering Town, South Africa, to service both international divisions in order to bid and deliver fully similar services and domestic customers.
The opening of our integrated solutions for their customers.
The centre in Teltow, Germany, is supporting major division provides bid support in areas relating European customers such as Sky Deutschland.
to contact centre services, case management, Meanwhile our workforce in Cardiff, where we identity verification, transaction processing, support multi-channel customer contact for ICT, human resources and payroll, finance a number of well-known UK retail brands, and accounting, and any other middle or back has almost doubled in size.
office support function that is required.
Central Government is expected to continue to develop Global Services future developments opportunities for shared service centre support.
In the 2014 financial year, no significant attrition UK strategic partnerships with local authorities is anticipated from the ending of any individual to transform their services should also further contracts.
Over the next two years there are also develop as a market, with increasing potential no significant contracts that require extending to outsource non-core supporting operations.
There are, however, ongoing Expanding existing local authority relationships pressures from terms renegotiations with remains a key source of future growth, existing customers, some reductions in activity as does further developing the ASP shared levels as we move beyond the transition phases service centre for the NHS and other on previous major contract starts, and the need health organisations.
to rebuild the pipeline, particularly after the lower level of contract awards in the second Recognition of Sercos growing presence in the half of 2013, in part as a result of the UK BPO market continues to build.
we have risen into the top three UK business process services providers, as compiled by Serco has important capabilities to offer in the leading software and IT services industry attractive BPO market, with scale and depth to research company TechMarketView, in its 2013 provide private and public sector customers UK Software and IT Services Rankings report.
with a range of end-to-end, integrated business In a separate recent report regarding the services, as they seek to reduce costs and public sector, TechMarketView acknowledged improve efficiencies by transforming their Sercos progress in transitioning from a pure IT 41
