Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Directors Report Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder On behalf of your Board, I am pleased to present our Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The Remuneration Committee continues to recognise the clear link between pay and performance and provides information on this in the Report by way of additional disclosures on our reward and on our remuneration decisions in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
This Report also complies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Regulations.
We have structured the Report into two sections: 1.
Directors Remuneration Policy setting out all elements of our Companys remuneration policy and the key factors that were taken into account in setting that policy.
This policy is subject to a binding shareholder vote at this years General Meeting on 8 May and thereafter at least every third year: 2.
Annual Report on Remuneration setting out payments and awards made to our directors and details on the link between Company performance and remuneration for the financial year covered by the accounts.
This report on remuneration together with this letter is subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the General Meeting on 8 May.
2013 Overview As reported in the Strategic Review pages 2 to 59, we have been through a very difficult and extremely unusual period since July of last year, which has had a major impact on the Company by reducing near-term growth, diverting management focus, and adding costs in order to strengthen the business.
Whilst the impact will continue to be significant in 2014 as we implement the programme of corporate renewal and rebuild our UK pipeline, the notification by the UK Government in January that a positive assessment has been made of our corporate renewal plan will now allow the business to begin to emerge in a stronger position to compete in its large and growing markets and rebuild value for shareholders.
Recognising the need for strong and effective leadership, I am delighted with the appointment of Rupert Soames as our new Group Chief Executive with effect from 1 June 2014.
Also the range of skills and experience of our current Board will be complemented by the addition of three new Non-Executive Directors one of whom, Tamara Ingram, will join the Remuneration Committee.
Remuneration outcomes in respect of 2013 During 2013 Christopher Hyman resigned as Group Chief Executive and Ed Casey took on the role of Acting Group Chief Executive.
As communicated at the time, and as described elsewhere in this Report, Chris only received his contractual entitlement of 12 months payment in lieu of notice, paid on a phased basis and subject to mitigation.
He was allowed to retain the 2011 Performance Share Plan PSP and Deferred Bonus Plan DBP awards that were due to vest within his notice period.
However, as the threshold performance conditions for these awards were not met, they lapsed entirely and so no payment was made.
Ed was appointed Acting Group Chief Executive in October 2013 on a salary of USD1,046,000, with a pension supplement of 30% of salary.
His short and long-term incentives are in line with our normal policy for the Group Chief Executive.
His bonus for the period since his appointment in October 2013 has been based on a combination of financial KPIs, in large part reflecting the performance of our US business which he had led for 10 months of the year, alongside non-financial objectives relating to his role as Acting Group Chief Executive.
Our US business has had a strong year and Ed has made an outstanding contribution as Acting Group Chief Executive, rapidly getting to grips with our corporate renewal plan, demonstrating strong leadership in a time of great instability, and showing great personal flexibility.
On the basis of this performance, a bonus award of 111% has been determined for him for his period since appointment in October 2013.
Andrew Jenner, our Group Chief Financial Officer, has elected not to take a bonus in respect of 2013 in recognition of the significant impact of events during the year on Sercos performance and share price.
Sercos financial performance for the year is described in more detail in the Strategic Report starting on page 2.
As a consequence of our financial performance falling short of where we wanted it to be, the long-term incentive awards made under the PSP and DBP in 2011, and due to vest in 2014 based on 2013 results, will lapse as we were below median against our peer group on a relative Total Shareholder Return basis and EPS growth fell short of the threshold of 9% pa compound.
These outcomes clearly demonstrate that our remuneration policy is effective in aligning pay with performance.
Remuneration for 2014 The Committee conducted its regular annual review of salaries of the Executive Directors, taking into account the challenges that have faced the business last year, their performance, the competitiveness of their remuneration against the UK market and the current economic climate.
The Committee also has regard to the overall pay decisions for employees across the Group as a whole.
With effect from 1 April 2014, the salaries for the Executive Directors will increase by 1.5% to USD1,061,690 for the Acting Group Chief Executive and 463,855 for the Group Chief Financial Officer.
Rupert Soames has been appointed on a base salary of 850,000, with a first review date of 1 April 2016, and will receive a pension supplement of 30% of salary.
His incentives are in line with our current remuneration policy, as set out in this Report, and which will be put to shareholders for approval under the binding vote at the 2014 General Meeting.
In order to compensate him for awards he will forgo at Aggreko as a result of joining Serco, Rupert will also receive an initial one-off long-term incentive award of 150% of salary under the PSP and an award of shares vesting over the period to 1 April 2017.
The performance conditions on the one-off PSP award will be relative TSR, Share Price both tested following the announcement of the 2016 results and strategic objectives.
Any Aggreko awards that have performance conditions attached will be replaced with Serco awards with performance conditions.
