Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 33 Looking forward Since we published the first of our Changing course Water industry regulation documents back in 2010, Severn Trent has played aleading role in shaping the future of the UK water needs to change because industry.
Weve continued this engagement in the last 12 months, with a series of new publications.
thesector has to deal with We issued a paper on designing balanced incentives significant challenges in that drive the right behaviour by water companies.
KPMG wrote a report for us on nancing water thecoming years.
Alongside National Grid, we produced a paper on encouraging equity nancing in the water and energy sectors.
The Water Bill Were pleased that our efforts have been productive.
The changes from the UK Government, in the form The UK Government is responding to these of the Water Bill, and from Ofwat in its recently challenges through the Water Bill, which ministers published consultation on the framework for PR14, hope to enact in 2013 14.
This builds on its 2011 are aligned with our own proposals.
Together, these Water White Paper, which set out a vision for promise the most significant changes to water aresilient, affordable and sustainable water industry regulation since privatisation in 1989. supplynetwork.
The Bill covers four main areas.
First, it increases the The challenges for the industry scope for non-household retail competition.
This is Water industry regulation needs to change because already possible to a limited extent but the Bill will the sector has to deal with significant challenges in make it easier for business customers to switch the coming years.
This creates an opportunity for us and we Affordability is a key theme for the next five years.
have set up Severn Trent Costain in response.
Households are facing declining real incomes and However, while retail competition is positive because welfare reform, intensifying the need to keep water it encourages efficiency and promotes choice, bills as low as possible.
Pressure is also coming from itwont transform the sectors economics.
business customers, who want to better manage Secondly, the Bill also allows more upstream their costs and have greater choice of water supplier.
competition and in particular water trading.
This will We need to respond to climate change and water enable better use of national water resources, a scarcity.
Recent experience shows that the UKs significant improvement on the current situation weather patterns are changing, with droughts where companies have to look within their region for followed by oods.
Water companies need to solutions to water shortages.
This will lead to better effectively manage customer demand, make better resilience and lower costs for customers.
However, use of existing water resources on a national rather the right economic model needs to be developed to than regional basis, and increase the networks enable water trading to happen.
This would also create more capacity Thirdly, it is designed to enhance the physical tomove water, making water trading between resilience of the industry by, for example, regions easier.
encouraging farmers and other land owners to The water industry must also be more sustainable.
storewater and to clarify the duties of Ofwat to This means rebalancing abstraction and taking less promote resilience.
water from areas where its already affecting the Finally, the Bill will reform the mergers and environment.
It also requires the industry to reduce acquisitions regime.
While major mergers will still be its bias towards capital expenditure and promote unlikely, the changes create the potential for a more operational solutions, such as improving efficient industry structure, reducing costs which can catchmentmanagement rather than building be shared with customers.
Overall, the Water Bill includes measures which are broadly in line with those we set out in Changing course, and well continue to support it as it passes through Parliament.
34 Business review Looking forward and there are important details that need to be The PR14 framework nalised.
For example, its important to get the level In January 2013, Ofwat published a consultation on of details right when setting outcomes.
Outcomes its framework and approach for PR14.
The proposed that are too detailed will lose the benets of risk framework has four key elements.
Conversely, if theres not enough First, it introduces separate price controls for the detail it will be hard to define meaningful measures retail and wholesale parts of the business.
We also need to know more about companies a greater incentive to provide the best keyelements such as the basis for the average customer service at lowest cost, and will create retailcost calculations and how the totex baseline more choice for non-household customers.
The RCV expenditure will be set.
Overall, though, the draft will stay with wholesale, which currently generates PR14 framework contains no surprises for us and around 90% ofSevern Trent Waters revenue.
This were supportive of its aims.
means that the vast majority of our revenues will Severn Trent Waters April 2013 consultation, Your still be based on the RCV and will be adjusted for the water.
Your choices sets out outline proposals for movement in the RPI each year.
what the company could achieve during 2015-2020, Ofwat is aiming to be less prescriptive about what with customer bills forecast to rise by no more than companies deliver during the next regulatory cycle, ination during the period.
There are a number of so its asking them to set the high level outcomes important areas where there is scope for choice, they will aim to achieve.
These outcomes will be however customers and stakeholders views will focused on benets for customers and will give directly influence the final business plan to be companies more leeway to innovate in the way submitted to Ofwat in December 2013. theydeliver their plans.
Companies will also face fewer but greater Sustainable nancing incentives, which will focus regulation where its In the longer term, the water industry will need needed most.
Companies can choose larger more capital.
It has invested 100 billion since incentives for outperformance but would also face privatisation but the challenges outlined earlier will more significant penalties for underperformance.
We believe The new regime will also, in theory, address the that investors will continue to fund this if they industrys bias towards capital expenditure, as the remain confident in the industry.
model will move more to a total expenditure In our view, its unlikely that debt can provide all this ortotex basis.
Companies will be able to choose funding.
High gearing transfers risks to customers whether to recover this expenditure on a pay as you and the failure of one company will affect all the go basis, which will be beneficial for cash ow, or by others, by damaging their chances of raising further adding it to their RCV and earning a return, which will debt.
The 2008 09 financial crisis also showed that be better for their long term returns.
companies cannot guarantee access to debt finance Finally, the framework has a much greater emphasis when they need it.
Our conclusion is that theres a on customer and stakeholder engagement.
need for long term equity in a balanced nancing Customer challenge groups such as our Water structure, which means that equity holders will Forum, which is discussed on pages 18 and 20 will haveto be appropriately rewarded for providing influence companies as they develop their plans, those funds.
which should lead to plans that are better informed.
In the short term, we also need to look at the way Companies will still own their plans but they must theweighted average cost of capital WACC is show that they have listened to their challenge calculated for PR14.
In current market conditions, group and explain their approach where their view the capital asset pricing model, which is used to differs.
Thecustomer challenge group will also report calculate the WACC, could produce an unsustainable on the quality of the companys engagement and answer.
Other models should be used to cross check whether it supports its business plan.
This will in part and justify the cost of equity and debt.
We also determine the depth of Ofwats review of the plan.
believe that its possible to differentiate the cost of Ofwats proposals are still at the consultation stage capital based on company risk.
We have made all these points in a series of publications over the year and are engaged with stakeholders to discuss the Companies will also face future implications.
fewer but greater incentives, Summary which will focus regulation In summary, we support the general direction of theWater Bill and the PR14 framework.
While the where its needed most.
changes they propose are evolutionary rather thanrevolutionary, they are still significant and willhelp the industry to address its challenges.
Werepleasedto have played an important part inshapingthese proposals and will continue to dosoas they progress.
