02 The Severn Trent World 2012 13 has been a year of continued focus and evolution for Severn Trent.
We fundamentally believe in the positive impact of increasing Water trading competition in our industry and the opportunities it will bring.
The boundary between regulated and We have seen regulatory and political support for further non-regulated activities in the UK is changing and watertrading in the UK with we are adapting our business to take full Severn Trent being perfectly geographically positioned to advantage of the changes ahead, while trade water with our neighbours.
continuing to focus on ensuring our core activities maintain quality and deliver excellent customer service and value.
38m 5.6m Weve invested 38 million inGloucestershire since the We spent 5.6 million across 2007oods.
The Mythe water Severn Trent on the development treatment works has new ood of renewables such as large scale defences and pipelines to provide wind energy.
We do this to alternative supplies to 160,000 reduce our reliance on grid customers.
Weve built 1 km of electricity, it also reduces our new sewers and new storm carbon emissions.
tanksto prevent networks being overwhelmed by heavy rain.
More on page 19 133cm 2012 recorded the second highest annual rainfall in England since 1910.
We collect water from reservoirs, rivers and underground boreholes across our region.
Severn Trent Services In October 2012 we formed a business with Costain to offer 150m large multi-site water users a single supplier of water and Through effective procurement waste water services.
It aims to and capital delivery we deliver efficiency improvements, generated 150 million of save costs, manage legal efficiency savings.
We are compliance and risk and deliver reinvesting this to improve the water efficiency solutions.
performance of our network and More on page 25 treatment assets to provide better service to customers.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 03 Overview Regulatory reform We have continued to play an active role in discussions about the evolving regulatory and policy framework for the water industry.
Many of the ideas wehave proposed in our Changing Course series of publications have now been adopted by policy makers.
More on page 33 7,000 We have carried out research with more than 7,000 household and business customers about the future of our services.
89p The average cost to our customer per day for combined services is 11 years 89 pence.
Our customers benefit from the lowest average Severn Trent fide Nora was combined bills in England established in 2002 to provide andWales.
seawater and brine onsite hypochlorite generation systems for marine, offshore water and waste water treatment applications.
Overseas 5% We reduced leakage across our region by 5%, a reduction of 555m 23megalitres per day Ml d. Wealso work with others and 900 through our operation and capital spend maintenance contract with the We operate more than UK Ministry of Defence we have Over the last financial year 900municipal water and cut the leakage at their sites wehave invested 555million wastewater treatment facilities toan all time low.
into our network and above across the US and Europe.
