24 Non-regulated Severn Trent Services Severn Trent Services is one of the worlds leading suppliers of water and waste water treatment solutions.
We are known for innovation, reliability, quality services and leadership in our chosen markets.
Key strategic intentions...... delivered through our areas of focus Key facts Severn Trent Services has six key strategic intentions, Severn Trent Services is one of the worlds leading which define our strategy and set out how we water and waste water businesses.
To achieve our intend to achieve our objectives: strategy we focus on: 1.
Engaged employees with the right skills Orderbook Water Purication Products todeliver Municipal, commercial, industrial and marine 49.6m applications require water treatment technologies to 2.
Continuously improve health, safety, as at 31 March 2013 meet their disinfection, ltration and process needs.
employee well-being and environmental The Water Purication groups portfolio of water performance products are used around the world in support of 3.
Determine and deliver what these applications.
Employees customersvalue More on Water Purication on page 29 4.
Develop new markets and products 2,339 through geographic expansion, end user as at 31 March 2013 focus, technology innovation and strategic Operating Services partnerships Operating Services delivers safe drinking water and waste water treatment services.
Continue to build strong and Turnover operating more than 900 treatment facilities across respectedbrands its markets.
Continuously improve and optimise our 2012: 332.3m More on Operating Services on page 30 products, processes and organisational capabilities to enhance customer value and profit improve returns to our investors 12.7m 2012: 18.0m Before interest, tax and Where we operate exceptional items.
Severn Trent Services is our main non-regulated business.
It has two business streams WaterPurication and Operating Services.
WaterPurication is organised around three regions the Americas: Asia Pacic andChina: Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Operating Services works for customers in the US, UK, Irelandand Italy.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25 Non-regulated Today We completed the firstretail switch Severn Trent Costain provides water and waste water management services in the UK to commercial and industrial users, delivering water strategies to improve efficiencies, reduce costs, mitigate risk and manage compliance.
In October 2012, we announced First Milk asthe first business customer to switch water supplier.
Wesupply, manage and monitor over 600 million litres of water per year across six FirstMilk sites, and are now working with First Milk to help them achieve their objectives for water management.
Being able to get a closer handle on our water usage is not justbeneficial to our business, but to any business.
We believe that this contract with Severn Trent Costain will help us in our quest to meet some of the sustainability targets, and help prepare us for some of the short and long term challenges facing our industry.
Paul Rowe, First Milk Group Projects Director Tomorrow Were well placed to take a leading role As the UK water supply market undergoes significant change, we are taking a leading role.
With water services licences forScotland, England and Wales, we can offer multi-sited businesses the benefits and synergies of a single supplierapproach.
We will continue to work in partnership with high volume business users to manage the increasing challenges presentedby climate change and extreme weather such asflooding, scarcity, rising costs and increasing regulation.
Wewill develop innovative water strategies which deliver sustainability, reduce costs and fulfil corporate social responsibility agendas to meet the increasing demands fromconsumers and stakeholders to preserve and protect avaluable resource.
26 Non-regulated Our business model Severn Trent Services Providing Operating Services and Water Purication Products to: Our business is evolving from a traditional base of municipal waterand waste water to one where we operate in a variety ofmunicipal, industrial and commercial sectors for the delivery of both products and services.
1 The market for water and waste water products andservices is significant, withgood prospects Municipal Water forlongterm sales and profit growth due to Treatment fundamental drivers: water scarcity, population Severn Trent Services provides ltration, disinfection growth, climate change and more stringent and process solution technologies for various regulatory requirements.
Our strategy is to introduce new technologies into In addition, we provide contract operations and existing markets, adapting existing technology for maintenance for municipal water treatment example our BALPURE ballast water technology to facilitiesin the US, UK, Ireland and Italy.
t new market opportunities, as well as growing our Operating Services business in the US and Europe where we operate more than 900 facilities and have over 190 million revenue.
We target a return on capital in excess of the regulated water business, commonly above 10%.
Disinfection Product: Key to our services Advance, AQUAWARD, Capital Controls, Chlor-a-Vac, Chloromatic, ClorTec, MicroDynamics, UltraDynamics Filtration Areas where STS offers ltration, separation and Filtration adsorption products services for all or part of Product: theprocesscycle Bayoxide E33, Omni-SORB, SORB 07 09 33, Disinfection TETRA DeepBed, TETRApHix, UAT, TETRA definite, Areas where STS offers disinfection and related HigginsLoop, TETRA FlumeFlow, TETRALPBlocks instrumentation products services for all or part oftheprocess cycle Services: Operating Services Waste Water Facility Operations & Maintenance O&M, Areas of the process cycle where STS offers WaterSystemTreatment & Distribution, Asset & Capital Management, Design&Build, Integrated Water Services contractoperations Management, LeakageDetection & Reduction, Legionella Control, Network Repair, Maintenance & Renewal, Project Finance Other non-regulated businesses Arrangements, WaterQuality Sampling, Assessment&rectification, WaterRegulations Compliance Renewable energy in the UK As a group, we face an increasing need for energy due to ever tightening standards.
We have three main reasons for developing our own energy, to: F reduce our reliance on electricity from the national grid: F reduce our carbon emissions: and F limit our impact on the environment.
Risks Areas of focus Where these are currently considered Principal Risks, Sewage gas combined heat and power CHP We have further details are provided on pages 3942 55 engines on 35sites producing 40 MW of power.
F We may be unable to collect and store sufficient water to Trade waste We have four Sewage Treatment Works meet customer demand.
providing permanent trade waste storage and dosing F Hazardous processes may result in our people being injured.
Principal Risk Ref 6 Energy from crops Our energy crop anaerobic F Regulatory or political change may lead to decreased digestion plant next to the Stoke Bardolph Sewage demand for our services.
Hydro We have six hydro turbines installed at four sites producing around 1.7 MW.
Large wind turbines We aim to generate 22 GWh ofelectricity from four large wind turbines in 2015.
Where we invest and where we make our returns We are investing across the above five areas of focus with 8.75million invested in 2012 13.
We make direct returns on our renewable energy activities, and benefit from cost saving across the group.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27 Non-regulated 2 3 4 Municipal Waste Industrial Marine Severn Trent Services offers a range Severn Trent Services offers a Water Treatment of disinfection, ltration and rangeof disinfection, ltration Severn Trent Services provides ltration, disinfection process solutions for a suite of andprocess solutions for marine and process solution technologies forvarious industrial water and waste water and offshore water and waste municipal waste water treatment applications.
In addition, we water applications.
In addition, we provide contract operations and provide design, build and contract maintenance for municipal waste water treatment operations for water and waste facilities in the US, UK, Ireland and Italy.
water treatment facilities for a variety of industrial segments in theUS, UK, Ireland and Italy, and supply retail water to businesses throughout the UK.
Primary Treatment Process Water Electrochlorination Product: Product: Capital Controls, ClorTec, EST, SANILEC, SEACLOR Secondary Biological Treatment MicroDynamics, TETRA DeepBed, TETRA Product: Higgins Loop, UAT, UltraDynamics, TETRA SAF, Amphidrome, TETRA ColOX Desalination MicroChem Product: SANILEC, SEACLOR, UAT, UltraDynamics Cooling Water Tertiary Advanced Treatment Product: Capital Controls, ClorTec, EST, Marine Sewerage Product: MicroDynamics, SANILEC, SEACLOR, TETRA DeepBed, TETRA definite, TETRA NSAF, TETRA Product: TETRA DeepBed, TETRA HigginsLoop, Shortcut-NRT, TETRA SNAP-T MARINER OMNIPURE SeriesM55, UAT, UltraDynamics, MicroChem OMNIPURE & OMNIPURE Series 55, SANILEC, SEACLOR, UAT, UltraDynamics Final Treatment UV Chlor Disinfection Services: Product: Severn Trent Services provides a full range of Ballast Water Treatment Capital Controls, ClorTec, MicroDynamics, MicroChem expertise from the individual aspects of water waste water utility management to the Product: provision of integrated water waste water BALPURE Services: services for a variety of clients, including: F 2' '2'#1 Waste Water Facility Operations & Maintenance O&M, Waste Water System Treatment & Collection, Asset & Capital Management, F 3 '!
"#!2-0 Design& Build, Industrial Pre-treatment, Network Repair, F 12 2#1, "" !'"
'2'#1, %# #, 2 Maintenance & Renewal, Project Finance Arrangements, F - SludgeTreatment & Disposal F #4# -.
312- #01 F 31', #11 #2 ' 312- #01 Risks Risks Risks F Failure of products or treatment processes may result in F Failure of products or treatment F The Intellectual Property in our key environmental damage and regulatory non-compliance.
processes may result in injury to people, products may be used by competitors.
Principal Risk Ref 5 environmental damage and regulatory F Regulatory change may lead to non-compliance.
Principal Risk Ref 5 F Regulatory or political change may lead to decreased decreased demand for our products.
F New products may be introduced to the F Disruption in the global supply chain F Hazardous processes may result in our people being injured.
market leading to increased competition may impact our ability to meet Principal Risk Ref 6 for ourproducts and services.
F We may be unable to take advantage ofthe opening of the UK market to competition.
Principal Risk Ref 2 Our websites www.
com 28 Non-regulated We also have a sector leading renewable energy Overview operation, which provides electricity to our UK Industry and market regulated business, Severn Trent Water, with excess The market for water and waste water products and power supplied to the national grid.
services is large with substantial long term prospects for growth in the areas we serve.
That is because the #7 120#, %2&1 drivers of the water and waste water business: Our non-regulated operations have the following water scarcity: population growth: climate change: keystrengths: and more stringent regulatory requirements F our business has a clear strategy for growth, which remainstrong.
focuses on the growing global demand forclean water and safe, efficient waste watertreatment: Our business F we provide operating services to an increasing Severn Trent Services provides water and waste number of utilities, municipalities and commercial water treatment products and operating services to customers in targeted countries: and utilities, municipalities and commercial customers in F we are a leader in the design, production and sale selected markets around the world.
We focus on the of water purication products in growth markets growth markets and geographies where our such as disinfection, ltration, adsorption and products and services meet the significant needs of marine offshore waste water treatments.
We have two principal business streams, Water How we measure success Purication Products and Operating Services, which Severn Trent Services establishes an annual suite are described under our areas of focus on page 24. ofperformance targets KPIs which are used to measure and guide the business throughout the Operating Services includes Severn Trent Costain, year.
KPIs are measured and reported monthly to which provides complete business water and waste allemployees and are aligned with the delivery of water management, from source to disposal, for our long term strategic plan which is set out in our high volume commercial and industrial water users Key Strategic Intentions KSIs below.
in England, Wales and Scotland.
Progress against our key strategic intentions Key strategic intention Progress in the year 1.
Engaged employees with the F Our quarterly surveys show employee engagement ahead of target and benchmarks for similar businesses.
Continuously improve health, F We delivered strong health and safety performance, with a further reduction in lost time incidents.
safety, employee well-being and F We won awards that recognised our commitment to protecting the environment.
Determine and deliver what F We undertook a t for purpose review of all our products and services across Severn Trent Services and customers value disposed of our analytical and metering services operations so we could focus on our key activities.
F We implemented a new comprehensive voice of customer process across all parts of Severn Trent Services.
F We developed new communication tools with existing customers which have contributed to improved contract retention rates.
Develop new markets and F We strengthened our Severn Trent fide Nora business by acquiring electrochlorination technologies and products through geographic establishing an opportunity for future growth in Japan.
expansion, end user focus, F We formed a new subsidiary, Severn Trent Costain, to compete for commercial and business customers technology innovation and inthe UK.
strategic partnerships F We recently agreed to acquire service contracts with 10 municipalities and three private entities in California providing us with a stronger base for growth in the Western US.
Continue to build strong and F We continued to invest in developing BALPURE and a number of other water purication products.
respected brands F Severn Trent Services has a series of electrochlorination products for ballast water, waste water and drinking water applications, out of which our established ClorTec line has a strong reputation astheleading global technology with a proven track record of over 3,000 global installations since 1995.
F Severn Trent fide Nora has established an excellent reputation and brand name across the globe and specifically in the Middle East by occupying a strong leadership position in this region.
F We launched new foreign language websites in Spanish, Italian and Chinese within www.
com to provide native language product and service information for keyinternational markets.
Continuously improve and F Water Purication reorganised on a regional basis, to get closer to its customers.
optimise our products, processes F We introduced the Severn Trent groups Safer Better Faster approach to continuous improvement.
and organisational capabilities to enhance customer value and improve returns to our investors Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 29 Non-regulated Performance Water Purication Products Severn Trent Services delivered an encouraging Water Purication grew in emerging markets such performance, despite continuing challenging asAsia Pacic and the Middle East & North Africa, conditions in some of its markets.
In 2012 13, while performance in North America and Europe revenue was 328.5 million, while profit before was impacted due to difficult economic conditions interest tax and exceptional items PBIT was and limited customer investment in water and 12.7million.
During the year, we conducted a thorough review of Disinfection and ltration product demand Severn Trent Services products and service portfolio, increaseddue to stringent efuent standards in including a t for purpose analysis of the structure China and demand for electrochlorination products of each business and our shared services.
In in offshore applications was high in Latin America addition, we took action to strengthen our focus on Brazil and Asia Pacic Malaysia due to increased the core water and waste water markets through oil and gas exploration.
the divestiture of our analytical services and To support and expand on this demand, a small metering services operations in the UK.
The disposal acquisition was made in the Japanese market of analytical services also satisfied an undertaking Chlorine Engineers CECHLO seawater and brine made to Ofwat who have now closed the Section 26 electrochlorination systems.
Excluding the impact In the marine market, the International Maritime of acquisitions, exchange movements and these Organisation IMO has yet to ratify ballast water disposals, revenue grew by 5.3% but underlying PBIT treatment standards.
However, our BALPURE decreased by 3.5%, afterincreased investment in ballast water treatment line still delivered growth business development, which was 1.6 million and we have a pipeline of new projects.
We continue higher at 3.6 million.
Reportedrevenue fell by 1.1%, to invest in BALPURE, so it has a broader reach while reported PBIT fell by 29.4%, mainly due to the across the marketplace.
This includes modifying loss of earnings ondisposal from the metering and theproduct to make it more cost competitive for analytical services business.
smaller ships, and taking costs out of the original design to improve its competitiveness across the product range.
To take advantage of growth in emerging markets, we reorganised the Water Purication business on a regional basis.
This new operating model is divided into the Americas: Europe, Middle East and Africa: Asia Pacic and China: and Severn Trent fide Nora, which has global management with operations in the US, China, Italy, Japan and Singapore.
Reorganising the business in these regions will allow us to offer customers a full suite of products and services, while operating with similar capabilities to those we already have in North America and Europe.
It is also expected to reduce our costs by leveraging global procurement.
Severn Trent Services delivered an encouraging performance, despite continuing challenging conditions in some of itsmarkets.
30 Non-regulated Continuous improvement Operating Services Environment Despite a at market, revenue grew in the US.
Increased efficiencies made our existing contracts We must manage and measure our impact on inthe UK and Ireland more profitable.
In Italy theglobal water environment.
During the year, the performance was again affected by economic Delaware US Department of Natural Resources and conditions and continued political uncertainty.
Environmental Control recognised our commitment to the environment, when it gave its Clean Water In the US, fewer existing contracts came up for Partnership Award to the Lewes, Delaware waste renewal across the market.
We therefore focused on water treatment plant, for achieving 100% increasing the proportion of our own contracts that compliance over the last five years.
Overall, we secured 31 new projects and renewed 46 contracts, improving our The facilities we operate in Lititz, Pennsylvania US renewal rate for contracts of more than $100,000 received the US Environmental Protection Agencys ayear to 85%.
EPA 2012 Source Water Protection Award.
Thisrecognises organisations and communities that In Italy our performance was negatively impacted take extraordinary steps to protect drinking water by the political and economic environment.
We saw sources in the EPAs mid-Atlantic region.
Lititz was a lower level of activity and we restructured the recognised for protecting groundwater sources business to reduce our ongoing cost base.
fromcontamination through its joint wellhead Our 25 year, 1.0 billion operation and maintenance protection programme with the neighbouring contract with the UK Ministry of Defence MoD cut Warwick Township Municipal Authority.
No other leakage to an all time low, exceeding the MoDs communities in Pennsylvania have received this targets.
Our Severn Trent Response business in Ireland People, health and safety operated well in a difficult economic environment, while the Severn Trent Retail Utility Services Protecting health and safety is one of our core businesswas generally at due to the stagnant values.
We advocate safety in all we do, both UKhousing market.
Our performance in the year was solid, continuing the improving trend Severn Trent serving the emerging inrecent years.
31', #11 0 #2 This continuous improvement was evident in our Severn Trent and Costain formed a business in Operating Services business in Italy, where our June2012 to offer large multi-site water users a employees worked 27 months without a lost time single water and waste water supplier.
Severn Trent incident LTI ended in February 2013.
In the US, Costain operates across England, Wales and our Clinton, Oklahoma Operating Services project Scotland, focusing on high volume commercial and received the Water Environment Federations 2012 industrial users for whom water is a critical process Burke Safety Award for having the best safety record element.
It helps customers to improve efficiency, of all waste water treatment facilities in the state.
save costs, manage legal compliance and risk, and Other successes in US Operating Services included solve their water efficiency challenges.
It builds on Bristol, Tennessee celebrating 13 years without an the success of our existing business with Costain, LTI, and the Gulf region municipal utility district which began in 2005 and delivers operations and maintenance department working for three years maintenance for a portion of the UK MoDs water without an LTI, while performing some of the most and waste water assets.
hazardous work across Severn Trent Services.
For the In October 2012, Severn Trent Costain signed fourth consecutive year, Operating Services in the FirstMilk, a major UK dairy, as a customer.
First Milk is UKand Ireland received an award from the Royal the first business customer to switch since the UK Society for the Prevention of Accidents for its Government amended the regulations to allow exceptional track record in health and safety.
more businesses to choose their water supplier.
Severn Trent Costain now supplies, manages and monitors First Milks water across six major sites in England, Wales and Scotland, involving more than 600 million litres of water a year.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 31 Non-regulated To develop our people we have introduced a Outlook learningand development programme that has To compete in the global market, Severn Trent identied top talent throughout the organisation.
Services must be lean and effective, and provide Were working to develop and empower all quality products and services that deliver value.
employees to think creatively and to drive change Theregionalisation of our Water Purication across Severn Trent Services.
structure, new product development and We carry out engagement surveys with around 25% enhancements to existing products undertaken of our employees each quarter.
The most recent inthe last 12 months are critical elements of survey showed engagement at 81%, ahead of our ourlong term strategy.
This reects a more positive attitude to Emergingmarkets continue to provide opportunities the business as weve stepped up our communications for Water Purication, offsetting continuing to employees and begin to see the benets of challenges in traditional markets.
reorganising and refocusing the business.
Existing political and economic factors continue Nearly 1,000 of our people took part in the tohamper immediate prospects in our US and GlobalCorporate Challenge this year.
This is a 16 ItalyOperating Services businesses.
However, week programme in which teams of people record opportunities to acquire existing projects are their physical activity each day.
Our employees surfacing in the US as competitors exit the market walked a combined 1.1 billion steps, the equivalent and seek alternative strategies.
The potential for of 18 times round the world.
More than 26,000 future growth in Italy is present given proposed teams took part globally and we had two teams investment of 65.0 billion in the water sector over inthe top 100 and seven in the top 1,000.
We also the next 30 years, though timing is uncertain.
came first in the global gas, electric and water Inboth countries we will continue to reduce costs supply category.
Our participants reported benets and increase efficiencies ofexisting projects.
including weight loss, increased energy and productivity, better stress management and Renewables and green energy improved overall health.
For the second successive year, our renewable Process energy operation generated almost one quarter We look to continually improve the way we work ofthe electricity used by our regulated business, and have started to roll out the Severn Trent groups SevernTrent Water.
Maintaining this performance Safer Better Faster approach to continuous was particularly challenging because of the unusually improvement.
Water Purication was the first to high rainfall, which increases the requirement for implement Safer Better Faster and we are now pumping and leads to higher energy consumption.
rolling it out across the business.
We extended our crop digestion plant in Were also investing in our systems.
This includes Nottinghamshire and began constructing our implementing a new enterprise resource planning rstthree large wind turbine installations.
system across much of the business.
This is a Theseinvestments will provide another big step significant upgrade to our previous system and will towards our target of generating 30% of Severn help us, in conjunction with the Safer Better Faster Trent Waters electricity from renewables in 2015. programme, to improve customer service and The remaining output growth will come from further ouroperations.
Over the next 18 to 24 months, investment in sewage digestion efficiency, new wellbe moving ahead with a number of other IT hydro generation at several raw water reservoirs, improvements, including a human resources system and injecting part of the gas produced from sewage to consolidate all our global HR activities, a global digestion at our largest generating station into the customer relationship management system and UK gas network.
Bio-methane injection is an new cloud based ofce management systems.
emerging technology in the UK but commonplace in We also enhanced our governance during the year.
It involves removing contaminants As the business grows internationally, we wanted from the gas, increasing the methane concentration, assurance that we have controls fully in place to adding an odourant and pressuring to inject the gas protect our investments and ensure were operating into the nearby transmission network.
This work included due diligence across our which will go live in 2014, will be one of only a supplier base and our channel partners.
handful in the UK and is likely to be the largest.
We lead the UK in the anaerobic digestion of sewage Product technology and produce most of our renewable energy this way.
We recognise the importance of maintaining a Were now developing plans to expand into the pipeline of new products and enhancements to emerging UK opportunity for food waste digestion.
We do this internally and through Well be able to offer a competitive service and see relationships with technology partners, with whom the potential for this to extend our renewables we can jointly develop products for new and existing production beyond 30% as we approach 2020. markets.
We have several new products at different stages, including the ongoing development of BALPURE, as discussed earlier.
32 Non-regulated Today... We generate renewable electricity and heat from sewage Our largest waste water treatment works at Minworth receives the sewage from over two million customers in and around Birmingham.
The treatment processes ensure that the cleaned effluent can be returned to the river.
The remaining organic matter is first used to generate renewable energy using the anaerobic digestion process and then recycled to agriculture where it acts as a valuable bio-fertiliser.
Anaerobic digestion uses bacteria similar to those in the human stomach to convert the sewage into a methane rich biogas.
The gas is then used as a fuel for engines which drive generators to produce electricity.
Heat is recovered from the engine exhaust and cooling systems to maintain the digesters o temperature at 38 C. This part of the process is known as combined heat and power CHP.
Renewable energy has been produced in this way at Minworth for over 50 years but output has significantly increased during the last few years following major investment in the processes.
The generating station satisfies all of the electricity needs of the site and also exports a significant amount into the national grid.
com renewables Tomorrow... We will be injecting renewable gas into the national grid We are planning to invest a further 12.7 million on renewable energy at the site over the year to replace life expired CHP units and to introduce a new process that will increase efficiency by injecting around a third of the gas into the national gas grid.
The process of bio-methane injection is detailed on page 31.
Our plant which goes live in 2014 will be one of a handful in the UK and it is likely to be the largest.
This plant will make more efficient use of the energy within the gas and as such qualifies for the financial support of the Renewable Heat Incentive that the UK Government has recently introduced.
