Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 71 Directors report The directors present their report, together with the audited The group actively encourages employee involvement and financial statements of the group, for the year ended consultation and places emphasis on keeping its employees 31March2013.
informed of its activity and financial performance by way of briengs and publication to staff of all relevant information and Principal activity corporate announcements.
To help develop employees interest The principal activity of the group is to treat and provide water in the companys performance, Severn Trent offers two and remove waste water in the UK and internationally.
The Severn Trent Sharesave Scheme, anHM Revenue and Customs approved SAYE plan, is offered Details of the principal joint ventures, associated and subsidiary toUK employees on an annual basis.
The Severn Trent Share undertakings of the group at 31 March 2013 are shown in Incentive Plan, approved by HM Revenue and Customs, notes19, 20 and 42 to the financial statements on pages 101 makesan annual award of shares to Severn Trent Plc and and 127.
Severn Trent Water Limited employees, based on performance against the KPIs.
Business review The Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, Research and development thereport and performance reviews for the groups main Expenditure on research and development is set out in notes 7 businesses and the Financial review on pages 35 to 38 provide and 17 tothe Financial statements on pages 93 and 99 detailed information relating to the group, its business models respectively.
and strategy, the operation of its businesses and the results and financial position for the year ended 31 March 2013.
Treasury management Details of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group The disclosures required under the EU Fair Value Directive in are set out in the risk management section on pages 39 to 42. relation to the use of financial instruments by the company are All of the above are incorporated by reference in and are set out in note 32 to the Financial statements on pages 109 to deemed to form part of this report.
Further details on our treasury policy and management are set out in the Financial review on page 37.
Directors and their interests Biographies of the directors currently serving on the board Post balance sheet events areset out on pages 44 and 45.
Details of post balance sheet events are set out in note 40 to All of the directors will be offering themselves for reappointment the group financial statements on page 126. at the Annual General Meeting AGM, as set out in the Dividends Governance report on pages 48 to 51.
An interim dividend of 30.34 pence per ordinary share was paid Details of directors service agreements are set out in the on 11 January 2013.
The directors recommend a final dividend Directors remuneration report on page 62.
The interests of of 45.51 pence per ordinary share to be paid on 26 July 2013 to thedirectors in the shares of the company are shown on shareholders on the register on 21 June 2013.
This would bring pages66 to 70 of that report.
the total dividend for 2012 13 to 75.85 pence per ordinary share 2012: 70.10 pence.
The payment of the final dividend is Insurance and indemnities subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
The company maintains Directors and Ofcers Liability Insurance in respect of legal action that might be brought On 27 July 2012 a special dividend of 63.0 pence per ordinary against its directors and ofcers.
In accordance with the share was paid to shareholders.
companys articles of association, and to the extent permitted Capital structure by law, in November 2011 the company indemnified each of its directors and other ofcers of the group against certain liabilities Details of the companys issued share capital and of the that may be incurred as a result of their positions with the group.
movements during the year are shown in note 29 to the financial statements on page 109.
The company has one class Severn Trent does not have in place any indemnities for the ofordinary shares which carries no right to xed income.
Eachshare carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the company.
The issued nominal value of the ordinary shares Employees is100% of the total issued nominal value of all share capital.
The average number of employees within the group is shown in There are no specic restrictions on the size of a holding nor on note 9 to the financial statements on page 94. the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general Severn Trent believes that a diverse and inclusive culture is a key provisions of the articles of association and prevailing legislation.
factor in being a successful business.
Apart from ensuring an The directors are not aware of any agreements between individual has the ability to do the job we do not discriminate in holders of the companys shares that may result in restrictions any way and make every effort to ensure that those with on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
disabilities are able to be employed by us.
We endeavour to Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 33 to the retain employees in the workforce if they become disabled, financial statements on pages 119 to 122.
For shares held by wemake all reasonable adjustments to their role and, the Severn Trent Employee Share Ownership Trust, the trustee ifnecessary, look for redeployment opportunities to support abstains from voting.
them in seeking an alternative role within Severn Trent.
Weensure that training, career development and promotion No person has any special rights of control over the companys opportunities areavailable for all our employees irrespective share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
oftheir gender, race, age or disability.
72 Governance Directors report With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, Contributions for political and charitable purposes the company is governed by its articles of association, the Donations to charitable organisations during the year Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related amounted to 97,707 2012: 107,325.
Donations are given to legislation.
The articles may be amended by special resolution charities whose projects align closely with our aim to promote of the shareholders.
The powers of directors are described in the the responsible use of water resources and waste water services Severn Trent Plc Board Governance document, the articles and which provide the opportunity for longer term partnerships.
the Governance report on pages 48 to 51.
Inaddition we provide donations to employee nominated Under its articles of association, the directors have authority to charities through a matched funding scheme and health and allot ordinary shares, subject to the aggregate nominal amount safety reward schemes.
We are also committed to supporting limit set at the 2012 AGM.
WaterAid, the UKs only major charity dedicated to improving access to safe water, hygiene and sanitation in the worlds There are a number of agreements that take effect after, or poorest countries.
terminate upon, a change of control of the company, such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease Severn Trents policy is not to make any donations for political arrangements and employee share plans.
None of these is purposes in the UK, or to donate to EU political parties or incur considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on EU political expenditure.
Accordingly neither Severn Trent Plc nor thebusiness of the group as a whole.
There are no agreements its subsidiaries made any political donations or incurred political between the company and its directors or employees that expenditure in the financial year under review.
provide for compensation for loss of ofce or employment that Under the provisions of the Political Parties Elections and occurs because of a takeover bid.
Referendums Act 2000 the relevant provisions of which are now contained in Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006, Substantial shareholdings shareholder authority is required for political donations to be As at 31 March 2013 the company had been notied in made or political expenditure to be incurred by the company accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency orany of its subsidiaries in the EU and disclosure of any such Rules of the following major shareholdings: payment must be made in the annual report.
The legislation Percentage of gives a wide denition of what constitutes political donations No.
of ordinary voting rights and and political expenditure including sponsorship, subscriptions, 17 shares of 97 p issued share 19 payment of expenses, paidleave for employees fullling public Name of holder each capital duties and support for bodies representing the business Blackrock Inc 23,457,458 9.87% community in policy review or reform.
The company has Newton Investment therefore obtained limited authority from shareholders as a Management Ltd 12,087,473 5.09% precautionary measureto allow the company to continue supporting the community and such organisations without Legal & General Group Plc 9,627,643 4.04% inadvertently breaching the legislation.
Percentages rounded to two decimal places.
At the 2012 AGM, shareholders gave the company authorities As at 29 May 2013, the company had been notied of the to make political donations or to incur political expenditure in following holdings of voting rights in the ordinary share capital the EU which would not ordinarily be regarded as political of the company: Blackrock Inc 23,457,458 9.87% : Newton donations up to an aggregate annual limit of 50,000 for the Investment Management Ltd 12,087,473 5.09% and Legal & company and its subsidiaries.
Pursuant to those authorities, General Group Plc 9,627,643 4.04%.
during the year ended 31 March 2013 the group incurred costs of nil 2012: nil.
Those authorities will expire at the 2013 AGM Authority to purchase shares and, in line with market practice to renew the authorities on an The company was given authority at its AGM in 2012 to make annual basis, the board has decided to put forward a resolution market purchases of ordinary shares up to a maximum number to this years AGM to renew the authorities to make donations of 23,819,555 shares.
Similar authority will again be sought from to political organisations and to incur political expenditure up to shareholders at this years AGM.
No market purchases were a maximum of 50,000 per annum.
As permitted under the made by the company during the year ended 31March2013.
Companies Act 2006, this resolution also covers any political donations made or political expenditure incurred, by any Supplier payment policy subsidiaries of the company.
Individual operating companies within the group are responsible for establishing appropriate policies with regard tothe payment of their suppliers.
The companies agree termsand conditions under which business transactions withsuppliers are conducted.
It is group policy that provided asupplier is complying with the relevant terms and conditions, including the prompt and complete submission of all specified documentation, payment will be made in accordance with agreed terms.
It is also group policy to ensure that suppliers know the terms on which payment will take place when business is agreed.
Details of supplier payment policies can be obtained on request to the company.
Tradecreditors for the group at the year end are estimated as representing 17.9 days purchases 2012: 21.2 days purchases.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 73 Governance Directors report Analysis of shareholdings at 31 March 2013 Number of Category shareholders % of shareholders Number of shares % of shares Individual and joint accounts 60,846 91.3 25,034,928 10.5 Other 5,790 8.7 213,330,806 89.5 Total 66,636 100.00 238,365,734 100.00 Includes insurance companies, nominee companies, banks, pension funds, other corporate bodies, limited and public limited companies.
The board reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control, including F the formulation and communication of group accounting financial, operational, compliance and risk management, policies which are regularly updated for developments in atleast annually in accordance with the requirements of the IFRSand other reporting requirements: Governance Code.
The internal control system can provide F specication of a set of financial controls that all of the onlyreasonable and not absolute assurance against material groups operating businesses are required to implement misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than asaminimum: eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
F deployment of a group wide consolidation system with controls to restrict access and maintain integrity of data: The Audit Committee reviews the groups risk management F recruitment, training and development of appropriately process and the effectiveness of the system of internal control qualied and experienced financial reporting personnel: on behalf of the board and keeps under review ways in which F oversight by the Disclosure Committee of the groups toenhance the control and assurance arrangements.
compliance with its disclosure obligations: and TheAuditCommittee receives reports every six months F monthly reviews by the board of financial reports from the fromthe Chief Executive detailing the significant risks and groups operating businesses.
uncertainties faced by the group, an assessment of the effectiveness of controls over each of those risks and an action Relevant audit information plan to improve controls where this has been assessed as The directors confirm that: necessary.
During the course of its review of the system of internal control in 2012 13, the Audit Committee has not F so far as each of them is aware, there is no relevant audit identied nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and whichit has determined to be significant.
F each of them has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of The Internal Audit department provides objective assurance anyrelevant audit information and to establish that the and advice on risk management and control.
The external companys auditors are aware of that information.
auditors also report on significant financial control issues to theAudit Committee.
This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the An independent reporter Atkins provides objective assurance CompaniesAct 2006. in relation to the Severn Trent Water Limited Annual Regulatory Compliance Statement and Annual Regulatory Performance External auditors Report.
The Audit Committee has recommended to the board the The board confirms that procedures providing an ongoing reappointment of Deloitte LLP and a resolution to that effect will process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal be on the agenda at the AGM.
Deloitte LLP have indicated their risks and uncertainties faced by the group have been in place willingness to continue as auditors.
The Audit Committee will forthe year to 31 March 2013 and up to the date of approval also be responsible for determining the audit fee on behalf of ofthe annual report, which is in accordance with the revised the board.
guidance on internal control published in October 2005 theTurnbull Guidance.
74 Governance Directors report Accounts of Severn Trent Water Limited Annual General Meeting Regulatory accounts for Severn Trent Water Limited are The AGM of the company will be held at the International prepared and sent to Ofwat.
A copy of these accounts will Convention Centre, Broad Street, Birmingham B1 2EA at 11am beavailable on the website of Severn Trent Water Limited on Wednesday 17 July 2013.
The notice convening the www.
co. uk or on request to the Company Secretary.
meeting, together with details of the business to be considered There is no charge for this publication.
and explanatory notes for each resolution, is distributed separately to shareholders.
It is also available on the companys Going concern website www.
The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to By order of the board affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chief Executives review on pages 7 to 10 and the business reviews of Severn Trent Water and Severn Trent Services on pages 11 to 32.
The financial position of the group, Bronagh Kennedy its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are General Counsel and Company Secretary described in the Financial review on pages 35 to 38.
The groups 29 May 2013 objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital and its financial risk management objectives are described in the Financial review on pages 35 to 38 and in the Risk management report on pages 39 to 42.
Details of the groups financial instruments, hedging activities and exposure to credit risk andliquidity risk are described in note 32 to the group nancialstatements.
The groups principal operating subsidiary, Severn Trent Water, isa regulated long term business characterised by multi year investment programmes.
The groups strategic funding objectives reect this.
The group therefore seeks to attain a balance of long term funding or commitment of funds across arange of funding at the best possible economic cost.
Averagedebt maturity is 16 years and the effective average interest costduring the year was 5.9%.
The group is in a strong liquidity position and had 403.6 million in cash and liquid reserves and500.0 million of undrawn committed bank facilities at 31March 2013, which are expected to be sufficient to fund itsinvestment and cash ow needs at least until January 2015 in the normal course of business.
Severn Trent Water operates in an industry that is currently subject to economic regulation rather than market competition.
Ofwat, the economic regulator, has a statutory obligation to set price limits that it believes will enable the water companies to finance their activities.
As a consequence the directors believe that the group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequateresources to continue in operational existence for theforeseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt thegoing concern basis in preparing the annual report andaccounts.
