12 Regulated Severn Trent Water Severn Trent Water aims to be the best water and waste water company in the UK, by providing the highest standards and lowest possible charges, through great people.
See our film Its what we do at www.
com whatwedo Our long term objectives...... delivered through four focus areas Key facts Over the last year, we have consulted widely with We implement our strategy and plans by focusing our stakeholders and customers about investment on four key areas: our customers, people, process priorities for the medium and longer term.
We aim to deliver the highest standards Basedonthat consultation, we have set out ten and lowest charges to our customers, through a Drinking water longterm objectives.
We will provide water that is good to drink Customers 1.8bn Our household customers have the lowest average 2.
We will ensure water is always there litres combined water and sewerage bills in England and whenyou need it Wales.
Delivering customer satisfaction also requires 3.
We will safely take your waste water away us to provide water thats good to drink and always available, and to take away waste water, to reflect 4.
We will provide excellent customer service customers priorities in our plans, to communicate clearly, and to keep our promises and put things 5.
We will have the lowest possible charges Waste water right if they go wrong.
We will help you if you struggle collectedper day More on customers on page 17 7.
We will protect our water environment 1.4bn 8.
We will protect the wider environment People litres Our people are the cornerstone of our success.
We will make a positive difference in Westrive to recruit, develop and retain the best thecommunity people, provide them with great workplaces and 10.
We will finance our business sustainably maintain a strong culture of safety, personal Employees responsibility and continuous improvement.
We measure our performance against 16 key performance indicators KPIs.
Details of our KPIs More on people on page 20 5,631 canbe found on page 139. as at 31 March 2013 Process Where we operate Our drive to work safer, better and faster is the Our region stretches acrossthe heart of the UK.
Turnover foundation of our approach to continuous Weserve more than 4.2million households improvement.
Making sure we have the right andbusinesses, from the Bristol Channel to the 1,511.0m processes and systems is fundamental to achieving Humber, andfrom mid-Wales to theEast Midlands.
More on process on page 21 Profit 500.9m Finance 2012: 500.0m The higher our standards, the more effectively and Before interest, tax and exceptional items.
This helps us to keep our costs low and generate progressive, sustainable returns which earn the trust of and reward for our investors.
We look to finance the company in an efficient, sustainable way and maintain an investment grade credit rating.
More on finance on page 23 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13 Regulated Severn Trent Water Today Weve developed innovative and sustainable solutions Weve invested in new innovative technology resulting in increased operational efficiencies and significantly reducing our carbon impacts.
At our Ashbourne Sewage Treatment Works weve installed the UKs first full scale HYBACS plant.
The HYBACS units can be added onto activated sludge plants to cope with increased loads into our works.
The HYBACS offers operational cost savings of around 80% and operational carbon savings of around 60%.
With Midlands based firm Lontra, we have developed a version TM of the Blade Compressor specifically optimised for waste water aeration.
The worlds first full scale trial of the technology has been in operation at our Worcester Sewage Treatment Works for the last six months.
We spend around 9million a year on power for aeration in our activated sludge TM plants and the design of the Blade Compressor can reduce this electricity consumption by around 20%.
Alongside Lontra we recently won Most Innovative New Technology of the Year at the Water Industry Achievement Awards for this groundbreaking development.
Tomorrow Our research is leading to new efficiencies As we replace our old metal pipes with plastic ones, detecting leaks becomes harder.
We have worked with Loughborough University to develop a prototype leak detection system that will reduce the time it takes to detect a leak on plastic pipes.
Now under commercial development with Echologics it could significantly improve efficiency, resulting in a positive impact for customers and theenvironment.
14 Regulated Severn Trent Water Our business model The role of Severn Trent Water Water is essential to life and to the communities in which we live and work.
Severn Trent Water is intrinsically linked to the life cycle ofwater.
Thecustomer is at the heart of our continuous drive to improve ouroperations and services 1 2 across collection, delivery and cleaning ofwater.
Water is collected Water is cleaned Severn Trent Water is a regulated business.
Our 126 water treatment abstraction Weworkwithin five year planning cycles, with works clean raw water to the We pay the Environment customer prices setby our economic regulator, highest standards making it Agency for the water we safe to drink.
Ofwat, toallow us to fund our investment collect from reservoirs, rivers programme and cover an efficient level of operating and underground aquifers costs.
We are alsosubject toregulation by two across our region.
quality regulators the Drinking Water Inspectorate and the Environment Agency details ofthese regulators are provided below.
Our prices and asset base are adjusted by RPI Regulatory framework ination each year.
In certain circumstances we can ask for prices to be reviewed within the five year F Natural environment F Drinking Water Inspectorate period due to costs associated with notied items F Environment Agency F Health and Safety Executive orrelevant changes of circumstance.
Customer bad F Health and Safety Executive debt and the adoption of private drains and sewers are included inthese categories for the current veyearperiod.
The company earns a return on its asset base.
Risks Wecan generate additional returns if we outperform where these are currently considered Principal Risks, Ofwats assumptions by becoming more efficient in further details are provided on pages 3942 the delivery of our capital programme, managing our operational costs more effectively, and by F Failure of key assets may result F Failure of key assets or processes nancing our business at a lower cost.
indamage to property, injury to may result in a decline in water people and or disruption to our quality, disruption in our supply Our operating performance is assessed and ability to supply our customers.
tocustomers or failure to meet benchmarked against the sector by Ofwat.
Principal Risk Ref 6 and 8 regulatory targets.
Principal Risk Atthenext price review there is scope to earn Ref 7 additional income, or incur penalties, based on F Hazardous processes or chemicals may result in people being injured.
Principal Risk Ref 6 Regulatory framework Consumer Council forWater Consumer Council for Water is an independent body designed 7 to protect the rights ofconsumers.
uk Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI The Drinking Water Inspectorate makes sure companies supply water that is safe to drink and complies with all Networks invested national and European standards.
uk and maintained Environment Agency EA The Environment Agency is a public body set up to protect and improve the environment.
uk Health and Safety Executive The Health and Safety Executive is the enforcing authority on health and safety law.
uk Natural environment Natural Resources Wales and Natural England.
uk Ofwat The economic regulator forthe water and sewerage industry.
It makes sure that water companies use customers money efficiently and effectively and setsour price limits.
uk Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15 Regulated Severn Trent Water 3 4 5 6 Waste water Clean water Customers Waste water is treated isdistributed enjoy our services is collected Waste water is carefully A 47,000 km network of pipes We bill 4.3 million businesses Our c. 92,000 km of sewers screened, ltered and treated and enclosed storage and households a year.
collect waste water from in our 1,023 sewage treatment reservoirs bring a continuous Inreturn, we provide a safe, homes and businesses, and works to meet stringent supply of clean water right to reliable supply of water and surface water fromoutside environmental standards.
the collection of waste water properties and drains.
Wepay the Environment 24 hours a day, 365 days Agency an annual consent ayear.
feeto return the now treated water to the water system.
F Ofwat F Ofwat F Ofwat F Natural environment F Drinking Water Inspectorate F Consumer Council for Water F Environment Agency F Environment Agency F Health and Safety Executive F Drinking Water Inspectorate F Health and Safety Executive F Health and Safety Executive F The performance of our F We may be unable to sufciently F Failure to deal with customer F We may suffer operational distribution network may fall improve our performance in waste effectively may lead failurein our waste water below the standards expected by relation to customer service tosewer ooding.
operations which results in DWI or Ofwat, resulting in poor inorder to deliver what our Principal Risk Ref7 damage to the local environment.
service to our customers and customers tell us they want.
Principal Risk Ref 7 increased leakage from our Principal Risk Ref 1 network.
Principal Risk Ref 7 F We may be unable to respond F Failure of one of our key assets effectively to the opening up of could result in disruption to thebusiness retail market to supplyto customers.
Principal Risk Ref 2 Principal Risk Ref 8 Capital investment is added on to our asset base, called the RCV.
Our We are an investment led industry, and our capital programme this year asset base also rises in line with ination each year.
The returns that we was 555million, or 129 per connected property reecting increased generate for shareholders on that asset base are set by our economic investment year on yearin our water and sewerage networks, including regulator, Ofwat, over five year planning cycles.
We can increase these nding and xing more leaks and reducing the number ofsupply returns by outperformance.
interruptions, improvements to our water andsewage treatment plants and upgrades to our sewer network to reduce incidents of sewer ooding.
We fund this investment programme from the profits we generate, but also by borrowing money from the capital markets.
Risks We operate within a complex legal and regulatory environment as a water the terms of our regulatory contract as set out in our agreed business plan and sewerage service provider in England and Wales.
We also face risks associated with possible future changes number of risks including those associated with possible non-compliance in legislation which may result in our business plans becoming with our legal and regulatory framework, failure to obtain support from unsustainable.
Principal Risk Ref 3, 4 and 5 on pages 3942 Ofwat for our business plan for 20152020 and failure to meet 16 Regulated Severn Trent Water As well as being regulated by Ofwat, our Overview performance is monitored by: Industry and market F the Drinking Water Inspectorate, which makes The water industry in England and Wales invests sure we comply with drinking water quality more than 3.0 billion each year and employs over regulations: and 27,000 people.
There are currently 10 water and F the Environment Agency, which controls water sewerage companies in England and Wales, as well abstraction, river pollution and ooding.
as a number of smaller water only companies.
We also work with the UK Government including The privatisation of the industry in 1989 has led to the Department for Environment, Food and Rural improvements in customer service, better drinking Affairs and the Welsh Assembly Government and water and higher environmental standards.
other agencies such as the Consumer Council for However, our sector still faces significant long term Water, Natural England and Natural Resources challenges.
These include further improvements to Wales, to make sure we meet the highest customer operational and environmental performance, service and environmental standards, whilst offering enhancing security of supply, dealing with extremes our customers the lowest prices.
of dry and wet weather, managing the countrys water resources more efficiently and in the Key strengths longterm, sustainably nancing the industrys Severn Trent Water has a number of key strengths infrastructure investment.
Our proposals for changes and we work hard to maintain them.
In particular: in our industry are informing the debate about F our average bills for water and sewerage meeting these challenges.
combined are the lowest in England and Wales: F we continually work to improve our performance How were regulated and deliver cost and operational efficiencies Severn Trent Water is a regulated business.
We work against KPIs, which are aligned to our within five year planning cycles, with the prices longtermstrategy: wecharge our customers set at the beginning of F we are committed to long term sustainability, each cycle by our economic regulator, Ofwat.
keeping in balance the needs of our customers, Theseve year cycles are known as Asset the environment and our investors: Management Plan AMP periods.
We have just F our high standards and efficiencies keep our costs reached the end of the third year of AMP5.
low, which in turn helps keep charges low for customers and generates progressive, sustainable returns for our shareholders: and F we have a clear strategy and business plan and a strong management team.
Progress against our long term objectives Long term objective Progress in the year 1.
We will provide water F Our drinking water quality remained high and we maintained our compliance with the Drinking Water Inspectorates standards.
that is goodtodrink F We invested in improvements to our water treatment plants and developed Drinking Water Safety Plans.
We will ensure water is F We continued to manage our water resources effectively and once again avoided any hosepipe bans.
alwaystherewhen you need it F We reduced leakage to its lowest ever level and cut the underlying number of interruptions to supply.
We will safely take your F We increased waste water treatments works compliance and reduced properties on the at-risk of sewer ooding waste wateraway register to its lowest level.
F We made substantial investment to improve sewer systems.
We will provide excellent F We introduced a range of initiatives to improve customer service, resulting in increased customer satisfaction scores.
customerservice F We achieved the best improvement in customer experience across our peer group as measured by Ofwat.
We will have the lowest F Our average combined water and sewerage bills remained the lowest in England and Wales.
possiblecharges F Our bills will remain the lowest in 2013 14.
We will help you F We helped 44,821 customers who struggled to pay bills via a range of exible tariffs and schemes.
if you struggle F We donated 3.0 million to the Severn Trent Trust Fund.
We will protect our F We reduced pollution incidents year on year.
water environment F We continued to take an industry leading role in shaping the regulatory regime and new legislation.
We will protect the F Around one quarter of the electricity needed by our UK regulated business was provided by our renewable wider environment energyoperations.
F We reduced our net greenhouse gas emissions during the year and are on target to beat our business plan target by 2015.
We will make a positive F We invested heavily into our network and treatment plants, making a substantial contribution to jobs and difference inthecommunity thelocalcommunity.
F We talked to schools, other organisations and social housing about water efficiency, contributing to one of the lowest per capita consumptions in the country.
We will finance our F We continued to ensure we were properly nanced, with a strong balance sheet and investment grade credit rating.
business sustainably F We continued to help shape the debate on future industry nancing and published our paper, Changing course through sustainable nancing.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17 Regulated Severn Trent Water Inspectorates standards at 99.98%.
We delivered How we measure success water at the right pressure and further improved our Severn Trent has published its own set of KPIs since overall performance on supply interruptions.
In 2011 12 Ofwat adopted a set of KPIs that it Customer written However our company KPI performance on required all water companies to publish.
Severn Trent complaints per interruptions was not as good as last year owing to 1,000properties has adapted its own KPIs to meet this new a single burst trunk main which affected numerous requirement.
These KPIs provide Ofwat with an 2013 customers.
We remain focused on cutting supply overall picture of performance against the interruptions, with further investment planning to companys commitments made as part of the AMP5 4.19 improve our performance.
Our KPIs are set out on page 139.
2012 4.88 We continue to invest to ensure we provide the best For the 2015-2020 period we have dened 10 water quality and resilience.
To achieve this we have longterm objectives to meet customer and numerous projects, including renewing nearly stakeholder needs.
In April 2013 we published a 300km of water mains, improving resilience in consultation on our proposals for bills and services South Gloucestershire, and refurbishing 5 km of for the period Your water.
Point of contact theDerwent Valley aqueduct.
Were also renewing resolution Thisincluded consultation on a proposed new set sections of high risk trunk mains, to minimise the risk ofmeasures by which our customers, stakeholders, 2013 of interruptions to supply.
Other significant projects and regulators can see how much progress we include new treatment plants in Shropshire, aremaking towards achieving these objectives.
90.0% Warwickshire, Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire, Following the consultation, we will be nalising the 2012 89.4% toaddress catchment quality issues.
measures and including them in our business plan which we will submit to Ofwat in December 2013.
We made further progress with our catchment management programme during the year.
Further details of our performance are provided Thisinvolves encouraging farmers and other large inour Annual Regulatory Performance Report, land users to reduce their impact on water whichis available at www.
co. uk Average water resources.
The drought and wet weather made it andsewage bill adifcult year for farmers, but their interest in Performance catchment management remains high.
During the 2012 13 At Severn Trent Water we focus on four key areas year, we completed around 150 water quality customers, people, process and finance as we investigations arising from Drinking Water Safety 326 explain on page 12.
Having the right people with Plans, and hit our target for catchment 2011 12 311 the right skills and using the right processes, enables management investigations under the EAs us to offer high quality, low cost services to our NationalEnvironment Programme, receiving a customers.
This in turn drives our financial results.
positive response from the EA.
The following pages describe what we achieved in One issue associated with wet weather is an each of these areas during the year.
increasing problem with metaldehyde, a pesticide used to control slugs and snails.
We took additional Average customer Customers cost per day action from late summer, but could not prevent a For the fourth year running, our average combined number of higher pesticide results in the autumn.
2012 13 water and sewerage bills were the lowest in England We continue to take a leading role nationally in and Wales, at 326.
Our bills will remain the lowest seeking an industry solution to metaldehyde.
The intense rain in 2012 led to an increase in the 2011 12 85p We aim to supply water thats good to drink and number of internal sewer ooding repeat incidents.
Despite the drought at the start of Last year was the second wettest year on record this year, we managed our water resources carefully and parts of our region suffered severe ooding.
and once again avoided any hosepipe bans or other Some of our customers experienced ooding during limits on our customers water use.
The subsequent the year and wedid everything we could to help the heavy rain helped restore our reservoirs and aquifers local authorities and the EA respond, for example and our water resources are now in good shape.
byproviding large pumps to protect roads and Our water quality remained high and we maintained properties adjacent to rivers.
our compliance with the Drinking Water We are investing significant amounts in our wastewater services to improve the service to ourcustomers.
Further details of the investment canbefound on pages 22 and 23.
Customer experience We work hard to provide our customers with a service experience that is consistently reassuring and reliable, whilst doing whatever we can to personalise the way in which we deal with each individual customer query.
We aspire to be an organisation that is designed around its customers, not just its network.
We 18 Regulated Severn Trent Water processes and how we deal with customers Were pleased to have whenthey feel they need us most.
We have maintained first point of contact resolution demonstrated the best at around 90%.
Our Customer Advisors are improvement in SIM consistently receiving satisfaction scores in the 90s and, as a result, our complaints volume continues performance across our todecline at a very healthy rate.
We also further reduced written complaints, which were down 14%.
One of the important points of contact with customers is when they receive a bill from us.
knowthat customer expectations continue to be Wevecontinued to improve our bill design to influenced by the vast number of brands, products makethem easier to understand, and to pass on and technologies that they interact with.
Its useful information, such as the different ways therefore essential for us to look at our processes, customers can get in touch with us.
We will also be policies and general ways of working through a introducing e-billing for customers who prefer it.
customer lens and not an operational lens.
We started this cultural journey two years ago when Managing debt welaunched our Customer Experience Programme.
Some customers choose not to pay and some By engaging every Severn Trent colleague in the customers genuinely struggle to pay.
In line with practical pursuit of the best possible experience for ourcommitment to fair and affordable bills for all, our customers, weve succeeded in achieving a very we operate robust processes to influence the real improvement across our key indicators of behaviours of those who choose not to pay, customer satisfaction.
whichinturn controls our healthy debt levels.
Were proud of what weve achieved but we wont For our customers who truly struggle to pay, stop until our customers consider us to be one of the weoffer a range of exible tariffs and schemes.
very best customer service providers in the industry.
These can involve matching the customers We are able to benchmark our performance against payments, capping bills for people with low incomes that of our peer group via Ofwats independent SIM.
who have to use large amounts of water for medical Ofwats SIM measures our customers experience or family reasons, or allowing customers to make ofdealing with us.
The SIM score has two elements: payments directly from their benets.
In 2012 13, quantitative, based on the number of customers we helped a total of 44,821 customers this way.
that have to contact us, and qualitative, which The Severn Trent Trust Fund offers an alternative assesses our service quality when they do.
avenue of support and has helped many We have consistently received good quantitative customersover the years to fund their water scores, but in the past, our quality of service has bills.
During the year we donated 3.0 million to fallen short.
In the last 12 months, we have focused theSevern Trent Trust Fund to enable the charity to on improving the areas our customers say are support our customers who have difficulty in paying important to them, namely: their water bills.
However, acustomer who struggles F resolving their issues or queries at first point with their waterbill is likely to struggle with other ofcontact: household bills.
We wish to provide these customers F being available to them when they want us: and with more meaningful support and have therefore F keeping them informed every step of the way.
entered into a partnership with the Citizens Advice Bureau which has the skills to help customers To do this, we created a cross company group to address their financial issues at a deeper level.
look at how we could drive improvement in our Wehope in this way to help our most nancially processes, response times and simplify the language vulnerable customers to manage and avoid we use to communicate with our customers.
household debts more effectively in the future.
Thishelped us improve both elements of our SIM score in 2012 13.
Engaging with our customers Were pleased to have demonstrated the best One of the significant differences between the improvement in SIM performance across our peer process for PR14 and theprevious price review is the group, but were not yet where we want to be from increased role for customers and other stakeholders a benchmark perspective.
And so the journey in helping us toformulate and challenge our plan.
towards the best possible customer experience The Water Forum is our customer challenge group continues with a relentless focus on putting our for PR14.
It includes representatives from customers, customers at the heart of how we operate.
our environmental regulators and local authorities, Our voice of the customer tool gives us direct and has an independent chair, Dame Yve Buckland, feedback from customers at the end of a call or who is also national chair of the Consumer Council when weve nished doing something for them.
We get around 12,000 responses a month.
Thisvaluable feedback helps us improve our See our interview with Dame Yve Buckland, chair of the CCW at www.
com ybwaterforum Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19 Regulated Severn Trent Water Today Were improving our flood defences in Gloucestershire Since 2007, weve invested over 38.0 million across Gloucestershire to ensure we are better able to cope with extreme weather.
To ensure our sewers in Gloucester can cope with heavy rainfall we have laid over 1 km of new sewers.
Weve protected our sewage pumping station at Longlevens with underground storage tanks and storm water pumping and at our MytheWater Treatment Works weve installed flood protection barriers.
To ensure we always have a back-up supply weve built pipelines from our other water treatmentworks.
Tomorrow Were continuing to invest across our region Replacing our largest covered reservoir at Ambergate, Derbyshire and replacing over 7 km of sewers in Newark, Nottinghamshire are just two of our major investment schemes over the next five years.
We will invest over 58.0million on these two projects to ensure we continue toprovide quality water and prevent sewer flooding.
20 Regulated Severn Trent Water The role of the Water Forum is to ensure that customer and other stakeholders views are We were delighted to understood and represented by Severn Trent reducelost time incidents Waterwhen we submit our plans to Ofwat in December2013.
once again, making 2012 13 Ofwat will assess our plan against four criteria: our safest year yet.
outcomes, costs, risk and reward, and affordability and nanceability.
Our plan will then be categorised as enhanced, standard or resubmission.
One area that has concerned us is an increase in Thiswilldetermine the level of scrutiny and road trafc accidents.
Whilst our staff didnt cause challenge of our plan and the financial incentives these accidents, we are looking at ways to reduce available.
The Water Forum reports on the quality the risk by minimising the miles they travel and ofour customer engagement, and how well our providing training on safe and effective driving and business plan reects customer views and priorities.
It will form a key input to Ofwats assessment against As well as raising safety standards, we aim to be the outcomes criteria.
more proactive with our peoples health and We also have a broader engagement programme well-being.
In 2012 13, we appointed a new and have run workshops on topics including occupational health provider.
Were legally required managing climate change, water and waste water to monitor the health of some employees, for issues, and customer service.
A wide range of example if theyre exposed to noise or vibration, stakeholders attended these sessions.
We also orwork in confined spaces.
Our new occupational carried out a major customer survey, to understand health provider has a mobile unit, which visits sites their willingness to pay for improvements we could to monitor our people.
This saves time and provides deliver as part of our plan.
a friendlier environment than an off-site facility.
In April 2013, we issued another consultation paper, Were also working with a new provider to help Your water.
Your choices, which set out our thinking employees with musculoskeletal problems.
on what might happen to customer bills, investment Ourpartner looks at job design and how we and investor returns over the next five years.
This will canmake changes to help people back to work.
give us further clarity on our stakeholders views.
Weareincreasingly looking to take action before problemsarise.
People Engaging our people We aim to have people with the right skills and Our annual employee survey once again showed approach to work, personal development and that our people are positive about working for us.
To drive the behaviours we think are Our overall Engagement Index rose to 79%, ahead important, we have a Code of Conduct Doing the of our target of 75% and the industry benchmark of right thing The Severn Trent way that applies 74%.
The survey response rate also increased, a sign across the group and explains our approach to that our people know that its important to us that issues ranging from health and safety, to ethics and they give their feedback and that we listen.
honesty, and to delivering excellent customer service.
The most improved area was in people believing we Our Code of Conduct explains who we are, what we are committed to customer service.
Our score for stand for and how we work: it also tells our commitment to customers rose from 71% to 83%.
customers and business partners that they can rely A number of factors were behind the improved on us.
Further details are provided in the Governance survey results.
Developing our managers has report on page 50. madethem more willing to engage with their A safe and healthy workforce teamsand we have also put effort into making sure Protecting the health and safety of our customers, managers understand our business goals and can people and contractors is our number one priority.
communicate them to their teams.
Our continuous We were delighted to reduce lost time incidents improvement programme also contributed, once again, making 2012 13 our safest year yet.
bygiving our people the tools and techniques to TM Our MindSafety training programme contributed solve problems they face at work.
It teaches our people about Previous employee surveys showed that our people different states of awareness, so they understand wanted to see more of our executive team and how they should work and can take responsibility tond out how they were leading the business.
We have coaches around the Thisyear, we ran a rolling programme where TM business to reinforce the MindSafety approach Executive Committee members went out to meet andwill be running refresher programmes.
More than 1,000 of our Otherinitiatives to enhance safety during the people attended these meetings, enabling them to yearincluded improving our risk assessments and ask anyquestion they wanted.
The feedback has making sure that our people understand their roles been positive and our executives have also learned and responsibilities.
where we need to communicate better.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21 Regulated Severn Trent Water Developing our people Through a pilot programme called Employee Ownership of Skills, the UK Government has asked Every year, we invest significant amounts in people employers to set out how we might use public funds development 3.9 million in 2012 13.
This year, alongside our own investment to improve the skills wepiloted a Leading for Performance development we currently have in the industry, identify the skills programme in our waste water business.
The aim is well need in the future and where we should invest.
to have leaders who can inspire and engage our people and lead them through change an area Were also continuing to support projects in the where we know we can do better.
The programme Midlands to encourage young people to study helps our leaders to understand themselves and to science, technology, engineering and maths STEM learn how to coach others as well as build high subjects in order to be able to take up engineering performing teams.
After positive results, were now and technical careers in the future.
rolling out the programme across all of our Attracting a diverse workforce operational leadership.
Our goal is to attract a diverse range of talent, with We have many other leadership programmes, which abalance of gender and ethnicity that reects together form our Line Manager Journey.
They themarket we operate in.
At the moment, our make sure that as people move into management, workforce is slightly more diverse than the sector they have the skills to lead effectively.
For example, average, with more female employees and people to drive our performance culture, we want all our from black, Asian and ethnic minority groups.
employees to have a performance discussion with We have a diversity working group, with members their manager.
We run programmes for managers from across the business.
Its current focus is on at all levels, so they understand the process and can gender diversity in leadership roles.
We are also have those sometimes difficult conversations.
starting to get more insight into ethnic diversity.
Well soon be launching an initiative for nearly 1,400 Its important that we attract the broadest range people in Customer Relations, called the Great People ofcandidates when we recruit, so we track our Programme.
Managers will learn about creating a attraction rates across different genders and customer orientated culture and coaching people in ethnicbackgrounds.
We have also refreshed our customer service skills.
Frontline advisors will become careers website, to make it appeal to a wider range better at giving customers a positive and memorable of people.
experience when they get in touch with us.
As part of our talent review process, we piloted new Helping our people to manage their nances development centres this year.
These took people In April 2013, we auto enrolled more than 1,000 identied as promotable and assessed their people into our pension scheme.
We believe that strengths and development needs.
Each person pensions are important and were committed to came out with an in depth development plan.
In a changing world, we need leaders with a breadth As many of our people told us that they didnt of experience who can rise to different challenges.
understand pensions, we set up a financial We therefore reintroduced our graduate education programme which is now part of our programme, taking on nine high calibre people.
So far, 1,200 employees have In2013 14, we plan to increase this to 20 and were attended a session to learn about pensions, debt, also considering introducing a technical graduate mortgages, savings and other financial matters.
scheme, with progression to chartered engineering.
Process Finding people with the right skills is a challenge across the industry, so we further expanded our To deliver great service to our customers, we look to apprenticeship scheme.
We now have 82 continuously improve our processes and technology.
apprentices at different stages of development, Our approach to continuous improvement is called including 22 we recruited in September 2012 Safer Better Faster.
It helps our people to nd ways fortechnical training, including two for a new to do things better, so we can improve our service.
We continue to invest, including building and training Almostall our apprentices move on to permanent our team of expert practitioners, who work with jobs with us.
colleagues to help them use Safer Better Faster techniques on a daily basis.
22 Regulated Severn Trent Water During the year, we exploited our previous We want to work with responsible suppliers, so investment in SAP and desktop technologies, and weve developed guidelines and standards that we used our Safer Better Faster approach to improve expect suppliers to meet to ensure they are aligned our business processes.
For example, we introduced to our philosophy of doing the right thing and our better processes in solving bursts on private underlying policies.
These cover key areas of properties, xing stop tap problems and giving our corporate responsibility, such as our suppliers customers a better service.
We implemented approach to health and safety, anti bribery and software to allow work crews to access maps and anticorruption, and environmental performance.
asset data on their laptops, so they can pinpoint Formore details on Doing the right thing leaks and blockages more efficiently.
Were also TheSevern Trent way see page 50. increasing the use of remote monitoring to improve A number of new technologies went live in our performance across our networks.
This helps us to waste water operations this year.
In order to drive detect leaks and prevent supply interruptions, efficiency we are exploiting technology innovation at allowing us to respond to problems before places such as Ashbourne where we have installed customers are affected.
the UKs first full scale HYBACS plant.
HYBACS is a One of our biggest challenges was improving how treatment technology that allows us to process we engage with our customers at our call centres.
higher volumes, while using less energy.
In During the year we made a strategic investment in Birmingham we have installed the UKs first telephony systems, to improve our customers Annamox plant to treat high concentrations of experience when they call us.
The new system links ammonia.
Anaerobic ammonium oxidation to our other back ofce systems, giving our people intensies the sewage treatment process, so we can better information to resolve customer issues during use fewer and smaller assets.
In Nottingham we are the call.
installing one of the UKs first struvite recovery plants to reclaim phosphate so that we can sell it on.
By investing in our people and technology, weve Wehave also been working with a partner which reduced to almost zero the number of customers provides air compressors that can reduce electricity who receive an engaged tone.
More customers can consumption by around 20%.
These play an speak to someone quickly, so fewer are hanging up important part in sewage treatment.
More broadly, because weve kept them waiting.
we work extensively with other organisations to Using text messages, our new website and other develop new processes and have more than 30 technologies has helped us keep our customers academic or industrial research partners.
informed about what were doing.
Live update maps on our website tell customers whats going on in Environment their area and were also making more use of Delivering our environmental obligations has a real Twitter.
We want customers to contact us in the impact on our customers and the communities in way thats best for them, and around one quarter which they live and work.
ofall contacts are now through our website, where Managing waste water customers can pay bills and update their details.
We achieved good improvements in our We increased the resilience of our technology, environmental performance in waste water.
byinvesting in new data centres.
We also made Thenumber of reported pollution incidents fell significant investment in business modelling from458 in the previous year to 376, a reduction software, which will allow us to model different of18%.
While we are one of the industry leaders planning scenarios for the next five years reecting atpreventing the most serious pollution incidents, the input we have received from our PR14 customer wecan still improve in other less serious categories.
We are investing in training, working on faster We are improving the efficiency of our procurement.
response times and using technology to try to Were working with our supply chain to get better predict where pollutions might occur.
value for money, including using our SAP system to Severn Trent has around 1,000 sewage treatment give us more visibility of what we buy and where.
Of these, only 0.85% failed to reach their During the year, we and our One Supply Chain compliance limits 2012: 2.54%, our best ever framework partners continued to deliver greater performance.
This was down to our improvement efficiencies in our capital programme.
Our strategic group, which has analysed the root causes of f f failur ailure e relationships with our One Supply Chain partners and enabled us to systematically eliminate those te th help us to become more innovative as we work problems, as well as the ongoing benets of our ts ts ur together, for example by consolidating buying investment programme and more remote em throughout the supply chain.
monitoring of our sewage treatment pr nt ocess.
cess c Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23 Regulated Severn Trent Water Thisyear has seen us reach halfway on our 200million major projects programme of work.
We remain at the forefront Upgrades are under way to our key sewage of the industrys debate treatment works serving Nottingham, Leicester, Worksop, Stoke, Coventry, Burton-upon-Trent and about its future.
Elsewhere this year we have invested almost 204 million to maintain service to our customers and undertaken key environmental improvements Protecting biodiversity to our rivers.
Looking forward, were investing Severn Trent has a role in protecting and enhancing signicantly in improving river water quality and biodiversity at our sites or sites affected by our have carried out a pilot study with the EA on how to activities.
We manage 12 public access sites where achieve zero pollutions and breaches of consent.
we work alongside volunteers and in partnership with organisations to ensure the long term Sewer systems are primarily designed to handle biodiversity value of the sites, whilst engaging with waste water and on occasions can be overwhelmed our customers.
Across our region we also own or during heavy rain events.
partly manage 37 sites of special scientific interest, Sewer ooding is one of the worst service failures where we work with our regulators, tenants and that can happen to a customer.
During the year we others to safeguard them.
have made improvements to protect 158 properties from internal ooding and 70 external areas Finance including substantial investment to improve sewer We aim to finance the company in an efficient and systems in Leamington Spa and Gloucester.
sustainable way, which helps to keep customer bills Thenumber of homes on the risk of sewer ooding low by keeping our nancing costs low.
Our funding register is now at its lowest ever level.
We expect comes from payment of customer bills, issuing debt tobe ahead of our target at the end of this on the capital markets and by shareholders retaining regulatory period.
We have an investment grade We have a proactive programme to clean and credit rating, with a stable outlook.
We also look to repairour sewer network which helps to prevent the long term sustainability of our nancing and blockages, pollutions, ooding and collapses of during the year we published some further thoughts ourseweragesystem.
in Changing course through sustainable nancing, This was our first full year of managing the part of our continuing Changing course series of 37,000km of private drains and sewers that thought papers on the future of our industry.
transferred to us on 1 October 2011.
While this More information about our financial performance increased the number of blockages we had to and our debt issuance during the year can be found dealwith, overall we saw a lower level of reactive in the Financial review on pages 35 to 38. workthan we expected.
We are carrying out more inspections and condition CCTV surveys of these Outlook assets, so we can learn more about them and We remain focused on achieving sustainable havebetter informed plans for thefuture.
growth, by concentrating on our customers, people, Deploying water resources wisely process and finance.
We aim to deliver the benets of our investment programmes and to continuously Severn Trent is the only company to target a improve the way we work, to raise standards and significant reduction in leakage during AMP5.
Giving our customers an even better Wemade further good progress, cutting leakage service is an important part of this.
toits lowest ever level at 441 Ml d. This compares with464Ml d last year and our internal target of Our operating environment will change as the 465 Ml d. Ourperformance benefited from our UKGovernment passes the Water Bill and Ofwat ongoing investment programme and the relatively completes its preparations for PR14.
the forefront of the industrys debate about its future and will continue to help shape the legislation and Managing water resources effectively also means regulation as it progresses.
helping our customers to reduce the amount they use.
We have a sizeable outreach programme with schools and other organisations, to teach people about using less water.
We also distribute water efficient devices and have industry leading initiatives with social housing.
All of these contribute to one of the lowest per capita consumptions in the country.
The overall water saving this year as a result of these measures is 3.26 Ml d, which has contributed to the continued reduction in our per capita consumption.
Last year our customers used an average of 121litres per person per day.
