46 Executive Committee The Chief Executive is supported in his role by the executive During the year, the Executive Committee met to consider management team and together they comprise the Executive strategy, business management, policy and planning, Committee.
During the year, the Executive Committee andoperational performance.
comprised the executive directors and senior executive Members of the Executive Committee are delegated managers responsible for key operational and central functions.
responsibility to sit on steering groups that oversee the Photographs of the members of the committee, together with deliveryof our strategy and business management.
their biographies are set out below.
Duringtheyear, steering groups were set up to oversee The Executive Committee oversees the development and areassuch asthe integrated delivery of our year end results execution of the Severn Trent strategy.
It also has accountability andOfwat AnnualRegulatory Returns.
The terms of reference of the Executive Committee are available on the companys website www.
com or from the Company Secretary.
Michael McKeon BSc Hons MA Econ PhD 48 BSc Hons 50 MA Hons 41 MA CA 56 Director, Strategy and Regulation Director of Human Resources Customer Relations Director Finance Director Please see full biography on page 44.
Joined Severn Trent in November 2006.
Joined Severn Trent in May 2012.
Please see full biography on page 44.
Evelyn has extensive HR experience Angela commenced her career with 2.
Simon Cocks leading design and delivery of major IBM during its transformation from 9.
Alec Richmond change programmes, business manufacturing to services business.
BA Hons 47 BSc Econ FCA FIIA 55 restructuring, employee relations, She has since held senior operational Waste Water Services Director Director of Internal Audit resourcing, executive remuneration, leadership positions for Barclays, Joined Severn Trent in July 2009.
Joined Severn Trent in June 2007. organisational capability and Hiscox and Vodafone, delivering Simon is an electrical engineer by Prior to that, he worked for Cadbury performance management customer services across B2B, B2C, training.
He previously worked for Schweppes Plc, leading the initiatives.
Before joining Severn Trent domestic, international, indirect and London Electricity invarious companys global internal audit Evelyn worked in HR consultancy and regulated markets.
In addition to operational and management roles service from 20002005.
Before as HR Director HR Operations for leading award winning customer and, more recently, for National Grid joining Severn Trent, he worked for Boots the Chemists.
operations, she has consulted where hewas Head of UK Operations RSM Robson Rhodes as a director widely in the area of customer Performance and Planning, then anda member of the management 4.
Myron Hrycyk service in multiple sectors.
Commercial Director for the gas and board responsible for Risk Assurance MBA 56 electricity business in the UK and Services.
Martin Kane Chief Information officer Europe and held the position of Institute of Chartered Accountants in BSc CEng CEnv MICE MIWEM FIW 60 ChiefProcurement officer before Joined Severn Trent in April 2008.
England and Wales and the Institute Chief Executive officer, joining Severn Trent.
Simon is a Myron has held senior IT posts of Internal Auditors.
Severn Trent Services boardmember of UK Water formajor organisations across a IndustryResearch.
range of business sectors, Financial Please see full biography on page 45.
Andy Smith Services, Publishing, Automotive BTech Hons 52 andLogistics Supply Chain.
Bronagh Kennedy Director of Water Services delivered strategic IT and business BA Hons 49 Please see full biography on page 45. transformation programmes, General Counsel and restructured corporate IT units CompanySecretary 11.
Tony Wray anddeployed high performance IT Joined Severn Trent in June 2011.
Myron also has executive Bronagh is a solicitor and was Chief Executive responsibility for Supply Chain & previously Group Company Secretary Please see full biography on page 45.
and General Counsel at Mitchells & Butlers, where she worked for 15 years.
Prior to that, she was a Senior Associate at Allen & Overy.
