44 Board of directors Dr Tony Ballance Dr Bernard Bulkin Richard Davey BSc Hons MA Econ PhD 48 BS PhD FRSC FRSA FIE 71 BA 64 Director, Strategy and Regulation Independent non-executive director Senior independent non-executive director Appointed to the board on 2 October 2007 Appointed to the board on 1 January 2006 Appointed to the board on 1 January 2006 Tonys extensive experience in utility policy and Bernards successful and wide ranging career in Richard spent the majority of his executive career in regulation leaves him ideally placed to lead academia and business has provided him with in investment banking at NM Rothschild and Sons, thecompanys strategic and regulatory work.
depth experience in scientific, technology and inrolesincluding Head of Investment Banking.
Priortojoining Severn Trent he held the posts engineering industries.
He held the prominent position Richardbrings invaluable specialist financial expertise ofChiefEconomist for Ofwat, economic of Chief Scientist of BP Plc.
His involvement in both to the board, the Audit Committee and as chair of consultant, directorofLondon Economics and innovation and policy on climate change and theRemuneration Committee, having run Rothschilds wasadirector ofStone andWebster Consultants.
renewable energy, and his significant skills and Financial Services Group and worked with a number experience in delivering performance improvement ofhigh street banks and insurers.
Previously he held External appointments onsafety and environmental operational issues, non-executive roles at Yorkshire Building Society, makehis contribution to the board invaluable.
where he was Vice Chairman, Freeserve Plc and Member of Water UK Council Scottish Widows Fund and Life Assurance Society.
External appointments Committee membership External appointments Non-executive director of Ze-gen Corporation US Executive Committee Non-executive Chairman of Pursuit Dynamics plc Non-executive Chairman, member of the Audit and Chair of the Ofce of Renewable Energy Deployment Nomination Committees of Amlin Plc atthe UK Department of Energy and Climate Change Committee membership Committee membership Audit Committee Audit Committee Nominations Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Chairman Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Martin Lamb Michael McKeon Baroness Noakes BSc MBA 53 MA CA 56 DBE LLB FCA 63 Independent non-executive director Finance Director Independent non-executive director Appointed to the board on 29 February 2008 Appointed to the board on 13 December 2005 Appointed to the board on 29 February 2008 Martin has extensive experience of managing and Michael brings significant financial and commercial Sheila brings valuable expertise to the board as an developing large engineering businesses in all parts of expertise to the board and has over seven years experienced director and Audit Committee Chairman the world.
Martin has worked for IMI for over 25 years experience of the Severn Trent group.
Prior to joining of UK listed companies and with extensive and varied where he has held a number of senior management Severn Trent he was Finance Director of Novar Plc and professional, political and public sector experience.
His strong commercial acumen, experience of before that, held various senior roles with Rolls-Royce Aqualied chartered accountant, she previously managing complex projects, and familiarity with Plc, including Finance Director of Aerospace Group.
headed KPMGs European and International current market pressures as a serving Chief Executive Hehas extensive international business experience Government practices and has been President of the leave him well placed to add value to the Severn Trent having worked overseas for CarnaudMetalbox, Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and business.
Previously Martin was a non-executive ElfAtochem and Price Waterhouse.
Sheila was appointed to the House of Lords in director of Spectris plc.
Chartered Accountant and aMember of the Institute 2000 and has served on the Conservative front bench of Chartered Accountants ofScotland.
in various roles including as shadow treasury minister between 2003 and May 2010.
Previously she held External appointments non-executive roles on the Court of the Bank of External appointments Chief Executive and member of the Nominations England, Hanson Plc, ICI Plc, John Laing and SThree.
Committee of IMI plc Non-executive director and Chairman of the Member of the Advisory Board of AEA AuditCommittee of The Merchants Trust Plc External appointments Investors UK Limited Non-executive director, member of the Group Audit, Committee membership Group Nominations and Board Risk Committees of Committee membership Executive Committee TheRoyal Bank of Scotland Group Plc Nominations Committee Deputy Chairman, senior independent director and Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Nominations Committee of Carpetright Plc Trustee of the Thomson Reuters Founders Share Company Committee membership Audit Committee Chairman Nominations Committee Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 Governance Board of directors Andrew Duff Gordon Fryett Martin Kane BSc FEI 54 59 BSc CEng CEnv MICE MIWEM FIW 60 Non-executive Chairman Independent non-executive director Chief Executive officer, Severn Trent Services Appointed to the board on 10 May 2010 and Appointed to the board on 1 July 2009 Appointed to the board on 2 October 2007 Chairman on 20 July 2010 Gordons extensive experience working in and with Martin joined Severn Trent Water in 1975 and has Andrews extensive experience of international and international businesses, managing significant capital heldvarious senior roles giving him an extensive and regulated business, strategic management and expenditure and in depth retail expertise at both unique understanding of the design, construction and customer service in high prole, dynamic environments executive and operational level in a customer facing, operation of water and waste water treatment plants, have equipped him well for the role of Chairman of highly competitive environment, enables him to bring water distribution networks and sewerage systems.
Andrew spent 16 years at BP in marketing, substantial experience and expertise to the board.
Martin was Director of Customer Relations, Severn strategy and oil trading.
He joined National Power in Heis currently Group Property Director at Tesco Plc, Trent Water, from May 2006 until January 2012, 1998 and the board of its daughter company Innogy having previously held a number of senior roles whenhe was appointed Chief Executive officer of plc upon its demerger from National Power in 2000. withinthe Tesco Group, including Operations Severn Trent Services.
Heled the restructuring and subsequent sale of Director, International Support Director and CEO Innogy to RWE in 2003.
He became CEO of the Republic of Ireland.
External appointments successor company, npower, and a member of Member of the boards of Utilities and Service theRWE Group Executive Committee.
He was External appointments Industries Training Limited and National Association non-executive Chairman of RWE npower until his Alumnus of INSEAD ofWater Companies US retirement in December 2010.
Trustee of International Society for Trenchless Technology Committee membership External appointments Corporate Responsibility Committee Senior independent director, Chairman of the Committee membership Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee, member of the Audit Executive Committee Committee and Nominations Committee of Wolseley Plc Member of the CBI Presidents Committee Trustee of Macmillan Cancer Support and Earth Trust Fellow of the Energy Institute Committee membership Corporate Responsibility Committee Nominations Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Andy Smith Tony Wray BTech Hons 52 BSc Hons 51 Director of Water Services Chief Executive Appointed to the board on 2 October 2007 Appointed to the board on 7 March 2005 Andy brings a broad range of executive and Tony became Chief Executive on 2 October 2007. operational expertise gained from diverse sectors to Hisextensive experience in a wide range of operational the board.
Andy has significant experience having and strategic leadership roles in the energy, telecoms, worked in the UK and overseas with global businesses water and waste industries enables him to bring a such as BP, Mars and Pepsi, in engineering and multi disciplined approach to his contribution to the operational management roles.
Tony brings to his position an in depth Group HR Director and a member of the board at operational knowledge of Severn Trent and strategic BootsGroup Plc.
Previously he was director of Networks at Eircom, the Republic of Irelands telephone operation and has held director roles Committee membership withinTransco and National Grid Transco.
Executive Committee External appointments Non-executive director, Chairman of the Board Risk and Compliance Committee and member of the AuditCommittee of Grainger plc Member of Business Advisory Board for Living with Environmental Change Member of Water UK Board Committee membership Corporate Responsibility Committee Executive Committee Chairman Nominations Committee
