Key performance indicators Our strategy is to grow our business and deliver value to our stakeholders byfocusing on significant unmet patientneed in specialist areas and providing more innovative treatments tomore patients.
We continue to focus on our strategic priorities of growing sales of our existing portfolio and bringing new innovative treatments to market through both R&D and business development.
Following ourOne Shire reorganization, which saw the Company integrate its three separate businesses into one unified organization, we are also striving to achieve greater collaboration and to reduce any overlap inresources.
As part of the One Shire reorganization we: implemented our revised governance model incorporating the new In-line andPipeline Committees, to ensure enterprise-wide decision making and resource allocation that is overseen by the Executive Committee: and simplified our business model which hasreset our cost base and generated the capacity to invest in future growth.
We implemented our strategy through ourrevised business model, which is supported by the activities of our In-line and Pipeline Committees.
In 2013 we measured our performance against our strategic priorities through both financial and non-financial KPIs.
We believe that these KPIs represent meaningful and relevant measurements ofour performance and are an important illustration of our ability to meet our strategicpriority.
In-line performance Financial Non financial Strategic priority: Drive optimum Acquisition of ViroPharma which brought performance from our currently CINRYZE for the prophylactic treatment marketed products to optimize of Hereditary Angiodema to Shires revenue growth and cash generation portfolio of marketed products: Geographic expansion in Asia, including the establishment of new presences in South Korea and China, as well as a new office in Japan: $4.8bn Launch of ELVANSE marketed as VYVANSE in the US in a further four Net product sales $Bn European countries: and Positive opinion received on the VPRIV 2011 4.0 Summary of Product Characteristics 2012 4.4 fromthe Committee for Medicinal 2013 4.8 Products for Human Use of the EuropeanMedicines Agency.
1 Strong revenues from net product sales in 2013, up 10% to $4.8 billion continuing the good growth demonstrated in 2012 12% : and In 2013 six of our products delivered double digit growth year-on-year.
1 Net product sales include results from Dermagraftoperations.
30 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report Pipeline performance Financial Non financial Strategic priority: Build our future Prioritization of the pipeline to focus on assets through both R&D and the development of innovative specialist businessdevelopment to deliver medicines that have the best chance of innovation and value for the future clinical and commercial success together with early stage research in rare diseases: Positive top-line results evaluating the 1 efficacy and safety of LDX versus placebo in adults with Binge Eating Disorder BED : $890.2m Top-line data results announced from OPUS-2 study for Lifitegrast SHP606 : Acquisition of SARcode Bioscience We invested $890.2 million in targeted developing a treatment for Dry Eye R&D during 2013. disease : Premacure developing a treatment for ROP and Lotus Tissue Repair developing a treatment for Dystrophic Epidermolysis Bullosa DEB : and Enrolment of the first patient in Shires Phase 2 clinical program for VASCUGEL.
Strong performance against our strategy efficient growth in our business, value delivered to our stakeholders and ability to invest infuture growth.
$1.9bn 15.6% Non GAAP EBITDA $Bn Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC growth % 2011 1.5 2011 12.7 2012 1.6 2012 13.8 2013 1.9 2013 15.6 2 3 Non GAAP EBITDA and Non GAAP adjusted ROIC growth delivered in 2013 demonstrates the progress made against our strategy to grow our business in anefficient manner, delivering value to stakeholders and also giving us the ability toprovidemore innovative treatments to more patients.
1 Lisdexamfetamine dimesylate LDX Currently marketed as VYVANSE in the US & Canada, VENVANSE in Latin America and ELVANSE in certain territories in the EU for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder ADHD.
2 EBITDA being Non GAAP earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization is a Non GAAP measure.
These Non GAAP measures are reconciled to their US GAAP equivalents on pages 161 to 163.
3 Adjusted ROIC Non GAAP Return on Invested Capital see page 160 for a definition.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 31 Our strategic focus is on providing innovative treatments for patients with rare and other specialized conditions.
Leading the way in specialty Impact Range Progress The future We focus on specialized Our focus ranges from All our chosen areas are In the years ahead we conditions, where we have Neuroscience including verydifferent but they share willmaintain our focus on expertise and where we can ADHD to a spectrum of rare the same core quality of specialty conditions with potentially have the biggest diseases including Hunter being highly specialized aparticular emphasis on impact on patients lives.
syndrome, Gaucher disease conditions where there more rare diseases where and Hereditary Angioedema.
isgreat unmet need and we can lead the way in wherewe can make a big meeting patient needs difference forpatients.
32 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report
