Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Additional statutory information Directors Liability insurance and indemnification In respect of the six months to December Appointment and replacement In the year under review the Group 31, 2013 the Board resolved to pay an Directors may be appointed by the maintained an insurance policy for its interim dividend of 16.93 US cents 2012: Company by ordinary resolution or by the Directors and Officers in respect of 14.60 US cents per Ordinary Share.
Non-Executive Directors are liabilities arising out of any act, error or Together with the first interim dividend appointed ordinarily for a term of two omission whilst acting in their capacity as payment of 3.00 US cents 2012: 2.73 US years, subject to shareholder approval.
Qualifying third party cents per Ordinary Share, this represents Re-appointment of Non-Executive indemnity provisions were also in place total dividends of 19.93 US cents 2012: Directors following the expiry of their term during the year under review for the benefit 17.33 US cents per Ordinary Share for the of appointment is subject to Board of Directors in relation to certain losses and year ended December 31, 2013. approval.
The Board may from time-toliabilities which they may potentially incur to ACS HR Solutions Share Plan Services time appoint one or more Directors for third parties in the course of their duties.
Guernsey Limited the Trustee, trustee such period and on such terms as it may These remain in force at the date of this of the Shire Employee Benefit Trust the determine and may also revoke or report.
Trust, has waived its entitlement to any terminate any such appointment.
Interests in material contracts dividends which become due and payable The Companys Articles of Association the Other than the insurance indemnity from time-to-time in respect of shares or Articles provide that at each Annual provisions disclosed under Liability other securities which are registered in the General Meeting AGM all those insurance and indemnification above, name of the trustee or its nominee s. Total Directors who have been appointed by the none of the Directors had a material dividends waived by the Trustee during the Board since the last AGM, or who held interest in any contract of significance to year amounted to 344,066.29. office at the time of the two preceding which the Company or any of its subsidiary Shares AGMs and who did not retire at either of undertakings was a party during the Share capital them, or who held office with the period under review.
As at the year ended December 31, 2013, Company, other than executive office, for a Dividends the Companys issued share capital continuous period of nine years or more at Subject to the provisions of the Companies comprised 597,542,344 Ordinary Shares of the date of the meeting, shall retire from Act, the Company may by ordinary 5 pence each of which 9,823,536 Ordinary office and may offer themselves for resolution from time-to-time, declare Shares were held in treasury.
dividends not exceeding the amount Rights and obligations attaching to shares Notwithstanding the provisions in the recommended by the Board.
Subject to The rights and obligations attaching to the Articles, in accordance with the UK the Companies Act, the Board may pay Ordinary Shares are set out in the Articles Corporate Governance Code, all Directors interim dividends, and also any fixed rate which are available on the Companys will be subject to annual re-election.
dividend, whenever the financial position of website.
The Articles may only be the Company, in the opinion of the Board, Powers amended by special resolution of the justifies its payment.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies members of the Company.
Jersey Law 1991, as amended the The Board may withhold payment of all or Variation of rights Companies Act, the Articles and any part of any dividends or other monies Subject to the Companies Act, rights directions given by the Company in general payable in respect of the shares from a attached to any class of shares may be meeting by special resolution, the business person with a 0.25% interest as defined in varied with written consent of the holders of the Company is managed by the Board the Articles if such person has been of not less than two thirds in nominal value which may exercise all the powers of the served with a restriction notice as defined of the issued shares of that class Company whether relating to the in the Articles after failure to provide the calculated excluding any shares held in management of the business of the Company with information concerning treasury or with the sanction of a special Company or not.
In particular, the Board interests in those shares required to be resolution passed at a separate meeting may exercise all the powers of the provided under the Articles.
ofthe holders of those shares.
At each Company to borrow money and to Shire has put in place income access such separate general meeting, except mortgage or charge all or any part of the share arrangements which enable anadjourned meeting, the quorum shall undertaking, property and assets present shareholders to elect to receive their betwo persons holding or representing and future and uncalled capital of the dividends from a Group company resident byproxy not less than one third in nominal Company and, subject to the Companies for tax purposes in the UK.
Further details value of the issued shares of that class Act, to issue debentures and other can be found in Note 23 to the calculated excluding any shares held securities, whether outright or as collateral consolidated financial statements.
security, for a debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of a third party.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 91 Additional statutory information continued Issuance of shares The Company maintains an American Significant agreements Subject to applicable statutes and subject Depositary Receipt ADR program in The following significant agreements to and without prejudice to any rights theUS.
Each American Depositary Share contain provisions entitling counterparties attached to existing shares, shares may be ADS represents three Ordinary Shares.
to exercise the following rights in the event issued with such rights and restrictions as An ADS is evidenced by an ADR issued by of a change of control of the Company: the Company may by special resolution Citibank, N. A. as Depositary, and is listed Under the $1,200 million credit facility decide or, if no such resolution has been on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.
agreement dated November 23, 2010 passed or so far as the resolution does not Each ADS holder is entitled to the financial between, amongst others, the Company make specific provision, as the Board may rights attached to such shares although and a number of its subsidiaries, decide.
Subject to the Articles, the the ADR Depositary is the registered Barclays Bank plc as the facility agent Companies Act and other shareholders holder of the underlying Ordinary Shares.
and the banks and financial institutions rights, unissued shares are at the disposal As at December 31, 2013, the Trust held named therein as lenders, upon a of the Board.
0.75% of the issued share capital of the change of control any lender may, Restrictions on transfer of shares Company on trust for the benefit of following not less than 30 days notice, There are no restrictions on the transfer participants in the Companys employee cancel its commitments and require ofshares in the Company, except: i that share plans.
The voting rights in relation to prepayment of its participation in any certain restrictions may from time-to-time these shares are exercised by the Trustee.
For these purposes, a be imposed by laws and regulations for The Trustee may vote or abstain from change of control occurs if any person or example insider trading laws : and ii voting in any way it thinks fit and in doing group of persons acting in concert gains pursuant to the Listing Rules of the UK so may take into account both financial the ability to control more than half the Financial Conduct Authority whereby and non-financial interests of the votes at a general meeting of the certain Directors and employees of the beneficiaries of the Trust or Company or holds more than half the Company require the approval of the their dependants.
Historically the Trustee equity share capital of the Company.
Company to deal in the Companys has not exercised its right to vote.
Awaiver of the mandatory prepayment Ordinary Shares.
provision would require the consent of Purchase of own shares each lender under the agreement.
As Voting At its AGM held on April 30, 2013 the atFebruary 24, 2014, $150 million was It is the Companys practice to hold a poll Company was authorized, until the earlier outstanding under the agreement.
on every resolution at general meetings.
of July 29, 2014 or the conclusion of the Every member present in person or by 2014 AGM, to make market purchases Under the $2,600 million term loan proxy has, upon a poll, one vote for every ofup to 55,741,587 of its own Ordinary agreement dated November 11, 2013 share held by him.
In the case of joint Shares.
Further details regarding between, amongst others, the Company holders of a share the vote of the senior purchases by the Company of its own and a number of its subsidiaries, Morgan who tenders a vote, whether in person or shares can be found in Note 23 to the Stanley Bank International Limited as the by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion consolidated financial statements.
facility agent and the banks and financial of the votes of the other joint holders and, institutions named therein as lenders, Substantial shareholdings for this purpose, seniority shall be upon a change of control any lender As at the date of this report, the Company determined by the order in which the may, following not less than 30 days had been notified of the following holdings names stand in the register of members in notice, cancel its commitments and of 3% or more in the issued Ordinary respect of the joint holding.
require prepayment of its participation in Share capital of the Company: any outstanding loans.
For these Restrictions on voting purposes, a change of control occurs if Number of Percentage of No member shall, unless the Board Ordinary issued share any person or group of persons acting in otherwise decides, be entitled to attend or 1 Shares capital concert gains the ability to control more vote at any general or class meeting in than half the votes at a general meeting respect of any shares held if any call or BlackRock, Inc. 55,345,849 9.99% of the Company or holds more than half other sum payable by that member FMR LLC 27,861,459 4.95% the equity share capital of the Company.
Also, a member may not A waiver of the mandatory prepayment be entitled to attend or vote if served with a 1 Excludes treasury shares.
provision would require the consent of restriction notice as defined in the Articles.
each lender under the agreement.
As at The Company is not aware of any February 24, 2014, $1,200 million was agreements between holders of outstanding under the agreement.
securitiesthat may result in restrictions onvoting rights.
92 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other Information Political donations Audit information Shire did not make any donations to Each of the persons who is a Director at political parties during the year ended the date of approval of this report confirms December 31, 2013 2012: $nil.
that: Liquidity, cash flow and going concern so far as the Director is aware, there is no The Directors Report sets out information relevant audit information of which the on the financial position of the Group, its Companys auditor is unaware: and cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing the Director has taken all the steps that facilities, its business activities, together the he she ought to have taken as a with the factors likely to affect its future Director in order to make himself herself development, performance and financial aware of any relevant audit information position, its objectives, policies and and to establish that the Companys processes for managing capital, its auditor is aware of that information.
financial risk management objectives, details of its hedging activity and its Directors Report exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Directors Report comprises pages Details of the Groups financial instruments 4to 93 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
are disclosed in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
On behalf of the Board The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thusthey continue to adopt the going Tatjana May concern basis of accounting in preparing Company Secretary the annual financial statements.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 93
