Strategy and business model We are focused on growing Shire by developing and marketing innovative specialty medicines that address significant unmet patient needs.
Our vision Our vision is to transform the lives ofpeople around the world whose healthis impacted by rare and other Vision specialized conditions, through providinginnovative treatments.
We bring this vision to life through ourstrategy and business model.
Our strategy Our strategy describes how we will achieve our vision.
Our strategy is to grow our business Strategy anddeliver value to our stakeholders by focusing on significant unmet patient need in specialist areas and providing more innovative treatments to more patients.
Our business model We implement our strategy through ourbusiness model.
It is our structure forsuccess and drives our growth.
During 2013 we unified our business ourOne Shire model has created a In-line Pipeline simple structure and focused efficient organization that is scalable for growth.
In-line Our currently marketed productsto meet the needsofpatients today and maximize revenue growth.
SEE PAGE 14 Pipeline The innovative products Innovation Support Excellence wearedeveloping to meetpatients significant Governance Culture unmetneeds.
SEE PAGE 16 18 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report To deliver this, we: Build our Pipeline of innovative treatments through both Research and Development Serve patients with high unmet needs in R&D and Business Development select, commercially attractive specialty activities to enable us to serve patients therapeutic areas.
Drive optimum performance of our Concentrate our R&D capabilities on In-line, marketed products to serve thedevelopment of innovative specialist patients today.
Commercial excellence for value-added therapeutics that fit our One culture We have four business units that focus strategic focus and address patients We have a clear and strong patientexclusively on the commercial execution unmet needs.
The team is engaged in focused culture where we all strive ofour In-line products in our specialist conversations with scientists and tobeBRAVE: therapeutic areas: Rare Diseases, entrepreneurs all around the world, while Bold: We have the courage to lead Neuroscience, Gastrointestinal and collaborating daily with commercial and theway InternalMedicine.
This ensures we R&D experts throughout Shire.
provideinnovative treatments, and Resilient: We are agile and adaptable servicethe needs of our customers Support tomeet the changing needs of our andpatients, as efficiently as possible.
Our support functions, including Technical stakeholders Operations, are unified across the Accountable: We deliver on our Innovation business to ensure we support our In-line promisesto all of our stakeholders We have moved to a single R&D and Pipeline activities as efficiently and organization that focuses on developing effectively as possible.
Visionary: We fearlessly innovate our pipeline of innovative treatments to toaddress unmet patient need address unmet patient needs.
This One way of working Ethical: We do the right thing, in the ensures we prioritise the treatments We lead our business through our rightway wefocus on to ensure they have the Executive Committee which, supported highest chance of clinical success and byour In-line and Pipeline Committees, Our culture comes to life through our arealigned with our priority therapeutic ensures we allocate resources and make employees who together form One Shire.
areas and potential new areas such as decisions across the enterprise in the best We value and invest in our employees ophthalmology and hematology oncology.
interests of One Shire, our patients, toensure they have the capabilities Our early stage research is primarily shareholders and other stakeholders.
andsupport to implement our strategy, focused on rare diseases.
achieveour vision and deliver value to Our unified way of working means we can ourpatients, payors and shareholders.
Our growth is also fueled by the acquisition quickly adapt to focus our resources of new compounds and marketed where the greatest opportunities exist.
Shires global Business Development team searches the industry WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 19
