Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Board committees Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee auditor attended all meetings at the invitation So as to ensure effective oversight and of the Committee Chairman.
So as to control over the Groups operations, facilitate open and unreserved discussion, theBoard has constituted the Audit, time was set aside at each meeting for the Compliance & Risk Committee, the Committees private deliberation, with Remuneration Committee, the Nomination additional meetings held with the Groups Committee, the Science & Technology external auditor, the Head of Internal Audit Committee and the Executive Committee, and the Chief Compliance and Risk Officer each of which has been delegated specific in the absence of the Executive Directors or authorities.
The Board committees terms other members of senior management.
ofreference, which are subject to annual Susan Kilsby Role of the Committee review and approval by the Board, are Chairman of the Audit, Compliance & The purpose of the Committee is to available on the Companys website, with RiskCommittee oversee Shires accounting and financial further details as to their operation and reporting processes, the audits of its activities presented in the respective financial statements and the effectiveness reportsbelow.
of the Companys risk management and internal control framework.
In doing so, theCommittees principal duties are to: monitor the integrity of the financial Membership and meetings reports and statements of the Group and, As at the year end the Audit, Compliance where requested by the Board, advise on &Risk Committee comprised three whether, taken as a whole, the Annual independent Non-Executive Directors: Report and Accounts is fair, balanced each chosen for their knowledge and and understandable: experience of financial matters, financial reporting, risk management and internal make recommendations to the Board controls.
The Board is satisfied that at least onmatters relating to the appointment of one member of the Committee has recent the external auditor and to consider the and relevant financial experience in findings and recommendations arising accordance with the requirements of from the external audit process: theGovernance Code.
monitor and review the integrity and Date of Meeting effectiveness of the Groups internal 1 Committee member appointment attendance financial controls and internal control 2 Susan Kilsby Sept 1, 2011 5 5 andrisk management systems: David Kappler April 5, 2004 5 5 review the Groups strategy for the David Stout Dec 8, 2009 5 5 management of key corporate and Note: The number in brackets denotes the number financial risks: and ofmeetings that Committee members were eligible toattend.
review the status of the Groups compliance program to ensure 1 Dominic Blakemore was appointed as a member adherence to applicable legal and ofthe Committee on January 1, 2014 and is to be regulatory standards and to the appointed Committee Chairman on April 29, 2014.
2 Susan Kilsby was appointed as Chairman of the Groupsinternal policies.
Susan is to step down In addition, the Committee is authorized to fromtheCommittee on April 29, 2014. investigate any activity included within its terms of reference and is responsible for Committee meetings held during the year the resolution of any disagreement coincided with key dates in the Groups between senior management and the financial reporting cycle.
During the year the Groups external auditor regarding financial Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive reporting matters.
The Committee is also Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the permitted to seek any information it General Counsel and Company Secretary, requires from any employee of the Group, the Group Financial Controller, the Chief and any external professional advice at the Compliance and Risk Officer, the Head of Companys expense, necessary to the Internal Audit and the Groups external fulfillment of its duties.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 59 Because of inherent limitations of internal Corporate governance report controls over financial reporting, material continued misstatements due to error may not be prevented or detected.
Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness for future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
To mitigate this risk, during the year the Groups management assessed the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Financial reporting balance sheet for such items.
These Committee of Sponsoring Organizations Key considerations judgments are discussed by the COSO of the Treadway Commission.
The significant issues considered by the Committee with management and as Based on this assessment, management Committee during the year in relation to anarea of audit focus Deloitte provide believes that the Groups internal controls thefinancial statements were: regular reporting to the Committee over financial reporting were effective as of seeNote 3 ii to the consolidated purchase accounting related to the December 31, 2013. financial statements : Groups acquisition of SARcode, Lotus The Board, together with the Committee, Tissue Repair and Premacure.
The accounting for various tax related reviews material risks impacting the Committee reviewed and critiqued the matters, including the level of tax Company on a timely basis as they arise.
valuation techniques and critical provisions.
Accounting for income tax is In addition, on an annual basis the Board accounting estimates used in the financial underpinned by a range of judgments reviews the key risks, associated mitigation statements and satisfied itself that these see Note 3 iii to the consolidated plans and the effectiveness of the Groups were reasonable and appropriately financial statements.
The Committee internal controls, with the Committee applied.
The Committee addresses addresses these issues through a range conducting bi-annual reviews.
Further thesematters through receiving reports of reporting from senior management details on risk mitigation can be found on from management which discuss the and also receives verbal and written page 24.
In addition, the Groups external assumptions used.
In addition, as a reporting from Deloitte on these auditor, Deloitte, an independent registered primesource of audit focus, Deloitte matters:and public accounting firm, has issued an provide detailed reporting to the disclosures contained within the Groups independent auditors report on the Committee see Note 4 to the 2012 full-year and 2013 quarterly results effectiveness of the Groups internal consolidated financial statements : announcements and related financial controls over financial reporting which accounting for litigation provisions and reports.
canbe found on page 95. costs see Note 3 iv and Note 19 to the Internal controls and risk management Committee activities consolidated financial statements : pertaining to the financial reporting process The Committees activities during the year the carrying value of the Companys The Groups internal controls over financial related to the financial statements and intangible assets.
The Committee reporting are designed to provide associated internal controls and risk reviewed and critiqued the judgments and reasonable assurance regarding the management systems included: sensitivities relevant to intangible assetand reliability of financial reporting and the the review of the Groups treasury policies goodwill impairment reviews, and the preparation of financial statements for and activities including a review of the impairment charges recognised inrespect external purposes in accordance with Companys governance and systems of goodwill in the Groups former generally accepted accounting principles.
relating to cash and investment Regenerative Medicine division andthe The key features of the Companys internal management: RESOLOR in-process research and controls over financial reporting include a development assets.
The judgments in the review of proposed financing series of policies and procedures that: relation to asset impairment largely relate arrangements pertaining to potential and to the assumptions underlying the pertain to the maintenance of records ongoing M&A activity: calculation of the value in use of the asset that, in reasonable detail, accurately and the monitoring of the Groups accounts being tested, primarily the achievability of fairly reflect the acquisitions and receivable exposure in certain Eurozone the long term business plan underlying the disposals of the assets of the Company: countries and the associated risk valuation process.
The Committee provide reasonable assurance that mitigation activities: received reports from management transactions are recorded correctly so as outlining the basis for the assumptions annual review of the Groups tax strategy to permit the preparation of financial used and in addition Deloitte provided and assessment of fiscal risk: and statements in accordance with generally detailed reporting to the Committee accepted accounting principles and that seeNote 3 i to the consolidated the review and approval of the Groups receipts and expenditures of the financialstatements.
Company are being made only in External audit the review of questions posed by the accordance with prescribed authorization Independence and objectivity SEC regarding Shires 2012 Form 10-K levels: and The Committee recognises both the need filing and the approval of Shires provide reasonable assurance regarding for an objective and independent external response: prevention or timely detection of auditor and how such objectivity and accounting for sales deductions and unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposal independence might be, or appear, rebates, and the key judgments and of the Companys assets that could have compromised through the provision of estimates applied by the Company in a material effect on the Companys non-audit services.
Accordingly, the calculating the liability recorded in the financial statements.
60 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Committee has overseen the critical success factors, designed to the review and approval of the 2013 implementation of a policy on the provision facilitate continuing and measurable AuditPlan and audit fee: and of non-audit services by the external improvement in the effectiveness of the an assessment of the objectivity and auditor with a view to safeguarding these external audit process.
The Committee independence of the external auditor.
The policy provides that, concluded that the critical success amongst other things, the auditor must not factors had been substantially met with Other matters provide a service which: there existing a constructive working Internal audit relationship between the external auditor Internal audit effectiveness is monitored creates a mutuality of interest: and members of financial management.
and reviewed on an ongoing basis by Moreover, the Committee determined that senior management, overseen by the places the auditor in a position where the audit process was sufficiently robust, Committee, with auditees providing they would audit their own work: with the external auditor demonstrating supplementary feedback as appropriate.
results in the auditor acting as a manager continued commitment to the performance The Internal Audit Plan is approved or employee of the Company: or of high-quality audit work.
Further areas of annually by the Committee: progression development were identified and against which is reviewed quarterly.
In puts the auditor in role of advocate for communicated to the external auditor addition, every four years the Companys theCompany.
which in turn has committed to working internal audit procedures and capabilities In addition, the policy prescribes services with management and the Committee to undergo an independent external from which the external auditor is explicitly address these in 2014. assessment against global standards, prohibited from providing, and those the withthe ensuing report reviewed by Appointment and tendering provision of which has been pre-approved theCommittee Chairman and the Deloitte LLP has served as Shires external by the Committee subject to individual and ChiefFinancial Officer.
auditor since 2002, with the current audit aggregate monetary limits.
All proposed partner having served since his Whistleblowing services falling outside of the scope of the appointment in 2012.
Following the review Shires compliance effort is focused on the policy, or the monetary limits contained of Deloittes continued objectivity, prevention and detection of misconduct therein, must receive pre-approval from the independence, and performance in through policy development, training, Committee or from its Chairman subject to respect of the 2013 financial year, and monitoring and audit.
As part of this effort, Committee approval at its subsequent having received an expression of Shire employees are encouraged to report scheduled meeting.
willingness to continue in office as external suspected cases of misconduct, Further factors identified as contributing to auditor, the Committee recommended to confidentially and without fear of retaliation, external auditor objectivity and the Board the re-appointment of Deloitte through management or through Shires independence include the external LLP as the Companys external auditor for Global Compliance Helpline.
The helpline, auditors retention of an impartial and the 2014 financial year.
There existed no the operation of which is overseen by the questioning approach, particularly with contractual obligations that inhibited or Chief Compliance and Risk Officer, is respect to issues of heightened sensitivity, influenced the Committees managed by an independent third party so the firms prudent attitude to the recommendation.
as to preserve anonymity as appropriate.
consideration and undertaking of nonConcerns and allegations are thoroughly In accordance with developments in the audit services and Shires own principle investigated with disciplinary action taken UK corporate governance regime and best ofnot recruiting staff directly from the where necessary.
Periodically the Chief practice with respect to external audit external auditor engagement team.
Compliance and Risk Officer provides the tendering and rotation, it is the Companys Committee with a summary of matters During the year the Committee met policy that the external audit be put to raised through management and the withthe external auditor to consider the tender at least once in every ten-year helpline as well as details of any resultant external auditors independence and period, with the external audit partner investigations.
objectivity: ensuring that the relationship rotating on a five-yearly basis.
between the external auditor and members Notwithstanding such policy, having Committee activities of financial management had not resulted, regardto the Financial Reporting Councils During the year the Committees other or appeared to result, in a lack of transitional arrangements for external areas of review included: independence or objectivity.
The audit tendering and the ongoing compliance updates from the Committee considers that, during 2013, developments in audit regulation, it is the ChiefCompliance and Risk Officer the external auditor was sufficiently robust Committees intention, subject to thenandtheHead of Internal Audit: in dealings with members of financial prevailing circumstances, to consider the management and that, in their absence, external audit tender nearer the time of the renewal of terms of the Groups the external auditor was transparent and thenext scheduled audit partner rotation insurance program against the wider decisive in dealings with the Committee.
insurance market: Details of the breakdown and value of Committee activities non-audit fees paid or due to the external developments to the UK corporate The Committees activities related to auditor as a result of services provided governance regime and the associated external audit during the year included: during 2013 can be found in Note 30 to implications for the Company: theconsolidated financial statements.
the review of quarterly updates provided the Companys strategy in respect of IT by the external auditor encompassing key systems and its approach to cyber Effectiveness risks, audit planning, governance updates security: The Committee recognises the importance and other business-related matters: of having a high caliber of audit and as the review of the Groups internal audit such, undertakes an annual assessment the final review of the 2012 audit and the program: and ofthe effectiveness of the external audit initial review of the external auditors process.
As part of its evaluation, the the review of the Groups corporate risk performance and effectiveness during Committee drew upon a survey of schedule, including consideration of the the 2013 financial year, including a review members of financial management which key risks faced by the Group and the of managements assessment of the measured the external auditors associated mitigation strategy.
performance and effectiveness of the performance against predetermined external auditor: WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 61 Corporate governance report continued Nomination Committee reviewing succession planning for Board as to the core attributes sought, Executive and Non-Executive Directors following which an appropriately qualified with a view to ensuring the long term external search firm is engaged and success of the Group: informed, amongst other things, of the timecommitment required of any making recommendations to the appointee and of Shires Board Diversity Boardregarding the re-election and Policy.
Short-listed candidates are re-appointment of Non-Executive interviewed byas many of the Committee Directors: and members asis feasible, following which any preferred candidate is made available making recommendations to the to meet with other members of the Board David Kappler Boardwith respect to the membership who collectively make the decision Chairman of the Nomination Committee ofBoard committees.
whether or not to appoint.
During the year Key considerations and activities Odgers Berndtson and Catalyst Advisors During the year the Committees principal assisted the Board with candidate considerations and activities were: searches, both of which have no other connection with theCompany.
Appointment of Dominic Blakemore Following a regular review of the Membership and meetings composition of the Board it was agreed Science & Technology Committee At the year end the Nomination early in the year to seek a new Board Committees membership comprised three member who would bring, amongst independent Non-Executive Directors and otherthings, financial and strategic the Chairman of the Board.
With Odgers Berndtson assisting the search, the Board agreed Committee Date of Meeting toDominics appointment which was 1 member appointment attendance announced in October.
Upon Dominics David Kappler April 26, 2006 5 5 appointment on January 1, 2014 he William Burns June 27, 2011 5 5 alsobecame a member of the Audit, Dr. David Ginsburg 2 Compliance & Risk Committee, of Matthew Emmens June 18, 2008 5 5 Chairman of the Science & Technology whichhe is to be appointed Chairman Anne Minto Feb 8, 2012 5 5 Committee onApril 29, 2014.
Note: The number in brackets denotes the number of meetings that Committee members were eligible Committee effectiveness review to attend.
Thisprocess was led by the Chairman 1 Susan Kilsby was appointed as a member ofthe Committee with the assistance oftheCommittee on February 1, 2014. ofthe Company Secretary and involved 2 Matthew Emmens is to step down on April 29, one-to-one discussions with each 2014.
Membership and meetings Committee member.
The results of the As at the year end the Science & review and the conclusions drawn were Committee meetings are typically held Technology Committees membership noted at the next Board meeting.
before scheduled meetings of the Board, comprised three independent Nonwith additional meetings convened as Terms of reference review Executive Directors.
At the invitation of the Committee During the year the Committee withthe Committees terms of reference, Chairman the Chief Executive Officer revieweditsterms ofreference and the Board is satisfied that at least one attended all Committee meetings held recommended minor modifications Committee member has scientific during the year.
expertise relevant to pharmaceutical research and development.
Role of the Committee Board appointments procedure The Committee is responsible for: Board composition is central to the Committee Date of Meeting effective leadership of the Group and member appointment attendance reviewing the size and composition of the therefore, prior to commencing any Board and making recommendations to David Ginsburg June 16, 2010 5 5 searchfor prospective Board members, the Board with respect to alterations: William Burns Feb 8, 2012 5 5 the Committee reflects on the Boards Steven Gillis Oct 1, 2012 5 5 current balance of skills and experiences identifying, and nominating for the and those that would be conducive to Note: The number in brackets denotes the number approval of the Board, candidates for of meetings that Committee members were eligible thedelivery of the Companys strategy.
new Board appointments: to attend.
Arecommendation is then made to the 62 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information The Committee typically meets before Executive Committee supervising the preparation of financial scheduled meetings of the Board, with five plans and budgets to be recommended meetings held during the year.
In addition to the Board and monitoring the to members of the Committee the Chief performance of the Groups In-line Executive Officer, the Head of Business products and Pipeline projects against Development, the Head of Research & budget: and Development, the Heads of Strategic managing internal talent and senior Planning & Program Management and the leadership succession planning and Head of Clinical Research & Development directing the Groups human resources regularly attended meetings at the approach within parameters agreed with invitation of the Committee Chairman.
Dr. Flemming Ornskov the Remuneration Committee, including Chairman of the Executive Committee Role of the Committee the reward framework.
The Committees principal responsibility is Key considerations to periodically review and advise the Board The Committees significant considerations on the Companys investment in research, during the year included: development and technology.
In doing so, the Committee: refinement of the Groups strategy: recommending it to the Board for advises the Board on emerging science Membership and meetings approval.
and technology issues and trends: Chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, the review of potential and ongoing business Executive Committees membership is provides assurance to the Board on the development opportunities including drawn from Shires Executive Directors and overall quality and expertise of medical integration plans: senior management.
The Committee, and scientific talent within the Company: formerly known as the Leadership Team, the One Shire restructuring initiative assures the Board, from a scientific comprises the Chief Executive Officer, the including development, implementation perspective, on the quality and Chief Financial Officer and the General and impact assessment: competitiveness of the Companys R&D Counsel and Company Secretary.
programs and technology initiatives: and financial matters including product The Committee typically meets on a performance reviews and budget provides the Board with its views on the monthly basis to deliberate significant updates: scientific, technical and medical merits of items of business: scheduling additional any potential significant R&D investments.
compliance updates from across the meetings as required.
In addition to its Group: and members, during the year other members Key considerations of senior management attended The Committees principal considerations human resource matters including policy Committee meetings at the invitation during the year covered: review and approval and the preparation oftheCommittee Chairman.
significant data generated by late-stage Role of the Committee development programs, including The Committee is charged with managing VYVANSE for adults with BED and Shires business including: lifitegrast for adults with Dry Eye disease: ensuring that the Group is run within the the results of the R&D operational governance framework agreed by the restructuring in accordance with the Board: wider One Shire restructuring initiative: and making strategic recommendations to the Board and implementing the strategy the relevant clinical or material pre-clinical approved by the Board: data identified during due diligence relating to material business development considering matters referred from transactions including Lotus Tissue management committees that are Repair, Premacure, SARcode and material from a risk, financial, reputational ViroPharma.
or strategic perspective, referring decisions to the Board as appropriate: WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 63
