Responsibility We are committed to demonstrating responsibility throughout Shire.
Taking an ethical and responsible approach in the best interests of our Responsibility at Shire patients underpins everything we do.
Our vision is to transform the lives of people Wesee this in the programs and activities designed to improve access to our rare around the world whose health is impacted disease medicines where they arent by rare and other specialized conditions by currently available: in our efforts to raise providing innovative treatments.
To this end, awareness among physicians and parents of the signs of many rare and specialist we ground everything we do in our BRAVE diseases and provide the extra support values to be bold, resilient, accountable, often required with this type of diagnosis: visionary, and ethical.
This underpins our in our work with policy makers to raise awareness of the serious social impact approach to responsibility, and ultimately ofuntreated ADHD on families, education how we strive to develop novel treatments and the criminal justice system: and toserve patients and to create enduring through our campaign in the US to value for stakeholders.
discourage the misuse, abuse and diversion of ADHD medications.
Responsibility at Shire has always been We are proud of the progress we are embedded in our business we have never making, but are not complacent.
We know separated it from our daily business there is more we can and will do.
We will continue to strive towards greater activities, decisions and relationships.
transparency of our policies, goals and our progress towards those goals.
We will continue to work with governments, policy makers and payors to improve access to treatments in both developed and developing countries.
And we will continue to invest in developing and marketing new treatments where the need is great and our skills and experience are most relevant.
COM Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report Core areas of focus Disease awareness Overall gender breakdown While responsibility at Shire covers a wide Disease awareness is especially important as at December 31, 2013 range of topics and areas including the for Shire because the conditions our environment, community involvement, products treat are often extremely rare andour people our stakeholders have ornot well understood.
Without the emphasized that there are two primary appropriate level of awareness, conditions areas where they believe we have the often remain undiagnosed to the detriment greatest responsibility: access to of the patient, their family, the health care medicines and disease awareness.
We believe that creating factand evidence-based Access to medicines awareness of these conditions is key to Access to treatment for those with rare enabling proper diagnosis and treatment.
orspecialist conditions can be a big We aim to share our expertise and provide l Male 2,736 challenge, even in developed parts of balanced, reliable and scientifically sound theworld such as North America and l Female 2,600 information to help improve understanding Western Europe.
Shires Rare Disease and appreciation of difficult and life-altering Impact Report revealed that it takes more conditions.
We do this in a variety of ways, than seven and a halfyears in the US to for example by sponsoring new research receive a proper diagnosis of a rare and conducting educational work with disease it isnt difficult to see how much doctors, patients and policy makers.
Shire plc Directors gender split longer this might be in less developed as at December 31, 2013 parts of the world.
Some 7,000 rare We have a cross-functional working diseases have been identified, and groupthat convenes quarterly to share treatment exists for less than 5%.
and encourage best practice and explore ways to improve how we can create For those with rare and specialist awareness in the most effective, and conditions, improving access is largely responsible manner.
about continuing to focus on developing new treatments for unmet patient needs, Other areas of focus where there is currently little hope.
As a Diversity result, we view the development of orphan Our success continues to be driven by our drugs, and treatments for other specialist diverse employee talent around the world.
l Male 8 conditions with significant unmet needs, We value all genders, ages, cultures, asa core responsibility in itself.
experiences and backgrounds as we build l Female 2 and grow our global organization.
Shire is Other ways to improve access involve an equal opportunity employer and strives reducing barriers, such as affordability and to ensure that there is no discrimination geographic access for our existing against anyone applying for a job or in treatments.
We have several programs to employment for reasons related to race, assist patients with affordability challenges Shire senior managers gender split religion, national origin, gender, disability in the US.
Outside the US, we have Named as at December 31, 2013 oron any other personal characteristic.
Patient programs to provide products to patients where they might not otherwise We do not have diversity targets or quotas be available.
For countries where we have and we do not focus exclusively on one no commercial presence, and there is no group of employees over and above any reimbursement, we have a Charitable other group of employees.
However, Access Program administered by our NGO wedofocus very strongly on fostering partner Direct Relief in conjunction with an ourBRAVE culture, which aims to provide independent Medical Expert Committee.
all our employees with a supportive work We also have a long-standing relationship environment that values diverse opinions with AmeriCares, donating medicines to and experiences, and enables individual, people in need in poorer countries around group and organizational success.
These are just some of the ways In2013, we communicated our diversity Female 57 l we are working to provide hope to patients and inclusion philosophy statement to with few, if any, treatment options.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 21 Responsibility continued Having a diverse workforce is only half the accountable.
Our pay for performance 2013 employment by country % equation the benefit to our employees, philosophy provides managers with a as at December 31, 2013 our patients, our business, and society variety of programs to recognize and comes from the respect, consideration reward employee contributions, and our and inclusion of these different views into employee share purchase plans enable our work every day.
Our growing global employees to have a vested interest in reach gives us the opportunity to bring to thesuccess of the business.
our business, and for the benefit of our Driving performance requires a clear patients, greater depth of experiences and understanding of where we are heading, capabilities.
Beyond our immediate and this happens at every level of the workforce, we also have a Supplier business from the one-on-one Diversity Program in place in the US which performance discussions between provides opportunities for minority or managers and employees, to the allUS 69 disabled and veteran-owned businesses.
l employee meetings held at many of More than 10% of Shires total 2013 US UK 9 l ourmajor sites.
Shire communicates spend was in support of these businesses.
Switzerland 4 l withall employees via an active internal Ireland 2 In all hiring and employment practices, communications program which included l Shire is committed to ensuring that it the launch of a new global intranet in 2013.
All other geographies 16 l doesnot discriminate against qualified Designed to promote greater engagement individuals who have a disability.
The and dialog, the new intranet enables Company further asserts its commitment moreeffective and efficient two-way to fair treatment and reasonable communication with the introduction Ethnic minorities, USA % accommodation of applicants or ofsocial features including a CEO blog as at December 31, 2013 employees disabilities in accordance andregular live CEO chats.
Other withall applicable laws in the respective communications include all-employee locations of all Shire facilities.
emails from the CEO, our own social networking platform known as Shiral, Our people andquarterly leadership briefings As of December 31, 2013, Shire employed andcascades.
over 5,000 talented people with operations in 31 countries.
We promote the best use Our planet of our human resources on the basis of Shire is committed to operating a individual skills and experience matched sustainable organization that protects against those required for the work to be ouremployees, the environment and Minority 23 l performed, and actively seek out a thecommunities where we conduct Non-minority 77 l diversity of views and experiences.
We are committed to demonstrating respect for the individual We believe we are better able to achieve and the environment.
We firmly believe that our goals and continuously improve by effective environmental management is supporting a strong performance culture.
akey component in achieving excellent While many factors contribute to this, company performance and making Shire research has shown that the most aworld-class organization and responsible important factor in performance is an corporate citizen.
employees relationship with his or her manager.
Thats why we have devoted We strive to conserve resources and considerable resources to help our minimize adverse environmental impacts managers be the best they can be.
This and risks that may be associated with our includes a dedicated online resource products, facilities and operations.
We are center for managers, which provides committed to promoting the sustainable critical support, tips and e-learning and efficient use of natural resources, opportunities.
This tool is supplemented waste minimization, recycling, energy byface-to-face and group opportunities efficiency, and responsible product tolearn how to 1 manage performance, stewardship in our business activities.
2 develop people, and 3 foster a BRAVE We have implemented key components culture also known as the three ofa health, safety and environmental expectations of people managers for management system for our operations, which all Shire people managers are 22 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report which are compatible with the international suppliers, and in turn, expect them to do groups, oversees communications and standards OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001. the same in their operations and to their works with sponsors.
Our approach to Our health, safety and environmental team employees around the world.
We do this responsibility is championed by our CEO, continually work to improve this system.
through a regular and systematic audit supported by the Executive, In-line and ofour suppliers, and our Responsible Pipeline Committees and endorsed by While Shire is a global company, most Supply Chain policy explicitly states our ourBoard.
environmental impacts from our facilities expectations of suppliers to uphold the are local, so we believe the impacts Staying close to our stakeholders ILOprinciples.
This policy can be found aremost effectively addressed locally.
We recognize the importance of seeking onour website, shire.
Wetherefore focus on setting local external input from key stakeholders such site-specific goals rather than global Organizing for greatest effect as patients, physicians and others to goalstoreduce our impacts.
At Shire, We have more than a dozen internal understand what is most important to wecontinuously strive to do the right thing responsibility leaders who serve as them, and regularly consult and engage and at each of our facilities our staff work sponsors for focus areas such as with them on these important areas.
to identify and implement projects to theenvironment, our people and the During the year we engaged with investors, reduce our environmental impacts.
The sponsors are responsible patient groups and policy makers on a for setting goals which support our range of issues including our environmental Shires reporting of its Greenhouse overallstrategy, ensuring progress and approaches and disclosure, our approach GasEmissions GHG is outlined in maintaining high standards.
They include to clinical trials, our role in ensuring the thetable below.
senior representatives from Legal, R&D, appropriate use of our ADHD products, Human Resources, Environment, Health philanthropy and access to medicines.
Human Rights &Safety, Compliance and Risk We support the UN Universal Declaration Sharing and improving Management, Facilities, Corporate of Human Rights http: www.
org en We communicate widely and regularly Communications and Public Affairs.
In documents udhr and recognize the onresponsibility with all our stakeholders addition, we have three working groups obligation to promote universal respect through our bi-annual publication inthe areas of Clinical Trials, Access to forand observance of human rights and Responsibility Matters, our intranet Medicines and Disease Awareness, each fundamental freedoms for all, without andonour website, shire.
Were looking to improve our programs and distinction to sex, age, race, religion, or always interested to hear feedback approaches.
Our Responsibility Steering anyother characteristic protected by law.
andsuggestions on how we can be and Communications Group RSCG aneven more responsible organization.
Of paramount importance, we safeguard facilitates the activities of the working the human rights of those taking part in our clinical trials, which is primarily achieved Greenhouse Gas Assessment parameters through the process of informed consent.
Shire adheres to the International Baseline year FY 2013 Conference on Harmonization ICH Good Clinical Practice GCP Guidelines.
In 2013, Consolidation Operational control approach we summarized and posted on shire.
com our approach to clinical trials which makes Boundary summary All facilities with emissions greater than 1% of the overall footprint were explicit reference to the rights and included in the Scope 1 and 2 reporting of emissions from natural gas and protection of clinical trial participants.
All global fleet fuel usage is included.
Emissions from diesel fuel oil generators are less than 1% of total footprint and are excluded.
Scope 3 We are committed to the protection of the only includes business air travel, which is significant enough to warrant human rights of our employees in our inclusion in our annual report though not required by law offices and manufacturing facilities around the world.
We recognize that commercial Consistency with Any facility with less than 1% of overall emissions is excluded from the success depends on the full commitment the financial reported inventory of all our employees and commit to statements respecting their human rights, to provide them with safe and favorable working Assessment Greenhouse Gas Protocol and ISO 14064-1 2006 conditions that are free from unnecessary methodology risk and to maintain fair and competitive terms and conditions of service at all times.
Intensity ratio GHG emissions per unit revenue We seek to comply fully with all relevant laws, rules and regulations governing labor, employment and the employment relationship in all of the countries where Greenhouse Gas Emission Source 2013 Shire does business.
1 tCO e INTENSITY Metric TBD 2 We commit to the principles articulated in 2 Scope 1 28,554 the International Labor Organizations ILO Scope 2 24,855 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work which includes the Total Scope 1 & 2 53,399 10.8 following four major principles: 1 Freedom Scope 3 18,579 of association and the effective recognition 3 of the right to collective bargaining: Total emissions 71,978 14.6 2 Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor: 3 Abolition of child 1 GHG emissions reported in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents 2 labor, and: 4 Elimination of employment For Scope 1 Fleet usage, 2012 Fleet data was used to approximate fleet emissions for Spain and France due to data availability.
For Sweden and Ireland, Nov-Dec 2013 fleet usage was extrapolated based on discrimination.
average monthly 2013 usage 3 We also commit to the protection of Emissions factors were sourced from UKs DEFRA database, The Climate Registry, the WRI GHG Protocol calculation tools, and the USAs EPAs Climate Leaders and eGrid emission factors human rights of our partners and WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 23
