Board of Directors Matthew Emmens 62 Dr. Flemming Ornskov 56 David Kappler 66 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: March 12, 2003 Appointed: January 2, 2013 Committee Membership: N Committee Chairmanship: E Appointed: April 5, 2004 Committee Chairmanship: N Skills & experience: Matthew served as Skills & experience: Flemming served as Committee Membership: A Shires Chief Executive Officer prior to his Chief Executive Officer Designate prior to his appointment as Chairman on June 18, 2008. appointment as Chief Executive Officer on Skills & experience: David was appointed With 40 years of pharmaceutical experience April 30, 2013.
Flemming brings to his role his Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in he contributes a wealth of strategic and operational and medical knowledge and his July 2007 and Deputy Chairman in June 2008. operational knowledge to the Company.
extensive international, strategic and David brings to the Board his extensive Matthew is due to retire as Chairman on April operational experience in the pharmaceutical knowledge and experience in financial 29, 2014.
Matthew began his career in sector.
He formerly held the position of reporting, risk management and internal international pharmaceuticals with Merck & Non-Executive Chairman of Evotec AG and financial controls.
He was Chairman of Premier Co, Inc. in 1974, where he held a wide range of was Non-Executive Director of PCI Biotech Foods plc until 2010 and held directorships at sales, marketing and administrative positions.
From 2010 to 2012 he was Chief Camelot Group plc and HMV Group plc.
David In 1992 he helped to establish Astra Merck, Marketing Officer and Global Head, Strategic retired from Cadbury Schweppes plc in 2004 Inc. a joint venture between Merck and Astra Marketing for General and Speciality Medicine after serving as Chief Financial Officer since AB ofSweden, becoming President and Chief at Bayer.
He worked for the Cadbury Schweppes Executive Officer.
In 1999 he joined as Global President, Pharmaceuticals and Group between 1965 and 1984 and rejoined MerckKGaA and established EMD OTC at Bausch & Lomb, Inc.
He also served the company in 1989 following its acquisition Pharmaceuticals, the companys US as Chairman, and later as President and Chief of the Trebor Group, where he was Financial prescription pharmaceuticals business.
He Executive Officer, of Life-Cycle Pharma A S Director.
David is a Fellow of the Chartered later served as President of Merck KGaAs from 2006 to 2008, and as President and Institute of Management Accountants.
global prescription pharmaceuticals business Chief Executive Officer of Ikaria, Inc. from External appointments: InterContinental in Germany.
Earlier in his pharmaceutical Hotels Group plc Non-Executive Director.
Boards of Vertex Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and career Flemming held roles of increasing Incyte Corporation.
He holds a degree in responsibility at Merck & Co. Inc. and Novartis Business Management.
AG, following a distinguished period spent in hospitals and academic medicine.
Flemming received his MD from the University of Copenhagen, MBA from INSEAD and Master of Public Health from Harvard University.
Dominic Blakemore 44 Non-Executive Director Susan Kilsby 55 Appointed: January 1, 2014 Chairman Designate Committee Membership: A Appointed: September 1, 2011 Skills & experience: Dominic is to Committee Chairmanship: A Graham Hetherington 55 beappointed Chairman of the Audit, Committee Membership: N Chief Financial Officer Compliance& Risk Committee on April 29, 2014.
He brings to the Board his strategic Skills & experience: Susan is to be Appointed: July 1, 2008 andfinancial experience having held the appointed Chairman of the Board on April 29, Committee Membership: E positions of Chief Financial Officer at Iglo 2014 at which time she will step down as Foods Group and European Finance & Chairman of the Audit, Compliance & Risk Skills & experience: Graham brings to Strategy Director, Corporate Finance Director, Committee.
Susan brings to her role her hisposition a broad range of international and Group Financial Controller at Cadbury plc.
extensive M&A and finance experience having finance management and planning, audit, risk Earlier in his career Dominic worked at enjoyed a distinguished global career in management and M&A experience.
He is due  where he investment banking.
She held senior positions to step down from the Board on March 1,  sector clients.
with The First Boston Corporation, Bankers 2014.
Graham was Chief Financial Officer of Trust, Barclays fide Zoete Wedd and most Bacardi in 2007 and Chief Financial Officer of External appointments: Compass Group recently Credit Suisse where she was Allied Domecq plc from 1999 to 2005.
He is a PLC Group Finance Director.
Chairman of the EMEA Mergers & Acquisitions Fellow of theChartered Institute of team until 2009.
Susan has continued in a Management Accountants.
part-time senior advisory capacity at Credit Suisse, and will do so until April 29, 2014.
Susan is also a former Director of Hong Kong listed global skin care company, LOccitane International S. A.
She holds a BA in Economics and a MBA.
External appointments: BBA Aviation plc Non-Executive Director, Coca-Cola HBC AG Non-Executive Director and Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Non-Executive Director.
52 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information William Burns 66 Dr. David Ginsburg 61 David Stout 59 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: March 15, 2010 Appointed: June 16, 2010 Appointed: October 31, 2009 Committee Membership: R N S Committee Chairmanship: S Committee Membership: A R Skills & experience: William brings to the Skills & experience: David brings to the Skills & experience: David brings to the Board extensive international sales, marketing, Board his clinical medical background in Board extensive international sales, marketing, integration and operational experience in the internal medicine, hematology-oncology, operational and supply chain experience pharmaceutical sector.
He worked for many andmedical genetics, as well as his extensive gained in the pharmaceutical sector.
David years at Roche, holding the position of CEO basic biomedical laboratory research expertise.
was President, Pharmaceutical Operations at oftheir pharmaceuticals division from 2005 to David obtained his BA at Yale University, MD GlaxoSmithKline, where he was responsible 2009 and serving as a member of the Roche atDuke University and completed his medical for the companys global pharmaceutical Group Corporate Executive Committee.
and research training at Harvard Medical operations from 2003 to 2008.
Prior to that William holds a BA Hons.
David is the recipient of numerous hewas President of GlaxoSmithKlines US honors and awards, including election to pharmaceuticals business and before that External appointments: Roche Holdings membership in the National Academy of SmithKline Beechams North American Ltd Director, Genentech, Inc. Director, Sciences, the Institute of Medicine and the pharmaceuticals business.
Before joining Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd Director, American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
SmithKline Beecham, David worked for many Biotie Therapies Corp. Vice Chairman, years at Schering-Plough.
He is also a former Vestergaard Frandsen Director, Wellcome External appointments: University of Director of Allos Therapeutics, Inc. and holds Trust Committee Chairman, Masters Michigan James V. Neel Distinguished aBA in Biology.
Pharmaceuticals Chairman, University of University Professor of Internal Medicine, Strathclyde International Advisory Panel Human Genetics and Pediatrics and Howard External appointments: Jabil Circuit, Inc. Chairman and University of Cologne Bonn Hughes Medical Institute Investigator.
Non-Executive Director and Airgas, Inc. Center for Integrated Oncology Scientific Non-Executive Director.
Anne Minto OBE 60 Former Director Non-Executive Director Dr. Steven Gillis 50 Angus Russell 58 Appointed: June 16, 2010 Non-Executive Director Former Chief Executive Officer Committee Chairmanship: R Committee Membership: Appointed: October 1, 2012 N Appointment: December 13, 1999 Committee Membership: R S April 30, 2013 Skills & experience: Anne brings to the Skills & experience: Steven brings to the Board her extensive legal, commercial and Skills & experience: Angus served as Board his extensive technical and scientific remuneration experience.
She held the ChiefFinancial Officer until 2008 when knowledge and commercial experience.
position of Group Director, Human Resources hewasappointed Chief Executive Officer.
Heiscurrently a Managing Director at ARCH at Centrica plc from 2002 to 2011 and was a Hebrought to his position his operational Venture Partners, a provider of venture capital member of the Centrica Executive Committee.
knowledge of Shire and his extensive finance, for technology firms, where he is focused on Her extensive business career includes senior risk management, strategic and operational the evaluation of new life science technologies management roles at Shell UK, the position of experience in the pharmaceutical sector.
and the development and growth of ARCHs Deputy Director-General of the Engineering Angus held positions at InterMune, Inc. and biotechnology portfolio companies.
Prior to this Employers Federation and the position of City of London Investment Trust plc, and Steven was a founder and Director of Corixa Group Director Human Resources at Smiths positions of increasing responsibility at ICI, Corporation, acquired by GlaxoSmithKline in Group plc.
She is also a former Director of Zeneca and AstraZeneca PLC, including Vice 2005.
Prior to starting Corixa he was a founder Northumbrian Water plc and SITA UK.
Anne President, Corporate Finance at AstraZeneca and Director of Immunex Corporation.
An holds a Law degree and a postgraduate and Group Treasurer at Zeneca.
Angus is a immunologist by training, Steven has authored diploma in Human Resources, and is also Chartered Accountant and is a Fellow of the more than 300 peer-reviewed publications in aqualified lawyer.
She is also a Fellow Association of Corporate Treasurers.
the areas of molecular and tumor immunology.
oftheChartered Institute of Personnel & He is credited as being apioneer in the field of Development, the Royal Society of Arts and cytokines and cytokine receptors, directing the the London City and Guilds and is a member development of multiple marketed products ofthe Law Society of Scotland.
including Leukine, GM-CSF, Prokine IL-2 External appointments: Tate & Lyle PLC and Enbrel soluble TNF receptor-Fc fusion Non-Executive Director, ExlService Holdings, Board committees protein as well as the regulatory approval of Inc. Non-Executive Director, University of Bexxar radiolabeled anti-CD20 and the novel A Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee Aberdeen Development Trust Trustee and vaccine adjuvant, MPL.
Steven received his University of Aberdeen Alumni Fund Patron.
R Remuneration Committee BAfrom Williams College and his Ph.
D. from N Nomination Committee Dartmouth College.
Science & Technology Committee S External appointments: ARCH Venture E Executive Committee Partners Managing Director and bluebird bio, Inc. Non-Executive Director.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 53
