Overview Strategic report Directors report Accounts CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY The following are the critical judgments that the Directors have made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Accounts.
IMPAIRMENT OF NON-CURRENT ASSETS The Group tests goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that an impairment may exist.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations.
The key assumptions for these value in use calculations are those regarding discount rates, sales growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs to reflect the operational gearing of the business.
The Directors estimate discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money for the Group.
For those businesses not based in the UK or Western Europe, the cash flows are further risk adjusted to reflect the risks specific to the individual CGU.
For the majority of CGUs, the Group performs goodwill impairment reviews by forecasting cash flows based upon the following years budget and a projection of cash flows based upon industry growth expectations 0%3% over a further period of four years.
Where detailed five year forecasts for a CGU have been prepared and approved by the Board, which can include higher growth rates or varied results reflecting specific economic factors, these are used in preparing cash flow forecasts for impairment review purposes.
After this period, the sales growth rates applied to the cash flow forecasts are no more than 1% and operating profit growth no more than 3%, which do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the industry or economy.
The discount rates applied to all impairment reviews represent pre-tax rates and range between 10% and 13%.
Assumptions regarding sales and operating profit growth are considered to be the key area of judgment in the impairment review process, and appropriate sensitivities have been performed and disclosed in Note 13.
Impairments are allocated initially against the value of any goodwill and intangible assets held within a CGU, with any remaining impairment applied to property, plant and equipment on a pro-rata basis.
The carrying amount of relevant non-current assets at 31 December 2013 is 602.5m 2012: 618.1m.
The impairment reviews performed during the year indicated impairment in two of the Groups CGUs, German Roofing and SIG Energy Management see Note 13 for details.
The carrying value of all of the remaining CGUs of the Group were considered supportable.
POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS The Group operates five defined benefit pension schemes.
All post-employment benefits associated with these schemes have been accounted for in accordance with IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits.
As detailed within the Statement of Significant Accounting Polices on page 90, in accordance with IAS 19, all actuarial gains and losses have been recognised immediately through the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
For all defined benefit pension schemes, pension valuations have been performed using specialist advice obtained from independent qualified actuaries.
In performing these valuations, judgments, assumptions and estimates have been made.
These assumptions have been disclosed within Note 30c on pages 119 to 122.
TAXATION Accruals for corporation tax contingencies require the Directors to make judgments and estimates as to the level of corporation tax that will be payable based upon the interpretation of applicable tax legislation on a country-by-country basis and an assessment of the likely outcome of any open tax computations.
All such accruals are included within current liabilities.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Therefore, judgments are required to establish whether deferred tax balances should be recognised, in particular in respect of non-trading losses.
PROVISIONS Using information available at the balance sheet date including third-party advice when available, the Directors make judgments based on experience regarding the level of provision required to satisfy all onerous lease and dilapidation commitments and to account for potentially uncollectible receivables and unsaleable inventory.
REBATES PAYABLE AND RECEIVABLE The Group has a number of customer and supplier rebate agreements, with the amounts payable and receivable often being subject to negotiation after the balance sheet date.
At the balance sheet date, the Directors make judgments on the amount of rebate that will become both payable and due to the Group under these agreements based upon prices, volumes and product mix.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 93
