Directors report | Business review | Group business model and strategy 2 GROUP BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY Associated British Foods is a diversified group of food, ingredients and retail businesses selling into more than 100 countries worldwide and with operations in 47 countries across Europe, southern Africa, the Americas, Asia and Australia.
Our range of activities is broad in product, technology and market scope.
Our portfolio of businesses comprises Business structure sizeable operations that achieve good revenue and profit growth: mature, cash-generative operations: and smaller Our businesses are organised enterprises that afford exciting growth potential.
so that they are close to the In our markets, we aim to achieve strong and sustainable positions through a combination of organic growth, acquisition markets and customers that of complementary new businesses and achievement of high levels of operating efficiency.
We provide high-quality, they serve.
value-for-money food and clothing that are central to peopleslives.
They are managed as five business segments that bring together common industry expertise, operational capability and market intelligence.
Operational decisions are made locally because, in our experience, they are most successful when made by the people who have the best understanding of their markets and who have to implement 10 year adjusted earnings per share growth pence them.
The corporate centre aims to provide a framework 100 in which our business leaders have the freedom and decision-making authority to pursue opportunities with entrepreneurial flair.
The centre is small and uses short 80 lines of communication to ensure prompt, incisive and unambiguous decision-making.
It seeks to ensure that 60 business activities are appropriately monitored andsupported.
9% 40 compound annual growth 20 0 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report | Business review | Group business model and strategy 3 BUSINESS STRATEGIES IN MORE DETAIL The group operates through five strategic business segments: Sugar, Agriculture, Retail, Grocery and Ingredients.
For more strategic content on our five businesses, go to page 6 Strategy Organic growth The corporate centre agrees Organic growth is achieved strategy and budgets with through investment in the businesses and monitors marketing, in the development their performance closely.
of existing and new products and technologies and in The group balance sheet is managed to ensure long-term financial stability, regardless of the state of capital markets, targeted capital expenditure and capital funding is made available to all of our businesses where returns meet or exceed clearly defined criteria.
The to improve efficiency and centre provides selected services where the scale of its expand capacity.
operations enables a more cost-effective or efficient delivery, where expertise that might not be available at a business We are committed to innovation, the continuous pursuit level can be retained by the group, or where the provision of of improvement and the maintenance of our efficient such services would otherwise distract business executives.
Such services include investor relations, pensions, insurance, tax and treasury management, where specialist expertise is We aim to operate in a sustainable, ethical, efficient and safe brought together in one place for the benefit of the group as manner.
We have a strong culture of continuing operational a whole.
The centre also co-ordinates selected value-added improvement and focus on delivering exceptional quality and capabilities to support the businesses in their local markets customer service.
The group takes a long-term approach to such as talent management and development, procurement, investment and is committed to increasing shareholder value and the sharing of best practice in, for example, health and through sound commercial, responsible and sustainable business safety or engineering risk management.
We operate to high decisions that deliver steady growth in earnings and dividends.
ethical standards as an organisation and expect the same of Acquisitions are made to complement existing business our employees.
We encourage an open and honest culture activities and to exploit opportunities in adjacent markets in all our dealings and ensure that our core values are fully orgeographies.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013
