D irectors report | Governance | Other disclosures 76 OTHER DISCLOSURES Business review Research and development The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to set out Innovative use of existing and emerging technologies will inthe Directors report a fair review of the business of the continue to be crucial to the successful development of new Company during the financial year ended 14 September 2013 products and processes for the group.
including an analysis of the position of the business at the end The Company has a major technical centre in the UK at the of the financial year and a description of the principal risks and Allied Technical Centre.
Facilities also exist at ACH Food uncertainties facing the Company the Business review.
The Companies in the US, Weston Technologies and AB Mauri in purpose of the Business review is to enable shareholders to Australia and the Netherlands, and AB Enzymes in Germany.
assess how the directors have performed their duties under These centres support the technical resources of the trading section 172 of the Companies Act 2006, being the duty to divisions in the search for new technology and in monitoring promote the success of the Company.
The information that and maintaining high standards of quality and food safety.
fulfils the requirements of the Business review can be found inthe following sections of this report: Charitable and political donations Contributions to charitable organisations by the group during the Chairmans statement on pages 8 and 9: year totalled 3.1m 2012 3.4m.
No political donations were Our businesses at a glance on pages 4 and 5: made during the year.
Group business model and strategy on pages 2 and 3 and Financial instruments business strategies on pages 6 and 7: Details of the groups use of financial instruments, together with information on our risk objectives and policies and our exposure Operating review on pages 20 to 35, which includes a review to price, credit, liquidity, cash flow and interest rate risks, can be of the external environment, and performance measures: found in note 24 on pages 113 to 123.
Financial review on pages 36 to 39: Payments to suppliers Corporate responsibility on pages 40 to 43: The Company has no material trade creditors but has a group policy on payment of suppliers set out in its business principles Principal risks and uncertainties described on pages 56 to 61: which states that the group settles its bills promptly, being a details of the principal operating subsidiaries set out on page signatory to the Prompt Payment Code.
The suppliers are made 125: and aware of the terms of this policy.
Further information concerning this Prompt Payment Code, and copies of it, can be found at information on essential contracts or arrangements on www.
Employees Principal activities During the year under review, the group employed an average The activities of the group principally concern the processing of 112,652 people worldwide 2012 106,243 of whom 40,071 and manufacture of food worldwide and textile retailing in the 2012 37,536 were employed in the UK.
The group abides by UK and continental Europe.
Comments on the development of the following principles, recognising that people are its most the business during the period under review and on the future importantresource: outlook are contained within the Chairmans statement on pages 8 and 9 and the Operating review on pages 20 to 35. equal opportunities the group is committed to offering equal opportunities in recruitment, training, career The Company is the holding company for the Associated British development and promotion to all people, having regard for Foods plc group the group.
Details of the principal operating their particular aptitudes and abilities.
As a matter of policy, subsidiaries are set out on page 125. full and fair consideration is given to applicants with disabilities The audited financial statements of the group and Company and every effort is made to give employees who become appear on pages 82 to 131. disabled whilst employed by the group an opportunity for retraining and for continuation in employment.
It is group Results and dividends policy that the training, career development and promotion The consolidated income statement is on page 82.
Profit for of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be the same the financial year attributable to equity shareholders amounted as that of other employees: to 591m.
health and safety health and safety are considered as equal The directors recommend a final dividend of 22.65p per in importance to that of any other function of the group and its ordinary share, to be paid, if approved, on 10 January 2014 business objectives.
Our health and safety policy is available which, together with the interim dividend of 9.35p per share on the Companys website at www.
co. uk: paid in July, amounts to 32.0p for the year.
Dividends are detailed on page 98. harassment sexual, mental or physical harassment in the workplace will not be tolerated.
It is expected that incidents of harassment will be reported to the appropriate human resources director: Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Other disclosures 77 human rights managers must take account of the core Power to issue shares International Labour Organization labour conventions and At the last annual general meeting AGM, held on 7 December strive to observe the UN Universal Declaration of Human 2012, authority was given to the directors to allot unissued Rights, by respecting the dignity and human rights of group relevant securities in the Company up to a maximum of an employees and in particular as stated below: amount equivalent to two-thirds of the shares in issue of which one-third must be offered by way of rights issue.
This authority Universal respect for an observance of human rights and expires on the date of this years AGM to be held on 6 December fundamental freedoms for all without discrimination as to 2013.
No such shares have been issued.
The directors propose race, sex, language or religion.
to renew this authority at the 2013 AGM for the following year.
The group remunerates fairly with respect to skills, A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted performance, its peers and local conditions: authority to the directors to allot equity securities in the communication employees and their representatives Company for cash, without regard to the pre-emption provisions are briefed and consulted on all relevant matters on a of the Companies Act 2006.
This authority also expires on the regular basis in order to take their views into account in date of the 2013 AGM and the directors will seek to renew this decision-making and to achieve a common awareness of all authority for the following year.
the financial and economic factors affecting the performance Power to purchase own shares of the group.
Information relevant to the employees will be The Companies Act 2006 empowers the Company to purchase provided systematically to employees: and its own shares subject to the necessary shareholder approval.
security the security of our staff and customers is The Company has no existing authority to purchase its paramount and the group will at all times take the necessary ownshares.
steps to minimise risks to their safety.
Directors The group encourages an open culture in all its dealings The names of the persons who were directors of the Company between employees and people with whom it comes into during the financial year and as at 5 November 2013 appear on contact.
Effective and honest communication is essential if pages 44 and 45.
All the directors are standing for re-election malpractice and wrongdoing are to be dealt with effectively.
at this years AGM in December.
The groups whistleblowing procedure sets out guidelines Appointment of directors for individuals who feel they need to raise certain issues in The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give confidence with the Company or their own business.
Every the directors power to appoint and replace directors.
Under effort is made to protect the confidentiality of those who raise the terms of reference of the Nomination committee, any concerns, and employees may come forward without fear for appointment must be recommended by the Nomination their position.
committee for approval by the board of directors.
A person who Property, plant and equipment is not recommended by the directors may only be appointed as The groups property, plant and equipment are included in the a director where details of that director have been provided at financial statements at depreciated historic cost.
The properties least seven and not more than 35 days prior to the relevant are employed in the business and many of them were acquired meeting by at least two members of the Company.
when market values were substantially lower than at present.
The Articles require directors to retire and submit themselves The directors consider that a surplus over book value exists, for election at the first AGM following appointment and all but have not quantified the excess.
directors who held office at the time of the two preceding Substantial shareholding and controlling interest AGMs and, in any event, not less than one-third of the relevant Details of a controlling interest in the shares of the Company directors excluding those directors who retire other than by by Wittington Investments Limited are given in note 28 on rotation, to submit themselves for re-election.
notwithstanding, all directors will stand for re-election at the AGM this year in compliance with the UK Corporate As at 31 October 2013, the Company had received formal Governance Code.
notification, under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following material interest in its shares: Number Date of of ordinary % of issued notification Shareholder shares share capital of interest The Capital Group 30 September Companies, Inc. 31,794,121 4.016 2013 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Other disclosures 78 OTHER DISCLOSURES CONTINUED Power of the directors Essential contracts or arrangements The directors are responsible for managing the business of Individual companies in the group have contractual and other the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company arrangements with many third parties in support of the groups subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, to any directions business activities.
Such contracts and arrangements may given by special resolution and to the Companys Articles.
The be deemed essential to one or more operating companies Articles, for example, contain specific provisions and restrictions but there are no contracts or arrangements considered to be concerning the Companys power to borrow money.
As indicated essential to the group as a whole, save that British Sugar has above, powers relating to the issuing of shares are also included collective bargaining agreements with UNITE and GMB unions in the Articles and such authorities are renewed by shareholders and a contract with the National Farmers Union, the Inter at the AGM each year.
The IPA consists of approximately 3,600 identical but individual contracts with sugar beet growers.
Articles of Association Similarly, AB Azucarera Iberia in Spain has some 4,700 individual The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution contracts with sugar beet growers which are negotiated and of the shareholders.
signed with the four professional agricultural organisations Directors indemnities farmers unions in that country.
Three directors of operating subsidiaries benefited from Further information qualifying third-party indemnity provisions provided by the Further information that fulfils the requirements of Part 6 of Companys wholly owned subsidiary, ABF Investments plc, the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts during the financial year and at the date of this report.
and Reports Regulations 2008 and which should be treated Significant agreements as forming part of this report by reference are included in the The group has contractual arrangements with many parties following sections of the annual report: including directors, employees, customers, suppliers and banking details of the structure of the Companys share capital groups.
The following arrangements are considered to be and the rights attached to the Companys shares set out significant in terms of their potential impact on the business on page 111: and of the group as a whole: details of share schemes set out on page 112, including the the group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by voting policy of the trustee of a trust holding ordinary shares various banking groups.
These facility agreements generally of the Company.
include change of control provisions which, in the event of a change in ownership of the Company, could result in their Disclosure of information to auditors renegotiation or withdrawal.
The most significant agreements The directors who held office at the date of approval of this are the 1.15bn syndicated loan facility which was signed Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, on 13 July 2010 and under which there were no drawdowns there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys at the year end and the 120m loan from the European auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps Investment Bank which was signed on 5 December 2007 that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware and under which 120m was drawn down at the year end: of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
For these in addition to these bank facilities, in March 2009 the purposes, relevant audit information means information needed Company issued US$610m of private placement notes to by the Companys auditors in connection with the preparation institutional investors and, in December 2011 and March of their report on page 81.
2012, the Company issued a further US$626m of private placement notes.
In accordance with the scheduled Auditors maturities, US$120m of these notes were repaid in March In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, 2013.
In the event of a change in ownership of the Company, KPMG LLP is proposed as statutory auditor of the Company the Company is obliged to make an offer of immediate and a resolution for its appointment is to be proposed at the repayment to the remaining note holders: and forthcoming AGM.
in October 2013, the group entered into a three-year contract for the supply of electricity to the UK business.
These agreements include provisions which, in the event of a change of control of the Company, could result in the agreement being altered or terminated.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Other disclosures 79 Directors responsibility statement The financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole.
Pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Chapter 4, the following sections of the Companys annual report contain a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: 1.
The Chairmans statement on pages 8 and 9: 2.
Operating review on pages 20 to 35, which includes a review of the external environment, future development and performance measures: 3.
Financial review on pages 36 to 39: 4.
Other disclosures: Research and development: 5.
Other disclosures: Property, plant and equipment: 7.
Other disclosures: Power of the directors: and 8.
Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 56 to 61.
On behalf of the board Charles Sinclair Chairman George Weston Chief Executive John Bason Finance Director 5 November 2013 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements 80 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The directors are responsible for preparing The directors are responsible for keeping the annual report and the group and adequate accounting records that are parent company financial statements sufficient to show and explain the parent in accordance with applicable law companys transactions and disclose with andregulations.
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company Company law requires the directors and enable them to ensure that its to prepare group and parent company financial statements comply with the financial statements for each financial Companies Act 2006.
Under that law they are required responsibility for taking such steps as are to prepare the group financial statements reasonably open to them to safeguard in accordance with IFRSs as adopted the assets of the group and to prevent by the EU and applicable law and have and detect fraud and other irregularities.
elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance Under applicable law and regulations, with UK Accounting Standards and the directors are also responsible for applicable law UK Generally Accepted preparing a Directors Report, Directors AccountingPractice.
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies Under company law the directors must with that law and those regulations.
not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give The directors are responsible for a true and fair view of the state of affairs the maintenance and integrity of the of the group and parent company and corporate and financial information of their profit or loss for that period.
In included on the companys website.
preparing each of the group and parent Legislation in the UK governing the company financial statements, the preparation and dissemination of directors are required to: financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013
