Directors report | Business review | Business strategies 6 BUSINESS STRATEGIES Providing our business leaders with the freedom and decision-making authority to pursue opportunities with entrepreneurial flair.
Sugar: Agriculture: A world-leading Driving value sugar business for businesses focused on along the food excellence supply chain AB Sugar is an advanced As a unique community of leading manufacturer and has a simple agricultural businesses, AB Agri vision to be a world-leading sugar consistently strives to improve the business.
We must remain cost sustainability of food production.
We competitive whilst exceeding the work in partnership with customers demanding and diverse needs of to deliver precision food production our customers, and we must by optimising resources, thereby grow sustainably.
enabling the production of more food with a lower environmental AB Sugar aims to achieve growth impact.
AB Agri operates through through excellence in agriculture individual, entrepreneurial and operations including the application businesses empowered to grow their of new technologies and the further interests independently, and through expansion of co-product opportunities.
a strong network of contacts across We seek to ensure cost leadership in the entire food supply chain.
our various regional supply chains through: engagement with growers to Organic growth is achieved through ensure optimum beet cane growing innovative product development and whilst providing fair returns to growers: through extending the businesss already continual improvement in operating broad geographic reach into new performance by maintaining a well-invested territories.
Using the diverse breadth asset base: and by seeking out best of products, services and people within practice to optimise product quality and the AB Agri community, the business the efficiency of the conversion process.
develops bespoke solutions specifically tailored to its customers needs.
Extending this into new geographies and into new areas that are adjacent to its core capabilities affords further growth opportunities.
AB Agri will continue its successful strategy of seeking to make complementary acquisitions to strengthen its portfolio of businesses and its technical capability.
It will also continue to collaborate with other businesses in the ABF group to harness new contacts and technologies.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report | Business review | Business strategies 7 Retail: Grocery: Ingredients: Up-to-the-minute An enviable Technology and fashion at amazing portfolio of leading innovation to meet prices food brands customer needs Primark offers great value for money Each of our Grocery businesses Our Ingredients businesses are which it achieves by: incurring no pursues an independent strategy, dedicated to understanding the advertising costs, instead relying appropriate to its particular market key requirements of their customers on its customers doing the talking position and stage of development.
and their end-use markets in order about its products: buying in vast As examples, Jordans Ryvita is to ensure a relevant supply of quantities and passing on the cost focused on developing its brands ingredients, systems, products savings to customers: keeping in its core markets, whilst AB World and technology that create value.
overheads to a minimum but Foods has had considerable success They develop partnership investing in state-of-the-art logistics extending its reach into new and relationships with customers to to enable its stores to replenish emerging markets.
achieve a genuine understanding stocks quickly: and by not of their products, formulations, All of these businesses are committed compromising its high quality equipment and processes and the to the consistent development of their standards, rigorously testing market environment in which the brands, and consumer research is products at the various stages products are sold.
They aim to grow conducted locally and internationally ofproduction.
by providing outstanding customer to establish consumer needs and ensure service backed by a high level of In the world of fashion it is critical that appropriately targeted investment.
Our investment in technology, innovation, once a style is seen on the fashion show production facilities are well maintained research and development.
catwalk it reaches the stores as quickly and we take a long-term approach to as possible.
It can take as little as six capital investment, recognising the merits Each business has its own business weeks from initial design concept to of building for the future.
Acquisitions model that determines an appropriate being available on shelf, and merchandise are undertaken when opportunities balance of emphasis across the full is sourced from all corners of the globe.
are presented to either strengthen range of potential sources of competitive Although Primark does not own the or complement existingbusinesses.
advantage: innovative and distinctive companies or factories that produce products: an efficient and proprietary set its merchandise, it recognises its of production processes: and compelling responsibility to the workers in those customer propositions comprising a factories, and to its customers, to ensure blend of product performance and that its products are made in good customer-specific services.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013
