D irectors report | Governance | Board of directors 44 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Charles Sinclair George G Weston Chairman age 65 Chief Executive age 49 Charles was appointed a non-executive director in October 2008 and George was appointed to the board in 1999 and took up his current as Chairman in April 2009.
With wide business experience of both the appointment as Chief Executive in April 2005.
In his former roles at UK and overseas, his executive career was latterly with Daily Mail and Associated British Foods, he was Managing Director of Westmill General Trust plc, where he was chief executive from 1989 until he Foods, Allied Bakeries and George Weston Foods Limited Australia.
retired from that role and the board in September 2008.
Other appointments: He is a non-executive director of Wittington Other appointments: He is a non-executive director of SVG Capitalplc.
Investments Limited and a trustee of the Garfield Weston Foundation.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Nomination and .
John Bason Peter Smith Finance Director age 56 Independent non-executive director age 67 John was appointed as Finance Director in May 1999.
He was Peter was appointed a director in February 2007 and brings extensive previously the finance director of Bunzl plc and is a member of experience of international financial matters.
Formerly, he was senior the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
partner at  PwC in the UK.
He served for two years as chairman of Coopers & Lybrand International and as a member Other appointments: He is a non-executive director of Compass of the global leadership team of PwC.
He was also chairman of RAC plc Group PLC, a trustee of Voluntary Service Overseas and deputy and a non-executive director of Safeway plc.
chairman of the charity FareShare.
Other appointments: He is chairman of Savills plc and Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc, and a member of the supervisory board of Paris Orlans SCA.
He is also chairman of the Land Restoration Trust.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Audit committee and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration committees.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Board of directors 45 Lord Jay of Ewelme GCMG Timothy Clarke Independent non-executive director age 67 Independent non-executive director age 56 Lord Jay was appointed a director in November 2006 and has broad Tim was appointed a director in November 2004 and has been experience of government and international business.
During his Senior Independent Director since December 2007.
Tim has extensive career in public service he was British Ambassador to France from experience of retailing.
Until 2009, he was chief executive of Mitchells 1996 to 2001 and Permanent Under Secretary at the Foreign & & Butlers plc, following its demerger from Six Continents PLC where Commonwealth Office from 2002 to 2006. he also held the position of chief executive.
Previously he had been a partner of Panmure Gordon & Co before joining Bass PLC in 1990.
Other appointments: He is a non-executive director of Candover Investments plc, Valeo the French-based automobile parts company Other appointments: He is a non-executive director of two pub and and of Electricit fide France.
He has been an independent member of brewing companies, Hall & Woodhouse Limited, and Timothy Taylor & the House of Lords since 2006.
He is also a member of the British Company Limited, and also Triple Point VCT 2011 PLC.
Committee membership: Member of the Nomination and .
Committee membership: Member of the Audit, Nomination and .
Javier Ferrn Emma Adamo Independent non-executive director age 57 Non-executive director age 50 Javier was appointed a director in November 2006.
He spent the earlier Emma was appointed a director in December 2011.
She part of his career with Bacardi Group, where latterly he served as was educated at Stanford University and INSEAD in France.
president and chief executive officer.
He has extensive experience of Other appointments: She is a director of Wittington Investments consumer brands on an international basis and in international financing.
Limited, and of the W Garfield Weston Foundation inCanada.
Other appointments: He is currently a partner at Lion Capital LLP, a London-based private equity firm.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013
