SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 14 GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Financial Of cers overview We have delivered good revenue and earnings growth Dear Shareholder, Capital Allocation Framework When I joined Smith & Nephew in February 2013 I found a We consider that the ef cient use of capital on behalf of business witha uni ed sense of purpose helping customers Shareholders isan important objective.
We have delivered to improve thequality of life of patients and a clear strategy good revenue and earnings growth and strong cash to deliver this in a sustainable manner across our Established generation in the challenging markets ofthe last few years.
The management team During 2011, we announced our Strategic Priorities, focusing were making choices about where to invest to maximise our our business on liberating resources to invest in driving impact today and to ensure Smith & Nephew has the greater growth.
In order to support this strategy, the Board products and platform for the future.
believes in maintaining an ef cient, but prudent, For me, the role of Finance is as a strategic partner, enabling capitalstructure, whileretaining the exibility to make value and supporting the business as it makes investments and enhancing acquisitions.
This approach was set out in the new drives ef ciencies, and ensuring we can maintain our financial Capital Allocation Framework announced inMay 2013. strength and discipline.
I believe Smith & Nephew has made The Capital Allocation Framework will be used to prioritise signi cant progress in 2013 and that judicious financial theuse of cash and ensure an appropriate capital structure.
management has been and remains central to our success.
Our commitment, in order of priority, is to: 1. continue to invest in the business to drive organic growth: Strong revenue and earnings 2. maintain our progressive dividend policy: For the full year 2013, we generated good underlying revenue 3. realise acquisitions in-line with strategy: and and trading pro t growth and met our margin expectations.
4. return any excess capital to Shareholders.
Revenue was $4,351 million, an underlying 4% increase.
Trading pro t was $987 million, up 5% underlying.
The trading This is underpinned by maintaining leverage ratios pro t margin was 22.7% a reduction of 60bps.
Our adjusted commensurate with solid investment grade credit metrics.
earnings per share were 76.9, up 3%.
The trading cash ow was $877 million, re ecting a trading pro t to cash conversion ratio of 89%.
OUR CAPITAL ALLOCATION FRAMEWORK Reinvest for Progressive Acquisitions in-line Return excess organic growth dividendpolicy with strategy toShareholders 1 2 3 4 Maintain a strong balance sheet to ensure solidinvestment grade credit metrics GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT 15 and strong cashgeneration In-line with the above framework, and re ecting our Outlook con dence in the successful execution of our Strategic We anticipate the market conditions seen in the second half of Priorities, we commenced a $300 million share buy-back 2013 to continue in 2014.
We expect the US to be stable with programme in May 2013.
As of 31 December 2013 we had some signs of improvement, Europe to remain challenging spent $226 million.
This programme was suspended and the emerging markets to continue to offer opportunities followingour agreement to acquire ArthroCare, announced for higher growth.
In terms of revenue growth by franchise, we expect: Orthopaedic Reconstruction, continuing its recent improved Liberating resources performance, to grow at approaching the market rate: In August 2011, Smith & Nephew announced a programme to Trauma & Extremities, building upon our recent drive structural ef ciencies in order to liberate the resources investments, to grow overall at the market rate, but with a needed to fund investment in the emerging markets and R&D, stronger second half to the year: targeting savings of at least $150 million per annum.
The cost of the currently identi ed programmes is expected to be Sports Medicine, with its strong product pipeline, to deliver $160 million in cash and $40 million in non-cash costs.
growth above the market rate: and Advanced Wound Management, with its unique mix of To date the Group has realised annualised bene ts of leading products, to deliver another year of growth above $131 million and we expect to complete the programme in the market.
Within this, we expect Advanced Wound early 2015 and realise slightly more than the anticipated Bioactives to grow at a rate in the mid-teens.
As a result of this programme and other actions, a culture of continuously looking to be more In terms of trading pro t margin, we expect to exceed our ef cient is being embedded across the Group.
I am con dent that our continuing focus on ef ciency, coupled Acquisitions with further investments to drive growth and the disciplined During the year the Group has completed acquisitions of use of our strong cash ow will generate greater value for manufacturing and distribution businesses in Turkey, Brazil our Shareholders.
The aggregate cost was $126 million.
Through these acquisitions, weare implementing a number of our Strategic Yours sincerely, Priorities: to build leadership positions in the Emerging & International Markets: to supplement our organic growth through acquisitions: and to bring forward mid-tier portfolios to these countries.
Julie Brown Chief Financial Of cer
