SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 68 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Notes to Future policy table ExecutiveDirectors Performance measures Performance Share Programme Changes to remuneration policy The performance measures which apply to the Performance Share The remuneration policy described in the future policy table Executive Programme awards made in 2014 relate to cumulative free cash ow, Directors is the same remuneration policy in respect of Executive revenue in Emerging & International Markets and Total Shareholder Directors that has been in force since the beginning of 2012.
We have chosen three measures which are relevant for the anticipated that this policy will apply at least until the Annual General long-term success of the Company.
The only change made has been to introduce a third performance measure to our Performance Share Programme.
The free cash ow measure is important for us in a period of growth, when we need to generate cash to fund both organic and inorganic investment.
Performance measures Annual Incentive Plan Revenue in Emerging & International Markets is important for us when we The performance measures which apply to the Annual Incentive Plan for are seeking to generate pro table revenue in new markets and from new Executive Directors comprise 70% financial measures and 30% business products.
goals linked to the Companys strategy, which could include financial and nonfinancial measures.
The Total Shareholder Return measure, which compares our long-term performance against that of our peers, seeks to align the payout of the The financial measures may differ from year to year to provide continued Performance Share Programme with the experience of our Shareholders.
alignment with the Company strategy.
Measures to be used in 2014 are This helps Executive Directors relate to the Shareholder experience and detailed in the Implementation Report.
Each year the measures are ensure that vesting is aligned to the out-performance of our sector.
chosen in order to relate to our Strategic Priorities and in turn to our key performance indicators, which are set out on pages 12 and 13.
The The Remuneration Committee will keep these performance measures performance targets are set by taking into account the strategy ofthe under review and retains the discretion to alter the measures or their Company and are designed to be realistic yet stretching.
respective weightings to ensure continuing alignment to the corporate strategy.
The business measures will differ from year to year as the evolving corporate strategy means that we will wish to set Executive Directors different business objectives in order to meet the current corporate Malus and clawback needs.
The business objectives are personal to each Executive Director, The Remuneration Committee may determine that an unvested and are tailored to re ect their role and responsibilities during the year.
awardorpart of an award may not vest regardless of whether or not the These are set at the start of the year and re ect the most important areas performance conditions have been met or may determine that any cash of strategic focus for the Company.
The Remuneration Committee sets bonus, vested shares, or their equivalent value in cash be returned to the annual measurement criteria performance targets that are appropriate Company in the event that any of the following matters is discovered: to motivate and measure an Executive Directors performance in any one year.
The factors taken into consideration include the three-year strategic A material misstatement of the Companys financial results: or plan, prior years delivered performance and budgeted performance.
In A material error in determining the extent to which any performance the past, measures have included R&D investment, succession planning, condition has been satis ed: or employee engagement, compliance, development of product portfolio, A signi cant adverse change in the financial performance of the M&A activity and shared services implementation.
Company, or a signi cant loss at a general level or at the division orfunction in which a participant worked: or Inappropriate conduct for example reputational issues, capability orperformanceby a participant, or within a team business area or pro t centre.
These provisions apply to share awards under the Global Share Plan 2010 and cash amounts under the Annual Cash Incentive Plan.
