GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION MINIMUM TARGET MAXIMUM MINIMUM TARGET MAXIMUM SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 69 Illustrations of the application of the remuneration policy Policy on recruitment arrangements The following charts show the potential split between the different Our policy on the recruitment of Executive Directors is to pay a fair elements of the Executive Directors remuneration under three different remuneration package for the role being undertaken and the experience performance scenarios: of the Executive Director appointed.
In terms of base salary, we will seek to pay a salary comparable, in the opinion of the Committee, to that which would be paid for an equivalent position elsewhere.
The Remuneration Chief Executive Of cer Committee will determine a base salary in line with the policy and having regard to the parameters set out on pages 64 and 65.
Incoming Executive Directors will be entitled to pension, bene t and incentive arrangements 1,526,022 which are the same as provided to existing Executive Directors.
On that basis, awards would not exceed 405% of base salary.
We recognise that in the event that we require a new Executive Director 4,249,888 torelocate to take up a position with the Company, we will also pay relocation and related costs as described in the Future policy table on pages 64 and 65, which is in line with the relocation arrangements we operate across the Group.
6,028,739 We also recognise that in many cases, an external appointee may forfeit sizeable cash bonuses and share awards if they choose to leave their former employer and join us.
The Remuneration Committee therefore Chief Financial Of cer believes that we need the ability to compensate new hires for incentive awards they give up on joining us.
The Committee will use its discretion in setting any such compensation, which will be decided on a case-by-case 682,600 basis.
We will only provide compensation which is no more bene cial than that given up by the new appointee and we will seek evidence from the previous employer to con rm the full details of bonus or share awards being forfeited.
As far as possible, we will seek to replicate forfeited share 1,941,900 awards using Smith & Nephew incentive plans or through reliance on 9.4.
2 in the Listing Rules, whilst at the same time aiming for simplicity.
If we appoint an existing employee as an Executive Director of the 2,764,300 Company, pre-exisiting obligations with respect to remuneration, such aspension, bene ts and legacy share awards, will be honoured.
Should these differ materially from current arrangements, these will be disclosed Q Base salary Q Payment in lieu of pension Q Bene ts Q Annual Incentive Cash in the next Implementation Report.
Q Annual Incentive Equity Q Performance Share Programme We will supply details via an announcement to the London Stock Exchange of an incoming Executive Directors remuneration TOTAL REMUNERATION BY PERFORMANCE SCENARIO arrangements at the time of their appointment.
FOR 2014 FINANCIAL YEAR Chief Executive Of cer Chief Financial Of cer Service contracts 1,526,022 4,249,888 6,028,739 682,600 1,941,900 2,764,300 We employ Executive Directors on rolling service contracts with notice periods of up to 12 months from the Company and six months from the Executive Director.
On termination of the contract, we may require the Executive Director not to work their notice period and pay them an amount equivalent to the base salary and payment in lieu of pension and bene ts they would have received if they had been required to work their notice period.
Under the terms of the Executive Directors service contract, Executive Directors are restricted for a period of 12 months after leaving the employment of the Company from working for a competitor, soliciting orders from customers and offering employment to employees of MINIMUM TARGET MAXIMUM MINIMUM TARGET MAXIMUM Smith&Nephew.
The Company retains the right to waive these provisions in certain circumstances.
In the event that these provisions Q Fixed pay Q Annual Incentive Cash Q Annual Incentive Equity Q Long-term Incentives arewaived and the former Executive Director commences employment earlier than at the end of the notice period, no further payments shall be Data for the Chief Executive Of cer assumes an exchange rate of 1 0.8494. made in respect of the portion of notice period not worked.
Directors service contracts are available for inspection at the Companys registered of ce: 15 Adam Street, London WC2N 6LA.
