SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 16 GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT Our marketplace We operate in dynamic markets Market trends More active lifestyles Demand for healthcare continues to increase worldwide Demand for healthcare is also increasing because people in uenced by the following trends: now expect to maintain active lifestyles longer into retirement and to return to activity sooner after treatment.
This has resulted in a desire for less invasive surgery and quicker Increased longevity and average age recovery times.
Patients also desire products with a better As a result of improvements in healthcare and living replication of natural movement and an ability to cope with conditions, life expectancy across the world has increased more rigorous activity over a longer period.
inmodern times and this increase is expected to continue.
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Obesity and associated chronic diseases Development OECD calculates the average life expectancy Obesity is an increasing global problem which causes more atbirth in 2010 as 79.7, a signi cant rise from the 70.3 wear on the joints of the human body and increases demand calculated in 1970. for orthopaedic reconstruction.
As a consequence of longer life expectancy and the falling Across the OECD countries, an average of 18% of the birth rates in many developed countries, there is an expanding population is obese: this has increased from 13% in 2000. gap between the demand for healthcare and the ability of governments to supply healthcare.
Demand for healthcare Obesity also increases the risk of diabetes which can lead willincrease because of the ageing world population but at toother medical conditions and complications.
In 2012, the thesame time the changing balance of age in the population International Diabetes Federation estimated that 8.3% of the means that, relatively speaking, there is potentially an worlds population 371 million people suffer from diabetes accompanying decrease in funds available for healthcare and this is projected to rise to 9.9% 552 million people raised through taxation of the working population.
There is a proven link between diabetes and a higher risk OECD COUNTRIES POPULATION ofsurgical site infections which increases the risk of surgical million procedures on diabetic patients.
This risk can be minimised with the use of specialist wound care products designed to The number of people aged lower the risk of infection.
20-64 perperson aged 65 It is estimated that up to 10% of people with diabetes also Ratio Ratio Ratio suffer from diabetic foot ulcers.
These ulcers are prone to infection, causing an increased risk of amputation, increased 7:1 5:1 2:1 morbidity and are a signi cant burden on the health system.
731 687 Increased af uence in emerging markets The emerging markets are becoming more af uent andtherefore more able to afford medical treatments.
385 However, the cost of many medical devices restricts access 351 bythewider population.
150 Patient awareness 53 In certain countries, patients are becoming increasingly aware, from the internet and direct-to-customer advertising, 20-64 65 20-64 65 20-64 65 ofthe various healthcare options and treatments available.
1950 2000 2050 This has led to some increased patient in uence over the Source: OECD Social Indicators Society at product purchasing decisions of medical service providers.
a Glance 2011 GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT 17 Regulatory standards and compliance OBESITY AND ASSOCIATED CHRONIC DISEASES in the healthcare industry The international medical device industry is highly regulated.
Regulatory requirements are important in determining whether substances and materials can be developed into marketable products and the amount of time and expense that should be allotted to such development.
National regulatory authorities administer and enforce a complex series of laws and regulations that govern the design, development, approval, manufacture, labelling, marketing and sale of healthcare products.
They also review data supporting the safety and ef cacy of such products.
Of particular importance is the requirement in many countries that products be authorised or registered prior to manufacture, marketing orsale and that such authorisation or registration be subsequently maintained.
The major regulatory agencies forSmith & Nephews products include the Food and Drug Prevalence % Administration FDA in the US, the Medicines and Healthcare 10.0 10.0-19.9 20.0-29.9 30.0 N A No data products Regulatory Agency in the UK, the Ministry of Health, Source: WHO Global Comparable Estimates, 2008 Labour and Welfare in Japan and the China Food and Drug Administration.
In general, the trend in many countries in which we do Global economic crisis business is towards higher expectations and increased The supply of healthcare in many of our markets is funded by enforcement activity by governmental authorities.
The global economic crisis in recent years has We are committed to doing business with integrity placed increased pressure on governments around the world andwelcome the trend to higher standards in the healthcare to reduce or constrain healthcare expenditure.
We and other companies in the industry have been subject to investigations and other enforcement activity that In summary have incurred and may continue to incur signi cant expense.
See Legal proceedings on page 130.
The increased demand for healthcare products and the limitation of available resources is widening the funding gap.
Providing technologies that deliver value by improving clinical outcomes while reducing the consumption of overall healthcare resources is vital for the success and sustainability of medical device businesses.
RESPONDING TO THE MARKET Smith & Nephew is committed to developing VISIONAIRE, our patient matched instrumentation, uses the patients MRI and X-rays to design cutting products that respond to thedemand and blocks speci c to each patient.
This may reduce supply pressures facedbythehealthcare surgery time by eliminating several sizing and industry.
Some examples are set out below.
alignment steps and improves precision in tting theimplant.
Our VERILAST Technology has been laboratory tested todemonstrate wear performance suf cient We are developing products targeting the middle for 30years of use enabling a total replacement economic tier of the emerging markets to capitalise optionforyounger, more active patients.
This will enable doctors andnurses to deliver quality products to new patient PICO is our single use NPWT product which brings communities around the world.
the wound healing bene ts of NPWT to a wider audience due to its discrete size and portability.
Research is also proving the bene ts of NPWT products to reduce recovery times after major surgery, suchas caesarean sections.
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 18 GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT Our marketplace continued Dependence on government Competitors Competition exists among healthcare providers to gain andotherfunding patients on the basis of quality, service and price.
Providers In most markets throughout the world, expenditure on are under pressure to reduce the total cost of healthcare medicaldevices is ultimately controlled to a large extent by delivery.
In order to achieve this there has been some governments.
Funds may be made available or withdrawn consolidation in our customer base, as well as amongst our from healthcare budgets as a result of government policy.
competitors, and these trends are expected to continue in the Weare therefore largely dependent on future governments long term.
We compete against both local and multinational providing increased funds commensurate with the increased corporations, including some with greater financial, marketing demand arising from demographic trends.
Pricing of our products is largely governed in most developed Our competitors include Arthrex, Biomet, DePuy Synthes, markets by governmental reimbursement authorities.
Stryker and Zimmer in our Advanced Surgical Devices division Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative and Coloplast, Convatec, Kinetic Concepts and Molnlycke in bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare our Advanced Wound Management division.
costs, including price regulation, excise taxes and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where we operate.
This control may be exercised by determining prices for an individual Customers product or for an entire procedure.
We are exposed to In certain parts of the world, including the UK, much of changes in reimbursement policy, tax policy and pricing which Continental Europe, Canada and Japan, the healthcare may have an adverse impact on revenue and operating pro t. providers are largely government organisations funded by Inparticular, from 2013 changes to the healthcare legislation taxrevenues.
In the US, our major customers are public and inthe US have imposed signi cant taxes on medical device private hospitals, which receive revenue from private health manufacturers.
There may be an increased risk of adverse insurance and government reimbursement programmes.
changes to government funding policies arising from the Medicare is the major source of reimbursement in the US, deterioration in macro-economic conditions in some of forknee and hip reconstruction procedures and for wound our markets.
MARKET SEGMENT AND LEADERSHIP Data: 2013 estimates generated by Smith & Hip & Knee Implants Sports Medicine Nephewbased upon public sources and internal analysis.
BIOMET OTHER OTHER Representing access, resection and 12% 13% 15% repair products.
ARTHREX STRYKER 28% 10% DEPUY SYNTHES $14.0bn $4.3bn 20% ZIMMER 23% 3% 6% ARTHROCARE 5% SMITH & NEPHEW 20% BIOMET SMITH & NEPHEW 4% 11% DEPUY MITEK LINVATEC STRYKER 15% 5% 19% Trauma & Extremities Advanced Wound Management BIOMET COLOPLAST OTHER CONVATEC 6% 4% 9% 8% ZIMMER 6% KINETIC OTHER CONCEPTS 37% 19% $7.0bn $4.9bn STRYKER 22% 4% 7% DEPUY SYNTHES 47% MOLNLYCKE 12% SMITH & NEPHEW SMITH & NEPHEW 10% 20%
