SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 70 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Policy on payment for loss of of ce Policy on shareholding requirements Our policy regarding termination payments to departing Executive The Remuneration Committee believes that one of the best ways our Directors is to limit severance payments to pre-established contractual Executive Directors can have a greater alignment with Shareholders arrangements.
In the event that the employment of an Executive Director isforthem to hold a signi cant number of shares in the Company.
is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in ExecutiveDirectors are therefore expected to build up a holding of accordance with the terms of the service contract between the Company Smith & Nephew shares worth two-times their base salary.
In order to and the Executive Director, as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
reinforce this expectation, we require them to retain 50% of all shares vesting under theCompany share plans after tax until this holding has Under normal circumstances excluding termination for gross been met recognising that differing international tax regimes affect misconduct all leavers are entitled to receive termination payments in lieu thepace at which an Executive Director may ful l the shareholding of notice equal to base salary, payment in lieu of pension, and bene ts.
When calculating whether or not this requirement has been some circumstances additional bene ts may become payable to cover met, we willinclude ordinary shares or ADRs held by the Executive reimbursement of untaken holiday leave, repatriation and outplacement Director andtheirimmediate family and the intrinsic value of any vested fees, legal and financial advice.
In addition, we may also in exceptional circumstances exercise our discretion to pay the Executive Director a proportion of the annual cash Statement of consideration of employment incentive they would have received had they been required to work their notice period.
Any entitlement or discretionary payment may be reduced conditionselsewhere in the Company and in line with the Executive Directors duty to mitigate losses, subject to differencesto the Executive Director Policy applying our non-compete clause.
All employees across the Group including the Executive Directors are We will supply details via an announcement to the London Stock incentivised in a similar manner.
Although the salary levels and maximum Exchange of a departing Executive Directors termination arrangements opportunities under bonus and share plans differ, generally speaking the atthe time of departure.
same targets and performance conditions relating to the Companys In the case of a change of control which results in the termination of strategy apply throughout the organisation.
anExecutive Director or a material alteration to their responsibilities or Executive Director base salaries will generally increase at a rate in line duties, within 12 months of the event, the Executive Director would be with the average salary increases awarded across the Company.
Given entitled to receive 12 months base salary plus payment in lieu of pension the diverse geographic markets within which the Company operates, the and bene ts.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee has discretion Committee will generally be informed by the average salary increase in topay an Executive Director in these circumstances an annual cash both the market local to the Executive and theUK, recognising the incentive.
For Directors appointed prior to 1 November 2012, an automatic Companys place of listing, and will also consider market data periodically.
annual cash incentive is payable at target.
A range of different pension arrangements operate across the Group In the event that an Executive Director leaves for reasons of ill-health, depending on location and or length of service.
Executive Directors and death, redundancy or retirement in agreement with the Company, then Executive Of cers either participate in the legacy pension arrangements the vesting of any outstanding annual cash incentive and equity incentive relevant to their local market or receive a cash payment of 30% of salary awards will generally depend on the Remuneration Committees inlieu of a pension.
Senior Executives who do not participate in a local assessment of performance to date.
Performance share awards will be Company pension plan receive a cash payment of 20% of salary in lieu pro-rated for the time worked during the relevant performance period, ofpension.
Differing amounts apply for lower levels within the Company.
and will remain subject to performance over the full performance period.
The Company has established a bene ts framework under which the For all other leavers, the annual cash incentive will generally be forfeited nature of bene ts varies by geography.
Executive Directors participate and outstanding equity incentive awards and performance share awards inbene t arrangements similar to those applied for employees within will lapse.
One-off awards granted on appointment will normally lapse on leaving All employees are set objectives at the beginning of each year, which link except in cases of death, retirement, redundancy, or ill-health.
The through to the objectives set for the Executive Directors.
Annual cash Remuneration Committee has discretion to permit such awards to vest incentives payable to employees across the Company depend on the inother circumstances and will be subject to satisfactorily meeting satisfactory completion of these objectives as well as performance performance conditions if applicable.
against relevant Group and divisional financial targets relating to revenue, The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to alter these provisions trading pro t and trading cash, similar to the financial targets set for the on a case-by-case basis following a review of circumstances and to Executive Directors.
ensure fairness for both Shareholders and Executive Directors.
Executive Of cers and Senior Executives currently 72 participate in We will supply details via an announcement to the London Stock theannual Equity Incentive Programme and the Performance Share Exchange of an out-going Executive Directors remuneration Programme.
The maximum amounts payable are lower, but the arrangements around the time of leaving.
performance conditions are the same as those that apply to the Executive Directors.
No speci c consultation with employees has been undertaken relating toDirector remuneration.
However, regular employee surveys are conducted across the Group, which cover a wide range of issues relating to local employment conditions and an understanding of Group-wide strategic matters.
Currently over 4,500 employees in 32 countries participate in one or more of our global share plans.
