GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 71 Future policy table Chairman and Non-executive Directors The following table and accompanying notes explain the different elements of remuneration we pay to our Chairman and Non-executive Directors.
Noelement of their remuneration is subject to performance.
Allpayments made to the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration Committee, whilst payments made to the Non-executive Directors are determined by the Directors who are not themselves Non-executive Directors, currently theChairman, the Chief Executive Of cer and the Chief Financial Of cer.
How the component supports the shortand long-term strategy of the Company How the component operates Maximum levels of payment Annual fees Basic annual fee To attract and retain Directors by setting fees at Fees will be reviewed periodically.
Infuture, any Annual fees are currently as follows: rates comparable to what would be paid in an increase will be paid inshares until 25% of the 63,000 in cash plus 3,150 in shares: or equivalent position elsewhere.
total fee ispaid in shares.
A proportion of the fees are paid in shares in Fees are set in line with market practice for fees thethird quarter of each year in order to align paid by similarly sized UK listed companies.
Chairman fee: Non-executive Directors fees with the interest Annual fees are set and paid inUKsterling 400,000 plus 20,000 in shares of Shareholders.
orUSdollars dependingon the location of toApril 2014. the Non-executive Director.
If appropriate, fees 300,000 plus 100,000 in shares may be set and paid in alternative currencies.
Whilst it is not expected to increase the fees paidto the Non-executive Directors and the Chairman by more than theincreases paid toemployees generally, in exceptional circumstances, higher fees might become payable.
The total maximum aggregate fees payable to the Non-executive Directors will not exceed 1.5mas set out in the Companys articles ofassociation.
Fee for Senior Independent Director and Committee Chairmen To compensate Non-executive Directors for the A xed fee is paid, which is 15,000 in cash: or additional time spent as Committee Chairmen reviewed periodically.
oras the Senior Independent Director.
Whilst it is not expected that the fees paid to theSenior Independent Director or Committee Chairman will exceed theincreases paid to employees generally, in exceptional circumstances, higher fees might become payable.
Intercontinental travel fee To compensate Non-executive Directors A xed fee is paid, which is 3,500 in cash: or forthetime spent travelling to attend meetings reviewed periodically.
Whilst it is not expected to increase these fees by more than the increases paid to employees generally, in exceptional circumstances, higher fees might become payable.
