SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 72 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Notes to Future policy table Non-executive Directors Letters of appointment The Chairman and Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment Changes to remuneration policy which set out the terms under which they provide their services to the The Board has altered the policy regarding the payment of Non-executive Company and are available for inspection at the Companys registered Directors and to the Chairman in one respect in 2013, by introducing the of ce: 15Adam Street, London WC2N 6LA.
The appointment of Nonpayment of a proportion of the fees in the form of shares.
The fees paid executive Directors is not subject to a notice period, nor is there any tothe Non-executive Directors and to the Chairman were reviewed in compensation payable on loss of of ce, for example, should they not be July2013 and it was agreed that the basic fee should be increased by 5% re-elected at an Annual General Meeting.
The appointment of the there having been no increase to these fees since August 2011 and that Chairman is subject to anotice period of six months.
the increase be paid in the form of shares.
The amount of the increase less applicable taxes was used to purchase shares in the market on The Chairman and Non-executive Directors are required to acquire a 15 August 2013.
Going forward any increase in the level of fees paid to a shareholding in the Company equivalent in value to one times their Non-executive Director will be paid in the form of shares until 25% of the basicfee within two years of their appointment to the Board.
Non-executive Directors fee is paid in the form of shares.
We have made this change in order to align the fees paid to Non-executive Directors with the experience of our Shareholders.
With the appointment of Roberto Statement of consideration of Shareholder views Quarta as Chairman of the Company with effect from the Annual General This policy report sets out the remuneration policy in relation to Executive Meeting, we have taken the opportunity to pay 25% of his fees in the form Directors, which has been in place since 2012.
As this policy evolved at of shares immediately.
the end of 2011 and during 2012, we engaged actively with Shareholders to explain our remuneration arrangements and to discuss their views onour proposals.
At the time, Joseph Papa, the Chairman of the Policy on recruitment arrangements Remuneration Committee and members of the Senior Executive Team Any new Non-executive Director shall be paid in accordance with the met with the holders of around 30% of our shares, including collectively current fee levels on appointment, in line with the policy set out above.
with a number of smaller engaged investors, as well as Shareholder With respect to the appointment of a new Chairman, fee levels will take advisory bodies.
We discussed the structure of our remuneration into account market rates, the individuals pro le and experience, the package, our policies on termination, recruitment, shareholding time required to undertake the role and general business conditions.
requirements and the operation of Annual Incentive Plan.
The Directors Inaddition, the Remuneration Committee retains the right to authorise remuneration report was approved by 96% of Shareholders who voted at thepayment of relocation assistance or an accommodation allowance the Annual General Meeting in 2013 and we received feedback from intheevent of the appointment of a Chairman not based within the UK.
Shareholders around the time of this meeting that they understood and approved of our remuneration arrangements.
Although the remuneration policy has remained essentially unchanged as in previous years, given the changes in remuneration reporting, we also conducted an engagement programme with our larger Shareholders in 2013.
Joseph Papa met with the holders of around 20% of our shares, and with a number of Shareholder advisory bodies.
He has also been available to discuss any aspect of our remuneration programme with Shareholders throughout the year.
The Shareholders who have engaged with us have all been supportive of our approach to remuneration, recognising the link between the corporate strategy and executive reward.
