SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 76 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued The Remuneration Committee also considered whether to apply the Commentary on 2013 performance multiplier to the annual incentive assessment of Olivier Bohuon and JulieBrown and agreed that no multiplier was appropriate in respect of Acquisitions and R&D investment 2013.
In summary the performance of the Executive Directors against the Olivier Bohuon Julie Brown targets set for 2013 was therefore as follows: Signi cantly increased investment Delivered Capital Allocation Between in organic R&D and, through Framework that ensures highly Between target successful M&A, further disciplined use of cash: enabling Below threshold and Above strengthened the Groups business focused investment in key areas and threshold and target maximum maximum and product pipeline.
More closely balance sheet ef ciency.
Supported Revenue 30% aligned R&D to growth the completion of three emerging opportunities including meeting market deals over the year.
Return Trading pro t 30% theneeds of emerging market on investment assessments Trading cash 10% customers.
Increased the rate of established for R&D and Capital innovation to support sustainable investments to ensure resources Business objectives growth and maximise long-term areallocated to areas that generate 30% : Olivier Bohuon value to Shareholders.
the best return for business.
Business objectives Succession planning 30% : Julie Brown Multiplier - 10% : N A Olivier Bohuon Julie Brown Olivier Bohuon Succession plans refreshed for all Strengthened finance management Multiplier - 10% : N A Executive Of cers and top talent team through providing stretching Julie Brown identi ed, developed and retained development opportunities for key through signi cant personal individuals and placement of top In summary, as a result of the performance described above, the engagement across the Company.
Completed comprehensive Remuneration Committee determined that the following awards be Finance Talent Review and madeunder the Annual Incentive Plan in respect of performance in 2013: established succession plans for allkey finance leadership positions.
Executive Director Cash component Equity component Employee engagement % of salary Amount % of salary Amount Olivier Bohuon Julie Brown Olivier Bohuon 125% 1,350,794 65% 702,975 Delivered demonstrable Increased business knowledge, Julie Brown 110% 549,500 50% 250,000 improvements from implementation cross-functional alignment, of 2012 Employee Survey actions empowerment and personal As both Olivier Bohuon and Julie Brown achieved the targets set them and initiated Great places to Work development across the finance in2013, the first tranche of Equity Incentive Award made in 2013 and the in initial tranche of 12 countries.
function, ensured employees second tranche of the Equity Incentive Award made in 2012 to Olivier embrace objectives in context Bohuon only will vest.
ofGroup strategy and pursue stretching goals.
Annual Incentive Plan 2014 Compliance The Remuneration Committee has also reviewed the Annual Incentive Olivier Bohuon Julie Brown Plan arrangements for 2014 and has determined that the following performance measures and weightings will apply to the financial Consistently demonstrated the Set the tone from the top with the objectives as in 2013.
The business objectives for the ExecutiveDirectors highest personal ethics, held highest personal standards and for 2014 will therefore be as follows: management to these same ensured timely and rigorous standards, and reinforced enactment of financial controls Financial objectives imperative in all employee onallstrategic plans, product communications.
Olivier Bohuon Julie Brown Development of product portfolio Revenue 30% 70% 70% Olivier Bohuon Julie Brown Trading pro t 30% Delivered high cadence of new Not applicable Trading cash 10% products including first portfolios for the emerging markets, major Business objectives knee platform, Sports Medicine Olivier Bohuon Julie Brown advances and 25 Advanced Wound Management launches.
Reinvestment 5%10% Business 25% 20% Shared services People Olivier Bohuon Julie Brown Customer Not applicable Initiated a Finance Transformation Programme to consolidate shared services globally to leverage ef ciency across the Group and strengthen KPI reporting.
GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 77 The Board has determined that the disclosure of performance targets The Groups TSR performance and its performance relative to the atthis time is commercially sensitive.
As explained on page 75, these comparator group is independently monitored and reported to the targets are determined within the context of a five-year plan and the Remuneration Committee by Towers Watson.
TSR is calculated in disclosure of these targets could give information to our competitors common currency using a three-month averaging period at the start about details of our strategy which would enable them to compete andend of the performance period.
The Committee has established moreeffectively with us to the detriment of our performance.
protocols for dealing with companies that cease to be listed or merger and acquisition activity within the peer group.
For the financial performance measures, Target is set at target performance as approved by the Board in the Budget for 2014.
Threshold The remaining 50% of the award is subject to cumulative free cash and Maximum are set at - 3% from the target for revenue and trading owperformance.
Free cash ow is fide ned as net cash in ows from pro t measures and - 10% for the cash ow measure.
operating activities, less capital expenditure.
Free cash ow is the mostappropriate measure of cash ow performance because it relates tothe cash generated to finance additional investment in business Details of awards made under the Equity Incentive opportunities, debt repayments and distributions to Shareholders.
Thismeasure includes signi cant elements of operational and Programme nancialperformance and helps to align Executive Director awards Details of conditional awards over shares, granted as part of the Annual withshareholder value creation.
Equity Incentive Programme to Executive Directors under the rules of The 50% of the 2013 award subject to free cash ow performance will theGlobal Share Plan 2010 in 2013 are shown below.
The performance vest as follows: conditions and performance periods applying to these awards are detailed above.
Cumulative free cash ow Award vesting as % of salary Number of shares Below $1.55bn Nil Date granted under award Date of vesting $1.55bn 23.75% Olivier Bohuon $1.78bn 47.5% 1 7 March 2013 82,423 ordinary shares 3 on 7 March 2014, $2.01bn or more 95% 1 3 on 7 March 2015 and 1 3 on 7 March2016 No awards were made to Julie Brown under the Equity Incentive Performance Share Programme 2014 Programme in 2013, as she was not an employee in 2012 and did not Performance share awards will be made in 2014 to Executive Directors participate in the programme in 2013.
The exact awards granted in 2014 under the Global Share Plan 2010 to a maximum value of 190% of salary in respect of service in 2013 will be disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report.
Performance will be measured over the three financial years beginning in 2014 and will vest subject to performance and continued employment in 2017.
Vesting will be subject Performance Share Programme grants to three performance measures.
50% of the award will be subject to free Performance share awards in 2013 were made to Executive Directors cash ow performance, 25% to revenue in Emerging & International under the Global Share Plan 2010 to a maximum value of 190% of salary Markets and 25% to TSR.
Performance will be measured over the Free cash ow is fide ned as net cash in ows from operating activities, three financial years beginning in 2013 and will vest subject to less capital expenditure.
Free cash ow is the most appropriate measure performance and continued employment in 2016. of cash ow performance because it relates to the cash generated to 50% of the award will vest based on the Companys Total Shareholder finance additional investment in business opportunities, debt Return TSR performance relative to a bespoke peer group of companies repayments and distributions to Shareholders.
This measure includes in the medical devices sector over a three-year period commencing signi cant elements of operational and financial performance and helps 1 January 2013 as follows: to align Executive Director awards with Shareholder value creation.
The 50% of the award that will be subject to free cash ow performance Relative TSR ranking Award vesting as % of salary will vest as follows: Below median Nil Cumulative free cash ow Award vesting as % of salary Median 23.75% Below $1.64bn Nil Upper quartile 95% $1.64bn 23.75% Awards will vest on a straight-line basis between these points.
If the $1.88bn 47.5% Companys TSR performance is below median, none of this part of the award will vest.
$2.12bn or more 95% The bespoke peer group for the 2013 awards comprises of the following Awards will vest on a straight-line basis between these points.
companies: Arthrocare, Baxter, Becton Dickinson, Boston Scienti c, Revenue in Emerging & International Markets is fide ned as cumulative CRBard, Coloplast, Conmed, Covidien, Edwards LifeSciences, Medtronic, revenue over a three-year period commencing 1 January 2014 from our Nobel Biocare, Nuvasive, Ortho x, Stryker, St Jude Medical, Wright Emerging & International Markets.
