SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 46 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our Executive Of cers Olivier Bohuon is supported in the day-today management of the Group by a strong team of Executive Of cers: Julie Brown 51 Mike Frazzette 52 Chief Financial Of cer President, Advanced Surgical Devices Julie joined the Board on 4 February 2013 as Chief Mike joined Smith & Nephew in July 2006 as Financial Of cer.
She is a Chartered Accountant and President ofthe Endoscopy Global Business Unit.
Fellow of the Institute of Taxation with international Since July 2011, he has headed up the Advanced experience and a deep understanding of the Surgical Devices division and is responsible for the healthcare sector.
Orthopaedic Reconstruction, Trauma and Endoscopy business.
He is based in Andover, Massachusetts.
Previous Experience Previous Experience Julie trained with KPMG and then worked for AstraZeneca PLC, where she served as Vice President Mike has held a number of senior positions within Group Finance, and more recently, as Interim Chief theglobal medical devices industry.
He was President Financial Of cer.
Prior to that she held commercial and Chief Executive Of cer of Micro Group, a US roles as Regional Vice President Latin America, manufacturer of medical devices, and spent 15 years Marketing Company President AstraZeneca Portugal, at Tyco Healthcare Covidien in various commercial and Vice President Corporate Strategy and R&D Chief roles eventually becoming President of thePatient Financial Of cer.
She has previously held Vice Care and Health Systems divisions.
President Finance positions in all areas of the Nationality healthcare value chain including commercial, American operations, R&D and businessdevelopment.
Nationality British Roger Teasdale 46 Rodrigo Bianchi 54 President, Advanced Wound Management President, IRAMEA Roger joined Smith & Nephew in 1989 within the Rodrigo joined Smith & Nephew in July 2013 with Wound Management business.
He was appointed responsibility for Greater China, India, Russia, Asia, President of Advanced Wound Management in May Middle East and Africa, focusing on continuing our 2009.
strong momentum in these regions.
Previous Experience Previous Experience Roger has held a number of key roles within the Smith & Nephew Group in both the UK and the US and has Rodrigos experience in the healthcare industry been responsible for leading the transformation of the includes 26 years with Johnson & Johnson in Wound business in recent years.
Most recently, he was Regional Vice President for Medical Devices and Nationality Diagnostics division in the Mediterranean region British andprior to that President of Mitek and Ethicon.
Hestarted his career at Procter & Gamble, Italy.
Nationality Italian GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 47 Francisco Canal Vega 52 Jack Campo 59 Gordon Howe 51 President, Latin America Chief Legal Of cer President, Global Operations Francisco joined Smith & Nephew in January 2012 Jack joined Smith & Nephew in June 2008 and heads Gordon joined Smith & Nephew in 1998 and, since and now leads the Latin American region, focusing on up the Global Legal function.
Initially based in London, 2013, is responsible for manufacturing, supply chain driving the substantial opportunities we see in this hehas been based in Andover, Massachusetts since and procurement, IT systems and Regulatory and region.
Prior to that, he headed up the Global Planning and Business Development teams.
He is Previous Experience Previous Experience based in Memphis, Tennessee.
Francisco has held senior management positions in Prior to joining Smith & Nephew, Jack held a number Previous Experience global companies including Gambro AB and Baxter of senior legal roles within the General Electric International.
He has lived and worked in many Company, including seven years at GE Healthcare Gordon has held a number of senior management countries including Switzerland, Germany, China, GEMedical Systems in the US and Asia.
He began positions within the Smith & Nephew Group, rstly in Japan, the US and Spain.
Francisco was also formerly his career with Davis Polk & Wardwell.
theOrthopaedics division and more recently at Group aboard member of EUCOMED.
Prior to joining the Company, he held senior Nationality roles at United Technologies Corporation.
Nationality American Nationality Spanish American Helen Maye 54 Cyrille Petit 43 Chief Human Resources Of cer Chief Corporate Development Of cer Helen joined Smith & Nephew in July 2011 and Cyrille joined Smith & Nephew in May 2012 and leads leadstheGlobal Human Resources and Internal theCorporate Development function.
He is based Communications functions.
Since 2013, she has also inLondon.
led the Sustainability, Health, Safety & Environment Previous Experience functions.
Cyrille spent the previous 15 years of his career Previous Experience withGeneral Electric Company, where he held Helen has more than 35 years experience progressively senior positions beginning with acrossavariety of international and global roles GECapital, GE Healthcare and ultimately as the inmedical devices and pharmaceuticals, including General Manager, Global Business Development manufacturing, supply chain and human resources.
Cyrilles career began Previously, she was Divisional Vice President of ininvestment banking at BNP Paribas and then Human Resources at Abbott Laboratories.
