SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 64 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued The Policy Report The Remuneration Committee presents the Directors remuneration policy report, which will be put to Shareholders as a binding vote at the AnnualGeneral Meeting to be held on 10 April 2014 and subject to Shareholder approval, shall take immediate effect.
Future policy table Executive Directors The following table and accompanying notes explain the different elements of remuneration we pay to our Executive Directors: How the component supports the shortand long-term strategy ofthe Company How the component operates Base salary and bene ts Base salary We are a FTSE 50 listed company, operating in over 100 countries around the world.
Salaries are normally reviewed annually, with any increase applying from1 April.
Ourstrategy to generate cash from Established Markets in order to invest for growth in Salary levels and increases take account of: Emerging Markets means that we are competing for international talent and our base market movements within a peer group of similarly sized UK listed companies: salaries therefore need to re ect what our Executive Directors would receive if they scope and responsibility of the position: were to work in another international company of a similar size, complexity and geographical scope.
skill experience and performance of the individual Director: general economic conditions in the relevant geographic market: and average increases awarded across the Company, with particular regard toincreases in the market in which the Executive is based.
Payment in lieu ofpension In order to attract and retain Executive Directors with the capability of driving our Current Executive Directors receive an allowance in lieu of membership ofaCompanycorporate strategy, we need to provide market-competitive retirement bene ts similar run pension scheme.
to the bene ts they would receive if they were to work for one of our competitors.
Base salary is the only component of remuneration that is pensionable.
At the same time, we seek to avoid exposing the Company to fide ned bene t pension risks, and where possible will make payments in lieu of providing a pension.
Bene ts In order to attract and retain Executive Directors with the capability of driving our A wide range of bene ts may be provided depending on the bene ts provided for corporate strategy, we need to provide a range of market-competitive bene ts similar comparable roles in the location in which the Executive Director is based.
These bene ts tothe bene ts they would receive if they wereto work for one of our competitors.
will include, as a minimum, healthcare cover, life assurance, long-term disability, annual medical examinations, company car or car allowance.
The Committee retains the It is important that our Executive Directors are free to focus on the Companys business discretion to provide additional bene ts where necessary or relevant in the context of the without being diverted by concerns about medicalprovision, risk bene t cover or, if Executives location.
Where applicable, relocation costs may be provided in line with Companys relocation policy for employees, which may include removal costs, assistance with accommodation, living expenses for self and family and financial consultancy advice.
Insome cases such payments may be grossed up.
All-employee arrangements All-employee share plans To enable Executive Directors to participate in all-employee share plans on the same ShareSave Plans are operated in the UK and 27 other countries internationally.
In the basis as other employees.
US, an Employee Stock Purchase Plan is operated.
These plans enable employees to save on a regular basis and then buy shares in the Company.
Executive Directors are able to participate in such plans on a similar basis to other employees, depending on where they are located.
GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 65 Maximum levels of payment Framework in which performance is assessed The base salary of the Executive Directors with effect from 1 April 2014 willbe as follows: Performance in the prior year is one of the factors taken into account and poor performance is likely to lead to a zero salary increase.
Olivier Bohuon 1,111,782 Julie Brown 514,000 The factors noted in the previous column will be taken into consideration when making increases tobase salary and when appointing a new Director.
In normal circumstances, base salary increases for Executive Directors will relate to the geographic market and peer group.
In addition, the average increases for employees across thegroup will be taken into account.
The Remuneration Committee retains the right to approve higher increases when there is a substantial change in the scope of the Executive Directors role.
A full explanation will be provided in the Implementation Report should higher increases be approved in exceptional cases.
Thelevel of payment in lieu of a pension paid toExecutive Directors is not dependent on performance.
The policy is framed by the nature of the bene ts that the Remuneration Committee is The level and cost of bene ts provided to Executive Directors is not dependent on willing toprovide to Executive Directors.
The maximum amount payable will depend performance but on thepackage of bene ts provided tocomparable roleswithin onthe cost of providing such bene ts to anemployee in the location at which the therelevant location.
Shareholders should note that the cost of providing comparable bene ts indifferent jurisdictions may vary widely.
As an indication, the cost of such bene ts provided in 2013 was as follows: Olivier Bohuon 80,705 Julie Brown 14,400 The maximum amount payable in bene ts to an Executive Director, in normal circumstances, will not be signi cantly more than amounts paid in2013 or equivalent inlocal currency.
The Remuneration Committee retains the right to pay more than this should the cost of providing the sameunderlying bene ts increase or in the event of a relocation.
A full explanation will be provided in the Implementation Report should the costof bene ts provided be signi cantly higher.
Executive Directors may currently invest up to 250 per month in the UK The potential gains from all-employee plans are not based on performance but are ShareSavePlan.
The Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion to linked to growth in the share price.
increasethis amountuptothe maximum permitted by the HM Revenue & Customs.
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 66 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Future policy table Executive Directors continued How the component supports the shortand long-term strategy ofthe Company How the component operates Annual incentives Annual Incentive Plan Cash Incentive To motivate and reward the achievement of speci c annual financial and business The Annual Incentive Plan comprises a cash and an equity component, both based objectives related to the Companys strategy and sustained through a clawback onthe achievement of financial and business objectives set atthe start of the year.
mechanism explained more fully in the notes.
The cash component is paid in full after the end of the performance year.
The objectives which determine the payment of the annual cash incentiveand the At the end of the year, the Remuneration Committee determines the extent to which levelof the annual equity award are linked closely totheGroup strategy.
performance against these has been achieved and sets the award level.
The financial measures of revenue, trading pro t and cash ow underlieour strategy forgrowth and the need to generate cash to fundfuture growth.
The business objectives are also linked to the Group strategy.
These change from yearto year to re ect the evolving strategy, but will typically be linked to the Strategic Priorities set out on page 10 of this Annual Report.
The Implementation Report each year will explain how each objective is linked to a speci c strategic priority.
For example, a Reinvestment objective links to the priority of improving the ef ciency of the business model and investment in higher growth segments and geographies and Processes and People objectives link to developing the right organisation.
Annual Incentive Plan Equity Incentive To drive share ownership and encourage sustained high standards through the The equity award component comprises conditional share awards made at the time application of a malus provision over three years, explainedmore fully in the notes.
ofthe cash award, with vesting phased over the following three years.
1 1 1 The equity component vests 3, 3, 3 on successive award anniversaries, only ifperformance remains satisfactory over each of these three years: otherwise the awardwill lapse.
Participants will receive an additional number of shares equivalent to theamount of dividend payable per vested share during the relevant performance period.
Long-term incentives awards actively being made Performance Share Programme To motivate and reward longer term performance linked to the long-term strategy and The Performance Share Programme comprises conditional share awards which vest share price of the Company.
after three years, subject to the achievement of stretching performance targets linked tothe Companys strategy.
The performance measures which determine the level of vesting of the Performance Share Awards are linked to our corporate strategy.
Awards may be subject to clawback in the event of material financial misstatement or misconduct.
Our strategy requires the generation of cash in order to invest for growth.
Cash ow is therefore a key performance measure in our performance share plan.
Growth in our Emerging & International Markets is a key part of our strategy.
Revenue in our Emerging & International Markets is therefore included as one of our performance share plan measures.
If our strategy succeeds, the total return to our shareholders will also increase and therefore we include a relative TSR measure in our long-term share plan.
One-off share awards In order to implement our Group strategy, we recognise that it is not always possible One-off share awards may be made under the provisions of Listing Rule9.4.
2 to topromote from within the Company.
In the event that werecruit an Executive Director facilitate the appointment of a new Executive Director.
Suchawards will be made who is currently employed by another company, we recognise that we might be onacase-by-case basis depending on thecircumstances at the time to take account of required to compensate that Executive Director for cash or share awards, they may amounts forfeited elsewhere on accepting appointment.
forfeit on leaving their former employer.
Our policy regarding such awards is detailed inthe notes.
GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 67 Maximum levels of payment Framework in which performance is assessed The total maximum payable under the Annual Incentive Plan is 215% ofbase salary The cash and share awards are subject to malus and clawback as detailed in the notes 150% Cash Incentive and 65% Equity Incentive.
50% salary awarded for threshold performance.
70% of the cash component is based on financial performance measures, whichcurrently include revenue, trading pro t and trading cash.
The Remuneration 100% salary awarded for target performance.
Committee retains the discretion to adopt any financial performance measure that 150% salary awarded for maximum performance.
Performance assessed against individual objectives and Group financial targets.
30% of the cash component is based on other business goals linked to the Companys strategy, which could include financial and nonfinancial measures.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion toapply a multiplier, adjusting the outcome up or down by 10% to reward or penalise conduct in respectof leadership, corporate reputation, ethics, organisational behaviours and representing the Company both internally and externally.
The maximum opportunity shown to the left cannot beexceeded through the application of the multiplier.
0% of salary awarded for performance below target.
The Remuneration Committee will use their judgement of the individuals performance in determining the level of equity award that may be awarded within the range of 50% 50% of salary awarded for target performance.
65% of salary awarded for maximum performance.
The equity component will vest in three equal tranches over a three-year period, Performance assessed against individual performance which includes anelement provided that the annual performance conditions set at the beginning ofeach year ofGroup financial targets.
Annual awards: Currently: 47.5% of salary for threshold performance.
50% of the award vests on achievement of a three-year cumulative free cash ow target 95% of salary for target performance.
25% of the award vests subject to three-year Total Shareholder Return TSR at 190% of salary for maximum performance.
median performance relative to industry peers 25% of the award vests subject to the achievement of revenue targets in Emerging &International Markets These measures are described in more detail in the notes and thetargets and performance against them will be disclosed in theImplementation Report if appropriate The Performance Share Award will vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant, depending on the extent to which the performance conditions are met over the three year period commencing in the year the award was made The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to change the measures and their respective weightings to ensure continuing alignment with the Companys strategy The cash and share awards are subject to malus and clawback as detailed in the notes following this table.
Awards made prior to 2014 were subject to TSR and cash ow targets.
Each award will be determined on a case-by-case basis.
In normal circumstances The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to apply performance conditions suchawards will be no more bene cial than the value ofamounts forfeited by toone-off awards if appropriate.
However, if it is impossible to replicate the vesting theExecutive Director on leaving a previous company to join the Board.
conditions applicable to awards granted by other companies, awards may be made without performance conditions.
