SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 44 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our Board of Directors Our Board has the depth and breadth of experience necessary to help the business take full advantage of the opportunities and challenges ahead.
Sir John Buchanan 70 Olivier Bohuon 55 Julie Brown 51 Chairman Chief Executive Of cer Chief Financial Of cer Sir John was appointed Independent Non-executive Olivier was appointed ChiefExecutive Of cer in April Julie was appointed Chief Financial Of cer Director in 2005 and was appointed Chairman and 2011.
He is a member oftheNomination & on 4 February 2013 and elected by Shareholders Chairman of the Nomination & Governance Committee in Governance Committee.
atthe Annual General Meeting on 11 April 2013.
He will retire from the Board following the Olivier has had extensive international and leadership Julie is a Chartered Accountant and Fellow of the Annual General Meeting on 10 April 2014. experience within a number of pharmaceutical and Institute of Taxation with international experience and Sir John has broad international experience gained in healthcare companies.
Prior to joining Smith & a deep understanding of the healthcare sector.
She large and complex international businesses, with Nephew, he was President of Abbott trained with KPMG and then worked for AstraZeneca extensive former board experience at Vodafone Group Pharmaceuticals, a division of Abbott Laboratories PLC, where she served as Vice President Group Plc, AstraZeneca PLC and Boots Group PLC.
He has based in the US, where he was responsible for the Finance, and more recently, as Interim Chief Financial substantial experience in the petroleum industry and entire business, including R&D, global manufacturing Of cer.
Prior to that she held commercial roles as knowledge of the international investor community.
Hehas and global support functions.
Regional Vice President Latin America, Marketing held various leadership roles in strategic, financial, Company President AstraZeneca Portugal, and Vice Other Directorships operational and marketing positions, including executive President Corporate Strategy and R&D Chief Financial Non-executive Director of Virbac group experience in different countries.
He is a former Executive Of cer.
She has previously held Vice President Director and Group Financial Of cer of BP, serving on the Finance positions in all areas of the healthcare value Nationality BP Board for six years until 2003. chain including commercial, operations, R&D and French business development.
Other Directorships Nationality Chairman of ARM Holdings plc until 1 March 2014 Senior Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc British Chairman of International Chamber of Commerce UK Chairman of the Trustees for The Christchurch Earthquake Appeal UK Nationality British New Zealand Roberto Quarta 64 Richard fide Schutter 73 Ian Barlow 62 Independent Non-executive Director and Senior Independent Director and Independent Non-executive Director Chairman Elect Non-executive Director Chairman of the Audit Committee Roberto was appointed Non-executive Director and Richard was appointed Non-executive Director in Ian was appointed Non-executive Director in March 2010 Chairman Elect on 4 December 2013.
He is a January 2001 and Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee in May 2010. member of the Nomination & Governance inApril 2011.
He is a member of the Nomination & Ian is a Chartered Accountant and has had considerable Committee.
Governance, Ethics & Compliance, Audit and financial experience both internationally and in the UK.
He will retire from the Roberto has signi cant management experience Prior to his retirement in 2008, he was aPartner at KPMG, Board following the Annual General Meeting on 10 spanning a broad range of manufacturing and latterly Senior Partner, London.
During his career with April 2014. service businesses in both the UK and KPMG, he was Head of their UK tax and legal operations, internationally.
He is Chairman of IMI plc, a FTSE 100 Richard has had extensive US corporate experience and he acted as Lead Partner for many large international listed engineering business, Chairman of Clayton, at Chief Executive and Chairman level in a number organisations operating extensively in North America, Dubilier & Rice and Chairman of the Supervisory ofmajor corporations with primarily a scienti c, Europe and Asia.
Previously, he was Chief chemical, engineering or pharmaceutical focus Other Directorships Executive and then Chairman of BBA Group plc.
including G. D. Searle & Co. Monsanto Company, Lead Non-executive Director chairing the Board of Pharmacia Corporation and DuPont Pharmaceuticals Other Directorships Her Majestys Revenue & Customs Company.
Chairman of IMI plc Non-executive Director of The Brunner Investment Other Directorships Chairman of Clayton, Dubilier& Rice Trust PLC Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Rexel SA Non-executive Chairman of Incyte Corporation Non-executive Director of Foxtons Group plc Non-executive Chairman of Durata Therapeutics, Inc. Board Member of the China-Britain Council Nationality Non-executive Director of Navicure, Inc. Chairman of The Racecourse Association American Italian Non-executive Director of Sprout Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Nationality Nationality British American GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 45 The Rt.
Hon Baroness Virginia Bottomley 65 Michael Friedman 70 Pamela Kirby 60 Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Chairman of the Ethics & Compliance Committee Baroness Virginia Bottomley was appointed NonMichael was appointed Non-executive Director and executive Director in April 2012.
She is a member of elected by Shareholders at the Annual General Pamela was appointed Non-executive Director the Remuneration Committee.
He is a member of the Ethics inMarch 2002 and Chairman of the Ethics & & Compliance Committee.
She is a member Baroness Virginia Bottomley has extensive of the Remuneration Committee experience and understanding of healthcare.
She Michael was formerly Chief Executive Of cer of City of was appointed a Life Peer in 2005 following her career Hope, the prestigious cancer research and treatment Pamela has extensive commercial and product as a Member ofParliament between 1984 and 2005. institution in California and is now Executive for development experience within the international She served successively as Secretary of State for Special Projects and Emeritus Cancer Center Director.
Her last Health and then National Heritage.
She holds a He has also served as director of the institutions executive position was Chief Executive of Quintiles number of positions within the public and private comprehensive cancer centre and held the Irell & Transnational Corporation in the US, having previously healthcare sector.
Manella Cancer Center Directors Distinguished Chair.
held senior positions in various pharmaceutical He was formerly senior vice president of research, companies including AstraZeneca PLC and Other Directorships medical and public policy for Pharmacia Corporation F. Hoffmann-La Roche.
She is now a Non-executive Director of International Resources Group Limited and has served as Deputy Commissioner and Acting Director of a number of international companies.
Member of the International Advisory Board of Commissioner at the USFood and Drug Other Directorships Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. Administration.
He has also served on a number of Chancellor of University of Hull and Sheriff of Hull Non-executive Chairman of Scynexis, Inc.
Boards in a Non-executive capacity, including RiteAid Pro Chancellor of the University of Surrey Senior Independent Non-executive Director of Corporation.
Governor of the London School of Economics Informa plc Other Directorships Trustee of The Economist Newspaper Non-executive Director of DCC plc Non-executive Director of Celgene Corporation Non-executive Director of Victrex plc Nationality Non-executive Director of MannKind Corporation Nationality British Nationality British American Brian Larcombe 60 Joseph Papa 58 Ajay Piramal 58 Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Brian was appointed Non-executive Director in Ajay was appointed Non-executive Director in March2002.
He is a member of the Nomination & January 2012.
He will retire from the Board following Joseph was appointed Non-executive Director in Governance, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
August 2008 and Chairman of the Remuneration the Annual General Meeting on 10 April 2014.
He will become Senior Independent Director following Committee in April 2011.
He is a member of the Ethics Ajay is one of Indias most respected businessmen.
the Annual General Meeting on 10 April 2014.
He enabled the Piramal Group to transform from a Brian spent his career in private equity with 3iGroup.
textile-centric group to a conglomerate in diversi ed Joseph has had over 30 years experience in the After leading the UK investment business for pharmaceutical industry working for a number of areas.
He has extensive industry and market anumber of years, he became Finance Director and knowledge and international experience.
He has held companies both in the US and Switzerland.
He is now then Chief Executive of the Group following its Chairman and Chief Executive of Perrigo Company a number of global healthcare leadership positions in otation.
He is well known in the City and has held both India andinternationally.
plc, one of the largest over the counter pharmaceutical anumber of Non-executive Directorships.
companies in the US, having previously held senior Other Directorships positions at Novartis International AG, Cardinal Other Directorships Chairman of Piramal Enterprises Limited, Piramal Health, Inc. and Pharmacia Corporation.
Non-executive Director of gategroup Holding AG Glass Limited, Allergan India Pvt.
Limited, and Other Directorships Non-executive Director of Incisive IndiaREIT Fund Advisers Pvt.
Ltd. Media Holdings Limited Chairman and Chief Executive Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Indian Institute of Technology, Indore of Perrigo Company plc Nationality Member of the Board of Deans Advisors at Harvard Nationality British Business School American Chairman of Pratham India Nationality Indian
