GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 73 The Implementation Report The Remuneration Committee presents the Annual report on remuneration, the Implementation Report, which together with the annual statement will be put to shareholders as an advisory vote at the AnnualGeneral Meeting to be held on 10 April 2014.
Key activities of the Remuneration Committee in 2013 were: Remuneration Committee Determination of remuneration packages and termination arrangement The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee is Joseph Papa and for certain Executive Of cers theremaining members of the Remuneration Committee are Baroness Virginia Bottomley, Pamela Kirby, Brian Larcombe and Richard fide Development of revised reporting style on remuneration in line with the Schutter, all of whom are independent Non-executive Directors and new reporting regulations served throughout the year.
Reviewed Executive service contracts From time to time, other members of the Board attended meetings of Reviewed and revised the performance measures applying to our theRemuneration Committee by invitation.
In addition, the meetings Performance Share Programme arealso attended by Susan Swabey, Company Secretary, Helen Maye, Monitored the use of shares required for our employee share plans to ChiefHuman Resources Of cer and Bob Newcomb, SVP Global ensure they remained within the dilution limits Rewards.
Members of the Board and the Executive Team left any Monitored adherence by executives to our shareholding guidelines meetingat which their own remuneration was discussed.
Approved the remuneration package for Roberto Quarta, our During the year the Remuneration Committee met five times and agreed ChairmanElect three matters by written resolution.
Our main responsibilities are: Reviewed and approved remuneration arrangements for various Determination of remuneration policy for Executive Directors and Executive Of cers senior executives Amended the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee to Approval of individual remuneration packages for Executive Directors re ect new reporting regulations and Executive Of cers at least annually and any major changes to Met with key Shareholders to discuss remuneration matters.
individual packages throughout the year The Implementation Report sets out both what we have paid our Directors Determination of the use of long-term incentive plans and oversee in 2013 and what we intend to pay them in 2014. theuse of shares in all executive and all-employee plans Approval of appropriate performance measures for short-term andlong-term incentive plans for Executive Directors and seniorexecutives Determination of pay-outs under short-term and long-term incentive plans for Executive Directors and senior executives Approval of Directors Remuneration Report ensuring compliance with related governance provisions Continuance of constructive engagement on remuneration issues with Shareholders Consideration of remuneration policies and practices across the Group.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee received information and advice from Towers Watson, an independent executive remuneration consultancy rm appointed by the Remuneration Committee in 2011 following a full tender process.
Theyprovided advice on market trends and remuneration issues in general, attended Remuneration Committee meetings, assisted in the review of the Directors Remuneration Report and in determining the third performance measure for the Performance Share Programme.
The fees paid to Towers Watson for Remuneration Committee advice during 2013, charged on a time and expense basis, totalled 59,538.
Towers Watson also provided other human resources and compensation advice to the Company for the level below the Board.
Towers Watson comply with the Code of Conduct in relation to Executive Remuneration Consulting in the United Kingdom and the Remuneration Committee is satis ed that their advice is objective and independent.
