SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report Our aim is to devise remuneration packages that drive performance Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to present the first Directors remuneration report prepared in accordance with the new regulations.
Our remuneration arrangements have essentially remained unchanged from last year, but are now presented in a new format.
We have discussed this format with a number of our major Shareholders and are very grateful for their suggestions helping us to improve the clarity of the new remuneration policy table and the remuneration policy report itself.
We made a number of decisions during the year, as follows: Agreed to introduce a third performance measure relating to growth in Emerging & International Markets, into our Performance Share Programme.
Determined the incentive plan outcomes for long-term awards made in 2010 and the Annual Incentive Plan 2012, and set the targets and measures for the awards and plans in 2013.
Redesigned the Directors Remuneration Report in line with the new regulations.
Compliance statement We have prepared this Directors Remuneration Report the Report in accordance with TheEnterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2012-2013 clauses 81-84 and The Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 theRegulations.
The Report also meets the relevant requirements ofthe Financial Conduct Authority FCA Listing Rules.
As required by the regulations, the first part of the Report pages 64 to 72 is the Directors Remuneration Policy Report the Policy Report.
The Policy Report will be put to Shareholders for approval as a binding vote at the Annual General Meeting on 10 April 2014.
The policy report describes our remuneration policy as it relates to the Directors of the Company.
Once the policy report has been approved by Shareholders, all payments we make to any Director of the Company will be in accordance with this remuneration policy.
We intend that this remuneration policy will remain in place unchanged for at least the next three years and will next be put to Shareholder vote at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2017.
We will bring the policy report back toShareholders earlier in the event that we make any material change to the remuneration policy or Shareholders do not approve the annual report on remuneration.
The second part of the Report pages 73 to 85 is the annual report on remuneration the Implementation Report.
The Implementation Report will be put to Shareholders for approvalas an advisory vote at the Annual General Meeting on 10 April 2014.
The Implementation Report explains how the remuneration policy was implemented during2013and also how it is currently being implemented in 2014.
Pages 74, 79 to 82 have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP.
GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 63 in line with our strategy & which are simple & clear tounderstand As a Remuneration Committee, our aim is to devise remuneration packages that drive a performance in line with our corporate strategy andwhich aresimple and clear to understand both for our Shareholders and for those who participate in our plans.
We aim to have a clear line of sight between the performance of the Company and how our Directors and senior executives are paid.
We do this by setting the xed elements of pay, notably base salary and bene ts, in line with what our Executive Directors would be paid at another company of a comparable size, complexity and geographical spread.
For the variable elements of pay, weselect performance measures that are linked to one or more of our Strategic Priorities as detailed on page10 of the Annual Report as follows: Measures in our VariablePay Plans Link to Strategic Priorities Financial measures in Annual Incentive Plans Revenue, Trading pro t, Cash We need to generate cash in our Established Markets to be able to invest inEmerging & International Markets, innovation, organic growth and acquisitions in order to continue to grow in the future.
Cash ow is therefore important and this in turn is derived from increased revenues and healthy trading pro ts.
Business objectives in Annual Incentive Plans Re-investment We need to release resources from the businesses through improved structures and ef ciencies in order tore-invest in our higher growth areas, including emerging markets, innovation, organic growth and acquisitions.
Processes We need to enhance our business processes in order to operate more effectively and ef ciently and to improve our operating model.
People We need to attract and retain the right people to achieve our strategy through improving our operating model, winning in Established Markets and growing in emerging markets.
Customer Our mission is to deliver advanced medical technologies that help healthcare professionals, our customers, improve the quality of life of their patients.
Performance measures in our Performance Share Plan Cash ow Cash ow from our Established Markets is necessary in order to fund growth in emerging markets, innovation, organic growth and acquisitions.
Revenue in Emerging & Our long-term strategy depends on our ability togrow in Emerging & International Markets, to innovate Internationalmarkets forgrowth and to supplement organic growth through acquisitions.
This depends on our ability to develop new products and to expand intonewmarkets both geographically and by product.
TSR If we execute our strategy successfully, thiswilllead to an increased return for our Shareholders.
The following pages set out our remuneration policy in greater detail and then explain how we implement that policy.
We believe that outstanding performance by our executives should be rewarded by attractive remuneration packages.
We do however have measures in place which ensure thatplans do not pay out where performance has not met threshold performance and to recover any amounts paid out, where subsequent events show that payments should not have been made.
We have aimed to design a remuneration package that will encourage our Executive Directors to drive performance in line with our strategy, whilstminimising risk, which willin turn deliver a healthy return to our Shareholders.
We very much hope that the new style report is clearer for ourShareholders andshows how wehave linked the design of our remuneration plans to our strategy.
Joseph Papa Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
