GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT 29 Segment performance: Advanced Wound Management Advanced Wound Management 1 1,2 REVENUE TRADING PROFIT FRANCHISE AREAS 11% $1,336m 14% $275m Advanced Wound Care Advanced Wound Devices 247 237 233 Advanced Wound Bioactives 1,029 1,019 912 846 160 REVENUE BY FRANCHISE AREA ADVANCED WOUND BIOACTIVES 21% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2011 2009 2010 2012 2013 1 2 ADVANCED OPERATING PROFIT TRADING PROFIT MARGIN WOUND CARE $1,336m 63% -8% $190m -250bps 20.6% 232 220 214 ADVANCED 25.6 24.3 WOUND DEVICES 23.1 16% 18.9 144 1 REVENUE BY FRANCHISE AREA $m 1% 20% 47% 849 843 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 MANUFACTURING SITES US and Canada: Oklahoma City OK and Calgary Canada 280 213 UK: Hull, Gilberdyke 180 China: Suzhou Nil Other: Curaao 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 SERVICE CENTRES ADVANCED ADVANCED ADVANCED US, UK, Germany, Japan and Australia WOUND CARE WOUND DEVICES WOUND BIOACTIVES 1 The underlying percentage increases decreases are after adjusting for the effect of currency translation and the inclusion of the comparative impact of acquisitions and exclusion of disposals.
2 Explanation of these non-GAAP financial measures are provided on pages 161 to 163.
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 30 GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT Segment performance: Advanced Wound Management continued Overview 4 SIMPLIFY & IMPROVE OUR OPERATING MODEL In Advanced Wound Management AWM we offer products from initial wound bed preparation through to full wound closure.
These products aretargeted at chronic wounds associated with the older population, such as pressure sores Expanding and venous leg ulcers.
There are also products for the treatment of acute wounds such as burns and invasive surgery that impact the wider population.
The main products within the AWM business are for Exudate management, Infection management, NPWT and Bioactives.
Suzhou AWM has its global headquarters in Hull, UK and its North In April distinguished guests from Suzhou Industrial American headquarters in St Petersburg, Florida.
Park and Jiangsu Province attended the of cial opening of the major extension to Smith & Advanced Wound Care Nephews Advanced Wound Management Exudate management manufacturing facility in Suzhou, China.
Exudate management products focus on effectively and The expansion more than doubled the size of the ef ciently locking away wound uid and creating an optimal healing environment to ensure better healing outcomes.
Our Suzhou facility, and is enabling Smith & Nephew to key brands in this space are ALLEVYN foam dressings and continue to develop its product portfolio both for the DURAFIBER gelling bre dressings.
Chinese market and for export.
Those manufactured During 2013, we continued to invest in the commercialisation at Suzhou include ALLEVYN, Smith & Nephews of ALLEVYN Life, our latest innovation in foam dressings, leading foam dressing brand, which is used in the designed to provide a better quality of life to the patient during treatment of hard to heal wounds such as leg ulcers, the healing process.
In several studies this has resulted in as well as new portfolios for the mid-tier across the better patient satisfaction, longer wear times and overall Emerging & International Markets.
"One recent article published in the Journal of Community Nursing stated Completed on time, to budget, and without a lost- ""Inemploying a design intended to combat the common time incident, the extension takes the total oor area problems of living with a wound, such as exudate leakage andconformability, the dressing has the potential to improve to 27,000 square meters and doubles the wound management practice and reduce the use of production capacity to over 100 million wound associated resources, such as nursing time""."
We are delivering on our Strategic concluded that around 2,500 working days could be saved Priority to Simplify and Improve our Operating annually asa result of using ALLEVYN Life.
Model by optimising our global manufacturing DURAFIBER has continued to grow over the course of 2013, footprint.
with customers switching from other products within the gelling bre segment.
China is of great strategic importance to Smith & Nephew.
We are proud of what we have achieved Infection management here and are investing for the long term.
We now AWM has two signi cant technologies in its infection have more than 900 people in China, working management portfolio, silver ACTICOAT, DURAFIBER Ag and acrossmanufacturing and commercial operations.
ALLEVYN Ag and iodine IODOSORB.
The iodine-based We havebuilt our success upon a sustainable and IODOSORB product has continued to gain interest as bio lms ethical approach to business, and are bringing this become a more important topic in wound care.
long-term commitment to our work, our employees We launched DURAFIBER Ag in 2013 and with it entered the and ourcommunities.
silver gelling bre market, one of the largest segments of the infection management market.
GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT 31 Other Advanced Wound Devices We also offer a wide range of other wound care products, Advanced Wound Devices consists of two categories which means we have one of the most comprehensive ranges ofproducts: NPWT andVERSAJET.
of wound care solutions in the industry.
These products include our lm and post-operative dressings, skincare NPWT products and gels.
Our NPWT solutions include traditional NPWT products ADERMA: Following the acquisition and integration of RENASYS products and the single-use portfolio ADERMA pressure relieving technology in 2012, the launch in PICOandKALYPTO products.
the UK and increase in ADERMA sales activity has seen it In its sixth year on the market, our RENASYS traditional NPWT rmly established as the market leader.
The UK governments brand has seen continuous improvement and innovation.
targeting of Pressure Ulcer Prevention and the known cost to Product updates in 2013 enhanced both function and user the UK health system has driven the adoption of ADERMA in experience with our RENASYS systems as a whole.
The both the Acute and Community sectors.
Due to the success in RENASYS product offering now includes multiple device the UK, plans are in place to launch ADERMA as Dermapad in options, a choice of foam or gauze dressings, along with 2014 into other healthcare markets with equally strong arange of drains and specialty kits.
With our Skincare portfolio, ADERMA Dermapad and ALLEYVN Life, we are well placed to The PICO system, our single-use, canister-free solution deliver a strong and comprehensive Pressure Ulcer Prevention isrevolutionising NPWT.
As familiar and easy to use as and treatment solution through a tested and validated value anadvanced wound dressing, PICO provides an active proposition into the Established Markets.
intervention to help promote optimal healing for early discharge and enhanced outcomes in complex cases.
IV 3000: AWMs specialist breathable premium IV dressing, PICOsimpli es NPWT.
utilising REALTIC lm technology and unique patterned adhesive, continues to perform well, particularly driven by emerging markets.
Success in these markets and elsewhere VERSAJET has identi ed an opportunity for a mid-tier offering.
The VERSAJET Hydrosurgery system is a mechanical debridement device used by surgeons to excise and evacuate OPSITE POST OP VISIBLE: This is our innovative dressing non-viable tissue, bacteria and contaminants from wound, thatcombines the qualities of a premium dressing with burns and soft tissue injuries.
theability to see the incision.
This unique product continues todeliver strong growth in both our Established and Emerging & International Markets as its adoption becomes more Advanced Wound Bioactives widespread backed by good clinical evidence.
Bioactives represent the fastest growing category of chronic wound therapeutics.
Our diversi ed biotherapeutic portfolio offers novel, cost-effective solutions for tissue repair and healing, addressing the full spectrum of hard-to-heal wounds.
Currently, our leading product is Collagenase SANTYL Ointment, the only FDA-approved biologic enzymatic debriding agent for chronic dermal ulcers and severe burns.
Other products include: REGRANEX Gel, a FDAapproved platelet-derived growth factor: and the OASIS family of naturally-derived, extracellular matrix replacement products indicated for the management of both chronic and traumatic wounds.
Additionally, the lead candidate in our bioactive pipeline isHP802-247, an investigational allogeneic living cell bioformulation containing keratinocytes and broblasts.
HP802-247 is currently in Phase III for the treatment of venous leg ulcers following positive Phase IIb clinical trial results, which were recently published in The Lancet.
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 32 GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT Segment performance: Advanced Wound Management continued Market and competition Regulatory approvals The AWM market is focused on the treatment of chronic In 2013, regulatory clearance was obtained for ALLEVYN Life wounds of the older population and other acute hard-to-heal Heel in the EU, US and Australia.
ELECT Super absorber was wounds such as burns and certain surgical wounds and is also approved in Europe.
The complete range of DURAFIBER therefore expected to bene t from demographic trends.
Ag sized dressings was approved in Europe and the US.
Growth is driven by an ageing population and by a steady ALLEVYN Ag Gentle and ALLEVYN Ag Gentle Border were both advance in technology and products that are more clinically approved in Japan.
ALLEVYN Gentle Border and ALLEVYN ef cient and cost-effective than their conventional Gentle were approved for import into China.
The market for advanced wound treatments is relatively unpenetrated and it is estimated that the potential PICO Single Use Negative Wound Therapy System was market is signi cantly larger than the current market.
approved in Brazil, Russia, Mexico and Korea.
Management believes that the market will continue the The next generation VERSAJET II system was approved in trendtowards advanced wound products with their ability Japan, China as well as several other Emerging & toaccelerate healing rates, reduce hospital stay times International Markets.
andcutthe cost of clinician and nursing time as well asaftercare in the home.
The RENASYS EZ PLUS pump and RENASYS Foam and Gauze dressing kits were approved in China.
Smith & Nephew estimates that the global wound management segment is worth approximately $7billion and RENASYS EZ MAX Negative Pressure Wound Therapy pump the segment served by Smith & Nephew grew by 4% in 2013. also received clearance in the US, EU and Australia.
Global competitors vary across the various product areas and RENASYS EZ PLUS and RENASYS GO were both certi ed as include Coloplast, Convatec, Kinetic Concepts and Molnlycke.
compliant with the third edition of IEC 60601 an important The 2013 Global NPWT market was at versus 2012.
Price standard for the safety of electro-medical devices.
pressures continue to offset the increase in patient therapy volumes.
Price pressures have increased in some key markets 2 EMERGING & INTERNATIONAL MARKETS due to competition, competitive bidding and reimbursement changes.
Market size is estimated to be $2billion.
Building our product portfolio Due to the nature of its product range there is little seasonal and commercial platform impact on the Advanced Wound Management business.
We are building strong businesses in the Emerging & International Markets by having close, direct relationships with our customers and by developing product portfolios that meet the needs of patients in theeconomic mid-tier.
In 2013 we furthered this strategy.
Our first mid-tier product, a low cost camera system, was launched.
We also acquired a portfolio of orthopaedic trauma products in India.
By developing and manufacturing in the Emerging & International Markets we are able to deliver both quality and value.
We also completed acquisitions of distributors in Turkey and Brazil.
Both these markets are fast-growing and offer exciting opportunities.
These are important investments whichwill create a signi cant platform from which we can grow.
Smith & Nephew is delivering on its strategic priority tobuild a sustainable business in the Emerging & International Markets.
GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT 33 5 SUPPLEMENT GROWTH THROUGH ACQUISITIONS Integrating Healthpoint Healthpoint Biotherapeutics, acquired in Healthpoints culture very much complemented late 2012, exceeded our expectations in its our own, with a clear focus on innovation, first year as a Smith & Nephew business.
customer needs and a commitment to a high With strong revenue growth of 47%, it met level of compliance and ethics.
The integration our Strategic Priority of Supplementing our team sought to retain the best on both sides OrganicGrowth through Acquisitions.
continuing to nurture the entrepreneurial spirit of Healthpoint, whilst bringing the The acquisition marked Smith & Nephews wider bene ts of Smith & Nephews global entry into Bioactives, the fastest growing organisation to that business.
The process segment of advanced woundcare.
It also gives culminated with the rebranding of Healthpoint us enhanced presence in the US, including to Smith & Nephew Biotherapeutics in access to new channels and capabilities.
During 2013, we delivered on our objective to Smith & Nephew now has leading brands integrate Healthpoint gradually into Smith & and positions in all the important Advanced Nephew to maximise the respective strengths Wound Management segments of Exudate of both companies and to avoid disruption to Management, Infection Management, Negative our customers.
Pressure Wound Therapy and Bioactives.
