SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 76 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued The Remuneration Committee also considered whether to apply the Commentary on 2013 performance multiplier to the annual incentive assessment of Olivier Bohuon and JulieBrown and agreed that no multiplier was appropriate in respect of Acquisitions and R&D investment 2013.
In summary the performance of the Executive Directors against the Olivier Bohuon Julie Brown targets set for 2013 was therefore as follows: Signi cantly increased investment Delivered Capital Allocation Between in organic R&D and, through Framework that ensures highly Between target successful M&A, further disciplined use of cash: enabling Below threshold and Above strengthened the Groups business focused investment in key areas and threshold and target maximum maximum and product pipeline.
More closely balance sheet ef ciency.
Supported Revenue 30% aligned R&D to growth the completion of three emerging opportunities including meeting market deals over the year.
Return Trading pro t 30% theneeds of emerging market on investment assessments Trading cash 10% customers.
Increased the rate of established for R&D and Capital innovation to support sustainable investments to ensure resources Business objectives growth and maximise long-term areallocated to areas that generate 30% : Olivier Bohuon value to Shareholders.
the best return for business.
Business objectives Succession planning 30% : Julie Brown Multiplier - 10% : N A Olivier Bohuon Julie Brown Olivier Bohuon Succession plans refreshed for all Strengthened finance management Multiplier - 10% : N A Executive Of cers and top talent team through providing stretching Julie Brown identi ed, developed and retained development opportunities for key through signi cant personal individuals and placement of top In summary, as a result of the performance described above, the engagement across the Company.
Completed comprehensive Remuneration Committee determined that the following awards be Finance Talent Review and madeunder the Annual Incentive Plan in respect of performance in 2013: established succession plans for allkey finance leadership positions.
Executive Director Cash component Equity component Employee engagement % of salary Amount % of salary Amount Olivier Bohuon Julie Brown Olivier Bohuon 125% 1,350,794 65% 702,975 Delivered demonstrable Increased business knowledge, Julie Brown 110% 549,500 50% 250,000 improvements from implementation cross-functional alignment, of 2012 Employee Survey actions empowerment and personal As both Olivier Bohuon and Julie Brown achieved the targets set them and initiated Great places to Work development across the finance in2013, the first tranche of Equity Incentive Award made in 2013 and the in initial tranche of 12 countries.
function, ensured employees second tranche of the Equity Incentive Award made in 2012 to Olivier embrace objectives in context Bohuon only will vest.
ofGroup strategy and pursue stretching goals.
Annual Incentive Plan 2014 Compliance The Remuneration Committee has also reviewed the Annual Incentive Olivier Bohuon Julie Brown Plan arrangements for 2014 and has determined that the following performance measures and weightings will apply to the financial Consistently demonstrated the Set the tone from the top with the objectives as in 2013.
The business objectives for the ExecutiveDirectors highest personal ethics, held highest personal standards and for 2014 will therefore be as follows: management to these same ensured timely and rigorous standards, and reinforced enactment of financial controls Financial objectives imperative in all employee onallstrategic plans, product communications.
Olivier Bohuon Julie Brown Development of product portfolio Revenue 30% 70% 70% Olivier Bohuon Julie Brown Trading pro t 30% Delivered high cadence of new Not applicable Trading cash 10% products including first portfolios for the emerging markets, major Business objectives knee platform, Sports Medicine Olivier Bohuon Julie Brown advances and 25 Advanced Wound Management launches.
Reinvestment 5%10% Business 25% 20% Shared services People Olivier Bohuon Julie Brown Customer Not applicable Initiated a Finance Transformation Programme to consolidate shared services globally to leverage ef ciency across the Group and strengthen KPI reporting.
