GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT 19 Our business Our mission is to deliver advanced medical technologies Improving quality of life Research and development Smith & Nephews business model, set out on page 7, We have a deep knowledge of the needs of surgeons and supports our mission to deliver advanced medical nurses, we understand the economic pressures healthcare technologies to help healthcare professionals, our customers, payers work under, and we recognise that patients are improve the quality of life for their patients.
demanding better treatment options to restore quality of life.
These factors inform our research and development R&D Through it we: strategy, which is at the heart of our business model.
invest in research & development to create innovative In 2013, we again delivered many new and innovative newsolutions that improve clinical outcomes and reduce products.
These included a major new knee platform, the economic burden on healthcare systems: theJOURNEY II BCS: the first sports medicine product to use rigorously enforce regulatory and compliance standards, Smith&Nephews proprietary advanced biocomposite conducting business ethically everywhere we operate: material inthe HEALICOIL REGENESORB Suture Anchor: ensure our manufacturing, supply and distribution footprint andDURAFIBER Ag, combining a highly absorbent, gelling is lean and ef cient: bre dressing with the antimicrobial bene ts of silver.
provide medical education and product training to We have a strong new product pipeline for 2014, with many healthcare professionals to help ensure safe and effective innovations scheduled, in particular in Sports Medicine Joint treatment for patients: and Repair, Trauma and Advanced Wound Management.
support our sales and marketing teams to guarantee our These new products, and many more currently in customers have the advanced technologies and supporting development, are a result of our focus on R&D.
Weinvested services they need to treat their patients.
At 5.3% of revenue this is an Our business model is underpinned by our values and Capital increase from the 4.1% spent in theprevious year.
We expect Allocation Framework: to maintain our investment levelat around 5% of revenue our values of Innovation, Trust and Performance focus our going forward.
people on being responsive to the needs of our customers: We are highly disciplined in project selection.
Our R&D experts energetic, creative and passionate in our work: and building in the UK, US, Europe, China and India have extensive lasting and close relationships with our stakeholders: and customer and sector knowledge, which is augmented by Our Capital Allocation Framework enables us to invest for ongoing interaction with our marketing teams.
Strict criteria are thefuture, both in organic growth and through acquisitions, applied to ensure new products ful l an unmet clinical need, whilst also generating value for Shareholders today through have astrong commercial case, and are technologically a progressive dividend policy and commitment to return any feasible.
OurR&D teams also work closely with manufacturing excess capital.
and supply chain management to ensure we can produce By implementing our Strategic Priorities we increase newproducts to clinical, cost and time speci cation.
momentum throughout the business model to: Open Innovation build on our strong position in the Established Markets: As part of our R&D strategy, Smith & Nephew supports and realise the signi cant opportunities in the Emerging & works with numerous small companies looking for help with InternationalMarkets: developing and commercialising new technologies.
maintain an unremitting focus to innovate for value: As supporters of NASAs TecFusion Open Innovation simplify and improve our operating model to programme we access and support companies developing maximiseef ciency: and highly creative, often disruptive, technologies that are funded supplement our organic growth through acquisitions.
by the US federal government.
We are a primary sponsor of the Massachusetts Medical Device Development Center 'M2D2' New Venture Competition, supporting entrepreneurial product developmentby early-stage medical device companies.
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 20 GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT Our business continued We are the commercial partner in SWAN-iCare, an EU-funded In addition to protecting our market position by ling and initiative to bring multidisciplinary European research teams enforcing patents and trademarks, we may oppose third party together to deliver a next generation integrated autonomous patents and trademark lings where appropriate in those solution for monitoring and adapting personalised therapy of areas that might con ict with our business interests.
In the ordinary course of business, we enter into a number of licensing arrangements with respect to our products.
None of InVentures these arrangements individually is considered material to our current operations and financial results.
Smith & Nephew also welcomes new product concepts fromsurgeons.
Through our InVentures programme we collaborate to bring ideas to reality.
InVentures evaluates Regulatory and compliance surgeon concepts for technical and market viability and our development team works hand-in-hand with surgeons to Code of conduct and business principles deliver new products that advance healing.
Commercialised Smith & Nephew earns trust with patients, customers, products bene t from the global selling power of healthcare professionals, authorities and the public by acting Smith& Nephew.
in an honest and fair manner in all aspects of its operations.
In 2013, we introduced a new MODULAR RAIL SYSTEM for We expect the same from those with whom we do business, deformity correction and limb restoration that was designed including distributors and independent agents that sell our incollaboration with Dror Paley MD through the InVentures products, as well as vendors that interact with others on our programme.
This new treatment option highlights our behalf.
Our Code of Conduct and Business Principles Code increased investment in extremities and limb restoration, and governs the way we operate to achieve these objectives.
our commitment to working directly with surgeon inventors.
Smith & Nephew takes into account ethical, social, environmental, legal and financial considerations as part of its Intellectual property operating methods.
We have a robust whistle-blowing system in all jurisdictions in which Smith & Nephew operates.
We are We protect the results of our research and development committed to upholding our promise in our Code that we will through patents and other forms of intellectual property.
The not retaliate against anyone who makes a report in good faith.
Groups patent portfolio currently includes in excess of 5,000 patents and patent applications.
Patent protection for our New employees receive training on our Code, and we assign products is sought routinely in our principal markets.
annual compliance training to employees.
In 2013, we created two additional courses: a refresher course on Preventing We also have a policy of protecting our products by registering Bribery and Corruption and Effective Communication.
trademarks under the local laws of markets in which such products are sold.
We vigorously protect our trademarks against infringement.
Global compliance programme Smith & Nephew has implemented what we believe is a 3 INNOVATE FOR VALUE world-class Global Compliance Programme that helps our businesses manage risk and comply with laws and New treatment for venous leg ulcers regulations.
In 2013, Smith & Nephew continued to strengthen HP802-247 is an investigational human cell therapy for its comprehensive compliance programme, which includes thetreatment of venous leg ulcers currently in Phase III global policies and procedures, on-boarding and annual trials.
Results from Phase IIb trials investigating the ef cacy training for its employees, managers, independent agents and of HP802-247 were previously published in The Lancet.
key employees of distributors and high risk vendors around the world, monitoring and auditing processes, and reporting Based on in vitro studies, HP802-247 is believed to channels.
Through a global intranet website, we provide releasevarious growth factors and cytokines into the resources and tools to guide employees to make decisions micro-environment of the wound.
These living cells that comply with the law and our Code and earn trust.
We areanticipated to interact with the patients own cells to conduct advance review and approval for any signi cant stimulate wound healing.
HP802-247 has been designed interactions with healthcare professionals or government to deliver a fide ned cell ratio keratinocyte: broblasts to of cials.
New distributors are subject to due diligence and are support optimal tissue regeneration.
contractually obligated to comply with applicable laws and Venous leg ulcers are increasingly common and costly to ourCode.
Their management are required to take compliance healthcare systems and acause of prolonged suffering training and certify that they will ensure their employees and forpatients.
These wounds are caused by swelling and agents comply with the law and our Code.
In 2013, we in ammation secondary to blockage or back ow in the launched a compliance programme toolkit, in multiple veins of the legs.
many venous ulcers fail to heal even languages, for our distributors to provide them with the afterthree months of standard treatment and develop resources toestablish their own compliance programme.
The toolkit includes draft policies, training materials and approval forms.
Based on an estimated gure of 2.5 million venous leg ulcers in the United States alone and a study of actual direct treatment costs of $9,685 per person, the annual cost of treating these wounds is likely to be in the many billions of dollars.
Accordingly, the availability of innovative and more effective treatment strategies for such high-risk wounds could provide tremendous bene ts to both patients and society.
GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT 21 In 2012, under the terms of the Companys Foreign Corrupt Finished goods purchased for resale include screen displays, Practices Act FCPA settlement see Note 17.3 of the Notes to optical and electrical devices in the Advanced Surgical Devices the Group accounts, we retained an independent monitor to division and skincare products in the Advanced Wound review the effectiveness of our compliance programme and Management division.
make recommendations, as appropriate, for further We operate a number of manufacturing facilities around enhancements to the programme.
In collaboration with the theglobe, which are predominantly division speci c, and a independent monitor, our programme has been enhanced number of central distribution facilities in the key geographical even further.
In late 2013, the monitor completed his 18-month areas in which we operate.
Products are shipped to Group review and concluded that Smith & Nephew's compliance companies which hold small amounts of inventory locally programme is reasonably designed and implemented to forimmediate or urgent customer requirements.
detect and prevent violations of the anti-corruption laws and isfunctioning effectively.
Smith & Nephew will report directly Advanced Surgical Devices tothe US Department of Justice 'DOJ' and the US Securities and Exchange Commission 'SEC' for the remainder of the The Advanced Surgical Devices divisions largest three-year settlement agreement.
manufacturing operation is based in Memphis Tennessee, US, with additional production and assembly plants based inMans eld Massachusetts, US, Oklahoma City Oklahoma, Manufacturing US, Aarau Switzerland, Tuttlingen Germany, Beijing China, We continue to implement Lean Manufacturing throughout our Calgary Canada, Warwick UK and Sangameshwar India.
factories and the supply chain to improve and sustain higher The Memphis facilities produce key products and levels of service, quality, productivity and ef ciency.
instrumentation in our Knee Implants, Hip Implant and Trauma Core competencies include: materials technology: highfranchises.
Theseinclude the JOURNEY II BCS and LEGION precision machining in Advanced Surgical Devices: and knees, the ANTHOLOGY Primary Hip System and key Trauma high-volume, automated manufacturing in Advanced products such as the PERI-LOC Ankle Fusion Plating System Wound Management.
In addition to this, Memphis isthe home to the design and manufacturing process of 4 SIMPLIFY AND IMPROVE OUR OPERATING MODEL theVISIONAIRE Patient Matched Instrumentation Sets.
Perpetual ef ciency The Mans eld facility focuses on sports medicine related products for minimally invasive surgery including the FAST FIX The signi cant investments undertaken in 2013 have 360 Meniscal Repair System, FOOTPRINT PK Suture Anchor, beenpossible through our successful drive to be more DYONICS Platinum Shaver Blades, ENDOBUTTON CL Ultra ef cient, reduce cost, and simplify and improve our and the HEALICOIL PK suture anchor.
In 2011, we announced a programme to generate annual The Aarau, Tuttlingen, Beijing and Warwick facilities produce savings of $150 million.
As a result of our work to date, we alarge number of products including key Trauma products, have annualised bene ts of $131 million.
The programme thePLUS knee and hip range and the BIRMINGHAM Hip will be largely complete by the end of 2014.
The facility in Oklahoma City deals mainlywith the assembly of surgical digital equipment, Signi cant actions included a major reorganisation suchasHD560 Camera.
whenwe created the Advanced Surgical Devices division, the opening of an extension to our Advanced A distribution facility in Baar Switzerland serves as the main Wound Management factory in Suzhou, China, and holding and consolidation point for markets in Europe.
In the theintroduction of a major new IT platform.
US, the distribution hub is located in Memphis.
We are now a leaner business, and, as importantly, we are embedding a culture of perpetual ef ciency into our Advanced Wound Management processes and future thinking.
Advanced Wound Management is headquartered in Hull UK which is home to a large proportion of the divisions manufacturing activities.
There are also manufacturing We purchase raw materials, components, nished products facilities in Gilberdyke UK, Suzhou China, Curaao and packaging materials fromcertain key suppliers.
These DutchCaribbean, Alberta Canada and Oklahoma City.
principally include metal forgings and stampings for orthopaedic products, optical and electronic sub-components The products made at the Hull site cover the therapies and nished goods for sports medicine products, active ofExudate Management Foam products principally ingredients and nished goods forAdvanced Wound ALLEVYN, Burns treatment ACTICOAT and Wound Closure Management and packaging materials across all businesses.
Several brands produced in Hull, such Suppliers are selected, and contracts negotiated, by a as JELONET and BACTIGRAS, will be transitioning to Suzhou centralised procurement team wherever possible, with a view in 2014. to ensure value for money based on the total spend across A key base material used in the production of a large number the Group.
of dressings is the intermediate bulk rolls of lm which We outsource manufacturing where necessary to obtain aremanufactured in the Gilberdyke UK facility.
The facility in specialised expertise or where it is possible to gain lower Alberta Canada provides speci c expertise in the addition costwithout undue risk to intellectual property.
Suppliers of ofsilver coatings onto the ACTICOAT burns range prior to outsourced products and services are selected based on their shipping to Hull for the final conversion process into ability to deliver products and services to speci cation, and nished dressings.
establish and maintain a quality system.
Suppliers are trained and are monitored through on-site assessments and performance audits that include quality, service and delivery.
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 22 GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT Our business continued The Suzhou facility opened in 2009 initially to Sales and marketing manufacturesome Foam products within Exudate Our customers are the providers of medical and surgical Management.
Ithas since expanded to take on treatments and services in over 90 countries worldwide.
productionofsome Film Wound Closure products.
Thelargest single customer worldwide is a purchasing group NPWT is an area of the business which is growing strongly.
based in the UK that represented 6% of our worldwide The majority of the NPWT components are bought in from revenue in 2013. thirdparties and assembled in the Advanced Surgical Devices In our Established Markets, our Advanced Surgical Devices Oklahoma City facility, with the exception of the dressings areprincipally shipped and invoiced directly to healthcare used for the PICO product which are manufactured in Hull.
providers, hospitals and other healthcare facilities.
Certain Manufacturing for Advanced Wound Bioactives takes place Advanced Wound Management products are shipped and inCuraao, and at various third party facilities in the US.
The invoiced to wholesale distributors and others are consigned products are distributed from a third party logistics facility in todistributors that lease the devices to healthcare providers, San Antonio, Texas.
hospitals and other healthcare facilities and end-users.
Advanced Wound Management distribution hubs are located Each division operates its own dedicated sales force as the in Neunkirchen Germany and Derby UK for international customer for the divisions products are usually different.
Our distribution, Bedford UK for UK domestic distribution and US sales forces consist of a mixture of independent contract Lawrenceville Georgia, US for US distribution.
Sales agents are contractually prohibited from selling products that compete with our products.
In most Other Established Markets, each division Medical education typically manages employee sales forces directly.
Smith & Nephew is dedicated to helping healthcare In our Emerging & International Markets we operate professionals improve the quality of care for patients.
We are throughdirect selling and marketing operations, and through proud to support the professional development of surgeons distributors.
In these markets, our Advanced Surgical Devices and nurses by providing them with medical education and franchises frequently share sales resources.
The Advanced training on our Advanced Surgical Devices and Advanced Wound Management sales force may be separate where it Wound Management products.
Every year thousands of customers attend our state-of-the-art training centres in the US, UK and China and Smith & Nephew Our people courses at multiple hospitals and facilities around the world.
Working under expert guidance, attendees re ne techniques Smith & Nephew had over 11,000 employees in 2013.
We are and learn new skills, whilst experiencing the safe and effective committed to attracting, engaging, developing and retaining use of our products.
We also support healthcare professionals employees as well as tobeing a responsible corporate citizen.
through our online resources such as the Global Wound Our employees are dedicated to our core values of Innovation, Academy and, for surgeons, our Education and Trust and Performance which represent the foundation of Evidence website.
Investing in our people and communities helps ensure the 1 ESTABLISHED MARKETS long-term sustainability of our business.
In 2013, we executed actions to address employee feedback from our Global Survey Pioneering e-learning and also participated in the Great Places to Work survey in We have extended our commitment to medical education many of our markets.
in2013 with the launch of Education and Evidence, a new e-learning platform for surgeons toaccess and share Attracting the best talent and developing and engaging peer-to-peer educational resources.
It follows the success ouremployees is critical to achieving and sustaining of our Global Wound Academy www.
ourbusiness objectives and overall performance.
Our com which has more than 46,000 registered users.
appointments are made on merit and in alignment with a core set of competencies and values of which ethics and integrity Education and Evidence supports joint repair and are central.
We prioritise the development and promotion of replacement, extremities and trauma specialties.
com education hosts more than 1,000 videos, articles, surgical techniques, podcasts, training courses, tablet PC apps and TM iBooks.
It uses an innovative search engine and self-pro ling to tailor content to users, while also enabling the sharing ofresources with colleagues.
Through these powerful e-learning tools we are delivering on our Strategic Priorities, reinforcing our position in the Established Markets and extending ourreach in the Emerging & International Markets.
GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT 23 Each year, Smith & Nephew conducts a comprehensive We aim to provide an open, challenging, productive and globaldevelopment and capability review process to identify participative environment based on constructive relationships.
high-potential employees and ensure they have career We maintain good communications with employees through development plans in place.
Talented employees are provided regular and timely information and consultation.
with opportunities to develop and grow their skills and career.
We provide clearly communicated goals and performance Current programmes include the CEO Forum, designed to standards, and the training, information and authority needed develop talent and provide exposure to the broader business, to do a good job.
We provide fair recognition and reward and the General Managers Meeting, held annually to align based on performance.
Our annual CEO Award recognises these key leaders with the Groups strategy and goals.
In employees who deliver exceptional results in-line with our addition, the Board reviews succession plans for key executive core values, encouraging innovation and a spirit of continuous roles.
We have succession plans for critical positions across improvement at all levels.
We are committed to working with our business and have taken proactive steps to recruit employees to develop each individuals talents, skills and specialist and leadership talent to augment our current team.
We provide encouragement to learn and progress Our performance management process ensures all and to participate fully in the quest for continuous employees set objectives which align to our overall business improvement.
We recruit, employ and promote employees on goals.
Reward systems are focused on promoting highthe sole basis of the quali cations and abilities needed for the performance and ethical behaviour.
Our Code of Conduct is work to be performed.
We do not tolerate discrimination on an important measure of individual performance.
All any grounds and provide equal opportunity based on merit.
employees are required each year to complete training We are committed to building diversity in a working andcertify their adherence to this Code.
environment where there is mutual trust and respect and Smith & Nephew strives to create a more engaged and where everyone feels responsible for the performance and productive workforce and focuses on measures to drive reputation of our Company.
We are committed to providing employee engagement.
These include an understanding of healthy and safe working conditions for all employees.
We the Groups mission and direction, sense of employee achieve this by ensuring that health and safety and the involvement, focus and adaptability to customers and market working environment are managed as an integral part of the place.
We continue to listen to our employees, via regular business, and we recognise employee involvement as a key surveys and focus groups, and we value their opinions.
We do not use any form of forced, compulsory or child labour.
Diversity at Smith & Nephew We support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations.
This means we respect the human rights, Smith & Nephew believes that diversity fuels innovation.
dignity and privacy of the individual and the right of employees Weare committed to employment practices based on equality to freedom of association, freedom of expression and the right of opportunity, regardless of colour, creed, race, national to be heard.
origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation or mental orphysical disability unrelated to the ability of the person to perform the essential functions of the job.
The Board and Executive Of cers continue to recognise theimportance of diversity and over the last two years haveexpanded their own diversity pro le.
Three of our 12Boardmembers are female.
At 31 December 2013, Smith & Nephew had the following breakdown of employees: 1 Number of Employees Directors Male 9 Female 3 Total 12 2 Senior Managers and above Male 484 Female 140 Total 624 Total employees Male 7,203 Female 4,821 Total 12,024 1 Number of employees as at 31 December 2013 including part time employees and employees on leave of absence.
2 Senior managers and above includes all employees classed as Directors, Senior Directors, Vice Presidents and Executive Of cers and includes all statutory Directors of our subsidiary companies.
