Bringing technology to life with effective, focused leadership 68 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Board of directors 70 Corporate governance statement 73 Directors remuneration report 84 Group directors report 96 Board visit to John Crane, Chicago As part of the 2013 programme of visits to the Groups businesses, the Board visited the new John Crane headquarters in Chicago and nearby manufacturing facility in Morton Grove.
The visit included a tour of the recently improved facility, the opportunity to meet employees involved in specialist production areas, and updates on business strategy and performance from senior management.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 69 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Board of directors Donald Brydon, CBE Chairman Aged 68, Donald Brydon is British and has a BSc in Mathematical Science.
He started his career in investment management and has chaired a number of major companies.
He became Chairman of Smiths Group in 2004.
Donald will retire from the Board and as Chairman of the Company after the Annual General Meeting AGM on 19 November 2013.
Strengths and experience Donald had a 20-year career with Barclays Group, during which time he was Chairman and Chief Executive of BZW Investment Management and acting Chief Executive of BZW.
This was followed by 10 years with the AXA Group where he held the posts of Chairman and Chief Executive of AXA Investment Managers and was Chairman of AXA Framlington.
He was formerly the chairman of the London Metal Exchange, Taylor Nelson Sofres plc and Amersham plc and a non-executive director of Allied Domecq plc and Scottish Power plc.
Committee membership Chairman of the Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee External appointments Chairman of Royal Mail Group plc and Chairman of its Nominations committee Chairman of Sage Group plc Chairman of the Medical Research Council Sir George Buckley Bruno Angelici Deputy Chairman Non-executive director Aged 66, Sir George Buckley joined the Board on 1 August 2013 Aged 66, Bruno Angelici is French with a MBA Kellogg School as a non-executive director and Deputy Chairman and will succeed of Management and Business and Law degrees from Reims.
Donald Brydon as Chairman on Donalds planned retirement at He was appointed to the Board of Smiths Group in 2010. the close of the AGM on 19 November 2013.
A citizen of both the Strengths and experience UK and US, Sir George has a PhD in electrical engineering.
Brunos career includes senior management roles in Strengths and experience pharmaceutical and medical device companies.
Bruno Sir George retired in 2012 as Chairman and CEO of 3M, the USretired from AstraZeneca in 2010 as Executive Vice President, based global technology company and Dow Jones 30 component, International after a 20-year career.
He was responsible for after a long and successful business career spent mainly in the Europe, Japan, Asia Pacific, Latin America, Middle East and Africa United States.
He was previously Chairman and CEO of Brunswick and originally joined as President of ICI Pharma France.
Prior Corporation and Chief Technology Officer at Emerson Electric to this, he was at Baxter, a US-based global supplier of medical Company.
Sir Georges expertise in engineering and innovation, devices.
He has extensive international experience, including combined with his extensive experience of multi-industry in the US, and brings a deep understanding to the Group of the businesses that operate in global markets are of huge benefit medical device and pharmaceutical industries.
Committee memberships Committee membership Audit Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee External appointments External appointments Chairman of Ownership Capital Member of the Global Advisory Board of Takeda Pharmaceutical Chairman of Arle Capital Company Ltd, Japan Non-executive director of Hitachi Ltd. Non-executive director and member of the Nomination Committee of Novo Nordisk A S, a Danish healthcare company Non-executive director of PepsiCo Member of the Supervisory Board and the Audit Committee Non-executive director of Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. of Wolters Kluwer nv, a Dutch-based information services and publishing company 70 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013
