The expiry dates shown above apply in normal circumstances.
No expiry date is shown if the option or award was exercised or vested or lapsed prior to 17 September 2013 # Mid-market closing price of a Smiths share on the business day preceding the date of grant.
The exercise price of an option under the SAYE is set at 20% less than the mid-market closing price of a Smiths share on the business day immediately preceding the day on which employees are invited to participate in the grant.
## Actual sale price on date of option exercise or vesting of award.
94 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 Performance tests A LTIP Earnings Per Share EPS growth test B LTIP Total Shareholder Return TSR rank test C LTIP Cash Conversion test D CIP Return on Capital Employed ROCE test E Surplus Shareholder Value VSP 2008 TSR Test F Surplus Internal Value VSP 2008 PBT Test G Surplus Shareholder Value VSP 2010 TSR Test H Surplus Internal Value VSP 2010 PBT Test There are no performance criteria for SAYE.
All the relevant performance targets can be found in the 2011 and 2012 Annual Reports.
Notes The high and low market prices of the ordinary shares during the period 1 August 2012 to 31 July 2013 were 1010p and 1456p respectively.
The mid-market closing price on 31 July 2012 was 1067p and on 31 July 2013 was 1385p.
The mid-market closing prices of a Smiths share on the dates of awards made to directors in the 2012 13 financial year was 1076p for the CIP Awards and the LTIP Awards.
The option over 2,750 shares granted to and held by directors under SAYE at 31 July 2013 was granted at an exercise price below the market price of a Smiths Group share on 16 September 2013 1373p.
None of the options or awards listed above was subject to any payment on grant.
No options or awards held by any director lapsed during the period 1 August 2012 to 31 July 2013.
No other Director held any options over the Companys shares during the period 1 August 2012 to 31 July 2013.
No options or awards have been granted to or exercised by directors or have lapsed during the period 1 August to 17 September 2013.
At 31 July 2013 the trustee of the Employee Share Trust held 855 shares none of the directors had an interest in these shares at 31 July 2013.
The market value of the shares held by the trustee on 31 July 2013 was 11,842 and dividends of approximately 330 were waived in the year in respect of the shares held by the trustee during the year.
Special provisions permit early exercise of options and vesting of awards in the event of retirement, redundancy, death, etc.
In relation to the 2008 Group VSP, over the four-year period from 1 August 2008 to 31 July 2012, Smiths TSR did not result in the vesting of any shares under that element of the award.
Under the four-year Earnings Element of the 2008 Group VSP, performance is measured in terms of absolute growth in Adjusted Headline Profit times a multiple, plus net equity cash-flows to shareholders.
During the year, the Earnings Element was adjusted to reflect additional payments that were made to further reduce the pension deficit during the performance period.
Smiths performance resulted in 1,052m of value created above the 9.5% p. a. hurdle rate resulting in 175,193 shares vesting to the Chief Executive on 18 October 2012.
Under the four-year portion of the 2008 Group VSP, therefore, the total number of shares vesting to the Chief Executive was 175,193.
Smiths ROCE over the performance period for the 2009 CIP awards 1 August 2009 to 31 July 2012 exceeded the Companys weighted average costs of capital WACC over the period by more than 3% p. a.
Accordingly the 2009 CIP Awards vested in full.
The notional gross dividends accrued in respect of the performance period amounted to 117.23 per share.
This amount, after deduction of income tax and national insurance contributions, was paid in cash in respect of each share that vested.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 95 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Group directors report Principal activities Changes in the Company and its interests during The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries the financial year the Group are and, during the year ended 31 July 2013, On 15 October 2012 the Company announced that it had closed were the development, manufacture, sale and support of: a US$400m dollar-denominated bond offering the Notes following its launch on 5 October 2012.
The Notes have a 10-year detection technologies, including x-ray, trace detection, infra-red maturity and were priced at a fixed coupon of 3.625%.
and gamma ray spectroscopy and millimetre-wave, that detect and identify explosives, narcotics, weapons, chemical agents, On 31 May 2013 the Company confirmed thatit had received biohazards, nuclear and radioactive materials and contraband: a preliminary approach for the Medical division.
engineered products and services for the major process On 17 June 2013 the Company announcedthe appointment of industries, including oil and gas, power generation, chemical, Sir George Buckley as its Chairman, effective from the close of its pharmaceutical, pulp and paper and mining sectors: Annual General Meeting on 19 November 2013.
He will succeed Donald Brydon whose planned retirement was announced at the medical devices and consumables for medication delivery: AGM in 2012.
Sir George joined the Smiths Board on 1August2013 vital care: and the safety of healthworkers and patients: as a non-executive director and Deputy Chairman and a member technically differentiated electronic components and subof the Nomination and Remuneration committees.
systems providing signal, power and microwave solutions for On 31 July 2013 the Company soldland at New North Road, the global data centre, wireless telecommunications, aerospace, Hainault for 5.8m.
defence, space, medical, rail, test and industrial markets: and Post balance sheet events engineered components including ducting, hose assemblies On 2 August 2013 the Company announced that discussions about and heating elements that move and heat fluids and gases for the possible sale of the Medical division had been terminated.
the aerospace, medical, industrial, construction and domestic appliance markets.
Charitable and political donations During the financial year the Group made donations of 453,000 The main manufacturing operations are in the UK, the Americas, for charitable purposes.
This comprised payments totalling Continental Europe and China.
303,000 to the Institute of Child Health at the Great Ormond Business review and model future strategy and development Street Hospital, in sponsorship of the Smiths Medical Professor research and development of Anaesthesia and Critical Care and the Portex Anaesthesia, The statements and reviews on pages 8 to 72 comprise the Group Intensive Care and Respiratory Unit: 18,000 to UK charities in business review and are incorporated by reference, forming part the health and education fields: and other donations made by of this Directors report.
This is a review of the development and the Company and its businesses worldwide.
The Group supports performance of the business of the Group, including the financial charities working in the areas of health: education and wellperformance during the financial year ended 31 July 2013: key being: and the environment.
The Group made contributions to performance indicators: and the principal risks and uncertainties non-EU political parties totalling 18,500 during the year.
It also includes an explanation of the basis on political contributions were made on a bi-partisan basis in the which the Group generates or preserves value over the longer US, in accordance with USfederal andstate election laws, in term and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Group order to raise awareness and to promote the interests of the and information on likely future developments and activities in Company.
The Group has a number of key manufacturing sites the field of research and development.
The cautionary statement and approximately8,500 employees in the US.
set out on the inside front cover of this Annual Report forms part Directors of this Annual Report and is incorporated by reference into the Messrs B. F. J. Angelici, P. Bowman, D. H. Brydon, CBE, D. J. Challen, Business review.
CBE and P. A. Turner: Ms T. D. Fratto: Ms A. C. Quinn, CBE: and Results and dividends Sir Kevin Tebbit, KCB, CMG all served as directors of the Company The results for the financial year ended 31 July 2013 are set throughout the year.
Sir George Buckley was appointed as a nonout in the Consolidated income statement.
Revenues for the year executive director and as Deputy Chairman on 1 August 2013. amounted to 3,109m 2012: 3,030m.
The profit for the year Reappointment of directors after taxation amounted to 358.2m 2012: 258.2m.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the An interim dividend of 12.5p per ordinary share of 37.5p was directors, except for Mr Brydon and Sir George Buckley, will retire paid on 26 April 2013.
The directors recommend for payment on voluntarily from office at the AGM and will seek re-election.
Mr 22November 2013 a final cash dividend of 27p on each ordinary Brydon will leave the Company at the end of the AGM and so will share of 37.5p, making a total ordinary dividend of 39.5p for the not stand for re-election.
Sir George Buckley will retire from the financial year.
In addition, the directors recommend for payment Board at the AGM, in accordance with Article 49 of the Companys on 22 November 2013 a special cash dividend of 30p per ordinary Articles of Association, following his appointment during the year, share.
The ex-dividend date and the record date for both dividends and, being eligible, will seek election.
Separate resolutions to will be 23 October and 25 October 2013, respectively.
re-elect or elect each of them, apart from Mr Brydon, as a director of the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
Biographical details The retained profit of 358.2m was transferred to Reserves.
of all the directors are set out on pages 70 to 72.
Directors remuneration report The Directors remuneration report is on pages 84 to 95.
An ordinary resolution to approve the report will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
96 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 Directors interests in contracts Going concern Details of the executive directors service contracts are as The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely disclosed in the service contracts section of the Directors to affect its future development, performance and position are set remuneration report on page 86.
Details of the interests of the out in the Business review on pages 28 to 53.
The financial position executive directors in the Companys share option schemes of the Company, its cash-flows, liquidity position and borrowing and plans are shown in the Directors remuneration report facilities are described in the Financial review on pages 50 to 52. on pages94and 95.
In addition, the notes to the accounts include the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined by section financial risk management objectives: details of its financial 234 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act have remained in instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit force for the directors during the financial year ended 31 July 2013 risk and liquidity risk.
and, at the date of this report, are in force for the benefit of the current directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which At 31 July 2013 the Group had available cash and short-term they may incur or may have incurred to third parties in the course deposit resources of 394m and undrawn committed borrowing of their professional duties for the Company.
facilities of US$800m which are due to expire in 2015 unless otherwise extended or reviewed.
Whilst these facilities have Apart from the exceptions referred to above, no director had an certain financial covenants they are not expected to prevent interest in any contract to which the Company or its subsidiaries full utilisation of the facilities if required.
This, together with the was a party during the year.
maturity profile of debt, provides confidence that the Group has Interests in voting rights sufficient financial resources for the foreseeable future.
As a As at 31 July 2013 the Company had been notified, pursuant to the consequence, the directors believe that the Company is well FCAs Disclosure & Transparency Rules, of notifiable voting rights placed to manage its business despite the current uncertain in its issued share capital or had received disclosures pursuant economic environment which increases risk and uncertainties to the 2006 Act of interests in its share capital, as follows: see pages 56 to 61.
In coming to this conclusion, the directors have taken account of the Groups risk management process, Percentage described on pages 79 to 82, and have paid particular attention of issued Number ordinary to the financial and pension funding risks and their mitigation of shares share capital see page 58.
BlackRock, Inc. 16.4m 4.2% The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a Ameriprise Financial reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have Threadneedle Asset Management 18.3m 4.6% adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the M&G Investment 17.4m 4.4% foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern Massachusetts Financial Services Company 18.5m 4.7% basis of accounting in preparing the annual accounts of the Harris Associates LP 20.2m 5.1% Company and the Group.
Percentage of ordinary share capital in issue on 31 July 2013.
Policy on payment of creditors The Company has not been notified of any other changes to the The Companys policy and practice is to pay creditors including notifiable voting rights in its shares during the period 1 August suppliers promptly in accordance with agreed terms of business.
The average time taken to pay an invoice was33 days 2012: 41 for the parent Company and45 days 2012: 41 for the Group The interests of the directors, their families and any connected as a whole.
persons in the issued share capital of the Company are shown in the Directors remuneration report on page 93.
Share capital and control As at 31 July 2013, the Companys issued share capital was Corporate governance statement 147,681,941 and comprised 393,818,510 ordinary shares of 37.5p The Corporate governance statement is on pages73 to83 each nominal value ordinary shares.
The ordinary shares are and is incorporated in this Directors report by reference.
listed on the London Stock Exchange.
 LLP has reviewed the Companys statements as to compliance with the UK Corporate Governance The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Code, to the extent required by the UK Listing Authority Listing Companys reports and accounts: to attend and speak at general Rules.
The results of its review are set out in the Independent meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies and to exercise auditors report on page 103. voting rights.
Financial instruments There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group: of any class of shares and no requirements for prior approval the policy for hedging each major type of forecasted transaction of any transfers.
None of the shares carries any special rights for which hedge accounting is used: and the exposure of the Group with regard to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions to foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, financial credit risk and on the voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares.
There are liquidity riskare outlined in note 19 of the Group accounts.
no arrangements of which the directors are aware under which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known agreements relating to or restrictions on share transfers or voting rights.
Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
The Company operates an employee benefit trust, with an independent trustee, to hold shares pending employees becoming entitled to them under the Companys share schemes and plans.
On 31July2013 the trust held 855 ordinary shares in the Company.
The trust waives all but 0.1p per share of each dividend entitlement on its holding and abstains from voting the shares at general meetings.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 97 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Group directors report Continued The table on page97 sets out the notifications, received by the Annual General Meeting AGM Company pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure & Transparency Rules The 2013 AGM will be held on Tuesday 19 November 2013 at 9:30am and the 2006 Act, as at 31 July 2013 and any changes thereto up at the Northcliffe House Auditorium of the law firm, Freshfields to 16 September 2013, from persons with significant direct or Bruckhaus Deringer, 26-28 Tudor Street, London EC4Y 0BQ.
indirect holdings in the Companys share capital.
The Notice of the AGM will be published on the Companys website, www.
The rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Changes to the Authority to issue shares Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders in At the AGM shareholders will be asked to renew and extend the accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
authority, given to the directors at the last AGM, to allot shares in the Company, or grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any The powers of the directors are determined by English law and the security into, shares in the Company for the purposes of Section Articles of Association of the Company in force from time to time.
551 of the 2006 Act the Allotment Resolution.
The directors have been authorised to issue and allot ordinary shares, pursuant to Article 5.
The directors have authority to The authority in the first part of the Allotment Resolution will make market purchases of ordinary shares.
The powers to issue allow the directors to allot new shares in the Company or to and allot shares and, subject to specified limits, to allot shares grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares on a non pre-emptive basis, are referred to the shareholders at in the Company up to a nominal value which is equivalent to the AGM each year for renewal.
At the AGM the shareholders are approximately one-third of the total issued ordinary share also requested to renew the power to make market purchases capital of the Company as at the latest practical date prior of ordinary shares.
Any ordinary shares so purchased may be to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
cancelled or held in treasury.
The authority in the second part of the Allotment Resolution The Company has in place credit facility agreements under which will allow the directors to allot new shares or to grant rights a change in control would trigger prepayment clauses and has to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the bonds in issue the terms of which would allow bondholders to Company only in connection with a rights issue up to a nominal exercise put options and require the Company to buy back the value which is equivalent to approximately one-third of the total bonds at their principal amount plus interest if a rating downgrade issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the latest occurs at the same time as a change of control takes effect.
practical date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
This The Companys share schemes and plans contain clauses which is in line with corporate governance guidelines.
The Board has may cause options and awards to vest on a change in control, in undertaken to seek the re-election of each director annually by some cases subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions the shareholders, whether or not this authority were to be used.
The Company is not party to any other significant At 16 September 2013, the Company did not hold any shares agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a in treasury.
change of control following a takeover.
There are no present plans to undertake a rights issue or to allot If there is a change in control of the Company, the terms of new shares other than in connection with the Companys share Mr Bowmans service contract require that all available discretions option schemes and plans.
The directors intend to take note of will be exercised under the Companys share schemes and in relevant corporate governance guidelines on the use of such default the Company must indemnify Mr Bowman for the value powers in the event that the authority is exercised.
of any awards that do not vest on the change in control.
If the resolution is passed the authority will expire on the earlier No other director or employee is contractually entitled to of 31January 2015 and the end of the next AGM, due to be held compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of a in 2014. change in control except that provisions of the Companys share schemes may cause options and awards granted to employees Also at the AGM shareholders will be asked to pass a special under such schemes to vest on a change in control, in some cases resolution to renew the power granted to directors to disapply subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions at that time.
shareholders pre-emption rights under certain circumstances the Pre-emption Resolution.
Purchase of shares No shares were purchased by the Company during the financial If the directors wish to allot new shares and other equity year ended 31 July 2013. securities, or sell treasury shares, for cash other than in connection with an employee share scheme company law Corporate responsibility requires that these shares are offered first to shareholders The Company has Group policies on environmental, employee in proportion to their existing holdings.
and health & safety matters and operates a Code of Business Ethics.
The Company seeks to minimise, as far as is reasonably The purpose of the first part of the Pre-emption Resolution is practicable, any detrimental effects on the environment of its to authorise the directors to allot new shares, pursuant to the operations and products.
The Group HR director has responsibility authority given by the first part of the Allotment Resolution, for environmental, health and safety matters, which are subject or to sell treasury shares for cash: to preventative, investigatory and consultative systems, overseen a in connection with a pre-emptive offer: and or by the Group Environment, Health and Safety Committee, and reports regularly to the Board on these matters.
Issues relevant to b otherwise up to a nominal value equivalent to 5% of the total the Company pension schemes are likewise covered by means of issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the latest structured committees, including representation from recognised practical date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM, trade unions.
in each case without the shares first being offered to existing Further information on environmental, employee and health and shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
safety matters, including key performance indicators, is contained in the Corporate responsibility summary on pages62 to 67.
The full Corporate responsibility report is available online at www.
98 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 The purpose of the second part of the Pre-emption Resolution Political donations is to authorise the directors to allot new shares, pursuant to the A resolution will be proposed at the AGM to renew the authority, authority given by the second part of the Allotment Resolution, granted by the shareholders at the last AGM to the Company and or to sell treasury shares for cash in connection with a rights issue its UK subsidiaries, to make donations to political organisations without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in and to incur political expenditure.
proportion to their existing holdings.
This is in line with corporate Part 14 of the 2006 Act requires companies to obtain shareholders governance guidelines.
authority for donations to registered political parties and other The directors intend to adhere to the provisions in the Prepolitical organisations in the EU totalling more than 5,000 in emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative any twelve-month period, and for any political expenditure in usage of authorities within a rolling three-year period where the the EU, subject to limited exceptions.
The definition of donation Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take in this context is very wide and extends to bodies such as those place without prior consultation with the Investment Committees concerned with policy review, law reform and the representation of the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of the business community.
It could include special interest groups, of Pension Funds.
such as those involved with the environment, which the Company and its UK subsidiaries might wish to support, even though these During the financial year ended 31 July 2013, the following activities are not designed to support or influence support for ordinary shares in the Company were issued: a particular party.
1,092,567ordinary shares of 37.5p pursuant to the terms of the It is the policy of the Company not to make political donations Companys shareholder-approved share option schemes and or incur political expenditure in the EU, as those expressions are shareplans.
To avoid inadvertent infringement of the Authority to purchase shares 2006 Act, the directors are seeking shareholders authority for At the AGM the Company will seek to renew the authority, granted the Company and its UK subsidiaries to make political donations at the last AGM to the directors, to purchase the Companys as defined in the 2006 Act and to incur political expenditure as ordinary shares in the market.
defined in the 2006 Act for the period from the date of the AGM to the conclusion of next years AGM up to a maximum aggregate The effect of the resolution is to renew the authority granted to amount of 50,000. the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares until the next AGM due to be held in 2014 or 31 January 2015 whichever is the Auditors earlier.
This authority is limited to 10% of the ordinary shares in Resolutions will be proposed at the AGM to reappoint issue as at the latest practical date prior to the publication of the  LLP as independent auditors, to hold Notice of AGM and the Companys exercise of this authority is office until the next meeting at which the accounts are laid, and to subject to the stated upper and lower limits on the price payable, authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
which reflect the requirements of the Listing Rules.
Notice period for extraordinary general meetings Pursuant to the 2006 Act as amended, the Company can hold A special resolution will be proposed at the AGM to renew the the shares which have been purchased as treasury shares and authority, granted by the shareholders at the last AGM to the either resell them for cash, cancel them, either immediately or at Company, to call a general meeting of the Company other than a point in the future, or use them for the purposes of its employee an AGM with a minimum notice period of 14 clear days.
The directors believe that it is desirable for the made to the 2006 Act by the Shareholders Rights Regulations Company to have this choice as holding the purchased shares increased the notice period required for general meetings of the as treasury shares would give the Company the ability to resell Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice or transfer them in the future, and so provide the Company with period, which cannot, however, be less than 14 clear days.
AGMs additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
No will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
dividends will be paid on, and no voting rights will be exercised Before the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights in respect of, treasury shares.
However, it is not the Companys Regulations on 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call present intention to hold shares in treasury in the event that any general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice shares were to be purchased under this authority.
without obtaining such shareholder approval.
In order to preserve Shares will only be purchased if the directors consider such this ability, such approval is sought at the AGM.
Any exercise of this purchases to be in the best interests of shareholders generally power by the Company will be conducted in accordance with any and that they can be expected to result in an increase in relevant corporate governance guidelines applicable at the time.
The authority will only be used after careful In particular, the shorter notice period will only be used where consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
The approval levels and the overall financial position of the Company.
Shares will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended held as treasury shares will not automatically be cancelled and that a similar resolution will be proposed.
will not be taken into account in future calculations of earnings The Company will comply with the requirement to provide per share unless they are subsequently resold or transferred appropriate facilities for all shareholders to vote by electronic out of treasury.
means at general meetings held on less than 21 clear days notice.
If any shares purchased by the Company are held in treasury and used for the purposes of its employee share schemes, the Company will count those shares towards the limits on the number of new shares which may be issued under such schemes.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 99 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
