Business review John Crane 2013 2012 Reported Underlying Key operational highlights m m growth growth Expanded installed base in Revenue 986 973 1% 2% focus markets Headline operating profit 231 210 10% 10% Increased global service network Headline operating margin 23.4% 21.6% 180bps productivity Statutory operating profit 206 155 Leveraged procurement scale Return on capital employed 25.7% 24.0% 170 bps Accelerated growth in selected businesses Drove lean operating principles into manufacturing Performance Overall aftermarket revenue grew 2% In addition, a large first-fit contract was John Crane posted solid results with on an underlying basis, stemming mainly signed in Kazakhstan, reflecting our strong underlying revenue up 19m, or 2%, from rotating equipment namely seals, activity in Asia.
excluding acquisitions and unfavourable seal support systems, couplings, bearings In the first half of the year, a global, fiveexchange translation.
The underlying and filtration which together represent year enterprise framework agreement growth reflects increased revenue about 90% of revenue.
Continued was signed with Shell for John Crane to in aftermarket and first-fit original growth has resulted from strong activity supply mechanical seals and seal support equipment, fuelled primarily by the oil across North America, Asia and the systems used in Shells global operations.
Underlying sales in first-fit In addition, John Crane Production was a 1m benefit from the acquisition of original equipment rose 2% as customer Solutions entered into a four-year contract the business of Turbo Components and investment in new capital projects extension to support OMV Petroms oil Engineering Inc. TCE in October 2011. remained cautious.
Adverse currency translation of 7m offset Revenue from emerging markets, the underlying growth and the benefit from Customer investments in shale which rose 7%, now represents 21.6% of acquisitions to leave reported revenue up development projects have remained John Crane sales.
steady and are expected to continue in infrastructure in these regions will primarily in the US and Canada in the Reported headline operating profit rose improve service capabilities as well as near-term.
21m, driven by a 22m, or 10%, increase broaden the companys product range in in underlying profit but partially offset select markets.
Market demands drove Research and development by 1m in adverse currency translation.
the opening of new service centres one John Crane increased investment in new Headline operating margin increased in Busan, South Korea, and a second in product development and engineering by 180 basis points to 23.4% a record Georgia, US.
The consolidation of power by 9% this year, highlighting its high for John Crane.
The underlying transmission couplings operations in the commitment to developing new products improvement in profitability stems US cut operating expenses and improved that will address future market needs.
largely from purchasing and productivity service levels by combining customer This investment now represents some initiatives and discretionary spend services into one facility.
3.3% of our first-fit original equipment controls.
The margin improved despite revenues.
We intend to raise the Business developments continued investment in highly competitive investment as a percentage of revenue Our aftermarket revenue was boosted by first-fit original equipment projects, over the medium term.
The companys several renewals and large new contracts and new product development which focus remains on developing engineered for our Performance Plus reliability we believe will position the company solutions that meet customers programmes in Colombia, Korea, for mid-term growth.
Return on capital growing processing demands while Thailand, the US, Europe, New Zealand employed improved 170 basis points to supporting energy efficiency and reduced and other countries around the world.
25.7% because of increased profitability environmental impact.
This includes A major US Gulf Coast refinery renewed and continued careful management of the the development of materials to meet a third-generation contract covering more capital base.
the requirements of todays challenging than 3,000 pumps.
Benefits range Statutory operating profit at 206m Commercial activity continued to expand from expanded operating performance primarily reflects the cost of John Crane, in our high-growth markets.
Multiple range and lower energy consumption to Inc. asbestos litigation of 14m and first-fit wins were secured for large extended product life cycles.
amortisation of acquired intangible assets industry projects including the Petrobras of 14m.
As the industry leader in gas seal Pre-salt project off the coast of Brazil, and technology, John Crane remains at the the West-East Asia III Pipeline being built forefront of ultra-high pressure designs across China.
Multiple products from the capable of meeting the increasing John Crane portfolio are being used for demands of compression equipment and the West-East III project ranging from gas the requirements of emerging markets.
seals to seal support systems and filters.
32 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 John Vasquez, Sales and Service Engineer, Colombia Liliana Esis, Performance Plus Marketing Co-ordinator, Colombia Outlook Driving top-line In the first half of the fiscal year 2014, 1 growth John Cranes order book is expected to Eliminating bad actors support similar revenue growth rates to John Crane has signed a supply and the same period last year.
We anticipate service contract with one of Colombias slightly more favourable trading conditions main oil transportation companies as the year progresses.
However, midstream to replace and maintain revenue growth will depend on sustained crucial seals along a crude oil pipeline.
maintenance and repair activity in our The four-year agreement was developed rotating equipment end markets as well in a joint effort between John Crane as performance trends in our John Crane and the customer, based on a unique Production Solutions business.
We look reliability commitment that distinguishes to maintain margins in the first half of the John Cranes customer intimacy strategy, year similar to the comparator period, particularly in high-growth markets.
through on-going operational productivity The elimination of repeated failures improvements, despite continued strategic of mechanical elements, known in investments in longer-term growth the industry as bad actors, is key to opportunities.
These investments include optimising reliability.
John Cranes Sealing the expansion of our sales and service Systems Reliability Programme SSRP network, targeted large projects and is designed to allow the customer to focus increasing our presence in high-growth on increasing operational profitability markets.
by pre-empting any problems caused by unplanned outages.
Through its Priorities for 2014 Performance Plus contracts, John Crane Expand installed base is now using the SSRP as a model for Build-out selected growth markets other supply and service agreements Maximise aftermarket performance around the world.
Drive continuous productivity Go to www.
com for more information Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 33 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Business review Smiths Medical Smiths Medical A leading supplier of specialist medical devices, consumables and equipment for global markets.
In medication delivery, our devices help treat cancer patients and provide relief to those in pain.
Our vital care products reduce hospital-acquired infections, manage patients airways before, Srini Seshadri during and after surgery, maintain body temperature and assist President, Smiths Medical reproduction through IVF therapy.
Our safety products protect health workers by helping prevent needlestick injuries and reducing cross-infections.
Contribution to 2013 Revenue by sector Customers Group revenue 1 Medication delivery 28% We estimate that three-quarters of our 2 Vital care 42% end customers are hospitals, with the 27% 3 Safety devices 30% remainder comprising the alternate care market such as homecare, clinics and other surgery centres, as well as OEM relationships.
We have a direct Contribution to 2013 sales presence in over 20 countries, Group headline operating profit and distribution arrangements in approximately 100 others.
32% 1 3 Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs Competitors The competitive landscape for Smiths Headline revenue performance Medical is complex as we compete with m different companies across our broad 2 product portfolio.
Our major competitors 850m 2 % include Covidien, Teleflex, B Braun, Medication delivery Becton Dickinson, C R Bard, 3M Arizant, Hospira and CareFusion.
We often 864 858 850 28% 838 834 compete with a small portion of a major competitors medical business, as well as with smaller, single product line Vital care companies trying to gain entrance into a particular market.
In emerging 42% markets, we compete with both large multinational companies and smaller domestic players.
Safety devices 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 30% Suppliers Our strategy is to actively engage Principal operating regions suppliers in product innovation, We have operations in over 30 countries value engineering and a commitment with manufacturing concentrated to quality.
Our goal is to reduce product in Mexico, US, UK, Italy, Germany and and supply chain costs, improve delivery China.
We sell to approximately 120 performance and ensure supply markets and, while the US continues continuity plans.
The majority of our to be our largest single market with direct spending is on resins, plastic around 50% of sales, we are investing injection mouldings, and electronics.
to build our presence in selected emerging markets.
34 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 Driving top-line 1 growth Driving regional growth Faced with a formidable diversity of market opportunities across Southeast Asia, Smiths Medical challenged its Singapore office to set up the most efficient way of capitalising on the booming regional demand for medical devices and equipment.
The team divided the vast region of some 570 million people into eight markets handled by 27 channel partners, a low-cost, low-risk strategy that delivered 18% growth this year.
Our structure has greatly helped us improve our relationships with distributors, develop regional product and market knowledge, identify opportunities, and apply effective action plans to increase sales, said left to right Vasanthi Supurmaniyam, regional Sales Lau Wai Leong, Senior Marketing Manager, Southeast Asia & Korea Vasanthi Supurmaniyam, Sales & Marketing Director, Southeast Asia & Korea and Marketing Director.
Vincent Chen, Distributor Manager, Southeast Asia & Korea Markets and trends brand is a leader in ambulatory infusion, needlestick injury protection, and IntuitIV, Budgetary restrictions continue to and we have a strong position in the a passive safety catheter: both are well constrain customers capital spend and syringe pump market with our Graseby positioned for growth.
increase price pressure in many markets and Medfusion products.
Strategy driven in part by increasing healthcare Vital care We are focused on expanding our global regulation.
Procedure growth rates have Smiths Medicals products manage patient scale by driving growth in selected stalled or even declined in some countries airways before, during and after surgery markets and introducing new products and due to reduced healthcare budgets, high Portex, alleviate breathing difficulties technologies to an increasingly diverse set unemployment and employer cost shifting.
Portex, Pneupac, help maintain body of healthcare providers, while responding Despite market challenges, the medical temperature Level 1, monitor vital signs to changes in healthcare, including device sector remains attractive, driven such as blood pressure, blood oxygen reimbursement pressures, accountable by ageing populations, safety legislation, saturation and heart rate BCI, Medex care requirements, constrained hospital device interoperability and increasing and assist reproduction through in-vitro budgets and the shift to non-acute care prosperity particularly in emerging fertilisation therapy Wallace.
We have focused on well-defined markets.
The global market served by care market has been affected by a initiatives that leverage our core strengths: Smiths Medical is estimated to be over slowdown in procedure rate growth, but a comprehensive product portfolio: a 6bn, with further opportunities in target we expect future growth due to increasing deep, new product pipeline: established adjacent markets.
Smiths Medical has chronic disease incidence rates, ageing developed market resources: significant strong design, production and distribution populations, and increasing healthcare emerging market investment: robust capabilities to seize global opportunities.
manufacturing: a streamlined supply chain base, and a proven ability to drive Our product ranges serve three main Safety operational excellence, including our markets medication delivery, vital care The vision for Smiths Medicals safety commitment to operating responsibly.
Smiths Medical is well placed portfolio is to protect healthcare workers in lower-risk, short-residency, and their patients from the risk of Competitive strengths interventional devices, applicable in a wide infection and injury through the use of Strong market positions in niche areas variety of procedures.
Its broad portfolio safety enabled devices.
Smiths heritage Highly recognised and respected includes strong brands in hardware and of innovation has pioneered safety brands consumable products as well as software devices such as the first safety peripheral Reputation for high quality and safety and services for both hospital and alternate intravenous catheter ProtectIV, and the Differentiated lower risk, short care settings.
first port for delivery of chemotherapeutic residency, interventional devices agents PORT-A-CATH.
Devices in this Medication delivery Innovative pipeline and new product portfolio cover a range of functions Smiths Medical designs and manufactures launches including drawing blood samples, drug delivery systems that relieve acute Extensive global sales network administering injections and vaccinations and chronic pain, treat the most at-risk Jelco, and delivering chemotherapeutic patients in high care units, and treat agents for cancer patients Deltec.
The patients with cancer, pulmonary served global market for Smiths Medical Growth drivers hypertension, Parkinsons disease and related safety products is estimated to Ageing populations other conditions at home.
The global be 2.1bn, and is expected to grow as Safety focus and legislation market for medication delivery products the focus on safety and reducing the risk requirements in which Smiths Medical competes is of infection intensifies.
Smiths Medical Growing incidence of chronic diseases estimated to be 1.3bn.
We expect is well positioned to capitalise on the Growth of alternate site care continued market growth through the advancement of sharps safety initiatives, Rising healthcare spend in developing increasing treatment of chronic conditions, including directives in the EU and Brazil markets, offsetting budget constraints the integration of medication delivery designed to protect healthcare workers in developed markets devices with hospital IT systems, and the from the risk of needlestick injuries.
move to alternate care settings.
Our CADD Our latest innovations in IV catheters are ViaValve, which offers blood control and Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 35 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
