Business review Smiths Detection 2013 2012 Reported Underlying Key operational highlights m m growth growth Revenues up by 8%, driven by strong Revenue 559 519 8% 8% Transportation and Ports and Borders Headline operating profit 58 69 16 % 16 % demand Headline operating margin 10.4% 13.3% 290 bps Emerging markets sales up 34% Statutory operating profit 52 84 now 20% of overall revenues Return on capital employed 8.8% 10.3% 150 bps Ramp-up of two new X-ray manufacturing hubs in Asia and USA Certification of major new products Performance The performance improvement upgrade security checkpoints in other Revenue at Smiths Detection grew 8% programme delivered 9m of savings and terminals.
Investment by most existing 40m on a reported and underlying incurred 7m of costs during the year.
airport operators and governments has basis, excluding the impact of currency To date, we have achieved 24m of savings been curtailed but new airports and translation.
This growth was driven by and spent 27m, of which 20m was terminals are planned, mainly in the strong demand in the transportation, ports treated as exceptional.
The programme Middle East and Asia Pacific.
and borders and military sectors, which is expected to deliver 36m of annualised Underlying revenue in ports and borders more than offset declines in the critical savings by the end of fiscal 2015 and cost grew 18%, helped by major cargo scanner infrastructure and emergency responders 33m overall.
The X-ray manufacturing contracts in Azerbaijan and Brazil.
sectors primarily caused by budget plant in Malaysia is now fully operational Although government spending was uncertainty in the US market.
for mainstream assembly and X-ray generally weak, enquiry levels remain generator and detector manufacturing As announced in July, we identified that encouragingly high.
We are also developing will be added in the coming year.
Reduced the final outcome of three contractual products to identify specific threats in this regional shipping times have already commitments would not meet market and the recently launched nexthelped to secure significant new orders expectations.
They largely involved ports generation, portable radiation detector and from Japan and South Korea and allowed and borders customers where margins identifier, RadSeeker, was chosen by the the division to bid on tight delivery tenders are typically lower than average, and the Canadian border authorities to enhance that were previously uneconomic from additional costs arose from technical national security.
and commercial challenges encountered In the military sector, underlying in contract execution.
This, together In Wiesbaden, Germany, our major X-ray revenue increased by 24%.
This reflects with additional provisions for the costs production and R&D centre, agreement a stabilisation of military budgets as associated with certain legal disputes, with the local works council has been defence forces scale back participation in resulted in a charge of 15m.
As a result, reached on the reduction of up to 170 major conflicts.
However, follow-on and headline operating profit fell 11m on manufacturing employees before the support contracts continue to be awarded, both a reported and an underlying basis.
This will lower costs in the including the US Armys order for $7m of Headline operating margins declined 290 coming year.
Revenue from aftermarket chemical detectors towards the end of the basis points to 10.4%.
Profitability was sales grew in line with overall revenue to period and the UK MoDs 18m contract also affected by a shift in the timing of remain at 26% of sales.
But aftermarket for biological consumables support.
certain contracts, reflecting pressures on operations, a major focus for long-term government spend and delays to airport revenue, are on track to achieve our target The critical infrastructure sector saw infrastructure programmes.
In addition, of 30% of revenues in the medium term.
This market, there has been an initial under-recovery which includes government buildings, Revenue from emerging markets grew of overheads at new manufacturing sites.
public utilities, prisons, hotels and other 34%, to represent over 20% of sales.
This strategic sites, has been adversely affected The fall in profitability resulted in return growth stems from an increased focus by budget constraints, primarily in the US.
on capital declining by 150 basis points on sales force deployment, training, and to 8.8%.
The critical Research and development infrastructure market in Russia and Smiths Detection remains committed Statutory operating profit includes the modernisation of Brazils ports to the funded development of its main exceptional restructuring costs 7m, and borders have generated business technologies and new products and offset by 2m of acquisition-related gains.
systems, to maintain its competitive position.
Company-funded R&D was Transportation revenue grew 17% broadly stable at 36m or 6.5% of revenue including airport contracts from customers 2012: 37m or 7.2%.
This includes 16m in Qatar, Spain, New Zealand and Canada.
Smiths Detection Smiths Detection was selected to equip actively seeks customer and government the new Terminal 2 at Heathrow Airport with advanced X-ray machines to check passengers hand-baggage, and to 40 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 left to right Lee Hiong Chua, Operations Director, Malaysia William Lye, Manufacturing Engineering Manager, Malaysia Izharuddin bin Ahmad Ahpandi, Manufacturing Engineering Manager, Malaysia support for R&D which totalled 6m Outlook Driving top-line in the period 2012: 6m.
Total R&D The current order book is slightly behind 1 growth spend was 42m 2012: 43m or 7.6% the same time last year, against a strong X-ray production starts in Asia of revenue.
We also have some major Smiths Detections newly opened the CIP-300 low-energy X-ray scanner to transportation programmes to be manufacturing plant in Malaysia has meet increasing demand for a system to delivered in the coming year.
Governments started supplying X-ray baggage scanners detect explosives, drugs, stowaways and continue to look at ways of improving to the fast-growing aviation markets of contraband hidden in cars and light motor ports and borders operations and Southeast Asia.
The system allows drivers and tendering activity is high in this market.
square foot site in Johor Bahru is now passengers to remain in their vehicles Performance is still subject to the cycle running at around 100 systems a month.
The launch of a Threat of capital spending by governments.
As befits the region it serves, the plant Identification Module TIM allows airport However, we are well positioned with is the first in Smiths Detection to use operators to upgrade existing X-ray systems the launch of several new products and the Kanban system of just-in-time to comply with the January 2014 EU change we should benefit from a continued production, as Operations Director Lee to the regulations on transfer passengers focus on aftermarket revenues.
Kanban helps us carrying liquids on board flights.
are expected to improve as a result of to minimise our inventory and greatly productivity initiatives and better contract The HI-SCAN 10080 XCT has now received improves the efficiency of our execution.
certification from the EU authorities manufacturing schedules.
By aligning and laboratory certification from the US inventory levels with actual demand, Priorities for 2014 TSA.
Bremen Airport saw the first fully the relationship between us and our Focus on value-enhancing contracts operational deployment of the system, customers is kept as close and and programme delivery a next-generation explosives scanner transparent as possible.
Drive efficiencies of new manufacturing for hold baggage combining multi-view Johor is initially focusing on making hubs to reduce lead time and costs X-ray technology and three-dimensional systems to screen hand baggage and Create local supply chains to maximise computed tomography CT.
The single parcels, followed by larger versions that regional manufacturing system provides both greater security and screen pallets and freight.
The advanced Increase run-rate and aftermarket high throughput.
aTiX automatic explosives detectors are revenues to reduce volatility In addition, the eqo millimetre-wave due to be manufactured at the new site people screener has passed the ECAC within a year.
com European Civil Aviation Conference for more information Standard 2 threat detection test.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 41 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Business review Smiths Interconnect Smiths Interconnect A recognised leader in technically differentiated electronic components and sub-systems providing signal, power and microwave solutions.
We design and manufacture products that connect, protect and control critical systems for the global data centre, wireless Mark Reckitt telecommunications, aerospace, defence, space, medical, rail, President, Smiths Interconnect test and industrial markets.
Our products are application-specific and incorporate innovative technologies to provide our customers with a competitive advantage.
Contribution to 2013 Revenue by sector Customers Group revenue 1 Connectors 35% Smiths Interconnect supplies to 2 Microwave 44% multiple levels of the supply chain and 15% 3 Power 21% its blue chip customers include prime contractors and service providers, OEMs, system suppliers and sub-system manufacturers.
Amongst our largest Contribution to 2013 customers are Raytheon, Finmeccanica, Group headline operating profit BAE Systems, Boeing, EADS, AAI 3 Textron, Northrop Grumman, General 12% Dynamics, Lockheed Martin, Row 44, 1 Percentage relates to headline operating profit Ericsson, Motorola, AT&T, Verizon, Sprint, before corporate costs China Mobile, Facebook, APC, Foxconn, GE Healthcare, Varian, Qualcomm, NVIDIA and Alstom.
Revenue performance m 2 461m 3% Competitors Smiths Interconnect operates in Connectors relatively fragmented markets with 461 many small, medium and larger 35% 449 competitors in various product and 379 technology areas.
Connector competitors 340 include Amphenol, Deutsch part of 318 Microwave TE Connectivity, MultiTest part of Dover, Yokowo, Glenair, ODU and 44% Harting.
Microwave competes with, amongst others, Anaren, KMW, Dover, CommScope, Cobham, EMS part of Power Honeywell and Teledyne.
Emerson Network Power, Cyberex part of ABB, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 21% Eaton, Starline part of Universal Electric, Huber & Suhner, Dehn Shne Principal operations regions and Phoenix Contact offer competitive Smiths Interconnect operates globally power management products.
and has locations in the US, Mexico, Costa Rica, Ireland, UK, France, Germany, Italy, Tunisia, India, Singapore, China and Australia.
Suppliers Smiths Interconnect maintains a strong supply base with machined parts and electronic components together representing approximately half of the total spend.
No individual supplier accounts for more than 4% of total purchased value.
42 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 Driving top-line 1 growth Powering complex data centres When Mumbai-based GPX, a major data centre provider, faced the task of building a future proof hub able to meet the demand for co-location services, it turned to Smiths Power for a flexible solution for its power needs.
Part of Smiths Interconnect, Smiths Power develops systems that deliver ultrareliable and precisely monitored power performance.
Its WaveStar static transfer switches and remote power panels feature intelligent branch circuit monitoring for sophisticated power management that can be readily expanded or modified.
We were able to offer the optimal security and operating conditions crucial for missioncritical equipment and applications used by GPX which constructed the first Uptime Certified Tier IV data centre facility in South Asia, said B Ramakrishnan, Senior Account Manager, Asia, Smiths Power.
B Ramakrishnan, Senior Account Manager, Asia, Smiths Power Markets and trends The commercial aerospace market Strategy Smiths Interconnect comprises three continues to be strong, driven by Smiths Interconnect is continuing its technology-focused business units: increasing passenger and freight demand transition from lower-growth  in developing regions, and the funded markets to higher-growth Connectors provides application-specific, need to upgrade fleets to more efficient commercial markets.
Recent investment high-reliability electrical interconnect aircraft.
Smiths Interconnect provides in business development resources has solutions from highly integrated assemblies connector and satellite communications helped identify market opportunities and to microminiature connectors and spring antenna solutions for various aircraft and then meet these with innovative new probe contacts.
We leverage our strong Microwave provides components, subtechnology and deep customer The wireless telecommunications assemblies and systems for defence, relationships facilitated by teams of infrastructure market is still driven by aerospace, wireless telecommunications highly specialised technologists.
network improvements and in-building and electronic test applications.
Diversified end markets provide resilience, capacity increases to enable higher and we allocate resources to markets, Power provides distribution, conditioning, data rates and bandwidth utilisation.
customers and regions with the most protection and monitoring solutions for These support the proliferation of mobile attractive prospects, particularly data data centres, wireless communications communication devices and their centres, semiconductor test, commercial and other critical or high-value electrical data-intensive applications.
Smiths aerospace, Asia and other emerging systems.
Restructuring and efficiency performance microwave components Smiths Interconnect addresses a variety initiatives, including lean and value used in cell sites and in-building networks, of end markets, particularly military and engineering, deliver the funds for as well as products and test equipment aerospace, wireless telecommunications, investment as well as the framework for that help optimise network performance, data centres and semiconductor test.
our people strategy and EHS commitments.
and protect high-value infrastructure from Considerable pressure remains on lightning strikes and power surges.
Competitive strengths defence budgets, given US sequestration Data centre demand is mainly influenced Innovative and technically differentiated and European austerity.
While no area by internet traffic growth due to the technologies is immune, investment is expected expansion of web-enabled devices and Ultra-high reliability solutions used to focus on system upgrades rather applications, virtualisation or cloud in demanding applications than new platforms.
Critical areas computing, and by industry-specific High degree of customer intimacy and such as intelligence, surveillance and regulatory drivers, for example in financial product customisation reconnaissance ISR, improved battle services and healthcare.
Co-location Addressing highly regulated markets space awareness and force protection data centre providers are expanding as with strong barriers to entry are likely to remain priorities.
Military companies chose to outsource rather applications for Smiths Interconnect than fund large capital projects.
Smiths technology include unmanned aerial Interconnects conditioning, distribution, systems UAS, next-generation ground Growth drivers protection and monitoring solutions vehicles, communications systems, Proliferation of electronic devices ensure power quality is delivered to radars and electronic warfare systems, Demand for greater connectivity sensitive IT equipment and enable surveillance systems and self-protection Growth in high data rate applications accurate monitoring and metering, an systems.
Our microwave technology, Require significant investment in increasingly important issue as electricity ruggedised connectors and EMP semiconductor and electrical test, costs increase.
protection solutions are deployed in the data centres, wireless infrastructure most extreme environments, such as Smiths Interconnect provides connector and aerospace enabling sensor and communications solutions to semiconductor test, automated systems and protecting military personnel test equipment and circuit-board test in combat zones.
The continued proliferation of electronic devices, high rate of technology refresh and increased functionality are key drivers for these markets.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 43 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
