Business review Smiths Interconnect 2013 2012 Reported Underlying Key operational highlights m m growth growth Revenue growth in connectors offset Revenue 461 449 3% 1 % by declines in microwave and power Headline operating profit 69 66 4% 3% Investment in new products up 5% Headline operating margin 14.9% 14.7% 20 bps Emerging market sales up 5% Statutory operating profit 49 34 Margins up 20 bps reflecting Return on capital employed 12.4% 12.3% 10 bps productivity gains Strengthened the divisional and business unit leadership teams and talent Performance Statutory operating profit at 49m In wireless telecoms, there was continued Reported revenue rose 3%, or 12m, principally reflects amortisation of traction in developing regions as Indian driven by a 14m contribution from the acquired intangible assets of 20m.
and Chinese network operators started acquisition of Power Holdings Inc. PDI to recognise the benefits of using PIM Smiths Interconnect remained focused on in October 2011 and a 3m benefit from passive intermodulation test equipment.
building the leadership teams and talent foreign exchange translation.
Excluding We also significantly increased market in its three business units, and supporting these, underlying revenue fell 1%, or share in the US, gaining a key new the necessary investment in resources 5m.
Modest growth in the Connectors customer and increasing sales to other and processes to further facilitate the business unit was offset by declines operators for our network optimisation transition from government-funded to in Microwave and Power.
Sales of the KuStream airborne commercial markets.
was impacted by government budget antenna system weakened in the second cuts and sequestration in the US, which In Connectors, underlying revenue half as no new notable airline orders reduced defence spending, and the latter increased 3% despite tough market were secured by our major customer.
by continued softness in industrial and conditions as defence budgets declined Nonetheless, new opportunities with alternative energy markets.
and the climate of austerity persisted new products and alternative customers in Europe.
In addition, the Eurofighter are being progressed.
Despite strong Reported headline operating profit programme, which represents a competition, we successfully retained increased 4%, or 3m.
Excluding a 1m significant proportion of Connectors a major cable assembly project for the benefit from acquisitions and foreign revenues, began to slow given the lack of production testing of consumer handheld exchange, underlying headline operating new export orders.
The semiconductor test devices, which generated sufficient profit grew by 3% or 2m.
Margins market provided strong growth.
A muted demand to match the strong growth improved 20 basis points on the back of overall recovery in market conditions achieved in the prior year.
A strong margin was buoyed by successful launches of improvement in Connectors, benefiting Power revenues increased 10%, on new higher density and higher speed from prior and current year cost the back of the PDI acquisition.
On an products and the continued success of a cutting, was partly offset by a decline in underlying basis, revenues declined 6% programme with a major customer.
Other Microwave due to some pricing pressure although the business showed some positive end markets included medical and in commercial markets and the additional improvement in the second half, with commercial aerospace where Connectors investment to create the Microwave growth of 7% partially offsetting the 21% focused more resources.
Power margins were flat first half decline.
This turnaround was new applications included a connector as efficiency improvements balanced driven by better sales focus and execution, assembly for a new electrophysiology infrastructure investments and the diluted and strong demand from co-location data mapping catheter system and the margins of sales in acquired businesses.
centres where the particular customer design-in of several products for a new needs are well aligned with our value Across the division, cost reduction commercial aircraft being developed proposition of customisation and flexibility.
activities focused on further transfer of in Asia.
Geographically, the initiative to The North American enterprise data production to lower cost regions including increase our presence in Asia is gaining centre market remained soft.
Other China, Mexico, Costa Rica and Tunisia: traction with the addition of several new markets such as alternative energy the outsourcing of non-core processes sales resources.
experienced declines on the back of such as plating, moulding and ceramics: After exceptional growth in 2012, continued weak demand and we are still and a greater focus on lean and value Microwaves underlying revenue declined seeing delays in US military orders for engineering.
2% against a strong comparator, but power and electromagnetic pulse Return on capital improved by 10 basis consolidated its position despite significant protection devices.
There are on-going points to 12.4% reflecting improved headwinds.
In defence, Microwaves cost-saving initiatives in areas such as profitability.
largest end market, we experienced delays value engineering and lean manufacturing in follow-on production awards for several to support margins.
projects, particularly in the second half, although good progress was made on several existing military programmes.
44 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 left to right Gabriel Guglielmi, VP Business Development & Strategy, Smiths Connectors, US David Henry, Global Engineering VP for Platform Product & Manufacturing Engineering, Smiths Connectors, US Research and development Outlook Driving top-line Company-funded R&D increased 5% to Improving trading conditions in some 1 growth 24m or 5.2% of revenue 2012: 23m or commercial end markets are likely to Da Vinci test socket success 5.1% of revenue.
In addition, a further be offset by more difficult environments The high-speed semiconductors that drive 3m in investment was secured for elsewhere, such as defence.
This is likely video graphics, networking devices and customer-funded projects 2012: 4m.
to result in relatively modest revenue ever more sophisticated applications These relate primarily to defence-related and profit growth overall, with a bias to need equally advanced testing systems projects, which have experienced funding the second half.
The defence market is to ensure their quality and reliability.
Smiths expected to remain challenging, although With that in mind, Smiths Connectors, Interconnect continued its strategy to we are comparatively well placed in key part of Smiths Interconnect, has launched focus resources on high-growth sectors technologies and on some long-term the Da Vinci test socket which offers and investment opportunities providing the programmes.
The semiconductor test unprecedented semiconductor test best risk-adjusted returns with a particular and data centre markets are expected reliability.
The mechanical and bandbias to commercial markets.
Examples to become more robust, dependent on width limitations of traditional plastic include a new test socket whose insulated macroeconomic conditions and consumer spring probe sockets are overcome metallic housing and unique structure spending patterns.
New product launches by the insulated metallic housing and deliver exceptional signal integrity, a new should help wireless telecoms sales, unique structure that enable it to deliver battery bus bar connection for the nascent although they face a tough comparator.
electric vehicle market, high-frequency Margins should benefit from continuing radio frequency links for commercial productivity and pricing initiatives.
Gabriel Guglielmi, VP Business applications, and a new AC surge Development & Strategy of Smiths protection platform range all aiming to Priorities for 2014 Connectors said: The Da Vinci socket develop innovative technology and address Strengthen business development gives our customers faster test throughput new applications at a competitive cost.
capabilities to embed market-led and far greater confidence in the strategies performance of their end-products.
Investment also continued in developing Sustained investment in new Its success with US customers is already next-generation versions of our marketproduct launches delivering sales totalling several million leading products and technologies, Continued focus on commercial dollars, and is now being replicated in particularly PIM test equipment and market opportunities and international Europe and Asia where marketing drives airborne antenna systems.
The vitality index, the proportion of revenue Deliver cost savings through further from products developed in the last three site rationalisation, lean and value years, was maintained at over 30%.
com for more information Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 45 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Business review Flex-Tek Flex-Tek A global provider of engineered components that heat and move fluids and gases for the aerospace, medical, industrial, construction and domestic appliance markets.
Our flexible hosing and rigid tubing provide fluid management for fuel and hydraulic applications on commercial and military Tedd Smith aircraft, deliver fuel gas and conditioned air in residential and President, Flex-Tek commercial buildings, and provide respiratory care for medical applications.
Flex-Tek heating elements and thermal systems improve the performance of a range of devices, from medical and diagnostic equipment to domestic appliances such as clothes tumble dryers and HVAC equipment.
Contribution to 2013 Revenue by sector Customers Group revenue 1 Fluid Management 35% We serve mainly aerospace engine and 2 Construction Products 29% airframe manufacturers, domestic 8% 3 Heat Solutions 22% appliance manufacturers and the US 4 Flexible Solutions 14% construction industry.
Large customers include Boeing, Airbus, Pratt & Whitney, GE Aerospace, Whirlpool, Electrolux, Contribution to 2013 Trane, and Carrier.
Our notable Group headline operating profit distributors in the US construction 4 market include Ferguson and Watsco.
7% 1 Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs 3 Competitors Competitors for our Fluid Management Revenue performance business include specialty segments of m Parker-Hannifin, Eaton, and Kongsberg: 2 as well as vertically integrated capacity 253m 9% from key customers.
Heat Solutions competitors in the US include: Zoppas, Fluid Management Nibe, Watlow and Chromalox: and in 253 China, Kawai and Dongfang manufacture 35% 233 a wide variety of electric heaters.
222 221 212 Flex-Teks Construction Products compete with US manufacturers: Construction Products Hitachi, Atco, Omega-Flex, Hart & Cooley and Goodman.
Flexible Solutions 29% competes globally with a number of smaller privately owned businesses which manufacture specialty hoses.
Heat Solutions 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 22% Suppliers Principal operations regions Flex-Tek sources key raw materials Flex-Tek operations are mainly located from world-class companies including Flexible Solutions in the US and Mexico with Asian electrical resistance wire from Sandvik, 14% operations located in India, China, fibreglass insulation from Owens and Malaysia, and European facilities Corning, specialty plastic resins from in France and Germany.
DuPont and PolyOne, and stainless steel from Allegheny Ludlum.
Each of these supply chain partners is chosen based on its ability to provide exceptional quality, service and value.
46 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 Driving top-line 1 growth Customised for high purity market Combining innovation and traditional expertise, Flex-Tek has used its leadership in flexible hosing to enter a new and potentially attractive market in ultra-clean hoses.
It has developed an entirely non-stick version to challenge the domination of silicone hoses in the $20m high purity market which ranges from pharmaceuticals to fragrance and food and beverage.
Senior Engineer Mike Fonfara led the team that created the all-PTFE  PharmaFlex hose.
Its non-stick qualities give the 100% product flow-through crucial for success in a niche market that cannot allow the tiniest residual contamination.
The unique exterior enables it to operate in extreme heat and allows for easy cleaning left to right without compromising the integrity of the Mike Fonfara, Senior Engineer, US hose, Fonfara explained.
Rick Martini, Manufacturing Engineer, US Markets and trends Construction Products Competitive strengths Flex-Tek designs and manufactures Flex-Tek manufactures market-leading Manufacturer of qualified components engineered components which heat and flexible gas piping and HVAC flexible for the aerospace industry move fluids and gases for aerospace, ducting for the US construction market.
Largest supplier of open coil heating consumer products, construction, medical, Our customers are large national elements worldwide and industrial applications.
The diverse wholesale distributors in North America, 90% share of clothes tumble dryer nature of these markets reduces Flexsupplying both plumbing and HVAC applications in North America Teks reliance on any specific technology, tradesmen.
The recovering US housing Leading manufacturer of flexible although the division is highly leveraged market is driving positive revenue and gas piping and HVAC ducting for US to the US economy.
construction market Flex-Tek is organised under four marketFlexible Solutions specific segments focusing on superior Flexible Solutions hose assemblies technology and service: are focused into three distinct markets: Growth drivers medical respiratory care, floorcare Leveraged to the improving US Fluid Management appliances, and industrial ventilation.
residential construction market We are a market-leading manufacturer The business performance generally Strong backlog for commercial of specialty high-performance, flexible follows macroeconomic indicators such aerospace customers and rigid tubing assemblies for aerospace, as healthcare spending, US GDP, industrial and automotive applications and capital goods expenditures.
Our specialised tubing provides reliable and efficient delivery of hydraulic Strategy fluids and jet fuel for both commercial and In Fluid Management we are focused on military aircraft.
Automotive applications securing positions on the next-generation include petrol and brake fluid delivery airframes and engines in order to support in traditional automobiles as well as the delivery of the commercial aircraft next-generation fuels for natural gas and backlog.
Our Construction Products hydrogen-powered vehicles.
segment is positioned to continue to grow revenue and market share in a recovering The strong demand for more fuel-efficient, US housing market.
In Heat Solutions we quieter commercial aircraft has driven the are expanding our product portfolio and OEM backlog to an all-time high of over application range through new product 10,000 units this is equivalent to over development.
We are also continuing seven years of production and represents to seek out strategic bolt-on acquisitions a key growth driver for the business.
to support business development, through Heat Solutions expansion of our product portfolio and As the worlds largest manufacturer of market share gains.
Quality, safety, open coil heating elements, our products environmental impact reductions and serve customers that manufacture tumble people development provide the basis dryers, HVAC equipment, medical devices, for sustainable growth.
Our specialised elements and thermal systems provide consistent temperature controls which improve system efficiency and performance.
Revenue is largely dictated by household appliance demand in the US, with additional growth driven by specialty applications in the US and Asia.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 47 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
