Bringing technology tolife we do this responsibly 54 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 Risk and responsibility Risk management 56 Corporate responsibility 62 Global ethics We held our second global ethics forum in December 2012 in So Paulo, Brazil.
The forum brought together 60 senior executives and managers from around the Group to consider the business and ethical challenges of doing business in Latin America.
The programme included input from subject matter experts and local business leaders, together with a number of case study scenarios.
The participants were required to develop action plans to respond to a variety of ethical challenges, which they then discussed with members of the Smiths Group Executive Committee.
This event is one of a series of interactive programmes addressing similar issues in many of the developing or emerging markets in which we operate.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 55 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Managing risk in delivering our strategy Smiths Group is exposed to a wide range of risks in running its businesses.
We regularly review these risks and ensure we have the appropriate processes and policies for managing them.
Our approach to risk governance environment, and an assessment by each of our divisions.
Each division is Smiths Group is exposed to a wide range required to maintain risk registers and the Executive Committee regarding the of risks in running its businesses.
The key risks that face Smiths Group.
This monitor their significant risks on an Company and its divisions consider these on-going basis.
Each division attends one review is formalised twice a year.
A risk risks on a regular basis and seek to put owner is assigned to each risk with the Audit Committee a year, to explain and in place appropriate risk management discuss the inherent risks and challenges responsibility to monitor the risk and processes, policies and other measures, ensure the agreed mitigation actions faced by the division.
Additionally, the including insurance where appropriate.
strategic risks are further debated at the are completed.
divisional strategy presentations which The Board has overall responsibility These Group-wide risks are categorised are made annually to the Group Board.
for our risk management policies and as either: The divisions are also required to provide ensuring we have an effective system an update regarding their risk mitigation Major business challenges of internal control.
The Groups process actions at the Quarterly Business for identifying, evaluating and managing Risks caused by uncontrollable Reviews held with the Chief Executive significant business risks is reviewed by external factors and FinanceDirector.
the Audit Committee and monitored by Other risks the Group Internal Audit Department.
This dual process provides a framework An outline of this years review process A summary of these Group-wide risks is such that the Groups strategic, financial by the Board and Audit Committee is set presented for discussion at the July Board and operational risks are adequately out on pages 81 to 82.
In reviewing the major risks, the considered and discussed by the Executive the Companys internal controls and risk Board determines the level of risk which Committee and the Board.
management processes is given in the we are prepared to accept in the pursuit There can be no assurance that our Corporate Governance statement on of our business goals this is our risk approach to risk management will be pages 79 to 80. appetite.
Where the risk impact is greater effective in any particular case.
If any than that which we are prepared to accept, Our approach to risk management of the risks which we identify, or other further mitigation actions are agreed to In delivering our strategy, it is important unforeseen risks, materialise, they could reduce the potential impact.
Where further that we understand and manage the risks have a significant adverse effect not only mitigation actions are not possible or are that face us.
We achieve this through our on our business and financial condition considered to be cost prohibitive, the risk embedded risk management approach, but also on our reputation and the trading is closely monitored.
combining a top-down strategic view of prices and liquidity of our securities.
risks with a bottom-up divisional process.
Our bottom-up divisional approach This could lead to a loss for investors involves the identification, management of part of or, in a worst case scenario, Our top-down approach involves a and monitoring of the material risks in all of their investment.
review of the external and internal Our Group-wide risks as assessed by the Board Risks caused by uncontrollable external factors Economic outlook Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation High The Group operates in more than 50 countries and is affected The Group has a diversified portfolio by global economic conditions, particularly in the US and Europe.
of businesses that mitigates exposure Our business is also affected by government spending priorities to any one country or sector.
and the willingness of governments to commit substantial Trend The divisions regularly monitor resources to homeland security and defence.
No change their order flows and other leading Current global economic and financial market conditions, and the indicators, where available, so that they potential for a significant and prolonged global recession, may may respond quickly to deteriorating materially and adversely affect the Groups operational performance trading conditions.
A recession may also materially affect our In the event of a significant economic customers, suppliers and other parties with which we do business.
downturn, there may be opportunities Adverse economic and financial market conditions may cause our to identify and implement costcustomers to terminate existing orders, to reduce their purchases reduction measures to offset the from the Group, or to be unable to meet their obligations to pay impact on margins from deteriorating outstanding debts to the Group.
These market conditions may also sales.
cause our suppliers to be unable to meet their commitments to the Group or to change the credit terms they extend to us.
56 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 Risks caused by uncontrollable external factors Eurozone break-up Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium Political and economic structural weaknesses in the single The diversified portfolio mitigates currency framework lead to heightened risk that the Eurozone may exposure to any single country not survive in its present form.
If the Eurozone breaks up, one or or currency.
We also have robust more countries will leave the Euro, and opt for new currencies.
This processes to monitor overdue debts.
Trend may result in a substantial default on existing Euro sovereign debt Reduced We have net investment hedging and economic dislocation.
It could also result in capital exchange of c. 50% of our overseas currency controls being imposed, some domestic banking failures and exposure and assets.
We have identified further divisional Smiths Group has approximately 5-6% of its business measured risk mitigation actions should the by sales, profit or net assets in Spain, Ireland, Portugal, Italy and risk occur.
Greece, which could be adversely affected by currency devaluations.
A Eurozone break-up might affect the profitability of existing contracts and customers might be unable to repay debts according to agreed terms.
A break-up is likely to affect the wider economic environment, particularly in Europe, which could affect trading on a global basis.
The risk has reduced slightly over the last 12 months as we have collected some long overdue debts in Spain and repatriated the capital.
Compliance with legislation and regulations Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Low to Medium There is a risk that the Group may not always be in complete Environmental, health and safety data compliance with laws, regulations or permits, for example are reported to the Quarterly Business concerning environmental or safety requirements.
The Group Reviews, Executive Committee and the could be held responsible for liabilities and consequences arising Board, along with actions to improve Trend from past or future environmental damage, including potentially performance over time.
No change significant remedial costs.
There can also be no assurance that any Smiths Medical has dedicated staff provisions for expected environmental liabilities and remediation who maintain close contact with the costs will adequately cover these liabilities or costs.
US Food and Drug Administration The Group operates in highly regulated sectors.
Smiths Detection, and other key regulators.
Smiths Interconnect and Smiths Medical are particularly subject to All divisions have trade compliance regulation, with certain customers, regulators or other enforcement advice and training.
This includes bodies routinely inspecting the Groups practices, processes and training on the Groups Code of premises.
Business Ethics and assessments Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect manufacture security to support compliance.
products and components, which are subject to numerous export Divisional and Group General controls, technology licensing and other government regulations.
Counsel monitor legislative changes In addition, new legislation, regulations or certification assisted by Government Relations requirements may require additional expense, restrict commercial staff and report and monitor actions flexibility and business strategies or introduce additional liabilities as necessary.
This may require for the Company or directors.
There also appears to be a growing modifications to our supply chains trend for legislation that could be described as protectionist, and customer arrangements.
which may affect our businesses.
Should a regulators approval process take a particularly long time, our products may be delayed in getting to market, which could lead to a loss of revenue or benefit a competitor with a similar product.
Corruption on the part of a single employee can entail severe consequences for the Group.
Failure to comply with certain regulations may result in significant financial penalties, debarment from government contracts and or reputational damage.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 57 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Managing risk in delivering our strategy Continued Risks caused by uncontrollable external factors Pension funding Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation High At 31 July 2013, the Group has legacy defined benefit pension plans, All major schemes US UK have with aggregate liabilities of around 4bn on an accounting basis.
been closed to future accrual.
Changes in discount rates, inflation, asset returns or mortality Agreed funding plans are in place Trend assumptions could lead to a materially higher deficit.
For example, with the major UK schemes following Reduced slightly the cost of a buyout on a discontinued basis, and therefore using the last triennial reviews.
The Group more conservative assumptions, is likely to be significantly higher seeks a good working relationship with than the accounting deficit.
In addition, there is a risk that the plans the trustees through regular update assets, such as investments in equity and debt securities, will not meetings.
be sufficient to cover the value of those benefits.
There are plans in place to reduce The implications of a higher pension deficit include a direct the mismatch between assets impact on valuation, credit rating and potential additional funding classes and liabilities, as relative requirements at subsequent triennial reviews.
However, following outperformance of the assets versus the 2012 triennial review, cash payments to the principal UK liabilities is achieved, although there pension schemes remained at the levels agreed in the 2009 review.
is no downside protection in place should this not occur.
In the event of a major disposal that generates significant cash proceeds that are returned to shareholders, the Group may be Pension matters are regularly required to make additional cash payments to the schemes or reported to the Board.
Read more in note 9 on pages 124-127 Financial risks foreign exchange, funding, tax and insurance Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium Foreign exchange: Exchange rate fluctuations have had, and Foreign exchange: The Groups hedging could continue to have, a material impact on the reported results.
strategy, whereby larger transactions The Group is exposed to two types of currency risk: transaction and are hedge accounted, mitigates the translation.
The Groups reported results will fluctuate as average risk to profitability to some extent.
The Groups reported net assets will Net investment hedging of overseas Slightly higher fluctuate as the year-end exchange rate changes.
assets of approximately 50% through borrowing in non-sterling currencies Funding: The Groups ability to refinance its borrowings in the mitigates the impact of exchange rate bank or capital markets is dependent on market conditions and the fluctuations on net assets.
proper functioning of financial markets.
The Group may be unable to refinance its debt when due.
Funding: The Groups debt maturity is staggered so that the refinancing risk Tax: The Groups future profitability, particularly in the US where is minimised.
As at 31 July 2013, we there are higher rates of corporation tax, may cause the headline had an undrawn revolving credit facility tax rate to increase over time.
Changes in tax and fiscal regulations of $800m.
and transfer pricing rules in the countries in which we operate could affect the Group, particularly at times when public sector Tax: The Groups taxation staff codebt is high.
Taxation costs could rise and earnings per share could ordinate tax management to mitigate deteriorate, which could affect the Groups market valuation.
possible increases in the effective tax rate.
Regular reporting to the Board Insurance: The Group cannot be certain that it will be able to obtain of tax risks and exposures provides insurance on acceptable terms or at all.
Furthermore, the Group good visibility of issues.
cannot be certain that its insurance will cover losses arising from events or that insurers will not dispute coverage.
In addition, even Insurance: Insurance risk is spread if our coverage is sufficient, the insurance industry is subject to across a number of carriers to credit risk, particularly in the event of a catastrophe or where an minimise individual insured risk insurer has substantial exposure to a specific risk.
If insurance and counterparty risk.
cover is inadequate or does not pay out as expected, the Group could be exposed to an unexpected material cash outflow, which may impact on the Groups liquidity and or share price.
The risk has increased slightly since last year, in particular, tax and exchange rate risk.
However, funding risk is lower in the light of the bond issue in October 2012.
Read more on page 52 58 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 Business challenges thematic risks Product liability and litigation Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium In the ordinary course of its business, the Group is subject to Quality assurance processes are litigation such as product liability claims and lawsuits, including embedded in our manufacturing potential class actions, alleging that the Groups products have locations for critical equipment, resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury.
In addition, supporting compliance with industry Trend manufacturing flaws, component failures or design defects could regulations.
No change require us to recall products.
Many of our products are used in A global best practice programme is critical applications where the consequences of a failure could be continuing to enhance product quality extremely serious and, in some cases, potentially catastrophic.
This is Products sold to the aviation, security, healthcare, energy and sponsored by the Executive Committee consumer domestic industries are particularly critical in nature.
and leverages the on-going work in Smiths Medical and John Crane.
Furthermore, over half the Groups sales are in the US, where there is potentially increased litigation risk.
The divisions have procedures for dealing with product liability issues Any liability claim against the Group, with or without merit, could and potential product recalls.
These be costly to defend and could increase our insurance premiums.
procedures are informed by crisis Some claims might not be covered by our insurance policies, either management planning workshops adequately or at all.
An adverse event involving one of our products and rehearsals.
could damage our reputation and reduce market acceptance and The Group has insurance cover demand for all of our products.
for certain product liability risks.
The US Safety Act provides legislative protection for certain Smiths Detection products in the US: and we support efforts to implement similar legislation in other markets.
Any litigation is managed under the supervision of the Groups legal function.
We have detailed action plans to manage actual or threatened litigation.
Read more on page 53 and in note 21 on pages 140-141 Global supply chain concentration of manufacturing Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium The Groups business depends on the availability and timely delivery Business continuity and disaster of raw materials and purchased components, and could be affected recovery plans are in place and tested by a disruption to its supply chain.
In particular, we rely on sole for critical locations, to reduce the suppliers to provide raw materials or components for some impact of an event.
No change Single-source supplier risks are The Groups manufacturing facilities are exposed to a number identified and, where possible, key of natural catastrophe risks, which, like other external events such materials or components are dual as terrorist attacks or a disease pandemic, could have significant sourced to mitigate the impact of adverse consequences.
The Group is also affected by the social, an event.
economic, regulatory and political conditions in the countries where The Group regularly evaluates its key it operates, which are often unpredictable and outside its control, sites for a range of risk factors using particularly in developing countries.
externally benchmarked assessments, The concentration of manufacturing in lower cost countries, and takes action to improve these in particular in Mexico and China, increases the length of the ratings, where appropriate.
supply chain and means that an adverse event could have more The Group has business interruption significant consequences for our ability to supply customers on and property damage insurance.
A longer supply chain also affects transport costs, which could be exacerbated by energy cost inflation.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 59 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
