Our business model in action A recognised market leader, John Crane is focused on providing customer-specific solutions to energy services customers, from high-quality products through to effective aftermarket services.
For instance, its advanced sealing technology has enabled the Marathon Petroleum Galveston Bay Refinery in Texas to meet both emissions requirements and site safety goals.
Customer intimacy Investing in new Building a strong supply chain and market knowledge product development and efficient operations At John Crane were very proud of our As a product designer, Im well aware Ensuring we have the correct global robust research, development and of the need to keep abreast of the operations footprint is critical to engineering capabilities.
More than 700 constant changes in our markets providing the levels of service our engineers and technical experts across and technologies.
Our New Product customers expect wherever they are.
the world have unmatched technical Development NPD process is designed The advantages of understanding expertise and market knowledge built specifically to meet that challenge.
and utilising the breadth of our global up over many decades.
Today, were A split seal called the 3740 is just one operations and supply chain are clear using that knowledge to leverage our example.
It was recently developed and in terms of improving margin.
What is capabilities and target new products launched as a result of months of intense not so obvious is how we effectively share and product enhancements driven by research including several customer this expertise.
So we have implemented the needs of our customers in tackling user meetings.
The mechanical seal, one global set of operational standards extremely challenging environments.
split to allow installation without the and metrics across all our facilities For instance, within any given refinery, need to strip down existing equipment, based on sharing best practices.
we have the ability to customise solutions was tested on three of our 75 test rigs.
Our goal is to successfully deliver a to meet our customers specific needs It has extended the operational life of the quality product the first time, every time, across all of their rotating equipment, equipment more than any other product at the optimum cost.
We also aim to be to ensure our products deliver the longon the market.
Its ease of assembly and the preferred solution to our customers, term reliability demanded from us.
installation even in our customers most wherever they are in the world.
challenging conditions made it a great Joe Haas Mark Glennerster success.
Even the US Navy has approved Vice President Global R&D Vice President, Operations, use of the seal.
and Engineering, Chicago America, Chicago Jim Wasser Director of Product Design, Global Engineering, Chicago 12 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 The divisional business model Customer intimacy and market knowledge Sales effectiveness Invest in Operations Cash new product and supply generation development chain Aftermarket services Organic investment inbusiness Providing aftermarket Sales Meeting customer services effectiveness needs Our Performance Plus PP reliability John Crane and the Marathon Petroluem The Marathon Petroleum Galveston programmes are designed to replace Galveston Bay refinery site have both Bay refinery and John Crane have traditional, individual service agreements greatly benefited from a sole source, worked together for several years in with a global approach that focuses on pump seal agreement over the past exceeding current emissions-reduction the overall environment our products 12 years.
One of our most highly requirements and meeting the safety operate in.
This could be system design, customised gas seals in particular has goals for the refinery.
The Type-2800XP operational practices, maintenance and been the right fit for this customer, sealing technology has enabled the repair practices, or product selection.
whose refinery can process 450,000 refinery to achieve zero emissions on a In doing so we want PP to become barrels per day.
The use of our advanced VOC application with a sealing pressure integral to the customers business.
Type-2800XP gas seals used in of 600 psig.
Reliability is improved, savings are Marathons pumps has allowed them Steve Palermo generated through fewer unplanned to meet current federal emission Superintendent, Rotating Equipment outages and maintenance spend is cut.
requirements and achieve the safety goals Product Group at Marathon Refinery, With enhanced reliability comes higher for their Texas City site.
The 2800XP is the Texas City, Texas production rates, a drop in emissions, only pump seal capable of withstanding and an improved safety record.
Sounds pressure greater than 600 psig pound straightforward but a lot of work goes per square inch gauge equivalent to into it!
more weight than a fully loaded jumbo jet on a manhole cover.
Jason Wall Director of Global Business Solutions, Jeff Maluski Houston District Sales Manager, US West, Houston Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 13 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
