See Business review case studies for our strategy in action Promoting a culture Generating cash and managing Allocating capital 4 5 6 of responsibility the balance sheet effectively to maximise returns We promote a culture of responsibility By emphasising working capital Smiths Group delivers high returns throughout Smiths Group.
This requires management, particularly our debtors on capital.
We achieve this through us all to work according to our Code of and inventories, we are able to convert disciplined capital allocation to the Business Ethics.
We are committed to a high proportion of headline operating divisions, by enhancing our profitability working in a way that protects the health profit into cash.
and through active portfolio management, and safety of employees and minimises with a targeted programme of acquisitions We also look to optimise our capital the environmental effects of our activities and disposals.
structure and secure long-term and detrimental effects of our products financing.
Our borrowings are mainly At the same time, we actively manage and services.
This delivers real business through long-term bonds rather than our portfolio of liabilities, such as our benefits, while ensuring that we meet bank debt.
We also closely match the defined benefit pension schemes and our obligations to all our stakeholders.
currency of our debt with our assets legacy product liability issues, so that and earnings.
we minimise their impact on our value creation.
Performance in 2013 Performance in 2013 Performance in 2013 A range of indicators for safety Cash conversion % Return on capital employed % and environmental impact 98% 16.6% Recordable incident rate 0.54 115 16.5 16.6 16.4 15.9 per 100 employees RIR 99 98 95 FY2013 target: less than 0.5 per 100 employees established businesses Target FY2010-FY2015 FY2013 v FY2010 Energy 10% reduction Reduced by 19% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 Greenhouse gas emissions Cash generation remained strong, Return on capital increased by 10 basis 10% reduction Reduced by 27% with headline operating cash of 548m points to 16.6%, with improved returns resulting in cash conversion of 98%.
at John Crane, Smiths Interconnect and Total non-recycled waste Flex-Tek offset by declines at Smiths This is the proportion of headline operating profit that 10% reduction Reduced by 21% Medical and Smiths Detection as a result we are able to convert to headline operating cash.
Water consumption This is headline operating profit divided by 5% reduction Reduced by 25% monthly average capital employed, expressed as a percentage.
Capital employed is total equity, adjusted We improved all our environmental for goodwill recognised directly in reserves, net post-retirement benefit related assets and liabilities, metrics in FY2013 and exceeded our litigation provisions relating to exceptional items and FY2015 goals.
We improved our RIR over net debt.
Return on capital for 2010 and 2011 has FY2012 in our established businesses been restated.
Our recently acquired businesses are working to meet our standards, resulting in a published RIR of 0.54.
Priorities Priorities Priorities We will implement our new sustainability Continue to focus on cash generation Continue to manage our portfolio to strategy and continue to embed a culture and balance sheet management, so that create maximum value for shareholders.
of ethical behaviour across the business.
we have the financial strength to grow the business and generate returns for shareholders.
Read more on pages 62-67 and Read more on pages 22-25, 28-29 and in Read more on pages 22-25, 28-29, www.
com responsibility note 26 on page 143 and page 146 in note 1 on pages 115-118 and page 146 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 15 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Securing future returns In delivering our strategy, it is important that we understand and manage the risks that face us.
We achieve this through our embedded risk management approach, combining a top-down strategic view of risks with a bottom-up divisional process.
Managing risk The diagram summarises how Board we manage risk Sets risk appetite The Board has ultimate responsibility Policy approval for our risk management policies and Oversight for ensuring we have an effective system Implementation Oversight of internal control.
Our executive and operational management assess the risks Executive management Audit Committee facing our businesses and respectively Policy creation Oversight on behalf create and implement our risk Risk assessment of the Board management policies.
The Audit Committee ensures appropriate oversight of risk management and is supported Operational Internal audit by our internal audit function, which tests management Controls testing the effectiveness of our controls and Policy implementation Identified improvements identifies areas for improvement.
The risks to our strategy The table below shows the main categories of risks we face and which of our strategic objectives they could affect.
Strategy Transforming Generating Allocating Smiths into a Promoting cash and capital to Driving topEnhancing world-class a culture of managing the maximise Risk line growth margins organisation responsibility balance sheet returns Economic outlook Financial risks Eurozone break-up Global supply chain concentration of manufacturing Government customers Information technology Acquisitions and disposals Legislation and regulations Pension funding Product liability and litigation Contractual liabilities Technology and innovation Talent and succession planning Although the Group faces more risks than those listed above, these are the risks that Read more on pages 56 to 61 are currently of most concern to the business and have been considered at recent Board or Audit Committee meetings.
A full description of these risks, their potential impact and how we manage them is set out in the risk management section.
16 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 The investment case Smiths Group offers a clear proposition to investors.
We have a portfolio of fundamentally strong businesses, which gives us six key benefits: Strong market positions in sectors Leading-edge technologies and service Further scope for operational with long-term profitable growth levels that command high margins improvement and margin enhancement Our businesses are either market We stay at the forefront of technology Operational efficiencies will drive our leaders or are well placed in attractive by understanding the needs of our margins higher.
This allows us to benefit from customers and investing in research programme has already delivered the long-term growth drivers in their and development to meet those needs.
significant value, with more to come industries.
Across our portfolio, these Our technological strengths give us in the next two years.
growth drivers include: a competitive advantage and create We have invested to improve our systems, customer loyalty, enabling us to earn global demand for energy with enterprise resource planning attractive margins.
healthcare needs of ageing populations systems installed in Smiths Detection, threat of terrorism Our businesses often provide significant Smiths Medical and John Crane.
Better expansion of wireless communications levels of aftermarket service and essential information enables us to leverage the aerospace demand consumables.
This helps us retain Groups scale and deliver further savings.
customers and provide recurring income Portfolio profitability reviews are also as well as insight into customer needs.
Read more on pages 8-9 and 30-49 Read more on pages 8-11 and 14-15 Read more on page 23 Opportunity to realise value through High returns on capital employed Strong cash generation to reinvest in more active portfolio management Our divisions generate attractive margins top-line growth and increase dividends We also assess portfolio management and tend to specialise in small-batch, Closely managing our working capital opportunities where we see the potential low-cost manufacturing.
As a result, enables us to convert most of our to create a more focused portfolio they have low capital intensity and deliver operating profit into cash-flow.
Improved through a targeted programme of returns above our weighted average cost business data will continue to drive cash acquisitions and disposals.
We invest in business acquisitions to We have opportunities to invest for Our focus on cash ensures we have increase our exposure to attractive and growth in our businesses to generate the resources needed to reinvest in adjacent growing sectors as well as to attractive incremental returns for our our businesses through targeted expand our current businesses.
We maintain a strong acquisitions, and in organic growth discipline to ensure we make informed drivers such as product development, investment choices.
and sales and marketing in growth markets.
At the same time, it allows us to increase dividend payments to shareholders, while maintaining an efficient balance sheet and meeting the obligations of our legacy liabilities, such as pensions and product liability litigation.
Read more on pages 14-15 and 24-25 Read more on pages 22-25, 28-29 and 51 Read more on pages 22-25, 28 and in note 26 on page 143 and page 146 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 17 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
