Our strategy and progress We have a six-part strategy for creating long-term value for our shareholders and we measure our performance against this strategy through several key performance indicators.
Weve delivered progress in tough conditions, with revenue growth and strong cash generation, plus improvements in our corporate responsibility measures and organisational capabilities.
Driving top-line Enhancing margins through Transforming Smiths into 1 2 3 growth operational efficiencies a world-class organisation We drive our top-line growth in four We intend to continue to enhance our Attracting, retaining and developing ways.
First, we invest in new product attractive margins through further the right people with the right skills development the lifeblood of a operational improvement, leveraging is key to transforming Smiths into a technology business such as Smiths.
our scale and IT systems, and focusing world-class organisation.
We are raising Second, we look to expand in emerging on low-cost manufacturing.
These the bar in terms of fostering talent markets such as China, India and Brazil, operational efficiencies also provide the through a rigorous focus on succession through investing in sales resources.
planning, assessment programmes and Third, by improving our sales and personal development.
We also look for marketing effectiveness through opportunities to foster smarter ways of sharing tools and best practice.
Fourth, working and encourage collaboration.
we make bolt-on acquisitions to add complementary technologies and increase our exposure to high-growth markets.
Performance in 2013 Performance in 2013 Performance in 2013 Headline revenue m Headline operating margin % 3,109m 18.0% Leadership 3,109 18.2 18.2 18.0 3,038 17.8 We changed the leadership at John 2,842 2,770 Crane and Smiths Interconnect during the year to take both businesses to the next phase of development.
Talent pipeline Our focus on succession planning has delivered significant progress in building our talent pipeline, through a more rigorous and consistent approach to 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 talent assessment and the preparation and monitoring of personal development Headline revenue increased by 2% Headline operating margin declined plans.
We have also relaunched our this year, driven by John Crane, Smiths by 20 basis points, reflecting reduced two development programmes for both Detection and Flex-Tek.
We raised profitability in Smiths Medical and junior and senior leaders, with almost company-funded R&D by 5% to 112m Smiths Detection and our continued 90 managers from across the business to drive innovation and completed a investment in sales, marketing and currently participating.
number of new product launches across new product development.
Based on our headline operating profit, which People management excludes a number of items that do not reflect the Since 2010 we have transformed our Revenues from emerging markets portfolios underlying performance.
HR function to ensure that we have the grew by 14% to 16% of Group revenues, appropriate infrastructure in place to reflecting our ongoing investment to support growth.
increase our exposure in these markets.
The absolute level of revenue achieved in the year.
This includes the effect of portfolio changes and currency movements.
Priorities Priorities Priorities We aim to accelerate our top-line Continue to drive cost savings and We will launch our revised HR strategy, growth through continued investment operational improvements through the further developing our leadership in new product development, sales and ongoing initiatives at Smiths Detection capabilities and technological expertise.
marketing in high-growth markets and and a new Group-wide restructuring plan We will continue to roll-out e-enabled HR in targeted acquisitions.
and conduct our third engagement survey.
Read more on pages 22-25 and Read more on pages 22-25 and in Read more on pages 20-25, 66-67 and in note 1 on page 115 note 1 on page 115 www.
com responsibility 14 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013
