Our business model Smiths Groups business model operates at two levels.
The Group manages our portfolio to create value for shareholders, while the five divisions manage their businesses to meet customers needs and create value for the Group.
The Groups role Strategy Budgeting and Governance Risk We have a lean corporate centre, which planning management sets our strategic direction and allocates capital to manage the portfolio and drive returns.
It also fosters a culture of Performance Information Ethics and EHS, talent responsibility and accountability wherever monitoring systems compliance and retention we work around the world.
Capital allocation Financing Shareholder Legacy Acquisitions and capital returns liabilities and disposals structure The divisional business model Customer intimacy and market knowledge Our diversified portfolio offers a wide range of long-term growth markets with different customers, demand drivers and competitors.
It makes our business relatively resilient throughout the economic cycle.
Sales Our businesses also share a common effectiveness business model: Invest in Operations Cash developing products to meet new product and supply generation customers specific needs development chain producing those products through low-cost, flexible manufacturing: and Aftermarket services providing aftermarket services.
Our decentralised structure ensures our businesses are close to their target markets and customers and encourages a culture of entrepreneurship.
Our divisions are responsible for actively managing Organic investment inbusiness their risks, ensuring that a strong culture of ethics and compliance is embedded across their businesses, and developing and retaining their people, with regular reporting back to the Group centre.
10 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 The Groups role Strategy Information systems Shareholder returns Sets Group strategy and ensures Makes sure the right business systems Our focus on cash generation enables us divisional strategies are aligned with and processes are in place so that to reinvest in the business to drive growth Group strategy.
decisions are made efficiently based and to generate attractive shareholder on high-quality data.
returns, through both dividend payments Budgeting and planning and capital returns.
Agrees annual Group and divisional Ethics and compliance budgets.
Approves policies and provides oversight Legacy liabilities to ensure a strong culture of ethical At the same time, we monitor our Governance behaviour and compliance.
portfolio of liabilities, such as our Provides an effective governance defined benefit pension schemes and framework and ensures good governance EHS, talent and retention legacy product liability issues, so that is embedded across the business.
Sets the Groups environment, health we minimise their impact on our value and safety, and people development Risk management creation.
These are managed at either policies and monitors compliance and Sets risk appetite, ensures a strong risk Group or divisional level, as appropriate.
management framework is in place and Acquisitions and disposals provides effective oversight.
Capital allocation We buy businesses that add Allocates capital across the Group Performance monitoring complementary technologies and through investing in organic growth Reviews and regularly challenges products, expand our geographical and acquisitions, managing our divisional performance.
footprint, particularly in emerging legacy liabilities and returning cash markets, or allow us to leverage our toshareholders.
We are Financing and capital structure also active in disposing of businesses Optimises the Groups capital structure that offer less attractive returns.
Seeks to maintain a strong investmentgrade credit rating.
The divisional business model Customer intimacy and market Operations and supply chain Cash generation knowledge The majority of the manufacturing process By emphasising working capital Our businesses consistently refine their is in small-batch, low-cost assembly, management, particularly our debtors knowledge of their markets.
This includes much of which is made to meet specific and inventories, we are able to convert knowing the scale of the market and its customer orders.
This makes us capitala high proportion of headline operating growth rate, the competitors and their light and flexible.
activities, and our potential sources of Where appropriate, we have established Organic investment inbusiness competitive advantage.
This helps us production facilities in lower-cost countries, Our strong cash-flow enables us to anticipate and respond to developments.
such as Mexico, China, India, the Czech reinvest in the business to drive top-line This deep market knowledge enables Republic, Costa Rica and Tunisia.
growth by investing in new product us to achieve a high degree of customer development, optimising our systems Sales effectiveness intimacy, allowing us to anticipate their and operations and expanding our sales We take our products to market through specific needs.
This in turn helps us to and marketing presence in key growth our own sales and marketing teams and a keep our customers for the long term.
network of dealers and distributors around Invest in new product development the world.
Our focus on building long-term This investment enables us to maintain R&D is the key driver of sales growth customer relationships is fundamental to our technology leadership and and margins.
It enables us to keep at the success of our sales force.
accelerates sales and margin growth the forefront of technology and develop across the business, providing a platform Aftermarket services products that meet our customers for sustained growth.
Many of our businesses provide a high evolving needs.
We also sell We fund the majority of our R&D and we significant quantities of single-use also seek funding from our customers.
These activities help us Our spend is focused more on product to retain customer loyalty, improve our development than pure research.
In 2013, understanding of how our products perform we invested 121m in R&D, of which 9m over their lifetime and increase our was customer funded.
resilience throughout the economic cycle.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 11 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
