Business review Smiths Medical 2013 2012 Reported Underlying Key operational highlights m m growth growth Growth in vital care offset by declines in Headline revenue 850 864 2 % 1 % medication delivery and safety devices Headline operating profit 189 203 7 % 7 % Emerging markets up 8% good Headline operating margin 22.2% 23.5% 130 bps growth in several key markets Statutory revenue 850 856 1 % Margins affected by accelerated Statutory operating profit 179 180 investment, US Device Tax and price Return on capital employed 16.6% 17.6% 100 bps pressure New product development investment up 12% Performance Statutory operating profit at 179m of our CADD-Solis pumps and dedicated Smiths Medical headline revenue declined principally reflects amortisation of disposable sets, as well as launches 2%, or 14m, reflecting an underlying fall acquired intangible assets of 11m.
of CADD-Solis PIB in Canada and CADDin revenue of 7m 1% and a currency Solis VIP in the US.
Infusion system While developed markets remain impact of 7m.
The underlying decrease revenue fell, reflecting hospital capital challenging, increases in access to resulted from weaker infusion hardware constraints and deferrals, with spending healthcare and rising spend inemerging business, which was affected by hospital priorities currently on EMR and IT markets continue to provide growth capital constraints, and stalled procedure infrastructure.
We have expanded our volumes in some major developed to have a robust order pipeline, and we are efforts and presence in these markets to markets.
Emerging market sales grew 8%, well placed to capture further growth as leverage our broad product portfolio, and and now represent over 11% of revenue, conditions improve.
are beginning to see positive impact from the increase supported by a broadening the 230 headcount added during the prior Vital care underlying revenue was up of our product sales efforts.
Consumables, year in selected countries, including China, 3% despite relatively sluggish procedure which comprise almost 85% of our total Brazil, India, and various Southeast Asia volumes and pricing pressures in revenue, were flat.
Hardware revenue and Middle East markets.
Assisted fell 3%, largely due to lower sales of the to see early signs of success with another reproduction, general anaesthesia, wireless Medfusion 4000 syringe pumps, year of strong revenue growth in the invasive blood pressure monitoring, partly offset by ambulatory pumps growth.
Middle East, Latin America, and Asia tracheostomy and temperature Headline operating profit declined 7% Pacific.
In China sales of newly registered management businesses all grew.
14m and headline operating margin fell products grew strongly but overall Respiratory posted strong growth, driven 130 basis points to 22.2%.
Margins were hit performance has been restricted by the by the Carefusion distribution agreement by the accelerated investment in a range base infusion business, where we are for our bronchial hygiene products in the of growth initiatives 10m, including sales introducing product range improvements US acute care market.
These gains were capabilities in emerging markets and new to support accelerated growth.
offset by declines in patient monitoring, product development.
The impact of the veterinary and kitting product lines where Underlying revenue from safety devices US medical device tax 4m and pricing we are eliminating low-margin stockdeclined 5%, primarily resulting from pressure in many markets was also felt.
pricing pressures and share loss in the These adverse effects were mitigated US.
China and SE Asia saw growth as We continue to pursue variable cost to some extent by one-off benefits from customers adopt the newly registered productivity initiatives aggressively, though insurance receipts 6m.
Interest in both safety operational resources were also engaged Return on capital employed fell 100 needle and catheter products remains in overcoming short-term external basis points to 16.6% as a result of the high in developed markets and is growing supplier disruption during the year.
The underlying in emerging markets.
Two safety catheter The contribution to margin expansion decline in revenue and profitability was a products were launched during the year has enabled further investment in sales result of difficult trading conditions in the to capture global safety opportunities and marketing.
We have identified further medical devices sector.
These stemmed and replace conventional catheter sales opportunities for cost savings through from adverse pricing, capital spending in many developed markets.
In addition, a programme of site rationalisation and constraints, and stalled procedure growth outside the US, sharps safety sales other operational efficiencies such rates in some countries.
The pressures grew 10%, and vascular access was flat as variable cost productivity initiatives.
were particularly acute in Europe, given with growth in huber needles offsetting We continue to review our manufacturing the continued austerity measures and other declines.
footprint to support future growth cost economic uncertainty.
Further details will be provided The medication delivery business was at the interim results in March 2014. unable to repeat the strong second half seen in 2012, and full year results declined 2%.
However, ambulatory infusion revenue grew well, through the continued success 36 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 left to right Denise Tacy, Customs Specialist, Anaesthesia Circuits, US Kim Chaffee, Alternate Care Manager, Anaesthesia Circuits, US Beth Youngman, Customs Specialist, Anaesthesia Circuits, US Research and development Outlook Enhancing Investment in new product development Developed markets are likely to remain 2 margins remains a priority, increasing 12%.
Our challenging in the short term as Breathing circuits for advanced surgery total R&D spend of 38m 2012: 34m healthcare cost controls, unemployment The advent of more advanced surgical comprised 4.4% of revenue 2012: 3.9%.
and changes in employer funding of procedures, often robotics-led, has We continued to narrow the number of healthcare plans squeeze price and resulted in major changes in how pipeline projects to ensure adequate procedure volumes.
In the US, the medical anaesthesia breathing circuits are investment in the highest impact products.
device tax is constraining margins, though configured.
These devices, which This is raising the rate of project execution we will continue to seek to offset the deliver anaesthetics and air to patients and will continue to increase overall R&D impact, primarily through operational undergoing surgery, must now be able effectiveness.
improvements and increased focus on to extend further across the operating higher margin products.
We will pursue Our vitality index, measured as sales from theatre.
Kim Chaffee, a regional ways of driving sales growth through products launched in the last three years, marketing manager at Smiths Medical, increased investment and new product totalled 5%.
The decline since last year explains how its long-established Portex introductions, coupled with a continued was due primarily to the current infusion product line adapted to the changing emphasis on customer-facing resources, hardware market conditions.
The changes in clinical sales effectiveness and leveraging our year, we launched our CADD-Solis VIP application opened a great opportunity broad portfolio through our extensive platform in the US market, and our for us to offer a series of longer breathing global network.
These launches circuits, up to twice the length currently have fuelled significant growth in North available as standard.
These circuits are Priorities for 2014 America, further strengthening our faster to make, more cost-effective and Drive penetration of our top-selling leadership in the ambulatory pump markets.
profitable than the specialised, customised products across all key franchises We received FDA 510 k clearance for our service which can generate only a small Emerging market growth, leveraging new ViaValve Safety IV Catheter in North proportion of potential sales.
the infrastructure established over the America, and CE clearance for our new past 18 months Jelco IntuitIV Safety IV Catheter in Europe.
Accelerate investment in new product Both have now been successfully development to support long-term launched.
We have also launched our growth Bivona Inner Cannula to extend our range Fund growth through operational of Bivona silicone tracheostomy products.
excellence initiatives, by reducing both In emerging markets, we have registered fixed and variable costs many existing portfolio products, including multiple safety product ranges in Brazil, China and India, where we are engaging Go to www.
com for more information our customers on the benefits of adopting safety devices.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 37 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Business review Smiths Detection Smiths Detection A world-leading designer and manufacturer of sensors that detect and identify explosives, weapons, chemical agents, biohazards, nuclear & radioactive material, narcotics and contraband.
Our technology helps customers in the global transportation, ports and borders, critical infrastructure, military and emergency Mal Maginnis responder markets.
We have the most comprehensive range President, Smiths Detection of detection technologies in the world, including X-ray, trace detection, infra-red and gamma ray spectroscopy.
Contribution to 2013 Revenue by sector Customers Group revenue 1 Transportation 51% A significant majority of sales are 2 Ports and borders 17% influenced by more than 100 18% 3 Military 12% governments and their agencies, 4 Emergency responders 3% including homeland security 5 Critical infrastructure 16% authorities, customs authorities, 6 Non-security 1% emergency responders and the military.
Contribution to 2013 These include the US Department Group headline operating profit of Defense, US Transportation Security 5 Administration TSA, and the UK 10% 6 Ministry of Defence.
4 Percentage relates to headline operating profit 1 before corporate costs 3 Competitors Revenue performance Smiths Detections broad portfolio in m 2 the homeland security and defence sectors brings it into competition with 559m 8% a wide range of companies in individual segments.
Principal competitors include: Transportation Morpho air transportation, Rapiscan air 574 51% transportation, ports and borders, critical 559 519 510 infrastructure, L3 Security & Detection 501 Systems air transportation, Nuctech ports and borders, AS&E ports and Ports and borders borders, FLIR air transportation, defence, SAIC ports and borders, 17% Chemring military, Bruker military, emergency responders, and Thermo Fisher military, emergency responders.
Military 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 12% Suppliers Principal operations regions We are actively developing synergies Our nine manufacturing centres are across sites and restructuring our Emergency responders concentrated in North America, purchasing group to ensure that we 3% Germany, France, Russia, Malaysia and fully leverage the size of our business.
We sell to over 180 countries These developments will be on-going around the world either direct or through taking into account the demand for third-party distributors.
local content with some of our major Critical infrastructure customers as well as our stringent 16% quality and delivery requirements.
Our procurement team has now been centralised and our engagement with suppliers is being standardised across all business operations.
38 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 Driving top-line 1 growth Drive-through security screening Growing market demand for a scanner specialising in screening cars and light trucks has led to the launch of Smiths Detections CIP-300, a low-energy X-ray system that can reveal hidden explosives, drugs, stowaways and contraband while drivers and passengers remain in the vehicle.
The CIP-300 can typically be deployed wherever high-energy equipment is not suitable.
A compact footprint and simple configuration offer an affordable and adaptable system that can be applied to a range of operational areas.
This versatile scanner fills an important gap in customer requirements for a drivethrough solution, said product manager Joachim Petry.
Left: Marco Dick, Product Management Intern, Germany Right: Joachim Petry, Product Manager CXS, Germany Markets and trends In the ports and borders market, demand excellent long-term growth prospects, Smiths Detection produces equipment for detection equipment is expected but they are evolving and our investment for customers in the air transportation, to rise to address a variety of threats will be channelled rigorously towards the ports and borders, critical infrastructure, as governments become increasingly highest-margin products and services.
military and emergency responder concerned about cross-border security Business focus is increasingly on fewer, sectors to help them secure the safety and involving the smuggling of explosives, more profitable programmes and the security of people and critical assets.
weapons and radiological materials, rising volume of smaller contracts.
while continuing to recognise the strong Building better customer insight and Demand for detection equipment in three revenue-generating potential from improved delivery processes will also of its principal markets transportation, contraband detection.
A further benefit is help boost aftermarket sales and smooth ports and borders and critical expected from the recovery in worldwide out the traditional volatility of prime infrastructure estimated at more than trade using maritime, road and rail contracting.
We expect the recurring run- 1.6bn is forecast to continue to grow transportation.
rate business from better aftermarket at almost 7% per annum in the near term penetration to comprise some 30% of because of on-going geo-political unrest Overall demand in the highly fragmented revenue in the medium term.
Rising and the terrorist and criminal threats critical infrastructure market is expected passenger volumes are driving new airport it creates.
Government budgets and to grow.
Governments and other and infrastructure investment, especially legislation can also affect demand for our organisations are seeking to protect their in the emerging markets.
In addition, products and cause the timing and profile assets within current terror threat levels the need for new products to meet of orders to vary.
and increasing levels of perceived risk.
ever-evolving security threats, a strong The highly diverse nature of customers and The changing nature of the detection replacement cycle and the globalisation different forms of threat they face requires business sector is resulting in a growing of trade will continue to support healthy application-specific solutions to be volume of smaller contracts and fewer market growth.
developed and the increasing requirement major programmes.
Smiths Detection for ease of use by operators to be met.
is actively adjusting its operations to Competitive strengths meet the requirements of this run-rate A squeeze on defence spending by Market leader with strong global brand business model which benefits from governments in developed markets means Operates in regulated markets that lower volatility than areas which are more lower growth rates of around 3% per annum require product certification government controlled.
It is also placing in the military and emergency response Technology leveraged across broad more emphasis on aftermarket sales, sectors in the near term.
Defence budgets range of markets and applications enhancing the level of customer service are returning to pre-conflict levels, c. 25% of sales from aftermarket to meet opportunities arising from the impacting the divisions sales of equipment service and growing extensive installed base of detection to protect troops and assets from a range Global sales and service network with equipment across most regional markets.
of chemical, biological, radiological, strong emerging market presence nuclear and explosive threats.
The level of The heavily regulated transportation such threats remains high with demand sector is the largest market for the shifting from defence and military division.
Rising passenger volumes are Growth drivers applications to civilian incidents.
This is resulting in new airport investment, Evolving terror threats accompanied by a move towards more especially in the Middle East and Security regulations on cargo commercial solutions and a growing Southeast Asia.
This, together with and passengers requirement for software, training and continuing security threats, a strong Replacement cycle typically support to simplify, accelerate and aid replacement cycle and globalisation 7-10 years on-scene decision making.
of trade, boosting freight volumes, is New product launches expected to continue to support market Strategy Growth of security infrastructure growth.
In addition more stringent Smiths Detection is focused on leveraging in emerging markets requirements from major regulatory its technology leadership and global bodies will increase the sophistication reach to exceed the changing demands of security equipment.
Our main markets hold Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 39 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
