About the Board Key: Committees A PROVEN RECORD OF A Audit and Risk R Remuneration N Nominations DIVERSE EXPERIENCE Membership Committee chair Committee member Committee advisor AND INSIGHT R N 7.
SOCO International plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 St rategic Report Go vernance Financial Statements Additional Information 1.
Robert Cathery Non-Executive Chairman, 58 Non-Executive Director, 69 Appointed: July 1999 Appointed: June 2001 Rui fide Sousa has approximately 35 years experience in the energy sector.
Robert Cathery has over 45 years of City experience.
He was formerly He was formerly a director of Gazprombank-Invest Lebanon SAL, the the Managing Director and Head of Oil and Gas at Canaccord Capital Chairman of Carbon Resource Management Ltd and the President of Europe Limited, Head of Corporate Sales at SG Securities London Ltd. Quantic Mining.
Rui is currently a director of Quantic Limited.
director of Vickers da Costa and director of Schroders Securities.
Robert is also currently a non-executive director of Salamander Energy PLC and 2.
Ed Story Central Asia Metals Limited.
President and Chief Executive Of cer, 70 Appointed: April 1997 8.
Ettore Contini Ed Story has over 45 years experience in the oil and gas industry, Non-Executive Director, 39 beginning with Exxon Corporation, where he held various positions Appointed: December 2001 including seven years resident in the Far East.
He was formerly the Ettore Contini was formerly a director of Energia E Servize SpA and Vice President and CFO of Superior Oil Company, a co-founder and an asset manager in the private banking division of Banca del Gottardo.
Vice Chairman of Conquest Exploration Company and a co-founder Ettore is currently also a director of Eurowatt-Commerce.
and President of Snyder Oil Corporations international subsidiary.
Ed was a non-executive director of Cairn Energy PLC until 2008 and 9.
Marianne Daryabegui is currently a non-executive director of Cairn India Limited.
Roger Cagle Marianne Daryabegui is currently the Managing Director of the Corporate Executive Vice President, Deputy CEO Finance Oil and Gas Team at BNP Paribas in Paris, France.
Marianne has and Chief Financial Of cer, 66 extensive experience in oil and gas corporate transactions, including Appointed: April 1997 structured nancing and reserve based lending facilities, and has advised Roger Cagle has over 40 years of experience in the oil and gas industry a wide number of oil companies across the sector.
Prior to joining the including succeeding positions of responsibility with Exxon Corporation Oil and Gas Team in 2006, Marianne worked foreight years in BNP and senior management roles with Superior Oil Company.
He was formerly Paribas Energy Commodities Export Project Department where she the Chief Financial Of cer of Conquest Exploration Company and the Chief headed the Commodity Structure Finance team for the Middle East, North Financial Of cer of Snyder Oil Corporations international subsidiary.
Prior to joining BNP Paribas, Marianne spent eight years at TOTAL, working amongst other activities on upstream acquisitions and 4.
Robert Gray divestments in Europe and Africa.
Marianne has a Masters degree in Non-Executive and Senior Independent Director, 60 Finance and Capital Markets from Sciences Po University, Paris and Appointed: December 2013 a Masters in Tax and Corporate Law.
Rob Gray has been an advisor to the natural resources sector for more than 30 years.
Rob quali ed as a solicitor in 1981 at Allen & Overy 10.
Antnio Monteiro and then went on to help establish James Capel & Co. Petroleum Non-Executive Director, 70 Services, a successful advisory and mergers and acquisitions practice.
Appointed: June 2009 Robs experience includes 13 years at Deutsche Bank where he was Ambassador Antnio Monteiro has over 45 years of experience with latterly a Senior Advisor having been Chairman of UK Investment Banking the Portuguese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including as Foreign Minister of for five years and formerly Global Head of Natural Resources.
Rob was Portugal, and with international organisations, including as UN High previously a Director and Head of the Natural Resource Group at Robert Representative for Elections in Cte dIvoire and as a member of the Fleming & Co. Ltd for four years, a group which he established.
Between UN Secretary-Generals Panel on the Referenda in the Sudan.
He was 2000 and 2010, Rob was an Advisory Board Member for Heerema Marine formerly the Ambassador of Portugal to France and the Permanent Contractors.
Rob is also one of a number of industry advisors to Bluewater Representative of Portugal to the United Nations, where posts included Energy.
Rob was a co-founder of RegEnersys, a natural resources being President of the Security Council and of the Security Councils investment entity and is currently the principal of ReVysion LLP.
Antnio is currently also Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Portuguese Bank Millenium 5.
Olivier Barbaroux BCP Banco Comercial Portugus, a non-executive member of the Board Non-Executive Director, 58 of the Angolan Bank BPA Banco Privado Atlntico, President of the Appointed: July 1999 Luso-Brazilian Foundation Curators Council, and Chairman of the Advisory Olivier Barbaroux has over 25 years experience in the energy and Council of Gulbenkians Foundation Program for Development Assistance.
He was the Chairman and CEO of Dalkia and a member of the Executive Committee of Veolia Environment until 2011.
John Norton he was the Managing Director of Compagnie Gnrale des Eaux, President Non-Executive Director, 76 and Chief Operating Of cer of Vivendi Water S. A. the Head of the Energy Appointed: April 1997 Sector of Paribas and the Chief Executive Of cer of the oil and gas John Norton is a Chartered Accountant by profession and was a partner production and exploration company Coparex International.
at Arthur Andersen, heading the oil and gas practice in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, until his retirement in 1995.
Cynthia Cagle a member of the Oil Industry Accounting Committee and a director of the Executive Director, Vice President Arab-British Chamber of Commerce.
Finance and Company Secretary, 59 Appointed: December 2012 12.
Mike Watts Cynthia Cagle is a Certi ed Public Accountant with over 35 years Non-Executive Director, 58 experience in the oil and gas industry.
She was one of the founders of Appointed: August 2009 SOCO International plc and has been an of cer of the Group, and a Dr Mike Watts is currently the Deputy Chief Executive of Cairn Energy PLC director of its signi cant subsidiaries, since its inception in 1997.
Prior to and has over 35 years experience in the oil and gas industry.
He was joining SOCO, Cynthia gained her industry experience through senior formerly the CEO and Managing Director of the Amsterdam listed Holland accounting positions in Snyder Oil Corporations international subsidiary, Sea Search, which was acquired by Cairn Energy PLC in 1995, and has Conquest Exploration Company and Superior Oil Company, and additional held senior technical and management roles with Premier, Burmah financial experience with Texas Commerce Bancshares.
SOCO International plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Annual Report of Cynthia Cagle Vice President Finance the Directors and Company Secretary T he Directors present their annual report, along with the Articles and law.
The Directors who held of ce during the year, and the audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December dates of their current service contracts or letters of appointment, which 2013.
Information on pages 40 to 43 and 47 to 69 is incorporated herein are available for inspection, are listed in the table on page 45. by reference and forms part of this Directors report.
All Directors held of ce throughout the year except as noted in the table.
In accordance with the provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting Developments following the 2013 Reporting Period AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for reappointment.
Relevant details of the Directors, which include their Committee memberships, An indication of the likely future developments in the business of the Group are set out on pages 42 and 43.
SOCO provides liability insurance is included in the Strategic Report on pages 10 to 23. for its Directors and of cers.
The annual cost of the cover is not material to the Group.
The Companys Articles allow it to provide an indemnity for the bene t of its Directors, which is a qualifying indemnity Results and Dividends provision for the purpose of section 233 of the Companies Act 2006 2006 Act.
The audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 are set out on pages 74 to 97.
During the year, the Company announced a return of value to shareholders of 40 pence per Ordinary Share amounting Contributions to approximately 133 million $213.3 million in cash by way of a B and C share scheme, which gave shareholders other than certain overseas The Groups policies prohibit political donations.
shareholders a choice between receiving cash in the form of income or in the form of capital.
The return of value, which was approved by shareholders on 25 September 2013, became effective on 3 October Share Capital 2013.
The Board expects to again recommend a return of capital to shareholders in the third quarter of this year, thereby con rming the Details of changes to share capital in the period are set out in Note26 sustainability of our capital return policy.
The magnitude of the pay out is to the financial statements.
targeted to equal 50% of 2013 free cash ow.
In October 2013 a return of value was made to all shareholders amounting to approximately 133 million in cash by way of a B and C share scheme.
Directors Further information can be found above and in Note28 to the financial statements.
The business of the Company is managed by the Directors who may exercise all powers of the Company subject to the Articles of Association SOCO International plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 St rategic Report Go vernance Financial Statements Additional Information As part of this scheme, 94,984,376 B shares and 236,847,671 C shares Auditors were issued.
On 3 October 2013, all of the B shares were redeemed at 40 pence per share and a dividend of 40 pence per share was paid on A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP Deloitte as the Companys auditors the C shares.
The C shares were then automatically reclassi ed as will be proposed by the Directors at the forthcoming AGM.
provide non-audit services to the Group, which are set out in Note9 to the financial statements.
All non-audit services are approved by the Audit and The Company therefore, currently has two classes of shares in issue, Risk Committee.
The Directors are currently satis ed, and will continue to ordinary shares of 0.05 each, and deferred shares of 0.0000001 pence ensure, that this range of services is delivered in compliance with the each, all of which are fully paid.
relevant ethical guidance of the accountancy profession and does not impair the judgement or independence of the auditors.
Further details of Each ordinary share in issue carries equal rights including one vote per the Group policy on non-audit services are set out in the Audit and Risk share on a poll at general meetings of the Company, subject to the terms Committee Report on pages 55 and 56. of the Articles and law.
Shares held in treasury carry no such rights for so long as they are held in treasury.
Votes may be exercised by shareholders The Directors at the date of approval of this report con rm that, so far as attending or otherwise duly represented at general meetings.
Deadlines for they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information, being the exercise of voting rights by proxy on a poll at a general meeting are information needed by the auditors in connection with preparing their detailed in the notice of meeting and proxy cards issued in connection with report, of which the auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken all the relevant meeting.
Voting rights relating to the shares held by the SOCO steps that they ought to have taken as a Director, having made such Employee Bene t Trust are not exercised.
The Articles may only be enquiries of fellow Directors and the auditors and taken such other steps amended by a resolution of the shareholders.
as are required under their duties as a Director, to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are Each deferred share carries no voting rights and no rights to participate in aware of that information.
This con rmation is given and should be the pro ts of the Company.
On a winding-up or other return of capital, the interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of holders of deferred shares have extremely limited rights.
be proposed at the 2014 AGM to approve a contract to buy back all of the deferred shares for the aggregate consideration of one pence and, in accordance with the Articles, following such buy back, the deferred shares Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reporting will be cancelled.
Further information regarding this resolution is set out in the circular to shareholders.
Reporting on emission sources, as required under the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports No shareholder, unless the Board decides otherwise, is entitled to attend Regulations 2008 as amended in August 2013, is included in the or to vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 32 to 39. any other right conferred by being a shareholder if he or she or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the 2006 Act which confers upon public companies the power to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares and he or she or any interested person failed to supply the Company with the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
The Board may also decide that no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of a notice of an approved Directors Holding Of ce During 2013 transfer of the shares or all the information required by the relevant section 793 notice, whichever is earlier.
The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully-paid share, although such Director Date of Contract discretion may not be exercised in a way which the Financial Services Rui C fide Sousa 12.07.99 Authority regards as preventing dealings in shares of that class from taking Chairman place on an open or proper basis.
The Directors may likewise refuse any Michael C Johns 23.06.11 transfer of a share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
Senior Independent Director Retired from the Board 30.09.13 The Company is not aware of any other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than certain restrictions that may Robert G Gray 09.12.13 Senior Independent Director from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Olivier M G Barbaroux 12.07.99 Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require approval of Roger D Cagle 14.05.97 the Company to deal in the Companys shares.
Cynthia B Cagle 14.05.97 The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that Robert M Cathery 19.06.01 may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Ettore P M Contini 11.12.01 Resolutions will be proposed at the 2014 AGM, as is customary, to Marianne Daryabegui 01.10.13 authorise the Directors to exercise all powers to allot shares and approve a limited disapplication of pre-emption rights.
Further information regarding Antnio V Monteiro 10.06.09 these resolutions is set out in the circular to shareholders.
A resolution will John C Norton 14.05.97 also be proposed at the 2014 AGM, as is also customary, to renew the Edward T Story 14.05.97 Directors existing authority to make market purchases of the Companys ordinary share capital, and to limit such authority to purchases of up to Michael J Watts 21.09.09 34,095,432 ordinary shares of 0.05 each, representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 4 March 2014.
Denotes those determined by the Board to be independent Non-Executive Directors as Shares purchased under this authority may either be cancelled or held as described in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 49 to 50. treasury shares.
SOCO International plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Annual Report of the Directors continued Substantial shareholdings As at 4 March 2014, the Company had been noti ed, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Transparency Obligations Directive Disclosure and Transparency Rules Instrument 2006, of the interests in the shares of the Company as set out in the table below: Issued Shares Name of Holder Number % Held Blue Albacore Business Ltd 27,444,382 8.27 Globe Deals Ltd 27,444,382 8.27 1 Liquid Business Ltd 27,444,381 8.27 Chemsa Ltd 23,528,925 7.09 2 Edward T Story 11,398,866 3.43 1 27,444,381 Shares are held through Liquid Business Ltd, a connected person to Mr E Contini.
An additional 220,000 Shares are held personally by Mr E Contini.
For further information see the Directors Interests table on page 66.
2 11,398,866 Shares are held personally by Mr E Story.
1,675,000 Shares are held through The Story Family Trust, a connected person to Mr E Story.
Going Concern The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
It should be recognised that any consideration of the foreseeable future Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with involves making a judgement, at a particular point in time, about future different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing events which are inherently uncertain.
Nevertheless, at the time of the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from preparation of these accounts and after making enquiries, the Directors legislation in other jurisdictions.
have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, and taking into consideration the additional factors in the Financial Review on pages Directors Responsibility Statement 24 to 26, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Directors con rm that, to the best of each persons knowledge: a the financial statements set out on pages 74 to 97, which have been Directors Responsibilities for the Financial prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Statements International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the and pro t of the Company and of the Group taken as a whole: financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the b this Directors Report along with the Strategic Report, including each of European Union both for the Group and the Company.
the management reports forming part of these reports, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a financial year that give a true and fair view of the financial position of the description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and Company and of the Group and the financial performance and cash ows of the Group for that period.
In preparing those accounts the Directors are c the annual report and the financial statements, taken as a whole, are required to select suitable accounting policies and then apply them fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary consistently: present information and accounting policies in a manner that for the shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model provides relevant, reliable and comparable information: and state that the and strategy.
Company and the Group have complied with applicable accounting standards, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in By order of the Board the accounts.
4 March 2014 The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which Cynthia Cagle disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company Secretary Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with relevant legislation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
SOCO International plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
