y t i n u t r o p p o g n i s i n g o c e C R a p t u r i n g p Strategic Report OUR STRATEGY CONTINUES TO YIELD RESULTS Since our incorporation in 1997 we have applied our core strategic objectives to our projects, and they remain at the centre of our operations today 1 Recognising opportunity By cultivating relationships and having early access into regions, projects or situations where there is potential to create signi cant upside through the Companys participation.
OUR CORE 2 Capturing potential By adding the Companys managerial, technical STRATEGIC and commercial expertise to progress activities through the formative stages or through periods OBJECTIVES of dif culty.
3 Realising value By locking in returns, regardless of the phase of the project life cycle, once the Companys capability to add value begins to diminish.
SOCO International plc 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 o t e n t i a l e u l a v g n i s i l a e R Stra Stra te teg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t Go Go v five ern rna an nc ce e Fi financial Statements Additional Information OUR PROVEN BUSINESS MODEL SOCO achieves its core strategic values by applying SOCO focuses on overlooked or under-exploited opportunities in its business model to: hydrocarbon prone regions: Build large positions early on, before the play concept becomes Brownfields versus greenfields to reduce risk.
Hurdle rate for new country entry is 50 mmbbls net to Increase portfolio value through the application of managerial and SOCO on initial opportunity.
The SOCO corporate team, based in London, Oil rather than gas.
A market is required before a gas utilises a pool of specialist proven geoscientists and engineers project is ever considered.
enabling a highly efficient and focused approach to the Companys activities.
SOCO is committed to being a safe and positive presence in Lay off risk rather than take on risk.
By partnering with other the countries where we operate, guided by a responsible oil and gas companies, SOCO mitigates risks and increases approach to oil and gas exploration and production.
Lock in returns at the right time.
Aim to commercialise within realistic time frame 5-10 years and to avoid projects that lock in capital for long periods of time.
Disposal Production Development Exploration Appraisal Project evaluation Other Cash sources Reinvestment from cash ows generated by operations and disposals creates more opportunities for exploration and potential shareholder returns Returns Key While the Companys free cash ow funds its exploration activities and external nancing funds signi cant new development projects, Recognising opportunity a proportion of excess cash is returned to shareholders.
Capturing potential Realising value Cash ow SOCO International plc 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report SOCO International plc 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 y t i n Stra Stra te teg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t Go Go v five ern rna an nc ce e Fi Fi financial financial S St tatement atements s Add Additional itional Inform Information ation u t r o p p o g n i s i n g o c e C R a p t u r i n g p SOCO INTERNATIONAL CAN BE A POWERFUL FORCE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SEE PAGE 32 COMMITMENT IS INTEGRATED INTO OUR STRATEGY Relationship Operating Oil and gas companies have a central role in todays global building revenue energy supply.
SOCO International can be a powerful force for economic development.
Through our business, we create jobs, provide training and skills and support local Access to Host country investment communities.
revenue opportunities A successful project can transform not only a company, Taxes and Early entry but also the economic and social wellbeing of a host into regions fees country by contributing to its ability to produce and supply its own natural resources.
We recognise that built into the OUR CORE heart of this opportunity is the business imperative to act Economic Host country responsibly.
STRATEGIC revenue stimulation OBJECTIVES SOCO is committed to conducting our business in an honest and ethical manner and ensuring that the health and safety of people and the protection of the environment remain a business priority.
Our goal is to be a positive Commitment Capital to local presence and to build sustainable value for the host Expenditure economies countries and local communities, as well as for our own shareholders.
Skills and Operational expertise management Economic Social and stimulation community projects Training Local programmes employment www.
com SOCO International plc 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 o t e n t i a l e u l a v g n i s i l a e R
