Strategic Report | Therapy Area Review Overview Our Business model section on page 10 demonstrates how we apply our resources and assets across the whole life-cycle of a medicine.
These efforts were detailed in the Business Review.
In this Therapy Area Review, we describe how we apply those resources across our chosen therapy areas.
As outlined in the Our strategic priorities Fourteen projects inclusive of combination healthcare facilities.
Specialty care section from page 16, a key element of our trials entered first human testing Phase I products generally command higher prices drive to Achieve Scientific Leadership is our during 2013.
For further detailed information, and must deliver higher value.
Making them decision to focus on distinctive science in see our Development pipeline table from available to the right patients requires tight three core therapy areas: Cardiovascular page 194. co-ordination between our commercial, and Metabolic disease CVMD : Oncology: medical and supply chain teams.
Across the clinical portfolio, 33 projects and Respiratory, Inflammation and successfully progressed to their next For information about the risks inherent in Autoimmunity RIA.
This excludes two Phase I studies the clinical phase of development, please exploiting our unique combination of expanded to include patients in 2013, see the Principal risks and uncertainties strengths in biologics and small molecules, one progression within Phase II and one section from page 200. immunotherapies and protein engineering Phase II start in a new indication.
Our approach to Infection, Our products Pipeline delivery table opposite summarises Neuroscience and Gastrointestinal ING While the focus of this Therapy Area Review the years key pipeline progressions.
is on our key marketed products, many of Four NMEs commenced Phase III trials our other established products are crucial This Therapy Area Review reflects the as a result of the acceleration of selected to certain markets within Emerging Markets range of our activities.
They are led by quality programmes.
Fifteen projects and, taken together, represent an important our GPPS team but draw heavily on the were withdrawn in 2013: 13 projects part of AstraZenecas business.
expertise of the whole organisation, so were withdrawn following poorer than ensuring our science is connected with anticipated safety or efficacy results: For a list of all our potential new products patients needs.
We embed these insights one was withdrawn for economic reasons: and product life-cycle developments, see into our work based on our interactions and one because of uncertainty in the the Pipeline by therapy area table on page with healthcare providers, patients, scientific hypothesis.
50 and the Development pipeline table, regulators and payers.
For details of patent expiries The early clinical pipeline shows a shift helps us to prioritise resources and of our key marketed products, see the toward specialty care, with 80% of optimise our portfolio, thereby delivering Patent expiries section on page 198. programmes in Phase I and II directed at medicines that customers value and Indications for each product described such indications.
Our late-stage pipeline which meet their needs.
in this Therapy Area Review may vary was strengthened during 2013 through Development pipeline from country to country.
Local prescribing a combination of internal acceleration Data in this section is as at 31 December information should be referred to for of priority programmes and in-licences 2013. country-specific indications for any and acquisitions of externally originated particular product.
compounds in our core therapy areas.
We Our pipeline includes 99 projects, of which believe that our investment in the quality of Many of our products are subject to 85 are in the clinical phase of development.
our science and strong governance will litigation.
Information about material legal As shown in the Development projects allow us to launch a rising number of proceedings can be found in Note 25 to table opposite, we now have a total of 33 first-in-class therapies in the next decade.
the Financial Statements from page 176. projects in Phase I 32 NMEs, 27 projects Details of relevant risks are set out in the in Phase II 23 NMEs, 19 projects in Our biologics pipeline has matured in Principal risks and uncertainties section late-stage development, either in Phase III recent years resulting in a 50-50 balance of from page 200. or under regulatory review 11 NMEs, small molecule programmes and biologics and are running 20 significant life-cycle in the clinical portfolio.
In specialty care we management projects.
The 27 projects focus on specifically defined or biologically in Phase II include parallel indications for targeted populations, determined by the projects which have reached Phase III.
scientific pathway of the disease and mode of action of the molecule.
An increasing The 19 projects in late-stage development, number of specialty care products require either in Phase III or under regulatory a diagnostic test for patient eligibility or to review include: achieve the best outcomes.
The diseases 11 NMEs which specialty care products treat are Four projects exploring additional generally more severe, with the patient indications for these molecules population concentrated under the care Four molecules already approved or of a subset of doctors and in specialty launched in at least one major market.
48 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Development projects 1 2 2013 33 27 19 20 3 4 2012 29 25 11 19 5 6 2011 29 24 7 23 2010 34 32 9 17 14 2009 44 34 11 Phase I Phase II Phase III Line Extensions 1 Includes four projects that are either approved or launched in at least one market.
Includes four projects that are filed in at least one market.
2 Includes five projects that are either approved or launched in at least one market.
Includes one project that is filed in at least one market.
3 Included five projects that were either approved or launched in at least one market.
4 Included eight projects that were filed, approved or launched in at least one market.
5 Included six projects that were filed, approved or launched in at least one market.
6 Included seven life-cycle management projects reintroduced from Brazil, Russia, India, China, Mexico, Turkey and Japan.
Pipeline delivery Milestone Product 2013 Achievement Key pipeline progressions metreleptin Biologics License Application accepted and priority review granted by the FDA for metreleptin for the treatment Phase III starts and first of metabolic disorders associated with inherited or acquired lipodystrophy.
regulatory filings naloxegol MAA accepted by EMA and FDA for opioid-induced constipation.
olaparib MAA accepted by EMA for maintenance treatment of patients with BRCA mutated platinum-sensitive relapsed serous ovarian cancer.
st Phase III programmes commenced in 1 line BRCA-mutated ovarian cancer SOLO-1, platinum-sensitive nd relapsed BRCA-mutated ovarian cancer SOLO-2, and 2 line gastric cancer study GOLD.
moxetumomab pasudotox Phase III programme has commenced for hairy cell leukaemia.
nd selumetinib Phase III programme has commenced for 2 line treatment of locally advanced or metastatic KRAS mutationpositive NSCLC.
benralizumab Phase III programme has commenced for severe asthma.
Late-stage licensing Epanova Product obtained through acquisition of Omthera.
acquisitions MAA accepted by FDA for treatment of severe .
PT003 Product obtained through acquisition of Pearl Therapeutics.
Phase III programme commenced for PT003 for COPD.
roxadustat FG-4592 Product obtained through strategic collaboration with FibroGen.
Programme in late stage but AstraZeneca Phase III programme not dosed yet.
Major market approvals Fluenz Tetra influenza EMA approval for the prevention of seasonal influenza in children.
This is the first and only intra-nasal four-strain vaccine live, intra-nasal influenza vaccine available for children and adolescents from 24 months and up to 18 years of age in Europe.
2014 Achievement Farxiga FDA approval for Farxiga dapagliflozin for the treatment of adult patients with Type 2 diabetes.
Xigduo EMA approval for Xigduo dapagliflozin metformin hydrochloride for the treatment of adult patients with Type 2 diabetes.
Sales by therapy area 2013 2012 2011 Reported CER Reported CER Sales Sales growth growth Sales growth growth $m $m % % $m % % Cardiovascular and Metabolic disease 8,830 7 6 9,531 7 4 10,212 Oncology 3,193 9 2 3,489 6 3 3,705 Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity 4,677 6 7 4,415 1 2 4,468 Infection, Neuroscience and Gastrointestinal 9,011 14 13 10,490 28 27 14,596 Other businesses 48 n m n m 610 Total 25,711 8 6 27,973 17 15 33,591 Represents all other pharmaceutical product sales that are not in the above therapy areas.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 49 Strategic Report | Therapy Area Review Our growing late-stage pipeline Pipeline by therapy area as of 31 December 2013 Cardiovascular and Metabolic disease CVMD Key showing movements in 2013 Addition F New filing Oncology No change Approved launched Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity RIA Progression Infection, Neuroscience and Gastrointestinal ING Phase I 32 NMEs Phase II 23 NMEs Phase III 7 NMEs Line Extensions Small molecule Large molecule Small molecule Large molecule Small molecule Large molecule Small molecule # AZD1208 MEDI6012 MEDI-551 AZD4901 # # # AZD5363 MEDI0639 roxadustat MEDI-573 FG-4592 # # # AZD9150 MEDI3617 tremelimumab AZD1722 # #2 # volitinib MEDI4736 AZD4547 benralizumab AZD6094 COPD # # MEDI-565 olaparib mavrilimumab AZD8186 breast cancer 2 # # # AZD9291 MEDI6469 selumetinib MEDI-546 AZD6244 ARRY-142886 various cancers # AZD6738 MEDI0680 MEDI7183 AZD2014 AMP-514 # # #4 AZD8848 moxetumomab AZD1775 MEDI8968 # pasudotox pALL # # # AZD7624 MEDI4736 AZD2115 sifalimumab tremelimumab # 3 AZD4721 MEDI4736 AZD5069 tralokinumab dabrafenib trametinib asthma IPF # AZD1419 MEDI-551 RDEA3170 MEDI2070 # # PT010 MEDI5872 AZD5847 brodalumab asthma psoriatic arthritis # # ATM AVI MEDI9929 CXL AZD0914 MEDI-550 AZD3241 # AZD3293 MEDI-559 AZD5213 PRVV Tourettes syndrome neuropathic pain AZD6423 MEDI4893 MEDI9287 50 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Im really pleased by the progress made during 2013.
At the end of the year, we had 99 projects in our pipeline, of which 85 were in the clinical phase of development and 14 were approved, launched or filed.
Pascal Soriot Chief Executive Officer Phase I 32 NMEs Phase II 23 NMEs Phase III 7 NMEs Line Extensions Small molecule Large molecule Small molecule Large molecule Small molecule Large molecule Small molecule metreleptin F Brilinta Brilique EUCLID Brilinta Brilique Caprelsa differentiated thyroid cancer # Epanova F Brilinta Brilique Faslodex moxetumomab # st PEGASUS-TIMI 54 1 line advanced breast pasudotox cancer HCL # brodalumab Brilinta Brilique Iressa Farxiga Forxiga COPD SOCRATES treatment beyond dapagliflozin progression # Caprelsa Brilinta Brilique THEMIS Symbicort BAI benralizumab medullary thyroid cancer asthma COPD severe asthma # olaparib F Bydureon EXSCEL Diprivan Bydureon Dual F Entocort olaparib SOLO-1 Chamber Pen # Bydureon weekly linaclotide olaparib SOLO-2 suspension Nexium olaparib GOLD Xigduo peptic-ulcer bleeding # Farxiga Forxiga selumetinib dapagliflozin AZD6244 DECLARE lesinurad Kombiglyze XR 1 Komboglyze FDC PT003 GFF saxagliptin dapagliflozin FDC # CAZ AVI Onglyza SAVOR-TIMI 53 CAZ104 serious infection # CAZ AVI CAZ104 HAP VAP # Zinforo ceftaroline # naloxegol F NKTR-118 # Partnered product.
Farxiga in the US: Forxiga in the rest of world.
1 Kombiglyze XR in the US: Komboglyze FDC in the EU.
2 Phase I study expanded to include patients in 2013.
3 Progression within Phase II in 2013.
4 Phase II start in new indication of hidradenitis suppurativa HS in 2013.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 51 Strategic Report | Therapy Area Review Cardiovascular and Metabolic disease More people die annually from CV diseases than from any other cause an estimated 17.3 million people, representing 30% of theglobal total.
More than 80% of deaths take place in lowand middle-income countries.
Our marketed products Therapy area world market Cardiovascular CV disease Metabolic disease 1 MAT Q3 13 Atacand candesartan cilexetil is an Byetta exenatide injection is an injectable st angiotensin II antagonist used for the 1 line medicine indicated to improve blood sugar treatment of hypertension and symptomatic glucose control along with diet and exercise heart failure.
in adults with Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Axanum acetylsalicylic acid ASA and Bydureon exenatide extended release esomeprazole is a fixed-dose combination injectable suspension is an injectable indicated for prevention of CV events in medicine indicated to improve blood sugar high-risk CV patients in need of daily glucose along with diet and exercise in low-dose ASA treatment and who are at adults with Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Forxiga Farxiga dapagliflozin is a Brilinta Brilique ticagrelor is an oral selectiveinhibitor of human sodium-glucose antiplatelet for the treatment of acute co-transporter 2 SGLT-2 inhibitor used to coronary syndromes ACS.
improve glycaemic control in adult patients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
2 Crestor rosuvastatin calcium is a statin High blood pressure $47bn used for the treatment of dyslipidaemia and Kombiglyze XR saxagliptin and metformin Abnormal levels of blood cholesterol $29.9bn hypercholesterolemia.
In some markets it XR combines saxagliptin Onglyza and Diabetes $43.5bn is also indicated to slow the progression metformin extended release metformin Thrombosis $9.8bn Other $39.6bn of atherosclerosis and to reduce the risk metformin XR in a once-a-day tablet for of first CV events.
the treatment of Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Plendil felodipine is a calcium antagonist Komboglyze saxagliptin and metformin used for the treatment of hypertension HCl combines saxagliptin Onglyza and and angina.
metformin immediate release metformin IR $169.8bn in a twice-daily tablet for the treatment of Seloken Toprol-XL metoprolol succinate Wordwide market value Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
is a beta-blocker once-daily tablet used for 24-hour control of hypertension and for Onglyza saxagliptin is an oral dipeptidyl use in heart failure and angina.
peptidase 4 DPP-4 inhibitor used for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Tenormin atenolol is a cardioselective beta-blocker used for hypertension, angina Symlin pramlintide acetate is an injected pectoris and other CV disorders.
amylin analogue for the treatment of Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes mellitus in patients 3 Zestril lisinopril dihydrate is an with inadequate glycaemic control on  enzyme inhibitor mealtime insulin.
used for the treatment of a wide range of CV diseases, including hypertension.
Xigduo dapagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride combines dapagliflozin Forxiga, an SGLT-2 inhibitor, and metformin hydrochloride, in a twice-daily tablet to improve glycaemic control in adult patients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus, who are inadequately controlled by metformin alone.
1 Licensed from Takeda Chemicals Industries Ltd. 2 Licensed from Shionogi.
In December 2013, AstraZeneca and Shionogi announced the extension of the global licence agreement for Crestor and the modification of the royalty structure, effective 1 January 2014.
52 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 23.3 million WHO estimates that the number of people who die from CV diseases, mainly from heart disease and stroke, will reach 23.3million by 2030.
CV diseases are projected to remain the single leading causeof death.
347 million people worldwide have diabetes: WHO projects that diabetes willbe the seventh leading cause of death in 2030.
Source: WHO Factsheets, 2013: CV data from 2008: diabetes data from 2011.
The centre will conduct atherosclerosis and reducing the risk of CV AstraZeneca is a leader in the treatment pre-clinical and clinical studies to advance events in some markets.
Crestor is the only of cardiovascular CV and metabolic the understanding of CV and metabolic statin with an atherosclerosis indication diseases.
We aim to build on our strong disease pathophysiology and assess in the US not limited by disease severity position, with a particular focus on new drug targets.
Also in March 2013, we or restricted to patients with coronary heart thrombosis blood clotting, atherosclerosis announced an exclusive agreement with disease.
A competitor to Crestor, atorvastatin hardening of the arteries and metabolic Moderna Therapeutics to discover, develop Lipitor, was available in generic form in the diseases, including diabetes and its and commercialise pioneering messenger US from late 2011 and, since May 2012, complications.
Despite improvements RNA Therapeutics for the treatment of several generic atorvastatin products have in the quality of diagnosis and treatment, serious CV, metabolic and renal diseases.
unmet medical need remains high.
These These transactions will also support our Fewer than half the people thought to diseases, together with their complications, ambitions for our Metabolic disease area, have high levels of low-density lipoprotein continue to grow worldwide both in with its focus on diabetes, diabetic cholesterol LDL-C so-called bad Established Markets and Emerging nephropathy and obesity.
We plan to cholesterol are diagnosed and treated.
Markets as a consequence of the continue building our base with existing Of treated patients, only about half reach spread of a westernised lifestyle.
We are brands and develop our research and their doctors recommended cholesterol developing potential new therapies using clinical projects so we are best able to meet targets using existing treatments.
Study a variety of approaches, including small individual patients unique sets of medical data have shown that the usual 10mg molecules, antibodies, peptides and needs and build a position of leadership starting dose of Crestor is more effective proteins, to address this growing need.
at lowering LDL-C and produces greater Our strategy for our CV disease area is achievement of LDL-C goals than to maximise the benefits for patients from commonly prescribed doses of other Cardiovascular disease our existing portfolio of medicines, such as statins.
Crestor also produces an increase Hypertension high blood pressure and our statin, Crestor, and ensure we supply in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol dyslipidaemia abnormal levels of blood Brilinta Brilique, our oral antiplatelet HDL-C so-called good cholesterol lipids damage the arterial wall which may treatment, to all those who can benefit from across the dose range and has again been lead to atherosclerosis.
We also want to optimise the potential shown to reduce atherosclerotic plaque.
therapy, primarily statins, is a cornerstone of our research and clinical projects for the Crestor continues to face increasing for the treatment of atherosclerosis.
treatment of conditions such as heart and challenges from generic products.
For kidney diseases, atherosclerosis and acute ACS is an umbrella term for sudden chest instance, competition resulting from the coronary syndromes ACS.
In addition, pain and other symptoms due to insufficient expiration of the Crestor patent in Canada we are exploring ways to expand our blood supply ischaemia to the heart had a significant negative impact on our core capabilities to deliver differentiated muscle.
ACS is the acute manifestation of 2013 financial results.
Patents protecting products, such as research into cardiac ischaemic heart disease and is associated Crestor have been subject to a number of regeneration.
See the case study on page with considerable subsequent mortality and challenges in different jurisdictions.
There remains a significant need of these matters are included in Note 25 to to improve patient outcomes and reduce Finally, we are searching for business the Financial Statements, from page 176. the costs of treating ACS.
development transactions that complement While also subject to competition from our activities.
For example, in March Our 2013 focus generics, Atacand continues to be an 2013, we cemented our long-standing Globally, Crestor gained market share important treatment option for patients collaboration with the Karolinska Institutet by value after its launch in 2003 with with hypertension and symptomatic heart by announcing the creation of a research its differentiated profile in managing failure.
It is approved for the treatment of centre, at the Institutets site in Stockholm, cholesterol levels and its more recent label indications for slowing the progression of AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 53 Strategic Report | Therapy Area Review | Cardiovascular and Metabolic disease hypertension in more than 125 countries EUCLID is a global clinical trial involving Our 2013 focus and for symptomatic heart failure in 13,500 patients with peripheral arterial In 2013, AstraZeneca continued its more than 70 countries.
Atacand Plus disease PAD, a condition affecting worldwide diabetes alliance with BMS candesartan cilexetil hydrochlorothiazide approximately 27 million people in Europe to co-develop and co-commercialise is a fixed-dose combination of Atacand and North America.
It began enrolling two compounds discovered by BMS for and the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide, patients in early 2013 and is evaluating the treatment of Type 2 diabetes mellitus: indicated for the treatment of hypertension the efficacy of Brilinta Brilique Onglyza and Forxiga.
In April 2013, in patients who require more than one monotherapy compared to clopidogrel following the completion of BMSs anti-hypertensive therapy.
Atacand Plus monotherapy in reducing a composite acquisition of Amylin in August 2012, is approved in 99 countries.
endpoint of CV death, myocardial AstraZeneca and BMS assumed full infarction MI or ischaemic stroke global commercialisation rights of Amylins Brilinta Brilique is an oral antiplatelet SOCRATES is a global clinical trial portfolio of products related to diabetes treatment for ACS in a new chemical class planned to enrol 9,600 patients who have and other metabolic diseases with a called , experienced an acute ischaemic stroke primary focus on a franchise of GLP-1 which are selective adenosine diphospate or transient ischaemic attack TIA.
agonists for the treatment of Type 2 ADP receptor antagonists that act on Annually, 15 million people worldwide diabetes mellitus.
The products include the P2Y12 ADP-receptor.
Ischaemic strokes and Byetta, Bydureon and Symlin.
The alliance remains under regulatory review in nine TIAs occur as a result of an obstruction was the first to offer products in the three countries.
It has been approved in 100 of a vessel supplying blood to the brain.
newest and fastest growing classes countries, including the US, Canada The SOCRATES study evaluates the of diabetes treatments: DPP-4, SGLT-2 and Brazil under the trade name Brilinta, efficacy of Brilinta Brilique monotherapy and GLP-1.
and in the EU, Iceland and Norway compared to aspirin in reducing major under the trade name Brilique.
Additional In December 2013, we announced an vascular events marketing authorisations and regulatory agreement to acquire the entirety of THEMIS is a global clinical trial involving submissions are planned for 2014.
BMSs 50% interest in the companies 17,000 patients with Type 2 diabetes joint diabetes business.
This secured Epanova is a patent-protected, novel, mellitus at high risk of cardiovascular AstraZeneca the IP rights and other assets ultra-pure mixture of free fatty acids events.
The study compares the efficacy for the development, manufacture and derived from fish oils, including multiple of long-term treatment with ticagrelor commercialisation of these diabetes long-chain omega-3 fatty acids that versus placebo for the prevention of major assets, which include Onglyza, Kombiglyze, reduces triglycerides and improves other cardiovascular events in patients without Komboglyze, Forxiga Farxiga, Xigduo, key lipid parameters.
Epanova came a history of previous MI or stroke, but with Byetta, Bydureon, metreleptin, and Symlin.
into AstraZenecas portfolio through the documented coronary atherosclerosis.
The acquisition, which completed in acquisition in July 2013 of Omthera, a In 2013, we announced plans to February 2014, consolidated worldwide specialty pharmaceutical company based commence the STRENGTH trial, planned ownership of the diabetes business within in the US, focused on the development to enrol 13,000 patients into a Phase III, AstraZeneca, allowing us to maximise our and commercialisation of new therapies for double-blind, long-term outcomes study primary and specialty care capabilities and dyslipidaemia.
In September 2013, the FDA to assess statin residual risk reduction with geographical reach in this area, especially accepted an NDA for Epanova for review.
Epanova in high cardiovascular risk patients in Emerging Markets.
Approximately 3,900 Clinical studies with  statin treated.
employees will transfer with the acquisition Brilinta Brilique is being investigated in of this business.
The transaction reinforces a range of clinical trials under the our long-term commitment to diabetes, Metabolic disease PARTHENON programme.
PARTHENON a key platform for returning AstraZeneca Type 2 diabetes mellitus is a chronic is an AstraZeneca-funded comprehensive, to growth.
progressive disease of epidemic scale, long-term and evolving global research Forxiga dapagliflozin is a first-in-class affecting at least 90% of people with initiative designed to address unanswered SGLT-2 inhibitor.
It was approved in the diabetes worldwide.
The disease continues questions in atherothrombotic disease and EU in November 2012 and in the US to grow as a consequence of western to investigate the impact of Brilinta Brilique where it is called Farxiga in January lifestyles.
It increasingly affects people on reducing CV events and death.
Forxiga Farxiga is intended to be at a younger age, with many patients benefit of Brilinta Brilique on CV thrombotic used as an adjunct to diet and exercise in requiring multiple medications to control events, including CV mortality, observed combination with other glucose-lowering their condition.
in patients who have had an ACS event, medicinal products, including insulin, or supports continued study in other areas There are a number of established oral as a monotherapy.
Forxiga Farxiga is of CV disease.
generic and branded treatments available, now approved in 40 countries with six such as biguanides and sulfonylureas.
The current PARTHENON programme is others under regulatory review.
Additional However, newer classes such as DPP-4 designed to include around 80,000 patients submissions are planned for 2014. inhibitors, SGLT-2 inhibitors, and worldwide.
Key clinical trials captured within glucagon-like peptide 1 GLP-1 agonists Xigduo dapagliflozin and metformin the programme are described below: are successfully entering the market by hydrochloride was approved in January PEGASUS-TIMI 54, a 21,000 patient offering effective blood sugar control.
2014 in the EU, for adults aged 18 and study, continues in more than 30 The CV safety of these new classes over with Type 2 diabetes mellitus as an countries.
The study examines the risk has been given particular emphasis in adjunct to diet and exercise to improve benefit profile of Brilinta Brilique plus recent regulatory reviews and guidance glycaemic control.
It is indicated in patients aspirin to prevent adverse CV events documents provided by the FDA and inadequately controlled on their current compared with aspirin alone in higher-risk other regulatory authorities.
patients who had experienced a heart attack at least one but not more than three years before the study 54 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information metformin-based treatment regimen In Phase II clinical studies, roxadustat In April 2013, we initiated DECLARE, or who are currently being treated with met its primary objective of demonstrating a large ongoing CV outcomes trial to the combination of dapagliflozin and anaemia correction in treatment-nave understand the impact of Forxiga on metformin as separate tablets.
An NDA for CKD patients not on dialysis, as well as CV risk benefit.
The trial is working to dapagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride of maintenance of haemoglobin levels and determine whether Forxiga 10mg, extended release fixed-dose combination anaemia correction in patients on dialysis.
when added to a patients current in a once-daily tablet was submitted to the This efficacy was combined with an anti-diabetes therapy, is effective in FDA in the fourth quarter of 2013. acceptable safety profile in clinical trials.
reducing cardiovascular events such An extensive roxadustat Phase III as MI, ischaemic stroke and CV-related Metreleptin is an investigational agent development programme for the US is death, compared with placebo.
The for the treatment of metabolic disorders planned along with initial Phase III trials trial is a randomised, double-blind, associated with inherited or acquired in China, with anticipated regulatory filings placebo-controlled trial designed to lipodystrophy LD, a rare disease estimated in China in 2015 and in the US in 2017. enrol approximately 17,000 patients.
to affect a few thousand people around Enrolment began in April 2013 with an the world.
The FDA has accepted and Clinical studies anticipated completion date in 2019. granted a priority review designation for With the completion of the SAVOR-TIMI 53 the Biologics License Application BLA saxagliptin assessment of vascular The EXSCEL EXenatide Study of for metreleptin and assigned a February outcomes recorded in patients with Type 2 Cardiovascular Event Lowering study 2014 review deadline.
In December 2013, diabetes mellitus trial in September 2013, is designed to determine if there are the Endocrinologic and Metabolic Drugs Onglyza is now among the most extensively favourable CV effects of exenatide Advisory Committee reviewed the BLA studied anti-diabetic medications.
The trial, treatment using Bydureon.
The EXSCEL for it and voted 11 to one that there is involving 16,500 adult patients with Type 2 study started in 2010 and is planned to substantial evidence that the benefits of diabetes mellitus, with a history of run until 2017.
The study has enrolled metreleptin outweigh the risks for the established CV disease or multiple risk patients during 2013 and is designed treatment of paediatric and adult patients factors, was also designed to fulfil a for 9,500 patients.
The committee did post-marketing requirement for the FDA.
not recommend metreleptin in patients Within its clinically relevant high CV risk with partial LD for the indication currently population, SAVOR met the primary safety proposed, by a vote of two to 10.
We objective, demonstrating no increased remain committed to pursuing metreleptin risk for the primary composite endpoint for treatment in patients with metabolic of CV death, non-fatal MI or non-fatal disorders associated with partial LD.
Work ischaemic stroke, when added to a is ongoing to make metreleptin available patients current standard of care with or outside the US.
without other anti-diabetic therapies, as compared to placebo.
Onglyza did not In the pipeline meet the primary efficacy endpoint of We continue to develop the delivery superiority to placebo for the same systems for Bydureon, including a dual chamber pen that will reduce the number composite endpoint.
Patients treated with of steps required to mix its components.
Onglyza experienced improved glycaemic A supplemental new drug application control and reduced development and sNDA was submitted to the FDA in the progression of microalbuminuria over two third quarter of 2013 and we are expecting years as assessed in exploratory analyses.
We filed for approval The large size of SAVOR also allowed us of the dual chamber pen in the EU in the to evaluate a broad range of other data of fourth quarter of 2013. interest.
Overall adverse events, serious adverse events and discontinuations We are also developing a once-weekly were similar to placebo and the rates of suspension of Bydureon.
Recruitment pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer were is complete for the exenatide weekly low and balanced between Onglyza and suspension Phase III programme and placebo.
The major secondary composite the studies are ongoing.
endpoint of CV death, non-fatal MI, In July 2013, AstraZeneca and FibroGen non-fatal ischaemic stroke or hospitalisation announced they had entered into a for heart failure, unstable angina or strategic collaboration to develop and coronary revascularisation was balanced commercialise roxadustat FG-4592, a across the two arms.
One component of first-in-class oral compound in late-stage the composite secondary endpoint, development for the treatment of anaemia hospitalisation for heart failure, occurred associated with chronic kidney disease more in the Onglyza group compared to CKD and end-stage renal disease ESRD.
There was no increased rate of The collaboration focuses on the US, hypoglycemia among patients treated with China and all major markets excluding Onglyza compared to placebo when added Japan, Europe, the CIS, the Middle East to metformin monotherapy and higher rates and South Africa, which are covered by of hypoglycemia only in the Onglyza group an existing agreement between FibroGen compared to the placebo group among and Astellas.
patients taking sulfonylureas, agents known to cause hypoglycemia, at baseline.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 55 Strategic Report | Therapy Area Review Oncology Cancer is a leading cause of death worldwide and accounted for8.2million deaths in 2012.
About 70% of deaths occurred in lowandmiddle-income countries.
Our strategic priorities Our marketed products We aim to build on our position as one of the world leaders in cancer treatment with Arimidex anastrozole is an aromatase Therapy area world market established brands such as Zoladex and inhibitor used for the treatment of breast MAT Q3 13 Arimidex, growing brands such as Faslodex cancer.
and Iressa, and the successful introduction Caprelsa vandetanib is a kinase inhibitor of novel therapeutic approaches currently in indicated for the treatment of symptomatic development.
Our future growth will come or progressive medullary thyroid cancer about by targeting the right treatments at MTC in patients with unresectable the right patients, using both small non-operable locally advanced or molecules and biologics, and taking metastatic disease.
advantage of cutting-edge science and Casodex bicalutamide is an anti-androgen innovative technologies.
therapy used for the treatment of prostate cancer.
Our oncology pipeline includes a range of Faslodex fulvestrant is an injectable novel compounds focused on several areas estrogen receptor antagonist used for critical to the development and progression the treatment of hormone receptorof cancer.
In particular, we are developing Chemotherapy $24.6bn positive advanced breast cancer for potential new cancer drugs using a variety Hormonal therapies $8.6bn post-menopausal women whose disease Monoclonal antibodies $21bn of biologics approaches directed towards has progressed following treatment with Small molecule TKIs $10.2bn prior endocrine therapy.
molecular targets with a strong role in cancer progression.
These have the Iressa gefitinib is an epidermal growth potential to eliminate cancer cells in more factor receptor-tyrosine kinase EGFR-TK inhibitor that acts to block signals for effective ways.
We are also focused on $64.4bn cancer cell growth and survival in advanced targeting the genetic drivers of cancer EGFR-TK mutation-positive EGFR M and the resistance mechanisms to current Wordwide market value non-small cell lung cancer.
therapies, using companion diagnostics to Nolvadex tamoxifen citrate remains a identify the right patients.
This strategy is widely used breast cancer treatment outside driving the continued growth of Iressa and the US.
the rapid development of AZD9291, a third Zoladex goserelin acetate implant, in one generation epidermal growth factor 1 and three month depots, is a luteinising receptor EGFR inhibitor which could have hormone-releasing hormone LHRH agonist the potential to address the most common used for the treatment of prostate cancer, resistance mechanism to first generation breast cancer and certain benign inhibitors, such as Iressa.
Our emphasis on triggering cancer cell death builds on our work in DNA damage response with our olaparib programme.
To complement our DNA damage portfolio, we completed our in-licensing of MK-1775 AZD1775 from Merck in September 2013.
AZD1775 is a WEE-1 kinase inhibitor which inhibits a key cell cycle checkpoint and is in early clinical development.
In addition, we aim to be a key player in developing immune-mediated cancer therapies IMT-Cs, a clinically validated 1 Depots are subcutaneous or intra-muscular injections.
56 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 14 million It is expected that annual cancer cases will rise from 14 million to an estimated 22 million within the next two decades.
Source: WHO Factsheet 2014: data from 2012. therapeutic approach that may lead to to improve overall survival, both when used granted orphan drug status in April 2011, durable and prolonged response rates in addition to radical prostatectomy and to and by the EU in February 2012 for the across a range of tumour types.
In breast cancer, Zoladex treatment of medullary thyroid cancer in harness the power of the patients own is widely approved for use in advanced patients with unresectable locally advanced immune system to fight cancer.
We are breast cancer in pre-menopausal women.
Caprelsa is also building a comprehensive programme in In a number of countries, Zoladex is also approved in Canada and remains under this area with a robust pipeline.
For more approved for the adjuvant treatment of review by other regulatory agencies around information, see the IMT-C case study early-stage pre-menopausal breast cancer the world.
on page 32. as an alternative to and or in addition to In the pipeline chemotherapy.
Zoladex offers proven In October 2013, we acquired In 2013, we advanced three compounds survival benefits for breast cancer patients Amplimmune, a biologics company into Phase III clinical trials.
Olaparib, a poly with a favourable tolerability profile.
that develops novel therapeutics in ADP-ribose polymerase PARP inhibitor, st cancer immunology, and Spirogen, Casodex is used as a 50mg tablet for the is currently in Phase III trials for 1 line and a biotechnology company specialising treatment of advanced prostate cancer platinum-sensitive relapsed BRCA mutated nd in antibody-drug conjugate technology and as a 150mg tablet for the treatment ovarian cancer and 2 line gastric cancer.
We also entered into of locally advanced prostate cancer.
It is Additionally, in September 2013, the EMA a collaboration agreement with ADC subject to competition from generics.
accepted a MAA for olaparib capsules Therapeutics to jointly develop two of its for the maintenance treatment of patients Iressa was the first EGFR-TK inhibitor antibody-drug conjugate programmes in with BRCA mutated platinum-sensitive to be approved in advanced non-small pre-clinical development, and made an relapsed serous ovarian cancer.
Selumetinib, cell lung cancer and is approved in 89 equity investment in the company.
Iressa is the leading EGFR-TK kinase MEK inhibitor licensed from We aim to be a leader in identifying and inhibitor for patients with EGFR M Array BioPharma Inc. is being studied in developing combination therapies to exploit advanced non-small cell lung cancer in the a Phase III trial in KRAS mutation-positive scientific and biological synergies.
With our European and Asian markets.
Iressa is advanced non-small cell lung cancer.
expertise across both small molecule and currently not approved in the US.
EGFR Moxetumomab pasudotox, a CD22 biologics research and development, we mutations can be identified by a number immunoconjugate, is being studied in a believe we are well positioned to explore of diagnostic tests.
Phase III trial in unresponsive or relapsed novel combination therapies leading to Faslodex 500mg is approved in 75 hairy cell leukaemia.
better outcomes for cancer patients.
countries, including the EU member states, Our oncology research pipeline targets Our 2013 focus the US and Japan.
It offers an additional, both solid tumour and hematologic Despite generic competition, Arimidex efficacious, hormonal therapy option and cancers.
Across our small molecule remains a leading global hormonal therapy is given by once monthly injections.
We are and biologics portfolio, we have three for patients with early-stage breast cancer.
now exploring the efficacy and safety of investigational compounds in Phase III This success is largely based on the Faslodex 500mg compared to Arimidex in clinical trials, six in Phase II clinical trials, st extensive long-term efficacy and safety the 1 line advanced breast cancer setting and 15 projects in Phase I clinical trials.
results of the ATAC study, which showed hormone-nave patients in the Phase III Additional drug candidates are expected Arimidex to be significantly superior to FALCON trial.
to progress into clinical trials in 2014. tamoxifen at preventing breast cancer Caprelsa fights cancer through two proven recurrence during and beyond the five-year For more information on our Oncology mechanisms: by blocking the development treatment course.
pipeline, see the Research and early clinical of tumour blood supply by inhibiting the development section on page 36.
Zoladex is approved in more than 120 vascular endothelial growth factor pathway countries for the treatment of prostate and by inhibiting the growth and survival of cancer, breast cancer and certain benign the tumour through EGFR and rearranged gynaecological disorders.
In non-metastatic during transfection RET pathways.
prostate cancer, Zoladex has been shown Caprelsa was approved by the FDA and AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 57 Strategic Report | Therapy Area Review Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity Some 235 million people suffer from asthma with most asthma-related deaths in lowand lower-middle income countries.
Our strategic priorities Our marketed products We aim to build on our strong position in the respiratory area by delivering innovative Accolate zafirlukast is an oral leukotriene Therapy area world market inhaled and targeted therapies that address receptor antagonist used for the treatment MAT Q3 13 the evolving unmet medical needs of of asthma.
patients with asthma, COPD, and idiopathic Bricanyl Turbuhaler terbutaline in a dry pulmonary fibrosis IPF.
powder inhaler is a short-acting beta - 2 agonist used for the acute treatment of In the inflammation and autoimmunity  symptoms in asthma therapy areas we intend to help improve and COPD.
thelives of patients by developing a Oxis Turbuhaler formoterol in a dry rheumatology franchise, establishing a powder inhaler is a fast onset, long-acting foothold through our late-stage programme beta2-agonist used for the treatment of in gout, and employing a more  symptoms in asthma driven approach to dermatology.
In addition to novel targeted therapies, Pulmicort Turbuhaler budesonide in a dry ourrespiratory strategy involves developing powder inhaler is an inhaled corticosteroid Respiratory used for maintenance treatment of asthma.
Asthma $22bn COPD $14.4bn Pulmicort Respules budesonide inhalation We are also looking at ways to transform Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis IPF $0.1bn suspension is a corticosteroid administered Other $25.4bn how respiratory diseases are managed.
via a nebuliser for the treatment of asthma in Webelieve a better understanding of both children and adults.
biology, patient phenotypes and new drug Rhinocort budesonide is a nasal steroid combinations will help improve clinical used as a treatment for allergic rhinitis hay outcomes for patients.
fever, perennial rhinitis and nasal polyps.
Symbicort pMDI budesonide formoterol Asthma and COPD in a pressurised metered-dose inhaler is acombination of an inhaled corticosteroid Asthma is a major cause of chronic and a fast onset, long-acting beta2-agonist morbidity and mortality.
There is evidence used for maintenance treatment of asthma that it has become much more common and COPD, including chronic bronchitis over the past 20 years.
The number andemphysema in the US, Australia and of patients whose asthma is not well in anumber of other markets.
controlled by current, approved treatments Symbicort Turbuhaler budesonide remains a particular unmet medical need.
formoterol in a dry powder inhaler is a combination of an inhaled corticosteroid and Currently, fixed-dose combinations of Inflammation and Autoimmunity a fast onset, long-acting betaagonist used 2 Gout $13.7bn aninhaled corticosteroid ICS with a for maintenance treatment of asthma and Psoriasis $0.2bn long-acting betaagonist LABA for 2 COPD.
In asthma, it is also approved for Psoriatic arthritis $0.9bn Symbicort Maintenance And Reliever Systemic lupus erythematosus example, Symbicort help treat moderate SLE $0.5bn Therapy Symbicort SMART.
However, our R&D efforts Rheumatoid arthritis $18.6bn Turbuhaler is used in most parts of the focus on targeted therapies to treat more worldoutside the US.
severe, refractory patients who experience severe or frequent exacerbations and a reduced quality of life.
Additionally, the $95.8bn population of asthma patients is highly Wordwide market value heterogeneous and we are working to better understand patient subtypes and to tailor therapies to the different phenotypes.
Please see the case study on page 64 formore information.
58 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 64 million An estimated 64 million people suffer fromCOPD, with more than 3 million people dying each year.
Almost 90% ofCOPD deaths occur in lowand middle-income countries.
Total deaths from COPD are projected to increase by more than 30% in the next 10 years without interventions to cut risks.
Source: WHO Factsheets, 2013: COPD data from 2004 and 2005.
COPD is a serious lung disease that Pulmicort is one of the worlds leading Other therapies in development for severe includes chronic bronchitis and or ICSproducts for treating asthma and is asthma include the biologic tralokinumab emphysema.
Medication only has a small available in several forms, such as respules.
impact on the course of the disease and Teva has had an exclusive licence to sell a Tralokinumab is a human antibody targeting the prognosis for patients remains poor.
generic version of Pulmicort Respules in the IL-13, a key cytokine involved in many US since 2009.
Pulmicort continues to face aspects of asthma.
Tralokinumab has The goal of COPD treatment is to increasing challenge from generic products.
completed Phase II studies in inadequately slow disease progression and control More information about litigation relating to controlled asthma, and is also currently in symptoms.
Deterioration of lung function Pulmicort can be found in Note 25 to the Phase II development for the treatment of over time usually requires more aggressive Financial Statements from page 176. mild to moderate IPF.
AZD5069 is a CXCR2 treatment, including introducing additional antagonist in Phase II development for inhaled treatments in an attempt to In the pipeline asthma.
CXCR2 inhibition prevents the manage symptoms better.
A new class of As outlined above, the acquisition of Pearl recruitment and activation of neutrophils, fixed-dose combinations of a long-acting Therapeutics has added a LAMA LABA a cell type thought to play a central role in muscarinic antagonist LAMA and a combination to our Phase III pipeline and asthma and COPD.
LABA are being developed for COPD a faster route to developing a triple therapy.
st and are likely to bepositioned as 1 line PT003 is being developed as a twice-daily Inflammation and therapy for symptomatic mild to moderate fixed-dose combination of components COPD patients who need effective that are already approved and marketed Autoimmunity bronchodilatation and are at lower risk of in various formulations in many parts of Gout is the most common form of exacerbations.
With the acquisition of Pearl the world the LAMA glycopyrronium inflammatory arthritis.
It occurs when Therapeutics in June 2013, AstraZeneca and LABA formoterol a component of high levels of uric acid in the blood, known added a LAMA LABA combination to its Symbicort.
It is the only LAMA LABA being as hyperuricaemia, lead to deposition of pipeline.
ICS LABA combinations, including developed in a pressurised metered-dose needle-like crystals in joints and soft tissues Symbicort, are best suited for COPD inhaler pMDI, the most widely used throughout the body, causing inflammation.
patients with exacerbations according to inhalation delivery format.
Phase III trials Hyperuricaemia results when the kidneys recently updated guidelines from the Global began in May 2013.
PT010 is a triple do not efficiently remove enough uric acid, Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung combination of LAMA LABA ICS given or when the body produces too much.
The GOLD guidelines twice-daily from a pMDI device being 2013, there were an estimated 15.3 million encourage triple therapy of LAMA LABA developed for severe COPD.
It is currently diagnosed cases of gout in major markets, ICS when symptoms persist despite in Phase I and has the potential to be which include the US, Canada, France, treatment with an ICS LABA.
Formulation among the first products to deliver the three Germany, Italy, Spain, the UK and Japan.
and device technology acquired from Pearl separate therapeutic entities via one inhaler.
This is forecast to increase to 17.7 million Therapeutics will also allow us to develop a Benralizumab is a MAb directed at the in 2021. triple fixed-dose combination in one device interleukin-5 receptor IL-5R and depletes which we plan to accelerate into Phase II Psoriasis is a chronic disease in which the eosinophils in the lung, immune cells that clinical development in 2014. immune system causes the skin cells to have been shown to play an important grow at an accelerated rate.
Instead of Our 2013 focus role in asthma.
We have accelerated the being shed, the skin cells pile up, causing The range of Symbicort products initiation of the Phase III asthma programme painful and itchy, red, scaly patches that improves symptoms and provides a and in October 2013 we initiated CALIMA, can bleed.
Up to 12 million patients are clinically important improvement in the the first of five studies in the Phase III diagnosed with psoriasis across the US health of many patients with asthma or clinical development programme for and Europe each year.
Despite various COPD by providing effective and rapid benralizumab.
The CALIMA study aims treatment options for moderate to severe control of the symptoms, with a long-term to determine whether benralizumab plaque psoriasis, many patients do not maintenance effect.
reduces the number of exacerbations in meet their therapeutic goals, including the patients with severe asthma and elevated resolution of underlying inflammation, eosinophils who remain inadequately clearing of symptoms and improvement controlled despite treatment with inhaled and or oral corticosteroids.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 59 Strategic Report | Therapy Area Review | Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity in quality of life.
Biologics are currently used inhibitors, allopurinol and febuxostat.
In the the primary and secondary end points in moderate to severe cases where patients trial, lesinurad, used as a monotherapy, met were met, including many patients are candidates for, or are unresponsive to, the primary endpoint.
However, patients in achieving and maintaining total skin phototherapy or systemic therapy.
the study were more likely to experience clearance with continued brodalumab serum creatinine elevations and renal therapy.
Brodalumab is also being Current treatment of systemic lupus adverse events, including serious events, investigated in Phase II studies for psoriatic erythematosus SLE focuses on compared to patients on placebo.
Brodalumab AMG 827 suppressing symptoms and controlling is one of five MAbs from Amgens clinical disease flares and, in the case of lupus The main Phase III trials in the lesinurad inflammation portfolio which the two nephritis, preventing renal failure.
Although programme are investigating lesinurad in companies have agreed to develop and a biologic medicine has recently been combination with allopurinol in patients not commercialise jointly.
The other four launched for SLE, most therapies used reaching target sUA levels on allopurinol compounds are AMG 139, AMG 157, are off-label and there remains significant alone CLEAR1 and CLEAR2, and as a AMG 181 and AMG 557. unmet medical need.
Most emerging combination therapy with febuxostat in biologic agents are likely to be used initially patients with tophaceous gout CRYSTAL.
In 2013, we continued to invest in several after failure of standard therapies including We believe that combination therapy, novel multi-functional MAbs in inflammatory corticosteroids and immunosuppressants addressing both production xanthine and autoimmune conditions.
Sifalimumab, or in combination to provide incremental oxidase inhibitors and excretion lesinurad which targets interferon-alpha, continued benefit, prevent flares and allow reduction of uric acid may be an effective way to clinical development with a Phase IIb study of high-dose chronic steroid use.
treat gout patients who have not achieved in patients with SLE.
MEDI-546, which target sUA levels on xanthine oxidase targets the interferon-alpha receptor, Rheumatoid arthritis is currently treated with inhibitors alone.
The results of the lesinurad continued in a Phase IIb study in patients generic disease-modifying anti-rheumatic combination therapy studies are expected with SLE.
Mavrilimumab, which targets agents and, where the relevant criteria are in mid-2014, and regulatory submissions in the alpha sub-unit of the granulocytemet, biologic disease modifiers.
Novel the US and EU are expected in the second macrophage colony-stimulating factor effective treatments are needed as only half of 2014. receptor GM-CSFR, continues in Phase IIb about a third of patients treated with for patients with rheumatoid arthritis and In August 2013, we decided to progress biologics achieve their treatment goals.
RDEA3170 as our lead gout molecule We anticipate that the rheumatoid arthritis in Asia, including Japan and China.
The results of the Phase III OSKIRA market will experience modest annual RDEA3170 is a next generation SURI and programme for fostamatinib, an oral spleen growth over the next decade.
Sales of we have begun a programme of work to tyrosine kinase inhibitor in development as the biologic tumour necrosis factor TNF support submission in Japan and other a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis, did not alpha-blockers accounted for 72% of Asian markets.
In pre-clinical and Phase I measure up to the promising results seen major market rheumatoid arthritis sales in clinical studies, RDEA3170 showed many earlier in development.
Use of other biologic approaches is of the same attributes as lesinurad but with 2013, AstraZeneca decided not to proceed expected to increase due to new entrants, significantly greater potency against the with regulatory filings for fostamatinib and new subcutaneous formulations and use URAT1 transporter.
It is being investigated returned the rights to the compound to earlier in the treatment pathway.
Novel oral drugs targeting intra-cellular signalling as a potentially differentiated molecule that Rigel Pharmaceuticals.
pathways may provide anti-TNF-like levels could be used earlier in the treatment of of efficacy and potentially more convenient gout and in asymptomatic hyperuricaemia.
dosing, especially in patients who are not Phase I studies in Japan are complete and taking, or are ineligible to take, injectable a Phase II study will begin in early 2014. biologic agents.
In addition, a global Phase II monotherapy programme for RDEA3170 began in August In the pipeline 2013 and has completed recruitment ahead In 2012, AstraZeneca acquired Ardea, of schedule.
Ardea is developing lesinurad, a selective uric acid In October 2013, together with Amgen, re-absorption inhibitor SURI that inhibits we announced the initiation of the Phase III the URAT1 transporter, normalising uric programme for brodalumab in moderate acid excretion and reducing serum uric to severe psoriasis.
includes three Phase III studies evaluating treatment with brodalumab compared with In December 2013, we announced top-line ustekinumab and or placebo.
Brodalumab results from LIGHT, a Phase III study is a human MAb targeting the interleukin-17 investigating the potential of lesinurad as a IL-17 receptor, to treat moderate to severe monotherapy in the small population of psoriasis.
The Phase II data showed that gout patients who are intolerant to, or cannot take, one or both xanthine oxidase 60 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Infection, Neuroscience and Gastrointestinal AstraZeneca has a long history in the fields of Infection, Neuroscience and Gastrointestinal ING diseases which represent a high area of unmet medical need for patients around the world.
Previously managed as three separate therapy areas, in March 2013 we combined them into one area and are investing in them opportunistically.
We are developing or commercialising innovative therapies and are also seeking to optimise the potential of our existing medicines.
We seek to maximise the access all patients have to our therapies, using innovative approaches in Emerging and Established Markets.
By making effective use of our structural 2012.
In 2013, FluMist Quadrivalent was Infection and genomic-based discovery technologies supplied to the US and Israel markets and and antibody platforms, vaccines and successfully replaced the trivalent FluMist.
Our marketed products continued small molecule and biologics In December 2013, the EC granted research, we plan to deliver novel approaches Respiratory syncytial virus RSV marketing authorisation for Fluenz Tetra Synagis palivizumab is a humanised in areas of unmet medical need.
equivalent to FluMist Quadrivalent, for the MAb used for the prevention of serious Influenza virus prevention of seasonal influenza in eligible lower respiratory tract disease caused Influenza is the most common vaccinechildren and adolescents aged from two by RSV in paediatric patients at high risk of acquiring RSV disease.
preventable disease in the developed to 18 years.
Fluenz Tetra is the first and world.
According to WHO, seasonal only intra-nasal, four-strain influenza Serious bacterial infections 1 influenza results in three to five million vaccine available in Europe.
Fluenz Tetra Cubicin daptomycin is a cyclic lipopeptide anti-bacterial used for cases of severe illness and up to half a will replace Fluenz from the 2014-2015 flu the treatment of serious infections million deaths each year, primarily among season onwards.
Rates of infection are, however, Paediatric influenza prevention and LAIV 2 Merrem Meronem meropenem highest among children, and school-age superiority over TIV was recognised in is a carbapenem anti-bacterial used for children are the main transmitters of the two major EU public programmes during the treatment of serious infections in fluvirus.
Vaccinating children can lower the 2013.
In August 2013, the German hospitalised patients.
burden of influenza, both through direct Standing Committee on Vaccinations 3 Zinforo ceftaroline fosamil is a novel immune protection and through blocking STIKO recommended the use of LAIV injectable cephalosporin used in transmission or herd immunity.
The LAIV community-acquired pneumonia CAP in children aged two to six years with live attenuated influenza vaccine which and complicated skin and soft tissue underlying medical conditions as the wedeveloped is recognised as the most infections cSSTI.
Fluenz is the effective paediatric influenza vaccine, with Influenza virus only available LAIV against seasonal studies showing a 50% superior efficacy FluMist Fluenz influenza vaccine influenza in Germany and this is the first over TIV trivalent influenza vaccine which live, intra-nasal is an intra-nasal, live, time that a single vaccine has received is the standard of care.
Recently published attenuated, trivalent influenza vaccine.
health economy models also show that FluMist Quadrivalent Fluenz Tetra In September 2013, immunisation with vaccinating children with LAIV could influenza vaccine live, intra-nasal is Fluenz was rolled out in the UK following an intra-nasal, live, attenuated, be the most cost-effective influenza a 2012 decision by the Joint Committee quadrivalent influenza vaccine.
The The latest development in our influenza roll-out is the first step in implementing the 1 Licensed from Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 2 Licensed from Dainippon Sumitomo Pharmaceuticals Co. vaccines is the quadrivalent vaccine, new nationwide paediatric flu vaccination Limited.
containing one additional B-virus strain programme which is expected to ultimately 3 Licensed from Forest.
The WHO rationale include all children from two to 16 years.
for adding another B-virus strain into the Our strategic priorities Respiratory syncytial virus RSV vaccine is to reduce the risk of mismatch Infectious diseases are the second leading Approximately half of all infants worldwide between the circulating virus strains and cause of death worldwide after heart are infected with RSV during the first year the annual vaccine, which in turn could disease.
We have one of the industrys of life and nearly all children in the US offer better overall protection.
The largest anti-bacterial pipelines, and a have been infected by the time they reach intra-nasal FluMist Quadrivalent, LAIV, was leading position in the area of respiratory their second birthday.
RSV is the leading the first quadrivalent vaccine to be viruses.
Based on this strong foundation, cause of hospitalisations and admissions approved globally by the FDA in February we aim to bring innovative life-changing to paediatric intensive care units in the first treatments to market and help patients year of life.
avoid the consequences of infections.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 61 Strategic Report | Therapy Area Review | Infection, Neuroscience and Gastrointestinal Synagis is used for the prevention of While rapid progress is being made in Neuroscience serious lower respiratory tract disease understanding diseases of the brain, some caused by RSV in children at high risk of of these debilitating illnesses have few Our marketed products the disease.
With approval in 83 countries, effective treatments and, for others, there we continue to work with our worldwide continues to be major unmet medical need.
Psychiatry partner AbbVie to protect vulnerable infants Seroquel IR an immediate release In response to this challenge, AstraZeneca formulation of quetiapine fumarate from RSV.
Synagis is currently the only MAb created a Neuroscience IMED in 2012, a is an atypical anti-psychotic generally approved for the immunoprophylaxis of team of approximately 40 scientists based approved for the treatment of RSV and is the global standard of care for in Cambridge, Massachusetts, US and schizophrenia and bipolar disorder RSV prevention.
Cambridge, UK, two locations strongly mania, depression and maintenance.
We are developing a live, intra-nasal vaccine Seroquel XR an extended release The Neuroscience IMED conducts for the prevention of lower respiratory tract formulation of quetiapine fumarate is discovery and development externally generally approved for the treatment illness caused by RSV in otherwise healthy through a network of partners in academia of schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, major infants.
The lead vaccine candidate in depressive disorder MDD and, on and industry.
It is designed to merge clinical development is in Phase I. a more limited basis, for generalised scientific advances within the biotechnology anxiety disorder GAD.
Serious bacterial infections and academic worlds and to develop their Antibiotic or antimicrobial resistance AMR, Analgesia and anaesthesia potential through the scientific, commercial Diprivan propofol is an intravenous has been recognised as one of the greatest and geographical reach of AstraZeneca.
general anaesthetic used in the threats to human health by world leaders Neurology induction and maintenance of general and has recently taken a high position anaesthesia, intensive care sedation Alzheimers disease remains one of the on the global health agenda.
As a result, and conscious sedation for surgical largest areas of unmet medical need.
world demand for antibiotics and novel and diagnostic procedures.
Product development in this therapy area therapeutic approaches remains high EMLA lidocaine and prilocaine is a is particularly difficult due, in part, to the and will continue to grow.
Many bacterial local anaesthetic for topical application challenges of establishing efficacy in clinical infections currently have few satisfactory cream and patch, to prevent pain studies.
Current treatments, most of which treatment options, prompting demand for associated with injections and minor face patent expiry by 2015, target the surgical procedures, and to facilitate new and better therapies.
symptoms, not the underlying cause, cleansing debridement of leg ulcers.
Zinforo, developed in collaboration with of the disease.
Slowing the course of Naropin ropivacaine is a long-acting our partner Forest, is one of the latest disease progression, through biologics local anaesthetic for surgical antibiotics authorised in Europe.
Zinforo and or small molecule treatments, is the anaesthesia and acute pain is the first antibiotic to be approved by the hope for Alzheimers disease patients and management.
FDA since the introduction of the Infectious for people with other neurodegenerative 1 Vimovo naproxen esomeprazole Diseases Society of Americas 10 x 20 disorders, such as Parkinsons disease.
magnesium is generally approved for initiative and is one of only a handful of new symptomatic relief in the treatment of We have initiated multiple collaborations antibiotics to have been approved by the rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis and to help advance disease understanding ankylosing spondylitis in patients at risk EMA and FDA in the last five years.
Zinforo and identify potential new drug targets.
of developing NSAID-associated gastric is indicated for use as a monotherapy in the In Alzheimers disease, we are working and or duodenal ulcers.
treatment of hospitalised adult patients with with the Karolinska Institutet Sweden, Xylocaine lidocaine is a short-acting complicated skin and soft tissue infections the Banner Alzheimers Institute US, the local anaesthetic for topical and cSSTI or community-acquired pneumonia.
National Institute of Radiological Sciences regional anaesthesia.
It is the only cephalosporin with methicillinJapan, Vanderbilt University US, and Zomig zolmitriptan is used for the resistant Staphylococcus aureus MRSA an alliance of several academic centres acute treatment of migraine, plus for efficacy that is approved for the treatment known as A5.
A new, three-year the acute treatment of cluster headache of cSSTI.
Zomig is available in three collaboration with Tufts University US formulations: oral tablet, orally Merrem Meronem remains the leading targets a range of diseases and disorders dispersible tablet and nasal spray.
carbapenem anti-bacterial and is approved of the brain, including Alzheimers disease, in most countries outside Japan, although Parkinsons disease and autism spectrum 1 Licensed from Pozen.
it is subject to competition from generics disorders.
Our collaboration with Vanderbilt in most major markets.
It has a growing University focuses on psychosis and other Our strategic priorities share of the intravenous antibiotic market neuropsychiatric symptoms associated with In the neuroscience area, we have a because of its activity against multiple drug major brain diseases such as Alzheimers long history in anaesthesia and analgesia, resistant bacteria.
plus a sizeable business in psychiatry Our antibacterials portfolio is targeting the rooted in Seroquel IR and Seroquel XR.
AZD3241 is in Phase II of development most serious indications and pathogens.
We We are now focused on developing new and is a myeloperoxidase MPO inhibitor continue to work with Forest on joint global drug candidates, primarily in Alzheimers in development to delay progression of development programmes exploiting the full and Parkinsons diseases and pain control, disability in patients with idiopathic Parkinsons potential of avibactam, including CAZ AVI a that have the potential to offer therapeutic disease or multiple system atrophy.
combination of ceftazidime and avibactam, advantages.
CXL a combination of ceftaroline and avibactam and ATM AVI a combination of aztreonam and avibactam.
We are also developing therapies independent of our collaboration with Forest.
62 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information AZD3293 is in Phase I of development Vimovo, 375 20-500 20mg, co-developed Gastrointestinal and is a beta-site amyloid precursor protein by AstraZeneca and Pozen, is a fixed-dose cleaving enzyme BACE inhibitor in combination of enteric-coated naproxen Our marketed products development to slow the course of disease an NSAID, and immediate-release progression of Alzheimers disease.
esomeprazole, a stomach acid-reducing Entocort budesonide is a locallyproton pump inhibitor PPI.
During acting corticosteroid used for the Psychiatry treatment of inflammatory bowel 2013, we reviewed the investment to More than 450 million people worldwide disease.
commercialise Vimovo around the world are affected by mental, neurological or given the significant market access and Losec Prilosec omeprazole is used behavioural health problems, and more for the shortand long-term treatment reimbursement challenges that affected the than 350 million people suffer from of acid-related diseases.
Yet psychiatric illnesses remain to continue to market Vimovo in those Nexium esomeprazole magnesium is under-diagnosed and under-treated the first proton pump inhibitor PPI markets where we believe it would be most conditions, with a substantial social and used for the treatment of acid-related responsive to commercial efforts, such economic burden.
diseases to offer clinical improvements as Canada, and a number of countries over other PPIs and other treatments.
Both Seroquel IR quetiapine fumarate, in Emerging Markets.
We ceased sales launched in 1997, and Seroquel XR promotion of Vimovo in the US and all Our strategic priorities quetiapine fumarate extended release, promotion in the majority of Europe Nexium is marketed in more than 125 launched in 2007, have been important except Spain and Portugal from the countries and is available in oral tablet, treatment choices for millions of patients second quarter of 2013.
However, we capsule and sachet for oral suspension worldwide.
Seroquel XR remains a key continue to make the product available and intravenous dosage forms, for the product.
In most markets, the substance to patients in the EU.
In November 2013, treatment of acid-related diseases.
Nexium patent protecting the active ingredient, we announced an agreement for Horizon is also approved for use in children from the quetiapine, expired in March 2012.
Pharma to acquire all US rights of Vimovo.
age of one month in the US and from one However, in the majority of European We retained the right to commercialise year in Europe and other markets.
Nexium markets, the formulation patent covering Vimovo in the rest of the world.
capsules were launched in Japan in Seroquel XR does not expire until 2017.
Naloxegol formerly NKTR-118, licensed September 2011 after a national While we remain confident in our IP and from Nektar Therapeutics, is an development programme.
are committed to vigorously defending the investigational peripherally-acting mu-opioid patent protecting Seroquel XR, it has been We aim to maximise the benefits for receptor antagonist PAMORA, which has subject to a number of challenges and patients of our current gastrointestinal been studied in opioid-induced constipation revocations.
Details of litigation relating to portfolio by focusing investment on OIC in adult patients with chronic Seroquel XR are included in Note 25 to the Nexium in Japan and Emerging Markets, non-cancer pain, the most common side Financial Statements from page 176. including China.
effect caused by chronic administration Analgesia and anaesthesia of prescription opioid pain medicines.
Nexium is generally subject to competition Our established anaesthesia portfolio Over 69 million people worldwide take from generics in Europe and we expect consists of a broad range of compounds, opioids to help deal with chronic pain.
OIC the first generic entry in the US in 2014. including an intravenous general can affect up to 90% of these patients with Patents protecting Nexium have been anaesthetic sedative and local anaesthetics only 40-50% achieving desired treatment subject to a number of challenges in different available in various formulations, such as outcomes with current options such as jurisdictions and details of these matters injectables, creams, gels, sprays and OTC and prescription laxatives.
If approved, are included in Note 25 to the Financial suppositories.
Although these compounds naloxegol will be an important new Statements from page 176.
This includes were developed between 20 and 65 years treatment option for patients struggling consideration of Hanmis US launch of its ago and most no longer benefit from with OIC and has the potential to be the 505 b 2 NDA esomeprazole strontium patent protection, they remain important first once-daily oral PAMORA medication product.
AstraZeneca understands that medicines that meet a broad range of to treat the condition.
Following top-line this product is not AB-rated and is not patient needs and continue to deliver results from two Phase III trials and one automatically a substitute for Nexium.
safety extension trial in patients with In 2012, Pfizer acquired the exclusive non-cancer related pain and OIC, an NDA Opioids are the current standard of care global rights to market Nexium for OTC and an MAA for naloxegol have been for managing moderate to severe pain in indications worldwide.
The NDA submission accepted by the FDA and EMA respectively.
In the five countries that for Nexium OTC in the US was completed Additional analyses and regulatory represent approximately 80% of global in mid 2013.
In August 2013, the EC consultations are ongoing.
opioid use US, UK, France, Germany and approved Nexium Control the marketed Canada, 45 million patients take them to AZD5213 is in Phase II and is a histamine-3 name for OTC Nexium in Europe.
Biologics are an receptor antagonist in development for commercial launch for OTC Nexium 20mg emerging treatment option for pain control neuropathic pain.
in the US and Europe is planned for 2014, and we have an active interest in this area.
We are exploring treatments in focused pain areas where patients can be selected on the basis of symptomatic characteristics.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 63 Strategic Report | Pioneering science, life-changing medicines Helping people breathe easier Personalised asthma treatments Life-changing medicines Asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD are respiratory diseases caused by chronic inflammation that affect millions of lives.
In the G7 markets alone, there are more than 100 million patients with asthma or COPD.
Worldwide, total deaths from COPD are projected to increase by more than 30% in the next 10 years without further interventions to cut risks to health.
In recent years, we have introduced medicines such as Symbicort and Pulmicort for the treatment of respiratory diseases.
By developing innovative inhaled and targeted therapies, as well as new devices to meet the needs of patients, we continue to advance respiratory medicine and provide relief, support and improved health in the easiest way possible.
Real lives The large number of patients whose respiratory disease is inadequately controlled by current treatments means there is a significant unmet medical need for improved treatments.
One patient, aged 50 and prescribed Accolate, said: Having asthma is so frightening.
It affects everything that you do.
I limit my life to a certain extent.
64 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 235 million Some 235 million people suffer from asthma 64 million An estimated 64 million people had COPD in 2004 asthma molecular phenotypes to optimise Phase II trials, aims to help uncontrolled Pioneering science treatments.
One example of this is persistent asthma patients by targeting Diseases such as asthma and COPD benralizumab, where we are targeting neutrophils, a type of white blood cell.
are increasingly being recognised as patients in our Phase III programme with See the Research and Development section from page 36 a heterogeneous group of conditions.
and the Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity section a distinct severe asthma phenotype.
in the Therapy Area Review from page 58 for more information.
Benralizumab is the first in a series of They have closely related clinical features novel PHC-driven biologic therapies but diverse underlying causes.
Pioneering in our portfolio that may represent science is allowing us to break them down a critical advance in the development into meaningful sub-groups to enable of personalised asthma management.
a more targeted approach to treatment.
We are also developing a number of small We are using personalised healthcare molecule projects in the respiratory therapy PHC strategies early in the drug area.
For example, AZD5069, which is in development process to target distinct WHO data.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 65
