Strategic Report | Strategy | Business model How we add value In this section, we describe our business model and the purpose, ambition and values that drive what we do and how we do it.
We outline how we add value, our strategic priorities, how we measure our success and the risks we face.
We also describe how we are governed and paid, and how this supports our strategy.
Our business model Resources Life-cycle of a medicine Unmet Improved Strategic medical Customers health priorities need Therapy areas ReCash flow Revenue investment Return to shareholders Promoting and rewarding innovation Research and Development Creation and acquisition of Application for patents to protect Clinical development programmes intellectual property through the intellectual property assets to determine the safety and efficacy innovative R&D developed in a potential medicine of the potential medicine and generate further intellectual property rights and data for regulatory submissions 10 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information medicines that transform lives.
Our contributing to the development of the Unmet medical need life-cycle management process including communities in which we operate, via line extensions is designed to ensure local employment, and partnering.
We are living in a time when underlying a medicines continued safe use and demographic trends are favourable to to explore its potential for treating other long-term pharmaceutical industry Promoting and diseases, or for extending its use into growth, and innovative scientific research additional patient groups.
See the Business continuesto deliver new ways of satisfying rewarding innovation Review from page 34 for more on our unmet medical need.
However, as the The creation and protection of our activities across a medicines life-cycle.
Ourmarketplace section from page 13 underlying intellectual property assets, TheTherapy Area Review from page 48 demonstrates, the economic, social and asoutlined below, are essential elements describes our activities across our chosen political environment in which we operate of our business model.
presents major challenges, as well as a new medicine is risky, costly and opportunities.
Our strategic priorities time consuming.
It requires significant section from page 16 defines our response Return to investment over 10 or more years before to this environment.
product launch, with no guarantee of shareholders success.
For this to be viable, the new Resources The revenue we earn from the sale of our medicine must be safeguarded from medicines generates the cash flow that beingcopied, with a reasonable amount In everything we do, we seek to optimise helps us fund business investment, our ofcertainty and for an acceptable period the value of all our resources.
These include progressive dividend policy, and meet our oftime, so we can generate the returns both our employees and the relationships debt service obligations.
We aim to strike toreinvest in the business and provide we have with our partners, collaborators abalance between the interests of the anappropriate return to shareholders.
Our assets also include our business, our financial creditors and our intellectual property, our infrastructure and The loss of key product patents has shareholders.
See the Financial Review other physical assets.
See the Resources affected sales significantly in recent years from page 74 for more information.
Review from page 66 for more information.
and will continue to do so.
A key goal for our planning process is to ensure we Improved health Life-cycle of a sustain the cycle of successful innovation and so continue to refresh our portfolio We believe that continuous innovation medicine ofpatented products that transform lives inmedical progress is vital to achieving andgenerate shareholder value.
We are one of very few pure-play sustainable healthcare.
It adds value by: biopharmaceutical companies that is, not leading to better health outcomes involved in consumer or animal healthcare, andtransforming patients lives diagnostics or medical devices to span enabling healthcare systems to save theentire value chain of a medicine from costs and be more efficient research, earlyand late-stage development delivering value beyond the medicines to manufacturing and distribution, and the themselves by, for example, improving global commercialisation of primary care, access to healthcare and healthcare specialty care-led and specialty care infrastructure Sales and Marketing Period of intellectual property Expiry of intellectual property rights protection for an innovative and commoditisation of knowledge medicine which allows a return which typically sees generic to be made on the investment versions of a medicine entering undertaken amarket AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 11 Strategic Report | Strategy Pioneering science, life-changing medicines A companys purpose defines its unique contribution to the world.
Purpose We push the boundaries of science to deliver life-changing medicines.
Values We follow the science Science is at the heart of our business and is the basis for everything we do.
We make decisions based on strong scientific evidence, encourage curiosity and always look to push the boundaries.
We put patients first Patients are why we come to work every day.
We always seek to understand and reflect their needs.
We watch the wider healthcare environment and look to apply knowledge and experience from the external environment into our work.
We play to win Expectations are high.
We challenge each other, make courageous choices and set high standards across the board.
We work together and use the strengths and diversity both within and beyond AstraZeneca.
We do the right thing We always take personal accountability for our actions and challenge those that are not in line with our values.
We approach every interaction with candour, honesty and integrity.
We are entrepreneurial Excellence isnt always achieved first time, sometimes persistence is required.
We seize opportunities, act with urgency and take smart risks.
Whether we succeed or fail, there isalways a valuable lesson.
At AstraZeneca we want the way we work, To bring our purpose to life for employees, culture jam event in November 2013, as embodied in our strategy and values, we also took a fresh look at the values that toenable an organisation-wide, virtual to bring our purpose to life.
That is why, define our beliefs as a company, guide our dialogue to share ideas and create in a year when we refreshed our strategic decision making and underpin our drive for understanding of what our refreshed priorities, we also reassessed our purpose business success.
This was to make sure that we ourculture and need to deliver a redefined Each value has a corresponding set express clearly our purpose and values strategy, we identified five values intended ofbehaviours, that describe what andthe behaviours necessary to realise to build on our strengths and highlight isrequired at the individual level to ourstrategic ambitions to Achieve Scientific areas for transformation.
They apply to all Leadership, Return to Growth, and Be a andmanagement teams from across the employees and are complemented with Great Place to Work.
business contributed to the development manager accountabilities, which define ofthese values.
We also held an online what we expect from our managers.
12 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Our marketplace The pharmaceutical industry has doubled in value since 2000.
World pharmaceutical market sales World US Europe $bn 2.5% $bn -0.4% $bn 1.1% 13 842 13 329 13 205 12 821 12 331 12 202 11 799 11 329 11 204 Established ROW Emerging Markets $bn 1.3% $bn 10.7% Data based on world market sales using AstraZeneca market 13 116 13 189 definitions as set out in the Market definitions on page 232.
Source: IMS Health, IMS Midas Quantum Q3 2013 including 12 115 12 170 US data.
Reported values and growth are based at CER.
Valuefigures are rounded to the nearest billion and growth 11 113 11 151 percentages of total actual value are rounded to the nearesttenth.
Introduction portfolios, arguing that this enables them Developing markets now represent The pharmaceutical industry has doubled tobetter meet changing customer needs approximately 85% of the world population in value since 2000.
This growth was and smooth shareholder risk.
and over 20% of the worlds pharmaceutical powered by a large number of FDA revenues.
Faster-developing economies, While most organisations continued to approvals in the second half of the 1990s such as China, India and Brazil, offer pursue their existing strategies in 2013, and the increased use of medicines around new opportunities for the pharmaceutical there were exceptions, with some the world, driven by the global economic industry to help many more patients companies moving away from diversification.
Now, many demand benefit from innovative medicines.
In 2013, Key industry trends included ongoing drivers in the industry are under pressure.
pharmaceutical revenues rose in developing efforts to improve R&D innovation and markets while those in established markets Nonetheless, as the figure above shows, productivity, expansion of geographic were broadly static.
As the Estimated the world pharmaceutical market still grew scope, especially in Emerging Markets pharmaceutical sales and market growth by 2.5% in 2013.
While average revenue andJapan, and the pursuit of operational 2017 diagram overleaf shows, we expect growth was only 0.36% in Established efficiency.
Business development and this trend to continue.
Markets, Emerging Markets revenue was partnering increased at all stages of 30 times higher at 10.7%.
The top five product development.
Unmet medical need pharmaceutical markets in the world In most Established Markets, ageing There continued to be a shift away from remained the US, Japan, Germany, France populations and certain lifestyle choices thedevelopment of new primary care and China, with the US representing 39.1% such as smoking, poor diet and lack of medicines towards oncology, other of global sales 2012: 40.3%: 2011: 41.1%.
exercise are increasing the incidence of specialty care drugs and orphan diseases.
non-communicable diseases NCDs, such Competition As an illustration, in 2013, just 30% of the as cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, The industry remains highly competitive.
new NMEs approved by the FDA were cancer, and respiratory diseases, which Our competitors are other large researchforprimary care medicines.
In 2008, based pharmaceutical companies that Growth drivers almost two-thirds of deaths globally were discover, develop and sell innovative, Expanding patient populations from NCDs, with 80% of these in  prescription medicines The world population is expected to rise andmiddle-income countries.
By 2030, it is and vaccines, as well as smaller from its current level, of some seven billion, estimated that the number of people dying biotechnology and vaccine businesses, to reach nine billion by 2050.
In addition, from cardiovascular diseases will reach andcompanies that produce generic thenumber of people who can access 23.3 million a year, while deaths from medicines.
While many of our peers are healthcare continues to increase, cancer will continue rising, to an estimated confronting similar challenges, these particularly among the elderly.
challenges are being met in different ways.
itisestimated that between 2000 and For example, while some companies have 2050, the number of people aged 60 years pursued a focused strategy, others have and over will increase from 605 million to diversified by acquiring or building branded two billion.
generics businesses or consumer AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 13 Strategic Report | Strategy | Our marketplace 1 2 Estimated pharmaceutical sales and market growth 2017 Europe Non EU $21bn CIS 2.6% Japan $36bn Europe EU 9.5% $106bn North America $217bn 3.3% 0.9% $391bn South East & East Asia Middle East 2.3% $214bn $23bn 12.9% 7.3% Indian Subcontinent $31bn Africa 12.2% $32bn 11.7% Latin America Oceania $119bn 12% $14bn Estimated pharmaceutical 1 -0.2% sales 2017 Estimated pharmaceutical market 2 growth 2012 to 2017 1 Ex-manufacturer prices at CER.
Advances in science and technology costbase.
It does so at a time when So far as the development of biosimilars is Innovation is critical if we are to address regulators and those who pay for our concerned, health authorities continue to unmet medical need.
Existing drugs will medicines are demanding more and better face the challenge of developing robust continue to be important in meeting the evidence of comparative effectiveness of standards to ensure their safety, efficacy growing demand for healthcare, particularly compounds, which increases development and quality.
For further information on with the increasing use of generic times and costs.
biosimilars, see the Patent expiries and medication.
At the same time, advances genericisation section opposite.
The industry is using the full range of inthe understanding of diseases and the innovative technologies to achieve and There are ongoing efforts to harmonise application of new technologies will be accelerate product approvals.
Additionally, regulations and achieve global convergence, required to deliver new medicines.
greater emphasis is being placed on yet the number of regulations and their Suchapproaches include personalised demonstrating Proof of Concept, which impact continue to multiply.
Clinical healthcare PHC and predictive science, delivers data to show that candidate trials that support the registration of as well as other new types of therapy.
drugsresult in a clinical change with products ina regulatory jurisdiction Advances inthe technologies for the design anacceptable endpoint or surrogate must be relevant to a variety of patient and testing of novel compounds herald inpatients.
Programmes using foreign fresh opportunities for using innovative clinical trial dataalso need to meet each small molecules as new medicines.
The use Regulatory requirements health authoritys requirements and be of large molecules, or biologics, has also Our industry continues to be highly relevant totheir population.
Meanwhile, become an important source of innovation, regulated.
This reflects public demand for health authorities continue to redefine with biologics among the most commercially safe, effective and high-quality medicines patient-safety assessment processes.
Forecasts for that are responsibly tested, manufactured In addition, in emerging pharmaceutical 2018 predict that of the worlds top 100 and commercialised.
The nature and markets, healthauthorities are developing pharmaceutical products, 51% of sales will geographic scope of our business requires their ownindividual requirements and come from biologics.
This compares with us to maintain important relationships safety initiatives.
Most worldwide with health authorities that The growing complexity and globalisation pharmaceutical companies now pursue assess the safety, efficacy and quality of clinical studies, and the pressure on R&D in both small molecules and biologics.
These include the FDA industry and healthcare budgets, has in the US, the EMA in the EU, the PMDA The challenges led to an increase in consortia, including in Japan and the CFDA in China.
R&D productivity industry, academia and regulators.
These Improving R&D productivity is a critical In 2013, the FDA implemented aspects are driving innovation and streamlining challenge for the pharmaceutical industry.
ofthe Prescription Drug User Fee Act, regulatory processes, as well as defining Global investment in pharmaceutical R&D which was re-authorised in 2012, and EU and clarifying approval requirements for reached an estimated $135 billion in 2013, authorities continued to implement the new technology and approaches, such a53% increase from $88 billion in 2004. newpharmacovigilance legislation, also as PHC.
They are also accelerating the However, the annual growth in R&D spend introduced in 2012.
These measures share development of treatments that address has slowed in recent years.
In contrast to the common goals of protecting patient public health priorities.
the increase in spending, the FDA approved safety, creating greater transparency in 27 NMEs in 2013 2012: 39, which was in regulation throughout a products life-cycle In another trend, following regulatory line with the annual average of 26 approvals and taking more account of the patient approval, the safety and efficacy data over the past 10 years.
perspective in the regulatory process.
of most medicines are being increasingly There is also a global trend to increase scrutinised by health technology To ensure the industry delivers a sustainable public access to the documentation assessment and or reimbursement return on R&D investment, it is working companies submit to health authorities bodiesat a national level.
toincrease the probability of success in tosupport marketing authorisations.
developing commercially viable new drugs and is moving to a lower, more flexible 14 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information However, when applications are supported The Committee discussions ended without companies increasingly willing to launch by strong data and compelling benefit risk reaching an agreement and the President products at risk, for example, prior to the propositions, regulators continue to approve and Congress were subsequently unable resolution of the relevant patent litigation.
drugs that address unmet medical need.
Thus, sequestration This trend is likely to continue, resulting in took effect in March 2013 and impacts significant market presence for the generic Pricing pressure most federal government healthcare version during the period in which litigation Pricing and reimbursement continues programmes with broad reductions in remains unresolved, even though the to be highly challenging in many markets.
courts may subsequently rule that the Most pharmaceutical sales are generated innovative product is properly protected in highly regulated markets where In Europe, governments have continued bya valid patent.
The unpredictable nature governments and private payers, such as toimplement legislation on mandatory of patent litigation has led innovators to insurance companies, exert various levels discounts, clawbacks and referencing rules, seek to settle such challenges on terms of control on pricing and reimbursement.
driving prices down, especially in distressed acceptable to both innovator and generic Cost-containment, including limitations on economies such as Greece and Portugal.
However, some competition pharmaceutical spending, continues to be In Germany, Europes largest pharmaceutical authorities have sought to challenge the a focus.
A wave of austerity programmes, market, manufacturers are now required to scope and or availability of this type of following the recent global economic prove the additional benefit of their drugs settlement agreement.
downturn, are further constraining over existing alternatives.
If the additional healthcare providers and tougher economic benefit is not shown, the drug is transferred Biologics have, to date, sustained longer conditions constrain those patients who to the German reference pricing system life-cycles than traditional small molecule pay directly for medicines.
Additional where, for each drug group, a single pharmaceuticals and have faced less challenges may arise if suppliers and reimbursement level or reference price generic competition.
With limited distributors face credit-related difficulties.
experience to date, the substitution of Atthe same time, pharmaceutical biosimilars for the original branded product In China, pricing practices arehigh on the companies require significant extra has not followed the same pattern as agenda of regulatory authorities.
2013 was resources to demonstrate to payers the generic substitution in small molecule impacted by the continuation of the triennial economic, as well as therapeutic, value products and, as a consequence, erosion maximum retail drug price review which of medicines.
of branded market share has not been as began in 2012, andmore pressure is rapid.
This is also due to a more complex expected.
In Japan, biennial cuts are In 2013, pressures on pricing were driven manufacturing process for biologics expected to continue.
InLatin America, by the implementation of drug price control compared with small molecule medicines.
pricing is increasingly controlled by mechanisms and other regulatory reforms In addition, it is due to the inherent governments, for example inColombia issued the previous year for example, the difficulties in producing a biosimilar which, and Venezuela.
Royal Decree in Spain and the Balduzzi as a biological equivalent, rather than an Decree in Italy, as well as price More about the impact of price controls exact chemical copy, could require additional renegotiations due to budget pressures, and reductions, and of healthcare reform in clinical trials.
However, with regulatory particularly in France and Belgium.
the US, can be found in the Principal risks authorities in Europe and the US continuing In the US, the Affordable Care Act has and uncertainties section from page 200. to implement abbreviated approval already had a direct impact on healthcare The principal aspects of price regulation pathways for biosimilar versions, innovative activities despite the fact that many of the in our major markets are described further biologics are likely to become increasingly healthcare coverage expansion provisions in the Geographical Review from page 214. subject to competition from biosimilars.
of the Affordable Care Act do not take Patent expiries and genericisation Building trust effect until 2014.
For example, in 2010 there The patents on some of the biggest-selling The pharmaceutical industry faces was an increase in the mandatory Medicaid drugs ever produced are expiring.
As a challenges in building and maintaining rebates.
In addition, the pharmaceutical consequence, payers, physicians and trust, particularly with governments and industry, including AstraZeneca, is making patients in Established Markets have regulators.
The past decade has seen prescription drugs more affordable to increased access to low-price, generic asignificant increase in the number of Medicare beneficiaries through, for alternatives in many important classes settlements between innovator companies example, helping to close the coverage gap of primary care drugs.
For example, for and governmental and regulatory authorities in the Medicare Part D prescription drug prescriptions dispensed in the US in 2013, for violating various laws.
The industry continues to work generics constituted 86% of the market taking steps to address this reputational with policymakers and regulators to help byvolume 2012: 84%.
challenge by embedding a culture of ethics ensure they strike a balance between and integrity, adopting higher standards Patents only protect pharmaceutical containing costs, improving outcomes and ofgovernance and improving relationships products for a finite period and the expiry promoting an environment that fosters with employees, shareholders and orearly loss of patents often leads to the medical innovation.
Generic versions of In August 2011, as part of the bipartisan drugs are very competitive with significantly In July 2013, it emerged that a number agreement to raise the federal debt lower pricing than the innovator equivalents.
ofcompanies, including pharmaceutical ceiling, the US Congress created the This is partly due to lower investment by businesses, were under investigation by Joint Select Committee on Deficit generic manufacturers in R&D and market theChina Public Security Bureau following Reduction Committee.
While generic competition allegations of bribery and criminal offences.
was empowered to recommend a package has traditionally occurred when patents Investigations by the DOJ and SEC under of $1.2 trillion in cost savings with the expire, it can also happen where the validity the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act are requirement that, if the Committee failed of patents is disputed or successfully alsocontinuing.
to reach an agreement, the savings challenged before expiry.
Such early would be achieved through across challenges have increased with generics the board spending cuts sequestration.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 15 Strategic Report | Strategy Our strategic priorities Our strategic priorities define how we are responding to the externalenvironment and focusing our efforts and resources toensure we can deliver our purpose.
We believe that biopharmaceuticals Wealso have a strong position in China 1,600 roles will relocate from Alderley Park, remainsan attractive business, with strong andother Emerging Markets.
We combine with a significant majority going to the new underlying drivers of demand: expanding a global reach with local customer centre in Cambridge and the remainder and ageing populations: a growing chronic relationships and are pioneering new to our nearby Macclesfield facility or sites disease burden: and increasing wealth customer-focused commercial models.
At least 700 non-R&D roles through economic growth, especially in are expected to remain at Alderley Park.
We need to build on these strong Emerging Markets.
While the hurdles to We will explore all options to ensure foundations.
We also have to address adopting new products have increased, Alderley Park has a successful future.
AstraZeneca is faced people are still willing to pay for with a number of significant patent expiries In the US, a number of roles have already differentiated, innovative medicines that in the coming years and we must improve relocated to our facility in Gaithersburg, transform lives.
our R&D productivity by delivering more while most of the others will move during In response to these circumstances and, as products successfully from our Phase III 2014.
Our site in Wilmington, Delaware will we announced at our Investor Day in March pipeline.
Once medicines are approved for remain our North America commercial 2013, we have made a clear set of choices.
use, we need to improve the way in which headquarters.
We will: we launch products.
Organisationally, we Restructuring need to reduce our costs, change our focus our R&D and commercial Since 2007, we have undertaken culture, and simplify and improve the way investments significant efforts to restructure and we work.
prioritise and accelerate promising reshape our business to improve long-term assetsand business development Innovation and growth competitiveness.
The first phase was transform our innovation model and Our strategic priorities are focused on completed in 2009.
The second phase theway we work.
innovation and returning to growth.
They began in 2010 and the restructuring are based on: actions were completed in 2011.
We will do this through our strategic priorities which are to: science-led innovation At our Investor Day, we described how a broad R&D platform built on three wewere transforming the way we work 1 Achieve Scientific Leadership core therapy areas todeliver our strategy by simplifying the 2 Return to Growth a balanced portfolio of specialty and organisation and its processes, while 3 Be a Great Place to Work.
primary care products creating an innovative environment.
The table from page 18 examines our a global commercial presence, with We continue to drive productivity strategic priorities in more detail, explains strength in Emerging Markets.
improvements across the organisation, what they mean and how we are removing complexity, creating additional Strategic R&D centres implementing them.
headroom to invest in the pipeline and In March 2013, as part of our strategy, we key growth platforms, and ensuring Distinctive capabilities announced plans to invest in strategic R&D returns to our shareholders.
Our chosen priorities reflect our belief that centres in Gaithersburg, Maryland, US, in AstraZeneca has the skills and capabilities Cambridge, UK, and in Mlndal, Sweden.
In March 2013, we announced a to take advantage of the opportunities Our aim is to improve pipeline productivity restructuring programme which was thatexist: and to establish AstraZeneca as a global combined with the third phase of the leader in biopharmaceutical innovation.
programme announced in February 2012 Pipeline and science Few pharmaceutical to create a combined Phase 4 programme.
companies can match our combination of The centres are a major investment, It initially entailed an estimated global capabilities in small molecules, biologics, designed to locate more of our scientists headcount reduction of about 5,050 over immunotherapies and protein engineering.
close to globally recognised bioscience the 20132016 period.
The combined These capabilities allow us to produce clusters, bring teams together to improve programme of changes was estimated to combination therapies such as drug collaboration, and simplify our footprint incur $2.3 billion in one-time restructuring antibody conjugates and customisable andso reduce complexity and eliminate charges, of which $1.7 billion were molecules, targeted to specific patient unnecessary cost.
expected to be cash costs.
We also have good underlying In June 2013, we confirmed that our new Company continued to implement the discovery science and strong disease UK-based global R&D centre and corporate Phase 4 programme, incurring costs of knowledge, research portfolios, and related headquarters will be located at the $1.4billion and delivering approximately technology platforms in a number of areas.
Cambridge Biomedical Campus on the $400 million of annualised benefits.
The Commercial presence Over the past outskirts of the city.
The planned overall Phase 4 programme remains on decade, we have developed strong investment of around $515 million is track to deliver approximately $800 million commercial franchises that address expected to be completed by 2016. anticipated annual benefits by the end of oncology, cardiovascular, metabolic and 2016.
Total costs for this programme are It is planned that R&D work will no longer respiratory diseases.
We have a significant now anticipated to be approximately be carried out at our Alderley Park site in commercial capability in primary care.
Over the next three years, around 16 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Phase 4 programme has been expanded to include additional activities What differentiates AstraZeneca?
such as a transformation of our IT organisation and infrastructure, the exit of We believe that in implementing our strategic priorities we can achieve R&D activities in Bangalore, India, and the the following: exit from branded generics in certain A differentiated strategy A pure-play innovation science strategy combined Emerging Markets to further reduce costs with global commercial scale and increase flexibility.
When completed, the expansion of the restructuring Growth levers Internal growth platforms Brilinta, Emerging Markets, our programme is expected to deliver a further diabetes portfolio, our respiratory franchise and Japan can return the Company $300 million in annual benefits by the end of to growth, accelerated by focused business development 2016, bringing total anticipated annualised Pipeline potential We expect our promising Phase II pipeline to advance to benefits of the Phase 4 programme to a strong late-stage portfolio by 2016 $1.1billion.
Total incremental programme costs from these new initiatives are Re-focused delivery Re-focusing efforts on three core therapy areas, resources estimated to be $700 million, of which and business development efforts prioritised for growth and innovation $600million is cash, bringing the total Sustainability Bold steps being taken to transform our R&D innovation model, anticipated cost of our Phase 4 programme culture and operating model to $3.2 billion.
The expansion of the programme is estimated to affect Shareholder returns Productivity improvement and commitment to our approximately 550 positions, bringing the progressive dividend policy.
total global headcount reduction under the Phase 4 programme to around 5,600 over the 20132016 period.
Final estimates for programme costs, Our strategic priorities are focused on benefits and headcount impact in all functions are subject to completion of innovation and returning to growth the requisite consultation in the various areas, many of which have already They are to: begun.
Our priority as we undertake these 1 Achieve Scientific Leadership restructuring initiatives is to work with 2 Return to Growth our affected employees on the proposed changes, acting in accordance with 3 Be a Great Place to Work relevant local consultation requirements The table overleaf examines our strategic priorities in and employment law.
moredetail, explains what they mean and how we are Outlook implementingthem.
As outlined above, our strategy is focused on innovation and returning to growth.
Insupport of this, we have made some choices around our three strategic Mid-term goals to 2016 are to progress we expect a low-to-mid single digit priorities.
We have also been explicit about our Phase II pipeline and exploit the percentage decline in revenue at CER our immediate priorities, mid-term goals potential of our biologics portfolio.
for2014, with a marginally lower Core and long-term aspirations.
Long-term aspirations to 2020 and gross margin As we experience a period of patent beyond, in line with our strategic ambition, in percentage terms, Core EPS for 2014 expiries and declining revenue, our: is to Achieve Scientific Leadership and is expected to decline in the teens at CER Immediate priorities are to drive our sustainable growth, including the launch we expect revenues in 2017 will be on-market revenues through investment of two NMEs annually.
broadly in line with 2013. in our growth platforms and our portfolio Financial expectations These expectations involve a number of on-market brands.
These include In February 2014, we updated our financial of assumptions, including, among other products in our three core therapy areas, expectations, which superseded all things, Nexium US generic launch in and a focus on the Emerging Markets previous guidance and planning May 2014. and Japan.
We are also pursuing assumptions: business development and investment inR&D.
We have already accelerated a number of projects and progressed them into Phase III development.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 17 Strategic Report | Strategy | Our strategic priorities 1 Achieve Scientific Leadership What do we need to do?
How are we implementing this?
For more information We are focusing on Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases, Oncology, Therapy Area Review Focus on distinctive and Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity, supplemented by from page 48 science in three core an opportunity-driven approach to Infection, Neuroscience and therapy areas Gastrointestinal diseases We work across biologics, small molecules, immunotherapies and protein engineering We are accelerating and investing in key projects, advancing promising Our Development Prioritise and projects from our Phase II pipeline with more than 20 NMEs.
Looking Pipeline section from accelerate our pipeline ahead, we will focus our resources on our most promising assets page 194 Our aim is for five to seven NME Phase III starts by the end of 2014.
In the medium term, we will target one or more NME launches annually and longer term, two NMEs annually We have created two autonomous biotech units, MedImmune and Research and Transform our Innovative Medicines and Early Development IMED, to drive science Development section innovation and and innovation.
We are recruiting for these organisations.
We have also from page 36 culture model established a clinical development group called Global Medicines Development GMD We are increasing our emphasis on novel science, such as Research and immune-mediated therapy combinations, and PHC Development section from page 36 We are increasing our proximity to bioscience clusters and co-locating around Our strategic priorities three strategic sites in Gaithersburg, Maryland, US: Cambridge, UK: and section on page 16 Mlndal, Sweden 2 Return to Growth What do we need to do?
For more information Brilinta We are working to deliver Brilintas potential to reduce the number Cardiovascular and Focus on key of cardiovascular deaths, with leadership plans for the US and markets Metabolic disease growth platforms globally, and further clinical studies section on page 52 Diabetes We are working to maximise the potential of our broad Cardiovascular and innovative non-insulin anti-diabetic portfolio to become a leader in the Metabolic disease treatment of diabetes section on page 52 Emerging Markets We are refocusing our efforts on innovative medicines: Sales and Marketing accelerating our investment in Emerging Market capabilities, with a focus section on page 40 on China and 15 top markets: broadening our reach through multi-channel marketing: and transforming our capabilities to support new products, eg market access and patient affordability Respiratory We are working to maximise the opportunity of our end-toRespiratory, end strengths in medicines, pipelines and devices to meet significant Inflammation and medical need and the opportunity for growth in asthma and COPD Autoimmunity section on page 58 Japan We are building on our leading oncology franchise and working to Sales and Marketing maximise our success with launches across the diabetes portfolio and with section on page 40 Symbicort, Brilinta, Nexium and Crestor We are seeking to accelerate growth through larger scale product Sales and Marketing Accelerate through in-licensing and partnerships, and with bolt-on acquisitions section on page 40 business development Our development pipeline is now half small molecules and half biologics.
Therapy Area Review Transform through Weneed to convert our strong biologics pipeline into future launches and to Overview from specialty care and create a specialty care product portfolio that balances our historic strength page 48 biologics in primary care 18 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 3 Be a Great Place to Work What do we need to do?
For more information We have introduced a flatter organisational structure to drive accountability, Employees section Focus on simplification and improve decision making and communication from page 66 of our business We are developing simpler, more efficient processes, such as in business planning We are restructuring and reshaping to deliver our science-led site strategy Employees section Drive continued and improve long-term competitiveness from page 66 productivity improvements We are engaging with employees to promote understanding and belief in Employees section Evolve our culture our strategy from page 66 We will retain the best of our existing culture and change those aspects that hold us back by embedding our new values and behaviours in the organisation and in our performance management system We are increasing our focus on talent and leadership development with tailored programmes for leaders throughout the organisation We also need to: Achieve our Group Financial Targets What do we need to do?
For more information We are investing in on-market growth platforms to return to growth.
We aim Financial Review Drive on-market value to maintain sector-leading productivity by restructuring to create scope for from page 74 investment and a flexible cost base Our dividend policy is to maintain or grow dividend per share Financial Review Maintain a progressive from page 74 dividend We target a strong, investment grade credit rating, operational cash balance, Financial Review Maintain a strong and periodic share repurchases from page 74 balance sheet Our work is supported by: Accelerated business development Our focus is on strategically aligned value-enhancing business development, notably: Our relationships section from increasing early-stage research deals and academic alliances page 70 exploring value-creating peer collaborations pursuing partnering, in-licensing and bolt-on acquisitions to strengthen our core therapy area portfolios Doing business responsibly We are committed to being a responsible company, working with integrity and delivering sustainable Responsible Business business development.
We have identified three areas for special focus: section from page 220 Access to healthcare Diversity Environment AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 19 Strategic Report | Strategy Key performance indicators How did we perform against the indicators by which we measure our success?
KPI 2012 2013 Commentary Achieve Group Financial Targets Revenue $27,973 million $25,711 million The key growth platforms Brilinta, the diabetes franchise, respiratory, Emerging Markets and Japan delivered an incremental $1.2 billion of revenue.
This was more than offset by the impact of patent expiries, which reduced revenue by $2.2 billion See the Financial Review from page 74 for more information Cash flow from operating activities $6,948 million $7,400 million Lower tax and interest payments partially offset the lower operating profit in 2013, after adjusting for impairments and non-cash costs, while working capital movements and a one-off pension fund contribution drove higher outflows in the prior year Core EPS $6.83 $5.05 The decline in EPS was greater than the decline in revenue primarily due to the expenditure in the Companys key growth platforms and strengthened pipeline Dividend per share $2.80 $2.80 Met target of holding or growing dividend per share Achieve Scientific Leadership Phase III investment decisions Lesinurad entered Phase III clinical Three positive decisions for benralizumab, selumetinib On target to have five to seven projects in Phase III by the end of 2014. development following the acquisition of and olaparib Decisions helped us achieve our 2016 target volume for our Phase III Ardea.
Positive Phase III investment pipeline three years ahead of schedule decisions achieved for moxetumomab See the Research and Development pasudotox and brodalumab section from page 36 and Therapy Area Review from page 48 for more NME major submissions Quadrivalent live attenuated influenza Three submissions for olaparib EU and naloxegol Submissions contribute to meeting target of at least one NME launch information vaccine MEDI3250 MAA: Nexium OTC US and EU per year by 2015 2016 and sustainable delivery of two NMEs annually and dapagliflozin metformin IR FDC EU.
by2020 Casodex oral tablet: Nexium: Helicobacter pylori: and Arimidex Oral Dispersible Film submitted Japan External licensing and or acquisition Seven opportunities through Amgen Four opportunities through AlphaCore: Amplimmune: Licensing and or acquisition opportunities contribute to meeting target opportunities in Phase I II AMG181 MEDI7183, AMG557 Pearl Therapeutics PT010 : and Merck MK-1775 of sustainable delivery of two NMEs annually by 2020 MEDI5872, AMG157 MEDI9929, AZD1775 AMG139 MEDI2070 : Gelesis, Inc. Attiva : Ardelyx, Inc. AZD1722 : and Isis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. AZD9150 Late-stage external licensing and or Five opportunities, including Amgen Three opportunities through Pearl Therapeutics PT003 : Licensing and or acquisition opportunities helped us achieve our 2016 acquisition opportunities brodalumab : Ardea lesinurad : Amylin Omthera Epanova : and FibroGen roxadustat FG-4592 target volume for our Phase III pipeline three years ahead of schedule metreleptin : and Ironwood linaclotide and contribute to meeting target of sustainable delivery of two NMEs annually by 2020 NME Phase II starts progressions Eight starts tralokinumab: MEDI7183: Eleven starts, including AZD1722: MEDI2070: AZD4901: Phase II starts and progressions contribute to meeting target of AZD5847: AZD5213: AZD3241: tremelimumab: AZD2014: RDEA3170: AZD5069: sustainable delivery of two NMEs annually by 2020 fostamatinib: AZD8931: and AZD2115 AZD5213: MEDI8968: and two Phase I expansion projects with patients dosed Restated for new Core definition and adoption of IAS 19 2011 as detailed on pages 136 and 224.
First and second interim dividend for the year.
20 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information KPI 2012 2013 Commentary Achieve Group Financial Targets Revenue $27,973 million $25,711 million The key growth platforms Brilinta, the diabetes franchise, respiratory, Emerging Markets and Japan delivered an incremental $1.2 billion of revenue.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 21 Strategic Report | Strategy | Key performance indicators KPI 2012 2013 Growth CER Commentary Return to Growth Brilinta $89 million $283 million sales of Brilinta 216% Brilinta continues to grow globally.
The US remains our priority for Brilinta and there are challenges still to be overcome Diabetes franchise $451 million $787 million sales across 75% Diabetes revenues grew globally last year and we are stepping up our See the Geographical Review from diabetes franchise investment and improving execution of our plans page 214 for more information Emerging Markets $5,095 million $5,389 million sales in 8% Revenue growth met our ambition of high single digit growth at CER, Emerging Markets with growth in China of 19% over the year Respiratory $4,415 million $4,677 million sales across 7% Symbicort drove growth, with a strong performance in the US, Japan respiratory portfolio and Emerging Markets Japan $2,904 million $2,485 million sales in 4% Growth at CER was helped by the performance of Symbicort Japan and Nexium Be a Great Place to Work Organisational structure percentage of 40% 70% This is a key indicator of our progress in driving accountability and employees within six management steps improving decision making and communication of CEO Employee belief in company strategy 68% 84% This is a key indicator of employee engagement.
Belief level is in line See the Employees section from with the pharmaceutical sector norm page 66 for more information Source: Global FOCUS all-employee Source: January 2014 pulse survey across a sample of survey the organisation Responsible Business Dow Jones Sustainability Index ranking Top 7% of companies Top 3% of companies Met target of maintaining position in the Dow Jones Sustainability and World Indexes comprising the top 10% of the largest 2,500 companies with a score of 85% See the Responsible Business section Confirmed breaches of external sales and 10 confirmed breaches 11 confirmed breaches Continue to report and learn lessons from confirmed breaches of from page 220 for more information marketing codes or regulations globally external codes arising from external scrutiny and voluntary disclosure byAstraZeneca Number of supplier audits conducted 482 audits 61 audits Undertaking a risk-based programme of audits across all supplier categories and geographies ensures expectations of suppliers set down in our Global Responsible Procurement Standard are met 22 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information KPI 2012 2013 Growth CER Commentary Return to Growth Brilinta $89 million $283 million sales of Brilinta 216% Brilinta continues to grow globally.
Belief level is in line See the Employees section from with the pharmaceutical sector norm page 66 for more information Source: Global FOCUS all-employee Source: January 2014 pulse survey across a sample of survey the organisation Responsible Business Dow Jones Sustainability Index ranking Top 7% of companies Top 3% of companies Met target of maintaining position in the Dow Jones Sustainability and World Indexes comprising the top 10% of the largest 2,500 companies with a score of 85% See the Responsible Business section Confirmed breaches of external sales and 10 confirmed breaches 11 confirmed breaches Continue to report and learn lessons from confirmed breaches of from page 220 for more information marketing codes or regulations globally external codes arising from external scrutiny and voluntary disclosure byAstraZeneca Number of supplier audits conducted 482 audits 61 audits Undertaking a risk-based programme of audits across all supplier categories and geographies ensures expectations of suppliers set down in our Global Responsible Procurement Standard are met AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 23 Strategic Report | Strategy Risk overview What might challenge the delivery of our strategic priorities?
Possible Link to Context Specific risks we face impacts Risk management actions strategic priority Risk: Product pipeline The development of any Failure to meet development targets Reduced Focus on distinctive science in three core therapy areas with strong capabilities Achieve Scientific pharmaceutical product candidate is Difficulties in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for new products long-term Prioritise and accelerate our pipeline Leadership a complex, risky and lengthy process Failure to obtain and enforce effective IP protection growth, revenue Strengthen pipeline through R&D licensing, alliances and scientific partnering Return to Growth involving significant financial, R&D Delay to new product launches and profit Transform our innovation model and culture and other resources Strategic alliances and acquisitions may be unsuccessful Diminished Focus on simplification Be a Great Place reputation R&D Drive continued productivity improvements to Work Each project may fail or be delayed capability Active management of IP rights at any stage of the process due to Achieve Group a number of factors Financial Targets Risk: Commercialisation and business execution The successful launch of a new Challenges to achieving commercial Abbreviated approval processes for Reduction in Focus on key growth platforms Return to Growth pharmaceutical product involves success of new products biosimilars market share and Accelerate through business development and strategic partnerships and alliances Be a Great Place substantial investment in sales and Illegal trade in our products Increasing implementation and long-term growth Transform through specialty care biologics to Work marketing activities, launch stocks Developing our business in Emerging enforcement of more stringent anti-bribery Diminished Focus on simplification and other items.
The commercial Markets and anti-corruption legislation reputation and Drive continued productivity improvements Achieve Group success of our new medicines is Expiry or loss of, or limitations to, IP rights Any expected gains from productivity employee Evolve our culture Financial Targets of particular importance to replace Pressures resulting from generic initiatives are uncertain engagement Active management of IP rights lost sales following patent expiry competition Changes in leadership, failure to attract Loss of revenue, Reimbursement and pricing demonstrating value of medicines health economics Negative effect of patent litigation and retain key personnel and failure to profit and cash Relocation to strategic science hubs We may ultimately be unable to in respect of IP rights successfully engage with our employees flows achieve commercial success for Price controls and reductions Failure of information technology and any number of reasons Economic, regulatory and political cybercrime pressures Failure of outsourcing Risk: Supply chain and delivery We may experience difficulties and Manufacturing biologics Delays in planned Quality management systems Return to Growth delays in manufacturing our products, Difficulties and delays in manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products activities Contingency plans including dual sourcing, multiple suppliers and stock levels Achieve Group particularly biologics, and there Reliance on third party goods Loss of sales Supplier audit programme Financial Targets may be a failure in supply from and revenue Business continuity initiatives, disaster and crisis management, continuity and data third parties recovery and emergency response plans Risk: Legal, regulatory and compliance Any failure to comply with applicable Adverse outcome of litigation and or governmental investigations Diminished Strong ethical and compliance culture and infrastructure incorporating all elements Be a Great Place laws, rules and regulations may Potentially significant product liability claims reputation of compliance framework to Work result in civil and or criminal legal Failure to adhere to applicable laws, rules and regulations Reduction Code of Conduct and Global Policies and Standards provide controls for major risks Achieve Group proceedings, and or regulatory Environmental and occupational health and safety liabilities in profit Training for all Directors employees Financial Targets sanctions Misuse of social media platforms and new technology Management oversight, compliance monitoring and audit programmes to assure compliance Independent reporting channels for employees to voice any concerns confidentially Robust investigation of alleged breaches, followed by appropriate corrective actions Due diligence reviews on acquisitions and integration plans Risk: Economic and financial Operating in over 100 countries Adverse impact of a sustained economic downturn Loss of revenue, Strategic financial management actions eg monitoring and analysis of market Achieve Group we are subject to political, Political and socio-economic conditions profit, cash flows conditions, competitors and their strategies Financial Targets socio-economic and financial Impact of fluctuations in exchange rates and ability to Financial risk management factors both globally and in individual Limited third party insurance coverage access funding countries Taxation Pensions Financial expectations 24 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information We face a diverse range of risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect any one or more parts of our business and prevent usachieving our objectives.
Our approach to risk management is designed to encourage clear decision making on which risks we takeas a business and how we manage risk, informed by an understanding of the commercial, financial, compliance, legal and reputational implications.
We outline below the main risks that could have a material adverse effect on the business or results of operations.
We have also listed how these risks link to our strategic priorities and some of the management actions taken in response.
For a more comprehensive description, please see the Risk section from page 199.
The commercial Markets and anti-corruption legislation reputation and Drive continued productivity improvements Achieve Group success of our new medicines is Expiry or loss of, or limitations to, IP rights Any expected gains from productivity employee Evolve our culture Financial Targets of particular importance to replace Pressures resulting from generic initiatives are uncertain engagement Active management of IP rights lost sales following patent expiry competition Changes in leadership, failure to attract Loss of revenue, Reimbursement and pricing demonstrating value of medicines health economics Negative effect of patent litigation and retain key personnel and failure to profit and cash Relocation to strategic science hubs We may ultimately be unable to in respect of IP rights successfully engage with our employees flows achieve commercial success for Price controls and reductions Failure of information technology and any number of reasons Economic, regulatory and political cybercrime pressures Failure of outsourcing Risk: Supply chain and delivery We may experience difficulties and Manufacturing biologics Delays in planned Quality management systems Return to Growth delays in manufacturing our products, Difficulties and delays in manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products activities Contingency plans including dual sourcing, multiple suppliers and stock levels Achieve Group particularly biologics, and there Reliance on third party goods Loss of sales Supplier audit programme Financial Targets may be a failure in supply from and revenue Business continuity initiatives, disaster and crisis management, continuity and data third parties recovery and emergency response plans Risk: Legal, regulatory and compliance Any failure to comply with applicable Adverse outcome of litigation and or governmental investigations Diminished Strong ethical and compliance culture and infrastructure incorporating all elements Be a Great Place laws, rules and regulations may Potentially significant product liability claims reputation of compliance framework to Work result in civil and or criminal legal Failure to adhere to applicable laws, rules and regulations Reduction Code of Conduct and Global Policies and Standards provide controls for major risks Achieve Group proceedings, and or regulatory Environmental and occupational health and safety liabilities in profit Training for all Directors employees Financial Targets sanctions Misuse of social media platforms and new technology Management oversight, compliance monitoring and audit programmes to assure compliance Independent reporting channels for employees to voice any concerns confidentially Robust investigation of alleged breaches, followed by appropriate corrective actions Due diligence reviews on acquisitions and integration plans Risk: Economic and financial Operating in over 100 countries Adverse impact of a sustained economic downturn Loss of revenue, Strategic financial management actions eg monitoring and analysis of market Achieve Group we are subject to political, Political and socio-economic conditions profit, cash flows conditions, competitors and their strategies Financial Targets socio-economic and financial Impact of fluctuations in exchange rates and ability to Financial risk management factors both globally and in individual Limited third party insurance coverage access funding countries Taxation Pensions Financial expectations AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 25 Strategic Report | Strategy Governance and Remuneration How does the way we are governed support the delivery of ourstrategy?
Governance Good governance is crucial to ensuring we are well managed and can deliver our strategic priorities.
The Board Chairman: Leif Johansson | Senior independent Non-Executive Director: John Varley All Directors are collectively responsible for the success of AstraZeneca.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors are responsible for exercising independent and objective judgement and for scrutinising and challenging management.
The Board is responsible for setting our strategy and policies, for oversight of risk and corporate governance, and for monitoring progress towards meeting our annual plans.
It is accountable to our shareholders for the proper conduct of the business and our long-term success.
It represents the interests of all stakeholders.
The Board has delegated some of its powers to four principal committees and the CEO.
Members of the Board and their biographies are shown on pages 28 to 29.
Nomination and Audit Committee Remuneration Science Committee Governance Committee Committee Chairman: Leif Johansson Chairman: Rudy Markham Chairman: John Varley Chairman: Nancy Rothwell Talented people are critical To deliver the Groups We seek to attract, retain Achieving Scientific to the delivery of the Groups strategy we must have sound and develop the highestLeadership is key to our strategy.
The Nomination and financial and non-financial calibre talent while paying strategic success.
The Audit no more than is necessary.
Science Committee provides role is to recommend new Committee is responsible The Groups shortand assurance to the Board Board appointments to for reviewing our financial long-term incentive plans regarding the Groups R&D the Board and to consider, reporting, internal controls, are closely linked to our activities, by reviewing and more broadly, succession compliance with laws and strategic and financial assessing our approaches in planning to senior executive our relationship with our goals, and the delivery of our chosen therapy areas, management and Board external auditor, as well as sustainable shareholder the scientific technology and positions.
The Remuneration R&D capabilities we deploy, and Governance Committee Committee is responsible the quality and development also advises the Board on for the Groups remuneration of our scientists, and our significant developments in policy, which supports the decision making.
CEO: Pascal Soriot The Senior Executive Team SET comprises: CEO CFO 9 Executive Vice-Presidents General Counsel Chief Compliance Officer The SET is the body through which the CEO exercises the authority delegated to him by the Board.
It considers major business issues and makes recommendations to the CEO, and typically also reviews those matters which are to be submitted to the Board for its consideration.
The CEO is responsible for establishing and chairing the SET.
Biographies of the members of the SET are shown on pages 30 to 31.
26 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Governance Remuneration Good governance is crucial to ensuring we are well managed and can deliver our strategic priorities.
We seek to create sustainable growth in shareholder value by developing and executing a remuneration strategy that supports the successful implementation of our business strategy.
The Board Key roles The progress and success of our strategy will be measured against three key Chairman: Leif Johansson | Senior independent Non-Executive Director: John Varley Chairman areas: Achieve Scientific Leadership: Return to Growth: and Achieve Group Financial Leadership, operation and All Directors are collectively responsible for the success of AstraZeneca.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors are responsible Targets.
During 2013, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the Groups shortgovernance of the Board, for exercising independent and objective judgement and for scrutinising and challenging management.
and long-term performance incentive plans for the Executive Directors and senior ensuring Board management to ensure that they supported the delivery of these goals.
The Board is responsible for setting our strategy and policies, for oversight of risk and corporate governance, and for monitoring effectiveness.
progress towards meeting our annual plans.
It is accountable to our shareholders for the proper conduct of the business and our The key components of AstraZenecas remuneration strategy for Executive Directors long-term success.
Full details of the Directors remuneration are outlined in the CEO Directors Remuneration Report from page 102.
Responsible to the Members of the Board and their biographies are shown on pages 28 to 29.
Board for the management, Item Policy link to strategy performance measures development and Further details from page 88.
Base pay To be sufficient but no more than necessary to attract, performance of the retain and develop high-calibre talent to achieve our strategy business.
Nomination and Audit Committee Remuneration Science Committee Short Term Incentive The performance measures form a Group scorecard which Governance Committee Committee STI plan annual is closely aligned to our strategy and rewards commercial, Senior independent bonus scientific and financial success.
The measures are Chairman: Leif Johansson Chairman: Rudy Markham Chairman: John Varley Chairman: Nancy Rothwell Non-Executive Director considered by the Remuneration Committee and updated Acts as a sounding board Talented people are critical To deliver the Groups We seek to attract, retain Achieving Scientific annually, and may include metrics linked to the strategic for the Chairman and an to the delivery of the Groups strategy we must have sound and develop the highestLeadership is key to our objectives of Achieve Scientific Leadership, Return to intermediary for other strategy.
The Growth, Achieve Group Financial Targets, and Be a Great Directors and shareholders Governance Committees controls.
Science Committee provides Place to Work when necessary.
role is to recommend new Committee is responsible The Groups shortand assurance to the Board Long Term Incentive The variable LTI arrangements comprise two plans: the Board appointments to for reviewing our financial long-term incentive plans regarding the Groups R&D LTI plans PSP and the AZIP see below.
Currently, LTI awards are the Board and to consider, reporting, internal controls, are closely linked to our activities, by reviewing and granted with a split between the two plans in the ratio 75% more broadly, succession compliance with laws and strategic and financial assessing our approaches in Gender split PSP and 25% AZIP planning to senior executive our relationship with our goals, and the delivery of our chosen therapy areas, of Directors management and Board external auditor, as well as sustainable shareholder the scientific technology and AstraZeneca The PSP performance measures are designed to align positions.
The Remuneration R&D capabilities we deploy, Performance Share to financial and strategic objectives over a three-year and Governance Committee Committee is responsible the quality and development Plan PSP performance period.
They include: also advises the Board on for the Groups remuneration of our scientists, and our external financial metrics, namely Total Shareholder significant developments in policy, which supports the decision making.
Return TSR performance corporate governance.
internal financial metrics, namely cumulative free cash flow Further details from page 93.
Return to Growth measures, which are based on quantitative medium-term sales targets relating to key CEO: Pascal Soriot products and territories Achieve Scientific Leadership measures, which reflect The Senior Executive Team SET comprises: our ability to deliver innovation to the market Male 9 CEO CFO 9 Executive Vice-Presidents General Counsel Chief Compliance Officer Female 3 AstraZeneca The AZIP performance measures are designed to align The SET is the body through which the CEO exercises the authority delegated to him by the Board.
It considers major business Investment Plan senior managements interests to the Groups longer-term issues and makes recommendations to the CEO, and typically also reviews those matters which are to be submitted to the Board AZIP financial performance over a four-year performance period for its consideration.
They are: Biographies of the members of the SET are shown on pages 30 to 31. dividend per share performance dividend cover performance AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 27 Strategic Report 1 2 3 7 8 9 He brings to AstraZeneca a significant breadth 5 Genevive Berger 58 Board of Directors of experience in both established and emerging Non-Executive Director and member markets, strength of strategic thinking, a of the Science Committee as at 31 December 2013 successful track record of managing change Elected as a Director in April 2012.
Genevive and putting strategy into operation, and the Berger is Chief Science Officer at Unilever PLC ability to lead a diverse organisation, having lived 1 Leif Johansson 62 and a member of the Unilever Leadership in Australia, Japan, the US and Europe.
He is a Non-Executive Chairman of the Board, Executive.
She holds three doctorates in doctor of veterinary medicine cole Nationale Chairman of the Nomination and physics, human biology and medicine.
She was Vtrinaire dAlfort, Maisons-Alfort and holds Governance Committee, and member appointed Professor of Medicine at Universit an MBA from HEC, Paris.
of the Remuneration Committee Pierre et Marie Curie, Paris in 2006.
From 2003 to 3 Marc Dunoyer 61 2008 she was Professor and Hospital Practitioner Elected as a Director in April 2012 and became Executive Director and Chief Financial at lHpital fide la Piti-Salptrire, Paris.
Her Non-Executive Chairman of the Board in June Officer previous positions include Director of the Biotech 2012.
Leif Johansson is also the Chairman of and Agri-Food Department, then Head of the global telecommunications company, LM Appointed as a Director and CFO in November Technology Directorate at the French Ministry of Ericsson, a position he has held since April 2013, and served as Executive Vice-President, Research and Technology 1998-2000 : Director 2011.
From 1997 until 2011, he was Chief GPPS from June to October 2013.
He qualified General, Centre National fide la Recherche Executive of AB Volvo, one of the worlds leading as an accountant and joined AstraZeneca Scientifique 2000-2003 : and Chairman of the manufacturers of trucks, buses, construction during2013 from GSK, where hewas Global Health Advisory Board of the EU Commission equipment, drive systems and aerospace Head of Rare Diseases and concurrently 2006-2008.
She was a non-executive board components.
He spent a significant part of his Chairman, GSK Japan.
His career in member of Unilever from 2007 to 2008 before early career at AB Electrolux, latterly as Chief pharmaceuticals, which has included periods being appointed to her current position and was Executive from 1994 to 1997.
He was a with Roussel Uclaf, Hoechst Marion Roussel as a Non-Executive Director of Smith & Nephew plc Non-Executive Director of BMS from 1998 to well as GSK, has given him extensive experience from 2010 to 2012.
September 2011, serving on the boards audit of the industry, including finance andaccounting: committee and compensation and management corporate strategy and planning: research and 6 Bruce Burlington 65 development committee.
He is Chairman of development: sales andmarketing: business Non-Executive Director and member of the the European Round Table of Industrialists and reorganisation: and business development.
He Audit Committee and the Science Committee the International Advisory Board of the Nobel has an MBA from HEC, Paris, and a Bachelor of Appointed as a Director in August 2010.
He holds board positions at Laws degree from Paris University.
Burlington is a pharmaceutical product Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA and 4 John Varley 57 development and regulatory affairs consultant Ecolean AB.
He holds an MSc in engineering Senior independent Non-Executive Director, and brings extensive experience in those areas from Chalmers University of Technology, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee to the Board.
He is also a non-executive board Gothenburg, and has been a member of the and member of the Nomination and member of Cangene Corporation and the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Governance Committee International Partnership for Microbicides, Sciences since 1994.
He became Chairman and a member of the scientific advisory boards of the Academy in 2012.
Appointed as a Director in July 2006.
John of the International Medica Foundation and Varley was formerly Group Chief Executive 2 Pascal Soriot 54 H. Lundbeck A S. Previously, he spent 17 years of the Barclays Group, having held a number Executive Director and Chief Executive with the FDA, serving as director of its Center of senior positions with the bank during his Officer for Devices and Radiological Health as well as career, including that of Group Finance Director.
holding a number of senior roles in the Center for Appointed as a Director and CEO in October He brings additional international, executive Drug Evaluation and Research.
From 2010 to September 2012, he served business leadership experience to the Board.
FDA, he served in a series of senior executive as Chief Operating Officer of Roche AGs He is also a Non-Executive Director of positions at Wyeth now part of Pfizer.
Prior to that, he was BlackRock, Inc. Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto CEO of Genentech, a biologics business, and Limited, as well as being Chairman of Business led its successful merger with Roche.
He joined Action on Homelessness and of Marie Curie the pharmaceutical industry in 1986 and has Cancer Care.
worked in senior management roles throughout the world in a number of major companies.
28 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 4 5 6 10 11 12 7 Graham Chipchase 50 9 Rudy Markham 67 11 Shriti Vadera 51 Non-Executive Director and member Non-Executive Director, Chairman Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee of the Audit Committee, member of the of the Audit Committee Remuneration Committee and the Elected as a Director in April 2012.
Graham Appointed as a Director in January 2011.
Nomination and Governance Committee Chipchase is the Chief Executive of global Shriti Vadera has significant experience of consumer packaging company, Rexam PLC.
Appointed as a Director in September 2008. emerging markets, and knowledge of global Hewas appointed to the position in 2010 after Rudy Markham takes a particular interest on finance and public policy.
She is a Non-Executive previous service at Rexam as Group Director, behalf of the Board in SHE assurance.
He has Director ofBHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Plastic Packaging 2005-2009 and Group significant international business and financial Limited.
She advises investors, governments Finance Director 2003-2005.
Before joining experience, having formerly held a number of and companies, and has recently undertaken Rexam, he was Finance Director of Aerospace senior commercial and financial positions a range of international assignments such as Services at global engineering group, GKN plc, worldwide with Unilever, culminating in his advising the Republic of Korea as Chair of from 2001 to 2003.
After starting his career with appointment as its Chief Financial Officer.
He is the G20, the government of Dubai on the Coopers & Lybrand Deloitte, he held a number currently Chairman and Non-Executive Director restructuring of Dubai World, Temasek Holdings, offinance roles in the industrial gases company, of Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trust Singapore onstrategy, and a number of banks The BOC Group plc now part of The Linde and a non-executive member of the boards of and investors on the eurozone crisis.
He is a Fellow of the Institute United Parcel Services Inc. Standard Chartered was Minister in the UK government from 2007 of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales PLC and Legal & General plc.
He is also a to 2009, most latterly in the Cabinet Office and holds an MA Hons in chemistry from Oriel non-executive member of the board of the UK and Business Department, working on the College, Oxford.
Foreign and Commonwealth Office, a member governments response to the financial crisis.
ofthe supervisory board of CSM NV, a Fellow From 1999 to 2007, she was on the Council of 8 Jean-Philippe Courtois 53 ofthe Chartered Institute of Management Economic Advisers, HM Treasury focusing on Non-Executive Director and member Accountants and a Fellow of the Association business and international economic issues.
of the Audit Committee ofCorporate Treasurers.
He served as a Before that she spent 14 years in investment Appointed as a Director in February 2008.
Non-Executive Director of the UK Financial banking with S G Warburg UBS in banking, Reporting Council from 2007 to 2012. project finance and corporate finance, Jean-Philippe Courtois has close to 30 years experience in the global technology industry.
10 Nancy Rothwell 58 Heis President of Microsoft International and Non-Executive Director, Chairman 12 Marcus Wallenberg 57 aboard member of PlaNet Finance.
Previously of the Science Committee, member Non-Executive Director and member he was Chief Executive Officer and President of of the Remuneration Committee and the of the Science Committee Microsoft EMEA and has served as co-chairman Nomination and Governance Committee of the World Economic Forums Global Digital Appointed as a Director in April 1999.
Divide Initiative Task Force and on the European Appointed as a Director in April 2006.
Nancy MarcusWallenberg has international business Commission Information and Communication Rothwell oversees responsible business on experience across a broad range of industry Technology Task Force.
In 2009, he served as behalf of the Board, as is described more fully sectors, including the pharmaceutical industry anEU Ambassador for the Year of Creativity in the Responsible Business section from page from his directorship with Astra prior to 1999. andInnovation and, in 2011, was named one 220.
She is a distinguished life scientist and Heis the Chairman of Skandinaviska Enskilda ofTechs Top 25 by The Wall Street academic and is the President and ViceBanken AB, AB Electrolux, Saab AB, LKAB and JournalEurope.
Chancellor of The University of Manchester.
He is a She is also President of the Society of Biology member of the boards of Investor AB, Stora and Co-Chair of the Prime Ministers Council Enso Oyj, Temasek Holdings Limited, the Knut for Science and Technology.
Previously she has and Alice Wallenberg Foundation and EQT served as President of the British Neuroscience Holdings AB.
Association and on the councils of the Medical Research Council, the Royal Society, the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, the Academy of Medical Sciences, and Cancer Research UK.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 29 Strategic Report 1 2 3 7 8 9 4 Ruud Dobber 6 Paul Hudson Senior Executive Vice-President, Europe Executive Vice-President, North America Interim Executive Vice-President, GPPS Paul Hudson was appointed Executive Executive Team from December 2013 Vice-President, North America in January as at 31 December 2013 Ruud Dobber was appointed as Executive 2013 and leads AstraZenecas commercial Vice-President, Europe in January 2013 and operations in North America.
In this capacity, leads AstraZenecas commercial operations he is accountable for driving growth and 1 Pascal Soriot inEurope.
In this capacity, Ruud is responsible maximising the contribution of North America Chief Executive Officer for sales, marketing and commercial operations to AstraZenecas global business.
Paul joined across AstraZenecas businesses in the 27 EU AstraZeneca in 2006 as Vice-President and See page 28. member states.
He was also appointed Interim Primary Care Director, UK.
Pauls most recent 2 Marc Dunoyer Executive Vice-President, GPPS in December role with AstraZeneca was as President of Chief Financial Officer from November 2013 2013.
Ruud joined AstraZeneca in 1997 and AstraZenecas Japanese business.
He has Executive Vice-President, GPPS from June hasheld a number of senior commercial served as a Standing Board Member ofthe to October 2013 rolesincluding Regional Vice-President of Japan Pharmaceuticals Manufacturers AstraZenecas European, Middle East and Association and EFPIA in Japan.
African division and Regional Vice-President Paulwas President of AstraZenecas business 3 Katarina Ageborg forthe Groups Asia Pacific region.
Before AstraZeneca, he worked for Chief Compliance Officer Ruud has been an Executive Committee Schering-Plough, where he held senior global Member of EFPIA.
In 2011, he was the Chairman marketing roles.
Paul received a degree in Katarina Ageborg was appointed Chief of the Asia division of Pharmaceutical Research economics from Manchester Metropolitan Compliance Officer in July 2011 and has overall and Manufacturers of America.
Ruud began his University and a DipM from the UKs Chartered responsibility for the design, delivery and career as a scientist, researching in the field of Institute of Marketing.
implementation of AstraZenecas compliance immunology and ageing.
Since joining AstraZeneca in 7 Bahija Jallal inimmunology from the University of Leiden in 1998, she has held a series of senior legal roles Executive Vice-President, MedImmune the Netherlands.
supporting Commercial and Regulatory and Dr Bahija Jallal was appointed Executive most recently led the Global IP function from 5 Caroline Hempstead Vice-President, MedImmune in January 2013 2008 to 2011.
Before joining AstraZeneca, she Interim Executive Vice-President, Human andis responsible for biologics research established her own law firm in Sweden and Resources & Corporate Affairs from activities.
Bahija is tasked with advancing worked as a lawyer practising on both civil and September 2013 the biologic pipeline of drugs.
Caroline Hempstead joined AstraZeneca in 2007 MedImmune as Vice-President, Translational and was appointed Interim Executive ViceSciences in 2006 and has held roles of President, Human Resources & Corporate increasing responsibility.
Prior to joining Affairs in September 2013.
In this role, she leads AstraZeneca, Bahija worked with Chiron the global Human Resources function as well as Corporation where she served as Vice-President, Corporate Affairs, which includes internal and Drug Assessment and Development.
Bahija external communications, government affairs, received a masters degree in biology from the community investment and sustainability.
After Universit fide Paris VII and her doctorate in pursuing a commercial training early in her physiology from the Universit Pierreet Marie career, Caroline has held a number of senior Curie, Paris.
She conducted her postdoctoral corporate affairs roles at the London Stock research at the Max-Planck Institute of Exchange, Inchcape PLC and Royal Dutch Shell Biochemistry in Martinsried, Germany.
Caroline has a degree in French from The amember of the American Association of University of Manchester.
Caroline chairs the Cancer Research, the American Association AstraZeneca Responsible Business Council and of Science, the Pharmacogenomics Working sits on the National Advisory Board of the UK Group and the Board of Directors of the charity, Career Academies UK.
Association of Women in Science.
30 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 4 5 6 10 11 12 8 Mark Mallon 10 Menelas Pangalos 12 David Smith Executive Vice-President, International Executive Vice-President, IMED Executive Vice-President, Operations & Information Services Mark Mallon was appointed as Executive Menelas Mene Pangalos was appointed Vice-President, International, in January 2013 Executive Vice-President, IMED in January David Smith joined AstraZeneca in 2006 as and is responsible for the growth and 2013and leads AstraZenecas small molecule Executive Vice-President, Operations.
He leads performance of AstraZenecas commercial discovery research and early development AstraZenecas global manufacturing and supply businesses in regions including Asia Pacific, activities.
Mene joined AstraZeneca from Pfizer, organisation, is responsible for the Safety, Health Russia, Latin America, the Middle East and where he was Senior Vice-President and Chief and Environment, Regulatory Compliance, Africa.
Since joining AstraZeneca in 1994, Mark Scientific Officer of Neuroscience Research.
Procurement and Engineering functions, and has held a number of senior sales and marketing Previously, he held senior discovery and also has overall responsibility for Information roles, including Regional Vice-President for Asia neuroscience roles at Wyeth and GSK.
David spent his early career in Pacific, President of AstraZeneca China and completed his undergraduate degree in pharmaceuticals, initially with the Wellcome head of marketing, sales and commercial biochemistry at the Imperial College of Science Foundation in the UK.
He subsequently spent operations for AstraZeneca in Japan.
Mark and Technology, London and earned a doctorate nine years in the consumer goods sector hasadegree in chemical engineering from the in neurochemistry from the University of London.
working for Este Lauder Inc. and Timberland University of Pennsylvania and an MBA in He is a Visiting Professor of Neuroscience at LLC in senior supply chain roles.
In 2003, he marketing and finance from the Wharton School Kings College, London.
In the UK, Mene sits on returned to the pharmaceutical sector, joining of Business.
the Medical Research Council and the Innovation Novartis in Switzerland.
Board for the Association of the British 9 Briggs Morrison Pharmaceutical Industry.
Executive Vice-President, GMD 11 Jeff Pott Dr Briggs Morrison was appointed Executive General Counsel Vice-President, GMD in January 2013 and leads our global late-stage development organisation Jeff Pott was appointed General Counsel in for both small molecules and biologics.
He is January 2009 and has overall responsibility forall also the Companys Chief Medical Officer.
aspects of AstraZenecas Legal and IP function.
Hejoined AstraZeneca in 2012 from Pfizer, He joined AstraZeneca in 1995 and has worked where hewas Head of Medical Excellence, in various litigation roles, where he has had overseeing development, medical affairs, safety responsibility for IP, anti-trust and product liability and regulatory affairs for Pfizers human health litigation.
Before joining AstraZeneca, he spent businesses.
Briggs has a track record of five years at the US legal firm Drinker Biddle successfully developing novel medicines in andReath LLP, where he specialised in rolesat both Pfizer and Merck.
He has a biology pharmaceutical product liability litigation and degree from Georgetown University and a anti-trust advice and litigation.
He received his medical doctorate from the University of bachelors degree in political science from Connecticut.
Briggs has also undertaken an Wheaton College and his Juris Doctor Degree internship and residency in internal medicine from Villanova University School of Law.
atthe Massachusetts General Hospital, a fellowship in medical oncology at the DanaFarber Cancer Institute and a post-doctoral research fellowship in genetics at Harvard Medical School.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 31 Strategic Report | Pioneering science, life-changing medicines More people surviving cancer Immune-mediated therapies Life-changing medicines Every year, 14 million people are diagnosed with cancer and more than eight million die from the disease.
Cancer cases are projected to continue rising to more than 22 million estimated annually by 2035.
Since the 1970s, AstraZeneca has developed families of medicines such as hormone-based cancer treatments including Nolvadex tamoxifen, Zoladex and Faslodex, as well as Iressa, a forerunner in thefield oftargeted therapies.
Among other benefits, these treatments have played a part in increasing the five-year survival rate for women with breast cancer from less than 70% 50 years ago to around 90% today.
32 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 8.2 million More people Cancer is a leading cause of death worldwide and accounted for 8.2 million deaths in 2012 surviving cancer Immune-mediated therapies Real lives There remains a large unmet medical need in the treatment of lung cancer.
One female patient, a non-smoker, wasdiagnosed with lung cancer and prescribed Iressa.
When her disease progressed she enrolled onto the trial for AZD9291 and recorded a partial response to the treatment.
Her message to us was simple: Keep doing what you are doing and be proud of what you do.
For me and thousands of other people, AstraZenecas research is really life-changing.
We believe this approach immuneof treatment.
These parallel treatments Pioneering science mediated cancer therapies, or IMT-Cs include small molecule medicines will become a cornerstone of cancer beingdeveloped by our small molecule Much of our scientific therapy in the future.
ourbiologics arm, scientists are working effort is focused on To support our IMT-C research todevelop IMT-Cs to counter cancers capabilities, we acquired Amplimmune immune system evading methods by harnessing the in 2013.
Amplimmune, a biologics restoring the bodys signals that activate, company focused on developing novel power of patients and inhibiting the signals that restrain, the therapeutics in cancer immunology, will immune systems ability to fight cancer.
bolster our oncology pipeline with multiple own immune system It is likely that the best strategy for any early-stage assets for our IMT-C portfolio.
capabilities to onepatient will involve a combination of See the Research and Development section from page 36 and the Oncology section in the Therapy Area Review from IMT-Cs, possibly alongside other courses page 56 for more information.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 33
