Additional Information Corporate Information History and development of the All Directors must retire from office There are no specific restrictions on Company at the Companys AGM each year and the transfer of shares in the Company, AstraZeneca PLC was incorporated in may present themselves for election or which is governed by the Articles and England and Wales on 17 June 1992 re-election.
Directors are not prohibited, prevailing legislation.
It is a upon reaching a particular age, from The Company is not aware of any public limited company domiciled in the submitting themselves for election or agreements between holders of shares UK.
The Companys registered number re-election.
that may result in restrictions on the transfer is 2723534 and its registered office is Within two months of the date of their of shares or that may result in restrictions at 2 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD appointment, Directors are required on voting rights.
From to beneficially own Ordinary Shares Action necessary to change the rights February 1993 until April 1999, the of an aggregate nominal amount of at of shareholders Company was called Zeneca Group PLC.
least $125, which currently represents In order to vary the rights attached to any On 6 April 1999, the Company changed 500 shares.
class of shares, the consent in writing of its name to AstraZeneca PLC.
the holders of three-quarters in nominal Rights, preferences and restrictions The Company was formed when the value of the issued shares of that class or attaching to shares pharmaceutical, agrochemical and specialty the sanction of an extraordinary resolution As at 31 December 2013, the Company chemical businesses of Imperial Chemical had 1,257,170,087 Ordinary Shares and passed at a general meeting of such Industries PLC were demerged in 1993.
50,000 Redeemable Preference Shares holders is required.
In 1999, the Company sold the specialty in issue.
The Ordinary Shares represent chemical business.
Also in 1999, the General meetings 99.97% and the Redeemable Preference Company merged with Astra of Sweden.
AGMs and other general meetings, as Shares represent 0.03% of the Companys In 2000, it demerged the agrochemical from time to time may be required, where total share capital these percentages business and merged it with the similar a special resolution is to be passed or a have been calculated by reference to the business of Novartis to form a new Director is to be appointed, require 21 clear closing mid-point US$ GBP exchange company called Syngenta AG.
Subject to rate on 31 December 2013 as published the Companies Act 2006, other general in the London edition of the Financial In 2007, the Group acquired MedImmune, meetings require 14 clear days notice.
a biologics and vaccines business based For all general meetings, a quorum of in the US.
As agreed by the shareholders at the two shareholders present in person or by The Groups corporate office is at Companys AGM held on 29 April 2010, proxy, and entitled to vote on the business 2 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD.
the Articles were amended with immediate transacted, is required unless each of effect to remove the requirement for the Articles the two persons present are corporate Company to have an authorised share Objects representatives of the same corporation: capital, the concept of which was abolished The Companys objects are unrestricted.
or each of the two persons present are under the Companies Act 2006.
Each proxy of the same shareholder.
Any amendment to the Articles requires Ordinary Share carries the right to vote the approval of shareholders by a Shareholders and their duly appointed at general meetings of the Company.
special resolution at a general meeting proxies and corporate representatives are The rights and restrictions attaching to of the Company.
entitled to be admitted to general meetings.
the Redeemable Preference Shares differ from those attaching to Ordinary Shares Limitations on the rights to own shares Directors as follows: There are no limitations on the rights to The Board has the authority to manage own shares.
the business of the Company, for example, The Redeemable Preference Shares through powers to allot and repurchase carry no rights to receive dividends.
Property its shares, subject where required to The holders of Redeemable Preference Substantially all of our properties are held shareholder resolutions.
Subject to certain Shares have no rights to receive notices freehold, free of material encumbrances exceptions, Directors do not have power of, attend or vote at general meetings and are fit for their purpose.
to vote at Board meetings on matters in except in certain limited circumstances.
which they have a material interest.
They have one vote for every 50,000 Redeemable Preference Shares held.
The quorum for meetings of the Board is a On a distribution of assets of the majority of the full Board, of whom at least Company, on a winding-up or other return four must be Non-Executive Directors.
In of capital subject to certain exceptions, the absence of a quorum, the Directors do the holders of Redeemable Preference not have power to determine compensation Shares have priority over the holders of arrangements for themselves or any Ordinary Shares to receive the capital member of the Board.
The Board may exercise all the powers of Subject to the provisions of the the Company to borrow money.
Variation Companies Act 2006, the Company of these borrowing powers would require has the right to redeem the Redeemable the passing of a special resolution of the Preference Shares at any time on giving Companys shareholders.
not less than seven days written notice.
230 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013
