Strategic Report | Resources Review Employees Our ambition is to Be a Great Place to Work bymaximising the potential of a talented anddiverse workforce.
We value the talents, skills and capabilities IMED Post Doc Programme that recruits A flatter organisational that our global workforce of around 51,500 post-doctoral researchers.
We invest structure is driving people in more than 100 countries brings in internships and thesis work opportunities accountability and improving to our business.
Our people strategy, which globally, as well as leading a scheme in decision making among seeks to support AstraZenecas overall China and Japan for MBA students.
goals and ambition to Be a Great Place employees, while our culture The composition of our global workforce to Work, is built around a number of key continues to change, to reflect our focus jam and pulse survey results areas.
These include: on Emerging Markets, as shown in our demonstrated the level of acquiring and retaining key capabilities Sales and Marketing workforce composition engagement our employees and talent figure opposite.
For example, in 2013, have with our purpose and developing leadership 3,200 new recruits joined us in China.
evolving our culture We deploy a range of innovative approaches strategic ambition.
implementing a new set of values and to help achieve our plans in Emerging Caroline Hempstead behaviours.
Markets and to ensure we have an Interim EVP, HR & Corporate Affairs attractive employer brand and strong Another aim is to improve the strength global reputation.
In 2013, AstraZeneca and diversity of the talent pipeline and, was featured for the first time in LinkedIns by driving belief in our strategic priorities, InDemand Employer list of the most soughtto help build employee engagement.
after employers in the world.
Employees by geographical area % AstraZenecas leaders also direct considerable attention to managing change The level of voluntary employee turnover in our global team see the Managing increased to 8.1% in 2013, from 7.3% in change section on page 69.
In a year of significant organisational range of metrics to track our progress change at senior level, we also experienced against these priorities, many of which higher than normal turnover among our are reported regularly to the SET.
More broadly, our voluntary employee turnover rate among our high Acquiring and retaining key performers in 2013 also increased.
We capabilities and talent continued to invest significant management During 2013, we hired about 7,800 time in minimising the business risks of permanent employees to support our employee turnover, particularly in volatile growth platforms including building our markets.
This included regular SET reviews business in Emerging Markets, to continue of resignation rates in total, by SET area, to build the new capabilities required to Europe 34.8 by key markets and for significant sites.
In North America 21.7 implement our strategy successfully, and Central and South America 6.0 addition, we took steps to retain key people to replace leavers.
We have successfully Middle East and Africa 4.1 and talent such as establishing regular risk attracted talent to supplement critical Asia Pacific 33.4 assessments and retention plans.
capabilities across the business and to China 15.5 Japan 5.5 refresh our leadership pipeline in key areas.
Acquisition of BMSs diabetes interests Russia 2.5 In December 2013, AstraZeneca Other Asia Pacific 9.9 We focus considerable attention on announced an agreement to purchase emerging talent recruitment to secure BMSs 50% interest in AstraZenecas and develop the long-term potential for and BMSs joint diabetes business.
For example, we run a global acquisition completed in February 2014. programme to hire recent graduates for Under the agreement, approximately 3,900 our procurement, quality, engineering, IT BMS and Amylin employees will transfer and supply chain functions.
These employees are not launched a new graduate programme for included in the analysis described in this IMED to complement our established section or elsewhere in this Annual Report.
66 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Sales and Marketing workforce composition % 2013 53 47 2012 48 52 2011 43 57 2010 42 58 2002 15 85 Emerging Markets Established Markets Developing leadership Each value has a corresponding set We strive to reflect the diversity of the We encourage and support our people of required behaviours which describe communities we serve in our workforce in achieving their full potential by providing what is required at the individual level and leadership team.
As we continue to a range of learning and development L&D to demonstrate the values.
These reshape our organisation and geographic programmes.
These aim to build the behaviours apply to all employees footprint, we aim to ensure diversity and capabilities and encourage the behaviours and are complemented with manager inclusion are integrated in a meaningful way needed to deliver our business strategy.
accountabilities, which define what we into our business and people strategies.
We have a global approach, supported Our objective is to accelerate diversity by our global talent and development Maximising our talent and inclusion in its broadest sense organisation, to ensure high standards The development of an internal pipeline appropriately throughout the business, of L&D practice across AstraZeneca.
We of future global leaders is as high a priority to build accountability, and track progress.
continue to develop and deploy instructoras the judicious hiring of new leaders.
As shown in the gender diversity figure led and online development resources, We identify individuals with the potential overleaf, women make up 50.4% of which we aim to make available to all for senior and complex roles, to provide our global workforce.
There are currently employees to increase access to learning succession candidates for leadership roles three women on our Board 25% and, and support self-development.
We regard these below Board level, women account for individuals as key and proactively support 40% of managers at Global Career Level F We recognise that good leadership plays them in reaching their potential through, and above.
a critical role in stimulating high levels of for example, global talent development performance and engagement.
In 2013, Our 2015 target is to improve female programmes and targeted development we initiated a Group-wide Leadership representation: opportunities.
The changes to the SET, Development Strategy to strengthen our at Global Career Level F and announced in January 2013, included leadership and make it a differentiating above the highest six bands of our the promotion of six internal candidates, factor in our success.
Our ultimate vision employee population from 38% 2010 demonstrating our commitment to is to offer all employees an appropriate, to 43% 2015 developing senior leaders.
globally consistent leadership development in the global talent pool from 33% 2010 experience that helps inspire an enterpriseWe remain committed to making full to 38% 2015. wide perspective.
In 2013, we launched a use of the talents and resource of all our customised programme for our Top 150 people.
We have policies in place to avoid We also track the countries of origin of leaders with Harvard Business School.
discrimination, including on the grounds our senior leaders, and within our global This will be followed by a programme for of disability.
Our policies cover recruitment talent pool, to measure progress over the the next 600 leaders with the Massachusetts and selection, performance management, medium term.
Both career development and promotion, Our progress against these metrics is programmes help leaders to consider the transfer, training including re-training, if primarily overseen by the Responsible environment they create, how open and needed, for people who have become Business Council made up of senior inclusive it can be, and how this can lead disabled and reward.
leaders from across AstraZeneca to opportunities for innovation.
Improving the strength and diversity and through business area people Changing our culture of the talent pipeline strategies and business strategies.
Our leadership development frameworks Our workforce has a diverse range of See the Responsible Business section focus on the behaviours we believe are perspectives, talents and ideas.
For a from page 220 for more information.
essential for strong and effective leadership.
business founded on innovation, this is Such behaviours were defined in line with a source of great strength.
Understanding the work completed in 2013, to identify the different needs and perspectives of the AstraZeneca values, as outlined in the our stakeholders is central to how we do Pioneering science, life-changing medicines business and to how we create medicines section on page 12. which make a difference to patients lives.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 67 Strategic Report | Resources Review | Employees Gender diversity Board of Directors SET 12 Directors of the AstraZeneca of the Company 12 Companys subsidiaries 317 employees 51,500 Male 75% Male 75% Male 76% Male 49.6% Female 25% Female 25% Female 24% Female 50.4% For the purposes of section 414C 8 c ii of the Companies Act 2006, Senior Managers are the SET, the directors of all of the subsidiaries of the Company and other individuals holding named positions within those subsidiaries.
We continue to make progress against directly with senior leaders as well as hold We will continue to empower our leaders our diversity and inclusion strategy, as virtual discussions with colleagues globally.
to drive performance, hold our managers demonstrated, for example, by the Global Locally facilitated offline sessions were accountable for understanding and delivering Insight Exchange programme.
This aims run in parallel so that employees could against required standards, and provide the to accelerate the development of our participate in local languages as tools to reward outstanding contributions.
leadership culture and talent pipeline appropriate, and without the need for Our focus on optimising performance is through sharing diversity of thought and computers.
The culture jam generated reinforced by performance-related bonus experience.
The programme, which is now some 25,000 employee questions, stories and incentive plans.
AstraZeneca also in its second year, launched a second and comments that will be used to further encourages our people to participate in cohort in 2013, consisting of 60 coaching support and accelerate culture change various employee share plans, some of pairs of individuals from different leadership within the organisation.
which are described in the Directors levels, functional areas and geographies.
We did not hold a global employee survey Remuneration Report, from page 102, and Our progress has been recognised FOCUS in 2013.
Instead, we ran two also in Note 24 to the Financial Statements, externally.
In 2013, we received Opportunity pulse surveys across a sample of the from page 173.
Nows Global Excellence in Practice organisation.
A further survey was carried Human rights Award for work in Asia to attract and out in January 2014.
The results rated We are committed to respecting and retain local and global talent with emphasis employee understanding of our strategy at promoting international human rights in on gender and local geography diversity.
88%, with employee belief in our strategy our operations and our sphere of influence.
In 2013, we were also included in The rising to 84%.
In parallel, we ran in-depth Our objective is to ensure that human rights Times Top 50 Employers for Women pulse surveys on employees affected by considerations are appropriately integrated in the UK list for the first time and, in the the site changes in the UK and the US.
into our policies, processes and practices.
US, based on data submitted in 2011-2012 We intend to conduct regular employee AstraZeneca supports the principles set we were included in the top 10 of the surveys during 2014.
As well as reviewing out in the UN Universal Declaration of National Association for Female Executives the pulse survey results, we also track key Human Rights and the International Labour list of top 50 companies for female metrics, such as retention rates, to help Organizations ILO standards on child executives in 2013. assess levels of engagement.
labour and minimum wages, and we are Employee engagement A key element of our new culture and members of the United Nations Global We use a variety of global leadership behaviours is a continued focus on Compact on Human Rights.
As reported in communication channels to engage performance.
By strengthening our focus 2011, we have carried out labour reviews in employees in our business strategy.
on setting high-quality objectives aligned 106 countries in which we have employees.
These include face-to-face meetings, video to our business strategy, and on ongoing These focused on ILO core areas, including conferencing, Yammer a social media tool coaching and feedback, we strive so freedom of association and collective and regular global and business-specific that performance at all levels delivers bargaining, child labour, discrimination, communication campaigns eg a week value.
The Board is responsible for working hours, and wages.
The review dedicated to communicating to employees setting our high level strategic objectives framework was adapted from the about our scientific leadership ambitions and monitoring performance against employment section of the Danish Institute and projects to encourage two-way them see the Operation of the Board for Human Rights assessment tool for dialogue to take place.
In 2013, we ran an section from page 88.
Managers are pharmaceutical companies, which was online collaborative event, called culture accountable for working with their teams developed with our industrys help and jam to discuss and explore our culture and to develop individual and team performance launched in 2010.
Results showed that our values.
The culture jam, with over 30,000 targets, and for ensuring employees practices are generally good and consistent registrations for the event, was designed understand how they contribute to overall across all countries, based on our mandate to be a fully inclusive way of providing business objectives.
that our global standards are applied when employees the opportunity to engage 68 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Vehicle collisions Lost time injury illness Collisions Lost time injury illness rate Year per million km Target Year per million hours worked Target 2015 5.60 2015 1.91 2013 6.13 6.60 2013 1.88 2.26 2012 7.43 7.10 2012 2.09 2.38 2 012 figure revised from 2.01 to 2.09 to include late reported data.
external national standards do not Significant investment has been made Our highest priority for improvement meet our minimum requirements.
We in delivering enhanced relocation policies remains driver safety.
We focus on review our policies, procedures and and practices to encourage employees promoting driver safety among our sales practices against the United Nations to relocate, as well as allowing as much forces, which make up the largest group Guiding Principles on Business and flexibility as possible in the timing of moves.
of employees who drive on AstraZeneca Human Rights and implement changes business.
Performance is monitored Employee relations where and when appropriate.
centrally to assess progress and identify We work to ensure a level of global areas for improvement.
In 2013, we Managing change consistency in managing employee improved on our annual target for collisions Recruitment in Emerging Markets relations, while allowing enough flexibility per million kilometres driven and are in continues to be accompanied by to support local markets in building good a good position to meet our 2015 target.
headcount reductions in our Established relations with their workforces, taking into Markets, reflecting our strategic drive account local laws and circumstances.
In 2013, the lost time injury illness rate to improve efficiency and effectiveness.
To that end, relations with trade unions are reduced by 10% from 2012 and we Reductions followed restructuring in nationally determined and managed locally achieved our 2015 target of a 25% R&D, Supply and Manufacturing, Enabling in line with the applicable legal framework reduction in the lost time injury illness rate Functions, and Sales and Marketing.
and standards of good practice.
However, from the 2010 baseline, two years early.
The net effect of these changes since the each change programme has its unique Work-related stress has been a particular end of 2006 has been to reduce our total challenges and a standard solution may focus for us in recent years.
In 2013, we headcount by some 15,300 from 66,800 not always be appropriate.
Where this is the achieved a 13% reduction in the number to 51,500.
The Restructuring section on case, the appropriate solution is developed of reportable cases compared to 2012.
We page 16 provides more information on through consultation with employee are continuing our efforts in this area, using our restructuring programme.
representatives or, where applicable, trade a risk-based approach, including wellbeing unions, with the aim of retaining key skills In March 2013, as outlined in the Our risk assessment tools, to identify high-risk and mitigating job losses.
strategic priorities section from page 16, areas and target interventions effectively.
we announced the results of our strategy Safety, health and wellbeing Further information on AstraZenecas approach to responsible business can be found in the Responsible review, including plans to invest in three We are committed to promoting a safe, Business section from page 220 and on our website, strategic R&D centres.
Establishing these healthy and energising work environment www.
centres is significantly affecting our existing in which our people, and those from third site occupancy and will result in relocating parties working with us, are able to express employees willing to move to the new their talents, drive innovation and improve locations, redundancy for those who business performance.
cannot relocate, associated outplacement Our targets for 2013, which were set in support, and recruitment to fill vacant 2011 for the years up to 2015, included: positions.
We are committed to ensuring that our core values, robust people policies, no fatalities consultation infrastructure and prior lost time injury illness rate per million experience are integrated into this process hours worked of 2.26 of change.
Trade unions and employee 6.6 collisions per million kilometres driven.
representative groups are, and will continue In 2013, there were no fatal accidents to be, involved throughout the restructuring involving AstraZeneca employees, process, with the strong relationships built contractors or members of the public.
over recent years being of great value in executing this change.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 69 Strategic Report | Resources Review Our relationships Our employees are a critical resource in delivering our strategic priorities.
But, to realise our full potential, we also depend on the trust and confidence of a wider set of stakeholders.
Our relationships with our partners We are always looking for strategically make our medicines available free of exist over the full life-cycle of a medicine.
aligned value-enhancing business charge or at reduced prices.
Through They include the patients and physicians development opportunities.
Our current our three patient assistance programmes for whom we provide medicines for some focus is on: in the US, we donated products valued at of the worlds most serious diseases an average wholesale price of more than research transactions increasing and the universities and institutes that $1.05 billion 2012: $1.12 billion.
We also early-stage research transactions and collaborate with our scientists.
They also donated products worth over $18 million, academic alliances include governments, regulators, those valued at average wholesale prices, to peer collaborations exploring who pay for healthcare, suppliers and charitable organisations AmeriCares and value-creating peer collaborations commercial partners.
in-licensing and bolt-on acquisitions The Sales and Marketing section from pursuing partnering, in-licensing and Our global community investment strategy page 40 outlines our focus on customers bolt-on acquisitions to strengthen our focuses on two key areas, healthcare in the and our efforts to communicate with core therapy area portfolios.
community and science in education.
them in a way which suits them best.
Our Over the past three years we have In 2013, we continued to expand our Research and Development section from completed more than 150 major business Young Health Programme YHP country page 36 demonstrates how we work from development transactions, including 51 in programme and, as the figure opposite an early stage in a medicines life with those 2013.
Twenty one of these were clinical or shows, have 18 programmes under way who pay for our medicines to demonstrate research collaborations, 11 deals helped around the world.
With over 480,000 young their full value to patients.
expand our capabilities in biologics and six people directly reached with the skills and In the Manufacturing and Supply section were acquisitions.
These acquisitions were information they need to improve their from page 43, we examine the relationships of AlphaCore, Pearl Therapeutics, Omthera, health, we have exceeded our target of we have with our suppliers and the Amplimmune, Spirogen and the acquisition reaching a minimum of 300,000 young commitment we have to working only with of BMSs 50% interest in BMSs and people by the end of 2013.
This includes those that embrace standards of ethical AstraZenecas joint diabetes business young people in communities across five behaviour consistent with our own.
This completed in February 2014. continents.
Over 4,500 of these young commitment also extends to joint venture people have been trained to share this See the Research and Development and co-promotion partners, and research health information with their peers and with section from page 36, the Therapy Area and licensing partners.
the community, and over 9,000 frontline Review from page 48, and Note 22 to the health providers have completed training Partnering Financial Statements for more information programmes in adolescent health.
As outlined in the Our strategic priorities on our partnership activity in 2013. section from page 16, business development, We are on track to meet our Clinton Global Community investment specifically partnering, is an important Initiative commitment to reach 500,000 We are committed to meeting our supporting pillar that supplements and young people by the end of 2015.
In 2013, responsibility as a global corporation to strengthens our pipeline, and our efforts as part of YHP, our work with Johns support the wider community, maximising to Achieve Scientific Leadership.
As noted Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public the benefit of our investment for all in the Research and Development section Health JHSPH included the publication stakeholders, through focused investment from page 36, we are keen to access the of a special edition of the Journal of and embracing best practice.
best science, whether it comes from within Adolescent Health.
Phase 1 findings In 2013, we spent $1.12 billion 2012: or outside our laboratories.
from the Wellbeing of Adolescents in $1.18billion on community investment Vulnerable Environments WAVE study We partner with others around the sponsorships, partnerships and charitable being undertaken by JHSPH were also world, including academia, governments, donations, including our product donation presented at the International Association industry, scientific organisations and patient and patient assistance programmes which of Adolescent Health, Istanbul in June groups to access the best science to 2013.
Phase 2 of WAVE is under way stimulate innovation and to accelerate with a final report due in 2014. the delivery of new medicines to target unmet medical need.
70 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Our support for science education in the community takes a number of forms.
Young Health Programme For example, in 2011, we entered a threeyear partnership with Career Academies country programmes UK to support increased participation by 16 to 19 year-olds in science, technology, Australia Brazil, India, Zambia engineering and maths STEM subjects.
The target that one-third of Career Increasing life chances Hygiene, infection, sexual Academies have a STEM theme by the through improving driver reproductive health and 2014 2015 academic year, was exceeded licensing provision and broader health issues in the 2013 2014 academic year, with knowledge of road safety 54 Career Academies 35% having a issues STEM theme.
Disaster relief Canada, South Korea, Portugal, China The British Red Cross continues to act as Sweden our global disaster relief partner, with the Improving the emotional and Educating migrant youths majority of our disaster relief donations mental wellbeing of vulnerable coming from rural areas channelled through it.
In response to the adolescents around water and air pollution typhoon in the Philippines in November 2013, we donated $390,000 via the British Red Cross to the Philippines Disaster Denmark Germany, The Netherlands, UK Appeal.
Product donations with a wholesale average cost value of over Physical activities among Health issues of homeless $350,000 were also made to support socially vulnerable young adolescents the victims of the disaster.
people Following the 2011 earthquake in Japan, we made a commitment of $1,037,700 Norway Romania to the Japanese charity Ashinaga, to build Sendai Rainbow House, a house for Health of young people from Cardiovascular risk prevention children orphaned by the disaster.
In immigrant families accordance with agreed project milestones, in October 2013, we made a final donation Spain Turkey to Ashinaga of $259,425, completing our commitment.
Completion of Sendai Sexual education, healthy Improving communication Rainbow House is expected in 2014. eating habits and prevention and social skills among Further information on AstraZenecas approach to responsible business can be found in the Responsible of drug addiction adolescents to help them Business section on page 220 and on our website, avoid violence www.
US Helping adolescents live healthier lives through a proactive focus on their strengths and assets, based on the 40 Developmental Assets model AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 71 Strategic Report | Resources Review Intellectual Property A well-functioning system of IP rights underpins ourbusiness model.
Discovering and developing a new after filing due to the time required for medicine requires a significant investment clinical trials and the regulatory approval Investing in new medicines of resources by research-based process to obtain marketing approval for is risky.
Successful medicines pharmaceutical companies over 10 or more the product.
Patent Term Extensions PTE must be safeguarded from years.
For this to be a viable investment, are available in certain major markets, being copied for a reasonable new medicines must be safeguarded from including the EU and the US, to compensate being copied with a reasonable amount of for these delays.
The term of the PTE can period so that we can make certainty for a reasonable period of time.
vary from zero to five years depending on an appropriate return on our the time taken to obtain any marketing Our industrys principal economic significant investment.
The maximum patent term, safeguard is a well-functioning patent when including PTE, cannot exceed Jeff Pott system that recognises our efforts and 15 years EU or 14 years US from the General Counsel rewards innovation with appropriate first marketing authorisation.
protection, allowing time to generate the revenue we need to reinvest in new The generic industry is increasingly is respected, differs significantly between pharmaceutical innovation.
Patent rights challenging innovators patents at earlier countries.
RDP is an important protection are limited by territory and duration, and stages.
Almost all leading pharmaceutical for our products, and we believe in enforcing a significant portion of a patents duration products in the US have faced, or are our rights to it, particularly as patent rights can be spent on R&D before it is possible facing, patent challenges from generic are increasingly being challenged.
to launch the protected product.
Patent challenges to our The RDP period starts from the date of the we commit significant resources to competitors products may lead to the first marketing approval from the relevant establishing and defending our patent availability of generics in the same product health authority and runs parallel to any and related IP protections for inventions.
class as patented products we currently pending patent protection.
RDP generally supply, which may materially impact our Patent process expires prior to patent expiry in all major business.
We are also experiencing We file applications for patent protection markets.
If a product takes an unusually increased challenges elsewhere in the for our inventions to safeguard the large long time to secure marketing approval, world, for example, in Europe, Canada, investment required to obtain approval of or if patent protection has not been secured, Asia and Latin America.
Further information potential new drugs for marketing.
Further has expired or has been lost, then RDP about the risks relating to patent litigation innovation means we may seek additional may be the sole IP right protecting and early loss and expiry of patents is patent protection as we develop a product a product from copying, as generic contained in the Principal risks and and its uses.
We apply for patents via manufacturers should not be allowed to uncertainties section from page 200. patent offices around the world, which rely on AstraZenecas data to support the Patent expiries assess whether our inventions meet the generic products approval or marketing The tables on page 198 set out certain strict legal requirements for a patent to be until the RDP right has expired.
patent expiry dates and sales for our key granted.
In some countries, our competitors Compulsory licensing marketed products.
The expiry dates can challenge our patents in the patent Compulsory licensing the over-ruling of relate to a products basic substance offices, and, in all countries, competitors patent rights to allow patented medicines to patent unless indicated otherwise.
can challenge our patents in the courts.
be manufactured and sold by other parties The expiry dates shown include any We can face challenges early in the patent is increasingly part of the access-toPTE and Paediatric Exclusivity periods.
application process and throughout a medicines debate.
We recognise the right patents life.
These challenges can be to Data exclusivity of developing countries to use the the validity of a patent and or its effective In addition to patent protection, Regulatory flexibilities in the World Trade Organizations scope and are based on ever-evolving legal Data Protection RDP or data exclusivity Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects precedents.
There can be no guarantee is an important IP right, which arises in of Intellectual Property Rights TRIPS of success for either party in patent respect of data which is required to be including the Doha amendment in certain proceedings.
For information about third submitted to regulatory authorities in circumstances, such as a public health party challenges to patents protecting our order to obtain marketing approvals for emergency.
We believe this should apply products, see Note 25 to the Financial our medicines.
Significant investment only when all other ways of meeting the Statements from page 176. is required to generate such data for emergency needs have been considered The basic term of a patent is typically example, through conducting global clinical and where healthcare frameworks and 20 years from the filing of the patent trials and this proprietary data is protected safeguards exist to ensure the medicines application with the relevant government from use by third parties such as generic reach those who need them.
However, the product manufacturers for a number of years in a protected by a pharmaceutical patent limited number of countries.
The period of may not be marketed for several years such protection, and the extent to which it 72 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Our infrastructure The Group owns and operates numerous R&D and production facilities and carries out sales and marketing activities in offices across the world.
These activities are supported by significant information technology and information services resources.
R&D resources Manufacturing and supply resources Information technology and We have approximately 9,000 employees Our principal small molecule manufacturing information services resources in our R&D organisation across 11 principal facilities are in the UK Avlon and At the end of 2013, our IT organisation sites, in six countries.
Our R&D geographic Macclesfield, Sweden Grtuna and comprised approximately 1,500 people footprint includes four main small molecule Sdertlje, the US Newark, Delaware and across our sites centred in the UK Alderley facilities in: the UK Alderley Park and Westborough, Massachusetts, China Park and Macclesfield, Sweden Sdertlje Macclesfield : Sweden Mlndal : and the Wuxi and Taizhou, Russia Vorsino, France and Mlndal and the US Wilmington, US Waltham, Massachusetts.
We also Reims and Dunkerque, Japan Maihara, together with people based with internal have a clinical development facility in Japan Australia North Ryde, Indonesia Jakarta, customers across our R&D and Operations Osaka.
Our principal sites for biologics Egypt Cairo, India Bangalore, Puerto Rico sites, and our key marketing companies.
are in the US Gaithersburg, Maryland and Canvanas, Germany Wedel, Mexico In November 2013, we announced a review Mountain View, California and in the UK Lomas Verdes, Brazil Cotia and Argentina of our IT strategy to enable us to better Cambridge.
Our Wilmington, Delaware Buenos Aires.
support and enable AstraZenecas site in the US focuses on late-stage business priorities for the future.
As part We currently operate sites for the development across the entire therapeutic of our new strategy, we will make a number manufacture of APIs in the UK and portfolio.
Our strategic expansion in of changes to our operating model and Sweden, complemented by the efficient Emerging Markets continues and includes organisational structure to make us more use of external sourcing.
Our principal the ongoing growth of our research facility efficient, responsive and innovative.
tablet and capsule formulation sites are in China Shanghai.
In January 2014, we in the UK, Sweden, Puerto Rico and the Acquisition of BMSs diabetes interest announced plans to close our R&D site in US.
We also have major formulation sites In December 2013, AstraZeneca India Bangalore.
for the global supply of parenteral and or announced an agreement to purchase R&D spend analysis inhalation products in Sweden, France, BMSs 50% interest in AstraZenecas Australia and the UK.
and BMSs joint diabetes business.
This 2 2 2013 2012 2011 acquisition completed in February 2014.
Discovery 55% 60% 60% For biologics, our four principal commercial Under the agreement, approximately 3,900 and early manufacturing facilities are in the US development BMS and Amylin employees will transfer Frederick, Maryland and Philadelphia, Late-stage 45% 40% 40% to AstraZeneca.
These employees are not Pennsylvania, the UK Speke, and the development included in the analysis described above Netherlands Nijmegen with capabilities Core R&D $4,269m $4,241m $4,479m or elsewhere in this Annual Report.
1 in process development, manufacturing costs and distribution of biologics, including 1 Reported expenditure in our R&D organisation was worldwide supply of MAbs and influenza $4.8 billion 2012: $5.2 billion: 2011: $5.5 billion.
2 vaccines, which enables efficient Restated for new Core definition as detailed on page 224. management of our combined small In 2013, there was Core R&D expenditure molecule and biologics pipeline.
of $4.3 billion in our R&D organisation At the end of 2013, approximately 9,600 2012: $4.2 billion: 2011: $4.5 billion.
people at 24 sites in 17 countries were In addition, $635 million was spent working on the manufacture and supply on acquiring product rights such as of our products.
in-licensing 2012: $5,228 million: 2011: $189 million and we invested approximately $490 million on the implementation of our R&D restructuring strategy 2012: $791million: 2011: $468 million.
The allocations of spend by early development and late-stage activities are presented in the R&D spend analysis table above.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 73
