46 Accountability The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal controls The processes which the Board and the Audit and Risk Committee Consistent with the guidance provided for directors on internal have applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control by the Financial Reporting Council Internal Control: Revised control framework include the following: Guidance for Directors, the Board confirms that a there is an onThe Executive Directors report to the Board on changes in the going process for identifying, evaluating and managing assessed business and external environment which present significant risks.
significant risks faced by the Group, b this has been in place for the The Executive Directors provide the Board with monthly trading year ended 31 December 2013 and up to the date of approval of the and financial information which includes key performance Annual Report and Accounts, and c this process has been reviewed indicators and information on the Groups operating segments.
by the Board during the year.
Regular reports on significant legal, ethics, compliance issues The Board recognises that internal control is a dynamic process.
and insurance matters are received from the Company Secretary, Therefore, the Groups internal control framework, including the including summaries of any reports received through the Groups risk management processes, are subject to on-going review and Ethics Hotline.
improvements are made to ensure that, where appropriate, the A process of self-assessment of compliance with the Manual framework is adapted to the Groups changing risk profile or in order and reporting thereon has been established, providing for a to address any weaknesses identified in the control framework itself.
documented trail of accountability from business unit senior management to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The key elements of the Groups internal controls are described The Group has an internal audit function which reviews the design below: and operating effectiveness of internal controls across the Groups operations, including financial, operational and compliance Day-to-day operational activities are conducted within an controls.
The Audit and Risk Committee receives regular reports established internal control framework comprising clear rules, on the output of internal audit activity including the operation policies, lines of responsibility and delegated authorities.
of, and issues arising from, the Groups internal controls and A Group Accounting, Policies and Procedures Manual the Manual procedures.
provides a common control framework and sets out the minimum The Groups approach to risk management is described on standards, procedures and internal controls to be applied in page 18 of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section.
relation to managing technical, commercial and financial risks.
Theeffectiveness of risk management and mitigation is reviewed Annual strategic and financial plans are established for each regularly by the Executive Directors and twice yearly by the Audit business unit and are subject to review and approval.
against the plans is subject to on-going review by the Executive Directors and the Group has a comprehensive system for reporting The Board notes that, as with all such systems, the Groups internal performance to the Board.
control framework is designed to manage rather than eliminate Significant capital investments or contractual commitments and risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide major acquisitions or divestments are all subject to a clear process only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material for appraisal, review and approval by the Board.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 46 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
