Shareholder Relations Other Statutory Information Spectris has a comprehensive Investor Relations programme Acquisitions designed to assist existing and potential investors in understanding During the year, the following acquisitions were made: i NanoSight the Group.
These meetings are attended by the Chief Executive, Limited, a leader in the design and development of particle the Group Finance Director, and the Head of Corporate Affairs.
size measurement instrumentation for a total consideration of Spectris conducts regular dialogue with institutional shareholders 16.4million 14.6 million net of cash acquired : ii certain trade and discloses such information as is permitted within the guidelines and other assets of a previously held associate, Naneum Limited, of the Listing Rules.
Investor Relations events undertaken during for 1.3million: this company specialises in the detection and 2013included: characterisation of airborne nanoparticles: iii the trade and software-related assets of PROdry Technology Inc. a US business Meetings with analysts to present the Preliminary and Interim with expertise in tissue processconsulting.
results, hosted by the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
Webcasts and presentations of these are made available The total cost of acquisitions during the year was 18.2 million with a via the Groups website.
The Chairman and Non-executive further 0.5 million deferred and expected to be paid in future years.
Directors have the opportunity to attend these presentations.
Included within the 18.2 million is 1.5 million which was paid in Postresults announcements, management offers meetings to UK respect of prior year acquisitions and 1.3 million which was spent and overseas institutions.
on acquisition-related legal and professional fees.
Meetings with existing and prospective institutional shareholders Disposals in the UK, the USA andEurope.
In January 2013, the Company completed the sale of the Fusion UV Brokers conferences, which provide additional opportunities to business part of the In-Line Instrumentation segment to Heraeus meet with institutional investors.
Holding GmbH for US$175 million.
Regular contact is maintained with shareholders outside closeperiods.
Share capital The share capital of the Company comprises ordinary shares of 5p Shareholders are invited to the Companys Annual General Meeting each: each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings and have the opportunity to meet and question the Chairman of the Company.
The authorised and issued share capital of the and Board members.
The results of proxy votes are available at Company, together with movements in the Companys issued share the Annual General Meeting.
These are then published on the capital during the year, is shown in Note 23 on page 113.
Articles of Association of the Company, available on the Companys Shareholders representing in excess of 2.5% of the Companys issued website, contain provisions governing the ownership and transfer of share capital receive a standing invitation to meet with the Chairman, shares.
the Senior Independent Director, or Non-executive Directors.
Such At the 2013 Annual General Meeting, shareholders authorised the meetings supplement if necessary, but do not replace, the regular Directors to make market purchases of the Companys ordinary meetings with the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
shares up to a maximum number of 11,742,000 shares, representing The Board is kept informed of the views, needs and expectations approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the Company, and of shareholders through periodic reports including, but not limited to either cancel the shares or hold them as Treasury shares which to, market feedback on Investor Relations, shareholding analysis may then be cancelled, sold for cash, or transferred for the purposes andconsensus.
of the Companys share plans, depending on the best interests of the Companys shareholders at the time.
No such purchases were made during the year.
At the close of business on 26 February 2014, the Company had 125,005,123 ordinary shares in issue, of which 6,333,316 were held in Treasury.
During the year 1,268,125 shares were transferred out of Treasury to meet the Companys obligations under its share plans with no shares being cancelled out of Treasury.
An authority to make further market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares, if believed appropriate, will be sought at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, although the Board has no present intention of sodoing.
Included in the special business of the 2014 Annual General Meeting are proposals to renew the Directors authority to allot shares up to prescribed limits.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 52 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 53 At 26 February 2014, interests notified to the Company in accordance Directors with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules comprised The Directors of the Company are named on page 41. the below.
All significant holdings are held by institutional investors.
In accordance with the requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Black Rock, Inc. Code, each Director resigned at the 2013 Annual General Meeting 11,750,765 shares 9.99% material interest and submitted themselves for election or re-election, with all Directors being elected or re-elected.
Massachusetts Financial Services Company 5,952,015 shares 5.02% material interest The Directors total remuneration for the year and their interests in the shares of the Company and its subsidiaries at 31December2013 Standard Life Investments Limited are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 5,914,919 shares 4.99% material interest 55to72.
F&C Asset Management plc In accordance with Section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, the 5,212,550 shares 4.45% material interest Directors disclose a qualifying third-party indemnity provision The Capital Group Companies, Inc. entered into between the Company and its Directors and officers 3,561,440 3.03% material interest which was in force at the date of approval of this report.
This indemnity gives contractual force to the Indemnity of Officers Takeovers directive provision contained in the Companys Articles.
Pursuant to Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, which implements the EU Takeovers Directive, the Company is required to Auditor disclose certain additional information.
The disclosures not covered Our auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has instigated an orderly wind down elsewhere in this Annual Report are as follows: of its business.
The Board has decided to put KPMG LLP forward to be appointed as auditors and a resolution concerning their The Companys Articles of Association Articles give power to appointment will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting the Board to appoint Directors, but require Directors to submit of the Company.
A resolution will also be proposed authorising the themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting following Directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
their appointment, and for annual re-election at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Annual General Meeting The Notice of Annual General Meeting to be held at Great Fosters, The Board is responsible for the management of the business of the Stroude Road, Egham, Surrey, TW20 9UR, on Friday, 25 April 2014 Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject at 12.30 p. m. is contained in a separate letter from the Chairman to the provisions of the relevant statutes and the Companys Articles.
The Articles contain specific provisions and restrictions regarding the Companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the issuing Going concern and buying back of shares are also included in the Articles, and such Having reviewed the Groups plans and available financial facilities, authorities are renewed by shareholders each year at the Annual the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate General Meeting.
Required amendments to the Articles are approved resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable by shareholders in general meeting.
For this reason it continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups accounts.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Group following a takeover, such Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual as bank loan agreements and company share plans.
None of these Report and the Financial Statements are deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact on The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the business of the Group as a whole.
It is also possible that funding the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance arrangements for the Groups defined benefit pension arrangements with applicable law and regulations.
would need to be enhanced following a change of control if that Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent resulted in a weakening of the employercovenant.
Company Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that Dividend law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in Results for the Group are set out in the Consolidated Income accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as Statement on page 76 and in the supporting notes.
A final adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare dividend of 28.0p per ordinary share is proposed for the year to the Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK 31December2013 2012: 25.5p.
With the interim dividend, this Accounting Standards.
The final dividend will be paid on 25June 2014 to shareholders on the register on 30May 2014.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 54 Other Statutory Information continued Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair Annual Report and Accounts view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the Parent Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation for the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have been taken as a whole: and prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and for the Parent Company Financial Statements, state whether performance of the business and the position of the issuer and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject the undertakings included in the consolidation, taken as a whole, to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Company Financial Statements: and that they face.
prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis By order of the Board unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys Roger Stephens transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Secretary the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to 27 February 2014 ensure that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of the Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 54 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
