Our Business Model We believe that our business model is a key differentiator, allowing our businesses to be responsive to the market and to develop strategies specific to their customers needs.
Spectris Group Governance Values and Ethics Strategy M&A Shared services Governance Materials Analysis Values and Ethics Test and Measurement Four business segments Strategy M&A In-line Instrumentation Strong management Shared services Industrial Controls P&L ownership Speed and flexibility 4 business segments Asset-light manufacturing Customer focus Long-term relationships Differentiated solutions Mainly direct routes to market Aftermarket care Customer focus Restless innovation High barriers to entry Deep expertise and application knowledge Restless innovation Enhancing productivity Streamlining processes Saving time Increasing yield Improving quality Enhancing productivity Leaders in our markets Leaders in our markets Specialised end markets Limited pricing pressure Breadth of geographies Value creation Highly cash generative Operational excellence Sustainability Value creation Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 12 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report We believe that our business model is a key differentiator.
customers who have purchased from us in the preceding two years.
Ourmanagement teams all work according to a strong common We work alongside our customers often within their plants in framework of values, management KPIs, financial controls and risk order to help install our products and ensure that the maximum management processes but each business is focused on its own benefits are achieved.
This proximity can be the inspiration for new products, markets and customers.
Itallows the businesses to be products and we often involve key customers in the development responsive to the market and to develop strategies specific to their and testing phases.
We offer a full range of services for our products, customers needs.
Our model is based on direct routes to market including installation, training, technical support, calibration and, with a significant proportion of our employees involved in direct andmaintenance.
contact with our customers, we pride ourselves on building longRestless innovation term business relationships.
We invest around 7% of sales each year in R&D.
New products Spectris Group serve to protect our market position and enhance organic growth The Spectris Board and Executive Management provide strategic by providing innovative solutions to customers problems.
Our direction, oversight and central support in certain areas such as legal, businesses develop appropriate strategies to protect and maximise tax, treasury and corporate development, as well as managing the the value of this technology.
Bolt-on acquisitions provide an central purchasing function.
Each business is focused on the relevant alternative route to new technology and many of our smaller technologies, products and services for customers in their chosen acquisitions bring new products and the associated inventors.
markets whilst still being able to take full advantage of being part Enhancing productivity of a larger organisation.
Our values define how we operate and are Our businesses focus on value-enhancing solutions for our essential to our business success.
They underpin the way we work, customers.
Many of these involve a focus on improving our guide our decision-making and shape our culture, ensuring that we customers development and manufacturing processes, with a can match the quality of our products and services with the quality tangible and measurable return on investment delivered by our of our behaviour.
We have a disciplined approach to mergers and products and services.
Shortening development cycles, improving acquisitions, actively screening for bolt-on opportunities that could design quality, enhancing manufacturing yield, minimising input enhance our existing operating companies as well as for new standcosts, and improving factory productivity through automation and alone businesses within the Group.
measurement are all typical applications of our products.
Our operating companies manage all aspects of their financial Leaders in our markets performance, including costs and cash, carefully.
We provide central We aspire to be leaders in the markets we serve.
We focus on support for purchasing and other supply chain initiatives which can niche markets with high barriers to entry that include proprietary be beneficial to the majority of our operating companies.
technology, in-house engineering know-how, customer process Four business segments application expertise and global service capability.
Our businesses Spectris comprises four strategic segments which reflect the serve major global manufacturing industries around the world and end-user industries and applications we serve.
We believe that our we derive significant revenues from .
operating company structure is a key differentiator.
It allows our Value creation management teams to be more flexible, more inventive, and to Our strategy and KPIs, as set out on pages 14 to 17, are aimed anticipate or react to changing customer and market needs.
Our at profitable growth and generating strong free cash flow.
This entrepreneurial culture offers a creative and collaborative working is central to creating long-term value for all stakeholders.
We environment within a well-defined control framework, enabling fully achieve these results through our focus on our strategic initiatives, aligned accountability.
Our business is not capital intensive and we operational and leadership capabilities, and enhancing productivity outsource much of our manufacturing where suppliers can deliver for our customers.
By operating according to our core values high quality at a competitive cost.
Contracting out lower valueof absolute integrity, empowerment, customer focus, restless added tasks such as component production and assembly ensures innovation and high performance, we believe that our business that we can concentrate on the areas where we have market-leading model will continue to provide sustainable returns for the expertise and competitive advantage, such as R&D, product design, foreseeablefuture.
application know-how and functional testing.
Customer focus We employ over 3,000 highly-qualified people who work directly with customers, representing almost 40% of our total workforce.
This gives us a deep understanding of our customers businesses and the productivity challenges they face.
The relationships we develop with our customers are one of our most significant competitive advantages, and over 80% of our revenue comes from sales to Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
