14 Strategy and Objectives Our objective is to deliver shareholder value sustainably over the long term by supplying  solutions for our customers.
Our strategy is based on five core elements: 1.
Strengthening market positions through innovation 2.
Increasing regional expansion with a focus on emergingmarkets 3.
Building our presence in key strategic growth areas, both organically and through acquisition 4.
Growing existing businesses through acquisition 5.
Focusing on operational excellence The progress we made on our strategic objectives during 2013 is summarised below: Progress Strategic objective Overview Innovation is at the heart of our business 88.1 million invested in research and 1. and we invest around 7% of sales each year development approx 7% of sales, a likeStrengthening market in maintaining that competitive advantage.
for-like increase of 4% over 2012. positions through Investments in the Materials Analysis segment represented 34% of our total R&D investment, innovation a like-for-like increase of 12%.
First new products launched from our additional investment programme in the Materials Analysis segment.
New technologies and applications launched across the Group to strengthen our leading positions in our chosen markets.
We seek to expand our businesses We expanded our Omega Engineering business 2. internationally, with particular emphasis with presence in six new territories: Italy, Spain, Increasing regional on emerging markets such as China, India Singapore, Korea, Brazil and Mexico.
Our gas analysis business also expanded its expansion with a operations in Italy, Russia, the Middle East and focus on emerging Brazil, giving more direct routes to market.
markets We aim to grow our existing business Early benefits realised from our additional 3. organically by developing new products, investments in the Materials Analysis and Building our presence as well as pursuing opportunities for Industrial Controls segments.
Continued in key strategic growth in new markets.
Acquisitions are strategic growth initiatives in other segments targeted in both existing and new markets.
with significant new products and applications growth areas, both launched in the year.
organically and through acquisition Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 15 Progress Strategic objective Overview We seek to enhance the growth potential Acquisition of NanoSight, a leader in the 4. of our businesses by pursuing an active but design and development of instrumentation Growing existing disciplined approach to acquisitions, both for particle size measurement for life sciences businesses through of smaller bolt-on businesses and larger research.
This strengthens our bioscience strategic platforms.
We focus on businesses technologies within the Materials Analysis acquisition which are strong players in specific application segment.
areas where there are significant barriers to entry.
Acquisition of the trade and assets of Naneum Limited, which develops and markets instruments for the detection and characterisation of airborne particulate matter and also fits well into our Materials Analysis segment.
Nano-ID NPC10 is a jointly-developed new instrument that utilises patented technology and is capable of detecting contamination down to 10 nanometres in size.
PROdry business acquired, giving our In-line Instrumentation business, BTG, enhanced expertise in tissue process consulting to help customers achieve enhanced efficiency and productivity.
We focus on improving all aspects of our Lean Six Sigma implementation continued 5. business through a range of actions, including in new product development and support Focusing on process efficiencies, value pricing, optimising functions as well as manufacturing.
the business mix, cost competitiveness, Major projects launched using best practice operational designing products for low cost production, learned from existing implementations and excellence reducing inventory and improving supply shared around the Group.
Selectively outsourced non-critical engineering and sustaining activities.
Purchases in lower-cost countries, located predominantly in the Asian and Eastern European regions, increased by 16% year-onyear and now represent 15% of our total cost of goods sold.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
