32 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Europe, Middle East and Africa Organic sales increased by 3% to 244.3 million despite continuing difficult economic conditions.
Operating profit increased by an outstanding 26% at constant currency.
Neil Daws Executive Director two years.
Our business tends to lag the improvements in this important market Progress in 2013 economic cycle by several quarters and from increased focus on our core business.
Sales in EMEA increased by 5% to our markets were again weak but stable Our business in South Africa performed well, 244.3 million 2012: 232.8 million.
and we achieved modest growth from our increasing sales and reducing costs.
We achieved organic sales growth of 3% customers core maintenance and plant and favourable exchange rate movements In our developed markets in EMEA, which operations.
Project work for energy saving added 2% to sales due to the stronger account for broadly 80% of segment sales, and plant improvements was down, in euro, partially offset by weakness in we achieved a very small sales increase part due to the non-repeat of several large the South African rand and Turkish lira.
but profits were significantly higher as orders in the prior year, and we continued Operating profit more than recovered the we realised the full-year benefit of the to see project delays as customers deferred dip in 2012 and rose strongly by 31% to restructuring actions in 2012 and increased committing to larger value opportunities.
48.2 million 2012: 36.7 million, and our focus on pricing and margin.
In our large at constant exchange rates the increase Emerging markets in EMEA produced good more mature markets in France, Germany, was 26%.
The operating profit margin growth in both sales and profits.
Sales were Italy, Spain and the UK, overall sales expanded significantly from 15.8% to 19.7%: strongly ahead in the Middle East following were marginally ahead, largely due to the with only a small benefit from exchange our increased investment in sales resource strong performance in the UK, and profits rate movements.
in the region, culminating in the creation of were sharply higher in all five operations.
our latest operating company in the UAE.
Elsewhere, in Scandinavia profits were also Economic conditions remained difficult The Czech Republic did well, delivering well ahead but sales were modestly down across most of our markets and, in a large steam injector project at a major as we refocused on the more attractive particular, industrial production overall in steel mill and sales were ahead in Turkey.
Europe was flat for the year.
After starting Business levels stabilised in Russia following the year in decline, industrial production the decline in refining and petrochemicals progressively improved and was positive activity in the prior year and we anticipate in the fourth quarter for the first time in Revenue Operating profit Operating margin 48.2m 244.3m 19.7% 5% 31% 390bps 2012: 232.8m 2012: 36.7m 2012: 15.8% Ungroup Expand Pathnder Trim Delete white paths Revenue m Operating profit m Percentage of Group revenue 2013 244.3 2013 48.2 2012 232.8 2012 36.7 35% 2011 250.1 2011 42.5 2010 230.0 2010 36.8 2009 225.5 2009 35.6 2012: 35% About us Welcome to our Chairmans Our Our Our business Our business Our Our 2013 report statement structure marketplace model model in action strategy KPIs Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 33 As expected, the trading performance in Markets in France, Italy and Germany Market overview our European manufacturing operations showed no sign of improvement, and rebounded strongly.
In particular, we realised The Groups most mature business Iberia remained significantly depressed.
a significant improvement in profit from the operations are centred in Europe.
At year The Nordics lacked signs of positive single consolidated site in the UK through end, the EMEA region comprised 22 investment during 2013 and we faced efficiency and process improvements, operating companies.
During 2013 we significant competitive pressure in the and cost reductions.
The final piece of established an operating company in region.
Project business declined slightly investment was completed when the the Middle East, located in Dubai, which in Russia, the Czech Republic and Turkey, new distribution centre in Cheltenham started trading in November.
Within the in markets where we have seen steady became fully operational in April 2013 EMEA region our most important markets growth in recent years.
However, export and we now have for the first time an are foods, beverages, pharmaceuticals, markets throughout much of Eastern integrated manufacturing plant from receipt institutions and OEM customers supplying Europe remained positive, as did much of raw materials and components, to the these industries.
warehousing and despatch of finished During 2013 our markets across Europe goods.
R&D expenditure was maintained at Strategy and outlook remained stubbornly flat amid continued the much higher level of investment reached challenging economic conditions and over recent years.
Quotation logs are healthy and economic low investment confidence driven by indicators turned marginally positive as we on-going concerns surrounding the debt entered 2014 and we hope to see some of crisis.
Only critical maintenance spending this reflected in our markets in 2014. remained robust throughout the first half Through our direct sales model we year, although trend indicators suggest provide customers with a wide range of some signs of progress during the second solutions for energy saving and process half year.
Elements of our business are late productivity.
Our investments in training cycle and any improvement in business our people and widening our service conditions will have a lagged effect.
offering mean that we are well placed Our biggest single operation within the to take advantage of any improvement Eurozone is the UK, which rebounded into in markets.
solid positive growth on a strengthening We remain committed to growing our economy and as some large projects presence and investing in emerging came to fruition during 2013.
Belgium, markets in Eastern Europe, Russia, the Sweden and our humidification business Middle East and Africa, despite some in Germany also posted positive growth, slowdown in major project activity in 2013. helping to off-set general weakness in The demand for improved infrastructure most other European markets.
in these markets remains and we expect some strengthening of project activity during 2014.
Industrial production growth rate 2013 Key markets Foods OEM Pharmaceuticals Healthcare Favourable Neutral Unfavourable -5 to 0% 0 to 5% 5 to 10% 10% Source: CHR Economics Compared with the prior year, in countries where we have operating companies.
Our Group performance Group Chief EMEA Asia Americas Watson-Marlow Financial Sustainability risks at a glance Executives report Pacific review report 3.
Strategic report 34 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Europe, Middle East and Africa continued Spirax Sarco provides Saudi Arabian hospital with a clean steam solution At a university teaching hospital in Saudi Arabia, a new intensive care unit ICU is being constructed.
Spirax Sarco was asked to design a system to supply steam humidification, a reliable domestic hot water supply and hot water for use in the buildings heating system.
The bespoke solution needed to utilise an existing high-temperature water supply from a central boiler plant.
A building consultant had suggested inserting a flash vessel into the existing hot water system to generate steam for humidification.
Spirax Sarco identified several problems with this approach.
For example, water lost from the flash steam vessel would need to be replaced by cold water, reducing boiler efficiency and increasing energy usage: and the flash steam produced would contain boiler water chemicals and so be of insufficient quality for use in a hospital environment.
Spirax Sarco recommended installing a water to clean steam generator and stainless steel humidifiers to provide clean, efficiently generated steam for humidification purposes.
The steam generated would be of a good enough quality to meet a number of international standards, such as EN285 the European standard for steam quality for use in sterilisation and the ASHRAE standard for acceptable indoor air quality.
A packaged plate heat exchanger was installed to provide a source of heat for the air heating system and a range of products were added to the existing water supply to ensure a constant source of domestic hot water.
In addition to providing a fully functional and bespoke engineered solution that meets the ICUs humidification, heating and domestic water needs, Spirax Sarco enabled the university to purchase a complete package from a reputable single source.
Further, the solution that was installed will require less maintenance and offer substantial energy savings, compared with alternative solutions.
The university was so impressed that they have asked Spirax Sarco to install the same system in a new cardiac centre and in a new teaching hospital.
About us Welcome to our Chairmans Our Our Our business Our business Our Our 2013 report statement structure marketplace model model in action strategy KPIs
