12 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Our business model We have built a resilient business model that Customer closeness has enabled the business to prosper, despite Our ability to help our customers solve difficult the challenging global economic environment productivity, control and energy efficiency problems enables us to build deep, long-term relationships that over the past few years, and that positions are central in assisting our customers to achieve us well to deliver continued good organic operational sustainability.
We expect our local sales and revenue growth.
We benefit from the diversity service engineers, who comprise more than one of our end-user markets and customers, quarter of our total workforce, to be knowledgeable of the processes and operating issues of individual broad product range, our wide geographic customers manufacturing plants and facilities.
spread and significant presence in emerging Read more: markets, high replacement content in pages 1415 our revenue streams, and a large base ofindustrial steam systems installed around Applied engineering theworld that require continual upkeep It is not our products alone that provide value to our andimprovement.
customers it is the application of our extensive knowledge in systems design, operations and Our business model relies on the maintenance.
Our customers increasingly rely on our systems expertise and knowledge of their processes, fundamental aspects of expertise, solutions applications and plant operating issues to deliver unique and sustainability, in delivering value to our engineering solutions that allow them to achieve customers.
We employ a technical, direct enhanced and sustainable operating efficiencies.
sales approach that allows us to better Read more: understand customer plant operating pages 1617 issues and to implement appropriate environmentally friendly engineering solutions.
Wide product range Our commitment to new product development is critical to our long-term success and we have invested heavily in the past five years to widen our range of products and pre-fabricated engineered packages.
The breadth of our product offering is unmatched by our competitors and our one-stop shop approach simplifies the procurement process for our customers, who are increasingly seeking partnerships with competent full-service suppliers.
Read more: pages 1819 Regional manufacturing We operate on very short order books that are typically less than six weeks.
Local availability of a wide range ofproducts that meet applicable regional design codes is critical to our business model and, we believe, enhances top-line revenue growth.
We have strategically located our major manufacturing plants inall key world geographic regions including Europe, North America, Latin America and Asia.
Read more: pages 2021 About us Welcome to our Chairmans Our Our Our business Our business Our Our 2013 report statement structure marketplace model model in action strategy KPIs e v i r d Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13 Strategy pages 2223 We are continuing to implement our strategy for developing the business over the long term.
This strategy both builds upon the foundation of our robust and resilient business model and drives its operation.
The primary elements of our growth and business development strategy are: 1.
Strengthen our global market position 2.
Deliver solutions to reduce energy usage 3.
Driving sustainable growth and shareholder value pages 2847 We have a track record of revenue and profit Aligned to reward pages 7395 growth and a 46 year dividend record, with DPS CAGR of 11.0% over the last 30 years.
Our remuneration policy creates a strong Combining investments made in the last five alignment between the achievement of strategic years, together with our clear strategy, we look objectives, the creation of long-term shareholder forward to continuing to create sustainable value value and Executive Director remuneration.
In order to align results with rewards, a significant percentage of each Executive Directors remuneration package is dependent upon meeting challenging performance targets.
Our Group performance Group Chief EMEA Asia Americas Watson-Marlow Financial Sustainability risks at a glance Executives report Pacific review report c i g e 3.
Strategic report t a r t S 14 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Our business model in action Customer closeness Developing strong relationships with our customers is essential.
Word of mouth recommendations are vital in the communities where I work, in the Midwestern United States and not just regarding the products, but the people too.
In Wisconsin, for example, theres a strong pulp and paper mill industry.
If one mill has enjoyed success with a Bredel pump, for instance, itonly takes a casual chat over a cup of coffee on a Saturday morning for word to spread.
If weve done our job right, well get a glowing report.
Kurt Krummrich District Sales Manager for the Industrial Division at Watson-Marlow Pumps Group, USA About us Welcome to our Chairmans Our Our Our business Our business Our Our 2013 report statement structure marketplace model model in action strategy KPIs Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15 Customer closeness helps Watson-Marlow to improve process efficiency in the paper industry At Watson-Marlow we work closely with our customers to practically demonstrate the value of peristalticpumps understand and overcome their process challenges and to a particular industry.
For example, in non-peristaltic problems.
Within the paper industry, the sector expertise pump types dye comes in contact with pump of our sales engineers enables them to offer customers the components, increasing the need for regular maintenance.
most appropriate pump for each application.
For example, Maintenance crews often become covered in dye as the during paper dyeing it is critical that multiple colours of dye pumps are taken apart and reassembled.
In our peristaltic are metered precisely onto paper rolls: if the colour of a roll pumps, the unique design means that the liquid being falls outside of an acceptable tolerance range it must be pumped flows through tubes and does not come into scrapped and the process begun again, costing time and contact with pump components.
Maintaining our pumps is money.
Selecting the right pump for the application reduces clean and quick: extracting and replacing the tubing takes downtime and wastage.
Our paper mill customers benefit from our industry-specific knowledge of their processes and The sector-specific knowledge, which arises from working applications, as well as the metering accuracy and ease of closely with our customers, enables our engineersto maintenance supplied by our pumps.
Our Group performance Group Chief EMEA Asia Americas Watson-Marlow Financial Sustainability risks at a glance Executives report Pacific review report 3.
Strategic report 16 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Our business model in action continued Applied engineering Our ability to design and install engineered solutions, which improve process efficiency, sets usapart from our competitors andadds value to our customers, who appreciate our expertise.
Gyrgy Balknyi Sales Manager, Spirax Sarco Hungary About us Welcome to our Chairmans Our Our Our business Our business Our Our 2013 report statement structure marketplace model model in action strategy KPIs Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17 Applied engineering improves steam quality and process efficiency at a Hungarian pharmaceutical plant Experiencing escalating maintenance costs and the A bespoke engineered solution was designed by Spirax frequent shutdowns of fermenters at their Budapest plant, Sarco to improve steam quality and operational efficiency Gedeon Richter Plc, Hungarys largest biotechnology and across the site.
Stainless steel elements of the solution pharmaceutical company, asked Spirax Sarco to design included the installation of a PRV station for precise a solution for the effective lubrication of mechanical seals, pressure control and separator units ahead of mechanical which were requiring frequent and expensive repairs seals, a variety of appropriately selected and installed and replacements.
steam traps, a range of strainers and a small condensate recirculating pump for improved lubrication.
After a system survey, Spirax Sarco identified a range of problems, including insufficient steam traps, a faulty The innovative solution was so successful that pressure reduction valve and excess pressure, which GedeonRichterPlc has implemented elements of it at werecausing operational issues.
theirnew biotechnology plant in Debrecen, Hungary.
Strategic report 18 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Our business model in action continued Wide product range Spirax Sarco FREME heat recovery package FREME Flash Recovery Energy Management Equipment is an innovative packaged system that recovers all of the energy in condensate and flash steam and uses it to preheat boiler feed water.
This reduces the amount of work a boiler needs todo to raise steam, increasing boiler efficiency, reducing energy costs, eliminating the need to dump condensate and reducing water supply andtreatment costs.
Spirax Sarco FREME heat recovery package About us Welcome to our Chairmans Our Our Our business Our business Our Our 2013 report statement structure marketplace model model in action strategy KPIs Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19 Spirax Sarcos heat recovery packages help ReFood UK Ltd save over 100MWh per day and80,000 per year At ReFood UK Limiteds anaerobic digester facility in The first heat recovery package raises the temperature Doncaster, 45,000 tonnes of food waste are broken down ofthe sites boiler feed water, the second heats water to each year.
The methane produced, as a result of the feed the sites general-purpose hot water tank and the process, is used to run a series of combined heat and thirdmaintains the temperature of circulating water that power engines that generate heat and electrical energy.
is used to prevent oils and fats in the food waste from A surplus of hot water is generated by the engines and solidifying inthe tanks.
threeSpirax Sarco heat recovery packages have been The three heat recovery packages recover valuable waste installed to utilise the waste heatand carry out three heat that would otherwise be lost to the atmosphere, separate heating roles at the plant.
saveenergy and contribute to the production of renewableenergy.
Strategic report 20 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Our business model in action continued Regional manufacturing Manufacturing output by destination EMEA Asia Pacific Americas Spirax Sarco factory Chart area is proportional torevenue About us Welcome to our Chairmans Our Our Our business Our business Our Our 2013 report statement structure marketplace model model in action strategy KPIs Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21 Spirax Sarco invests 5 million in a new factory, offices andtraining centre in Mexico During 2013, construction began on a new factory, offices Environmental sustainability was central to the design of and steam technology training centre on a 25,000m site in the new facilities.
Skylights are increasing natural light in Monterrey, Mexico.
The factory, which became operational buildings, a geothermal cooling system is providing air during early 2014, is double the size of the previous factory conditioning and solar panels are helping to meet the sites and has the capacity to increase production from 30,000 to electricity needs.
Rainwater harvesting is providing water for 90,000 parts per month.
bathrooms and, once treated, for water fountains, while grey water generated by hand washing is used to irrigate the The new facilities represent a key investment in our regional gardens.
Green roofs have been planted and the grounds manufacturing strategy and will create a competitive have been landscaped.
An initiative called Taking root in advantage in the local market due to a higher availability Spirax was launched to engage the local workforce in the of products and lower manufacturing costs.
The company has bought dozens of currently supplies the home market and exports to the USA small trees which are now being cared for by the employees and Canada, but with the increased manufacturing capacity until they are big enough to plant outside.
it is well positioned to fulfil specific product requirements for Central and South America.
