38 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Americas Sales were broadly flat at constant currency, with growth in all our operations in Latin America, offset by lower sales in North America due to non-repeating projects.
Alberto Grandi Divisional Director In North America, economic conditions first year.
Our business in Argentina had a Progress in 2013 were reasonable but sales were lower very good year against the background of Sales in the Americas declined by 4% due to the non-repeat of two large service a fragile economy that finally succumbed to 132.0 million 2012: 137.5 million, contracts in the USA and significantly lower in the fourth quarter, with significant although excluding unfavourable exchange project activity related to the Alberta Tar currency weakness that continued in rate movements, particularly in Argentina Sands in Canada.
Operating profit was 2014 and that will no doubt impact the and Brazil, sales were broadly flat.
Overall, only marginally lower having benefited from local economy.
The export of ball valves, sales of traditional products were ahead cost reductions and from a good increase in dollars, from our centre of excellence in reflecting resilient demand from core in contribution from our new packages Argentina, helps to mitigate the impact of maintenance and operations spending fabrication facility in South Carolina.
In the the currency devaluation.
Brazil, our largest by customers.
We made further good USA, the new President of our business company in the region, returned to growth progress with controls, although sales of started in the fourth quarter and the focus is and we made further progress in Mexico, heat exchange packages and services on the development and improvement of our where the new manufacturing plant will were lower due to the non-repeat of business performance as we take actions be fully operational in the second quarter large projects and generally subdued to improve our market approach and better of 2014 and will be integrated into our project activity.
Operating profit was flat segment our business.
at 26.1 million 2012: 26.2 million but Overall in Latin America, operating profits at constant exchange rates was ahead In Latin America, market conditions were were nicely ahead.
The operating profit margin advanced generally positive, with industrial production from 19.1% to 19.8% due to cost reduction returning to growth in the second quarter actions and efficiency improvements, after more than a year of decline, but this including a small reduction in headcount.
flattened out in the second half.
We achieved sales growth in all our operations and our new company in Chile performed well in its Revenue Operating profit Operating margin 26.1m 132.0m 19.8% -4% 0% 70bps Ungroup Expand 2012: 137.5m 2012: 26.2m 2012: 19.1% Pathfinder Trim Delete white paths Revenue m Operating profit m Percentage of Group revenue 2013 132.0 2013 26.1 2012 137.5 2012 26.2 2011 27.4 2011 134.4 2010 24.3 2010 125.2 19% 2009 104.6 2009 13.9 2012: 21% About us Welcome to our Chairmans Our Our Our business Our business Our Our 2013 report statement structure marketplace model model in action strategy KPIs Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39 Market conditions were at best neutral We see continuing opportunities to Market overview throughout the Americas in 2013.
In North strengthen our market position through The Groups involvement in the major America, business confidence was expanding our geographical sales markets in the Americas dates back many undermined by continuing uncertainties coverage, as we are doing in Mexico and years: over 100 years in the USA and relating to Government spending and Chile, and in various other markets in Latin 60 years in Latin America.
As a result, as a result there was less project work.
We also continue to invest in the Group has a strong share of these This has been accentuated over recent generating consistent organic growth and established markets.
However, this is years by more specific influences, notably improving our competitiveness through balanced by more recent investment in the the reduction in energy costs following the further development of our regional developing economies in the region, where the development of shale gas in the USA manufacturing strategy, as evidenced by there are good opportunities to achieve and the impact of a less buoyant oil price our new factory in Mexico.
rapid growth through strengthening our on Tar Sands projects in Canada.
In Latin market share and marketing a more America, as the year progressed it became extensive range of products and services.
clear that earlier growth projections had been too optimistic, particularly in Market share is highest in those markets Brazil and Mexico.
However, this was where the Group established a presence partially offset by continuing industrial early in the cycle of industrial development.
development in markets such as Colombia This applies notably in Argentina and Brazil and Chile, where we are investing to and more recently in Mexico.
By contrast, keep pace with continuing increases in there are many competitors based in domestic consumption.
The oil and petrochemical industry is a Strategy and outlook key market for the Group throughout the Even in our more mature markets the region, but the importance of other key continuing desire of equipment users to market segments varies with the economic reduce their carbon footprint provides climate and trends in consumer spending.
opportunities to grow the core business by For example, in North America district offering a more complete range of steam heating of government buildings and related products and services.
Our priority university campuses underpins a strong in these markets is therefore to invest in HVAC market, whereas in Latin America streamlining that capability, as evidenced the food, beverages and pharmaceuticals by the new fabrication facility in the USA, industries continue to invest in improving which enables us to expand our portfolio their processes and their energy efficiency, of pre-fabricated engineered packages for and are therefore key targets for the Group heat transfer applications.
Key markets Industrial production growth rate 2013 Foods Refining and petrochemical HVAC Pharmaceuticals Favourable Neutral Unfavourable -5 to 0% 0 to 5% 5 to 10% 10% Source: CHR Economics Compared with the prior year, in countries where we have operating companies.
Our Group performance Group Chief EMEA Asia Americas Watson-Marlow Financial Sustainability risks at a glance Executives report Pacific review report 3.
Strategic report 40 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Americas continued Spirax Sarco Mexico saves Nestl energy and reduces water consumption by 28,000m per year When specialist engineers from Spirax Sarco audited the steam system at Nestls instant coffee plant in Toluca, Mexico, they were asked to develop and install a solution to recover 100% of condensate from distiller bells and to increase steam system efficiency.
The audit found that condensate was being lost as a result of back pressure being imposed on the condensate line by a flash steam recovery vessel.
Spirax Sarco installed an automatic pump trap to overcome the back pressure, enabling the existing flash vessel to function correctly.
Flash steam, generated in the flash vessel, is now used to preheat water before it enters a newly installed Easiheat unit, which is producing hot water for the plant.
The condensate from both the flash vessel and the Easiheat unit is now returned to the boiler house saving energy, water, and water treatment chemicals where it is used to generate steam.
The solution cost Nestl 76,000 but is saving 67,000 per year.
In addition, it is reducing energy consumption at the plant by 6,700 gigajoules per annum and is saving 147 tonnes of CO emissions each year.
Furthermore, 2 improved steam system efficiency has reduced water consumption by as much as 28,513m per year.
Mr Ricardo Morales, Energy Manager at Nestl Mexico, explained, We are making investments to increase our energy efficiency.
Each year in Nestl Mexico we have the objective of saving around 4% in the use of energy and water.
The participation of Spirax Sarco is key to improving the energy efficiency of our company in matters relating to steam production and distribution, condensate recovery, heat exchange and delivering expert training to our staff.
About us Welcome to our Chairmans Our Our Our business Our business Our Our 2013 report statement structure marketplace model model in action strategy KPIs
