22 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Our strategy Six key strategic priorities drive our business model: 1.
Broaden presence Strengthen our global Deliver solutions to reduce Broaden our global market position energy usage presence Our ability to help our customers solve difficult Our customers are increasingly calling upon our Our strong global presence is a result of decades productivity, control and energy efficiency sales and service engineers to provide energy of effort and investment to build global brands problems builds deep, long-term relationships audits aimed at reducing energy and water that are easily recognisable and symbolise that are central to our business model.
This usage, lowering plant emissions and improving expertise and reliability.
We have a long-standing demands that our sales and service engineers energy efficiency.
While audits typically cover presence in many key developing markets.
Our are intimate with our customers operating the thermal aspects of plant energy usage, strong infrastructure around the world is helping issues and that they are skilled in steam or we are developing capabilities to help our us to more quickly branch out into neighbouring niche pumping systems knowledge and costcustomers manage other areas of energy markets that, in most cases, are at an earlier effective product applications.
consumption, including plant compressed stage of economic development.
airusage, boiler and HVAC efficiency.
To continually improve the competency We are also pioneering the introduction of and technical skills of our sales and service Our ability to deliver an increasingly wider peristaltic pumps in much of the developing engineers, we have developed a widerange of solutions rests with our commitment world, demonstrating their superior technology ranging online university curriculum and other to new product development.
We have and lower life cycle cost benefits.
Continued internet-based training tools, as well as formal significantly increased our investments investment in the development of emerging classroom training that is available in our 42 during the last five years to widen our markets and in market penetration of mature training centres located throughout the world.
range of products and applications and to markets, forms the basis of long-term growth We have also installed global information develop unique energy recovery solutions.
collection and sharing software to improve our Innovative peristaltic pumping developments We look to make acquisitions that deliver ability to share application knowledge across are delivering new solutions in previously market access or widen our product range our global sales network.
Number of sales and service R&D expenditure m Opening of new engineers by region geographic territories 2013 520 459 271 2013 11.6 2013 4 19 2012 2012 10.1 2012 6 15 2011 2011 9.9 2011 9 2 2010 2010 7.4 2010 3 7 1 2009 6.7 2009 2009 4 EMEA Asia Pacific Americas New markets Cumulative Progress in 2013 Progress in 2013 Progress in 2013 We have added sales resource in key regions, We have maintained the significant investment We have continued to broaden our global particularly in the emerging markets in Asia in R&D established in recent years.
We have presence and added three new operating Pacific and continued to invest in the training focused on helping our customers to meet companies in 2013: Spirax Sarco Middle East, of our sales and service engineers.
During their sustainability targets and improve their Spirax Sarco Indonesia and Watson-Marlow 2013 we launched a Group-wide e-learning process efficiencies.
Revenue from our energy Austria.
We also began direct selling in programme, with approximately 50 online management solutions has increased by over Peru and Panama, for the steam specialties courses, directed at enhancing the knowledge 30% since 2008. business, and in Malaysia for Watson-Marlow.
and skills of our sales and service engineers.
Outlook Outlook Outlook We will continue to strengthen our global We will continue to maintain our R&D spend We will continue to establish new operating position during 2014 with the appropriate at its current higher level.
Going forward we companies as demand reaches a crucial expansion of our direct sales force.
Through will see the benefit of our investments as threshold.
We perceive opportunities for further the creation of 30 additional bespoke we develop new products and extend our development in new and emerging markets e-learning courses we will further develop product ranges to meet the evolving needs and seek to strengthen our presence in our theskills of our direct sales people.
2 0092012 figures restated to include the opening of new territories for WMPG About us Welcome to our Chairmans Our Our Our business Our business Our Our 2013 report statement structure marketplace model model in action strategy KPIs Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23 4.
Operate sustainably Grow market share Generate consistent Operate sustainably organicgrowth Our direct sales approach allows us to leverage Our approach to sustainability encompasses our brands into new products and applications.
five primary areas of emphasis: good corporate Our knowledge of our customers processes As we widen our product portfolio, we are governance, financial health, employee and operational issues enables us to deliver making it easier for our customers to buy from well-being, community engagement and unique engineering solutions.
In so doing, we us, resulting in an increasing spend on our environmental stewardship.
We believe also instil confidence that in turn strengthens products and engineered packages for smallthat effective management in each of these our overall customer relationships and builds scale maintenance improvement activities and areas is essential to long-term sustainability.
We continually strive to capital projects.
Further, our business is centred on providing strengthen our customer relationships through  solutions to our problem solving and supplying a wider range of A wider range of new products in areas such customers, helping them to improve the products and services.
as energy management, controls, condensate efficiency of their plant operations and reduce management and new pumping technologies Investing in local manufacturing facilities has their energy and water usage.
and systems, have contributed about 20% to enabled us to expand our manufacturing the organic sales growth in the past five years.
We have exceptional people who share footprint closer to the point of sale.
The We are also transitioning our Watson-Marlow our core values of respect, accountability, combination of our skilled local sales and selling organisation in Europe to a more passion, integrity and delivery.
We maintain service expertise, close customer relationships sectorised, technical, direct sales approach professionally challenging and safe workplaces and off-the-shelf availability of our extensive that results in faster rates of growth.
and provide for on-going training and range of steam system and pump products, development.
Our corporate values are the enhance our ability to generate consistent foundation upon which we base our decisions top-linerevenue growth.
and actively manage our global operations.
Percentage of sales Revenue m from key initiatives % 2013 73 27 2013 689.4 2008 72 28 2012 661.7 FTSE4Good is an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that 2003 84 16 2011 650.0 meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index XXXX 2010 589.7 Series have been independently assessed and have XXXX 2009 518.7 met stringent environmental, social and governance criteria.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc has been a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index since 2009.
Traditional initiatives Key initiatives Progress in 2013 Progress in 2013 Progress in 2013 We have developed a number of new products During 2013 we invested 5 million in a new During 2013 we appointed a senior Group during 2013, including the STAPS wireless manufacturing facility in Mexico, which became HS&E executive to monitor sustainability steam trap monitoring system, which offers an operational in early 2014.
On-going investment performance across the Group and appointed alternative to manual steam trap surveys and to develop the skills of our sales people and to a third-party organisation to provide limited hard wired monitoring systems.
Significant strengthen relationships with our customers, assurance of our CO2e emissions data.
revenue has been derived from key product have resulted in a successful year of revenue Weincreased the average number of formal initiatives, such as the Qdos pump, launched growth during 2013. training days per customer facing employee by Watson-Marlow in 2012. and donated 200,000 to charity.
Outlook Outlook Outlook Our one-stop shop customer approach, Our new facility in Mexico will improve During 2013 we received third-party assurance wide product range, packaged solutions and efficiency and our ability to meet demand of our CO e emissions data.
We intend to 2 direct selling model have positioned us well for in the Americas.
The skills of our customer maintain the momentum generated by this continuing future growth.
facing employees mean that we are well process through investing in further carbon positioned to capitalise on any improvement management strategies.
Our Group performance Group Chief EMEA Asia Americas Watson-Marlow Financial Sustainability risks at a glance Executives report Pacific review report 3.
