96 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance continued Regulatory disclosures Complying with laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate is at the heart of our values.
Good legal practice sustains our business for the benefit of our shareholders.
Andy Robson General Counsel and Company Secretary The Chairman and other Board members Principal activities Results answer questions raised by shareholders Spirax Sarco is a multi-national engineering The Groups results for the year have on a resolution by resolution basis.
group, tightly focused on its two niche been prepared in accordance with the Shareholders are then invited to vote on businesses of steam system specialties International Financial Reporting Standards the resolutions on the same basis by way and peristaltic pumps.
An overview of our as adopted by the European Union.
The results are announced principal activities, by business, is given on They are set out in the Consolidated income instantaneously using the Equiniti Vote page 5 of the Strategic report.
statement which appears on page 104.
Now polling system and via the Groups website, www.
com, Future development Dividend and the London Stock Exchange.
An indication of likely future developments in Following the AGM, shareholders are invited The Directors are proposing the payment of the Group is given in the Strategic report.
to view our Steam Technology Centre.
a final dividend of 41.0p 2012: 37.0p which, together with the interim dividend of 18.0p Review of the business The Notice of Meeting convening the AGM, 2012: 16.0p, makes a total distribution for to be held on Tuesday, 20th May 2014, and On pages 24, 25 and 44 to 47 you will find a the year of 59.0p 2012: 53.0p.
If approved an explanation of the resolutions sought, are review of the development and performance at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid set out in the enclosed Circular.
of the Group during the year including on 30th May 2014 to shareholders on the details of its financial performance and key register at the close of business on Substantial shareholdings performance indicators.
The voting rights in the table below have management and the principal risks facing been notified to the Company under the Directors interests the business is on pages 26 and 27. requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys The interests of the Directors in the share Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules Constructive use of AGM capital of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc as at DTR 5, which represent 3% or more of the and 2014 AGM 31st December 2013 are set out on page 90. voting rights attached to issued shares Shareholders are encouraged to attend our in the Company as at 28th February AGM and those who are unable to attend 2014 and 31st December 2013.
So far are encouraged to vote using the proxy card as can be ascertained, the holdings are mailed to them.
In 2013, 51.3% of the proxy votes received were lodged electronically through the CREST system.
Substantial shareholdings As at 31.12.13 As at 28.02.14 Number of % of issued Number of % of issued ordinary shares share capital ordinary shares share capital BlackRock Investment Management UK Ltd 11,407,254 15.11% 11,414,642 15.11% Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd 3,801,540 5.03% 3,788,170 5.02% Schroder Investment Management Ltd 2,738,453 3.63% 2,661,353 3.52% Baillie Gifford & Co 2,428,109 3.22% 2,380,855 3.15% Our governance Chairmans introduction Board of Directors Corporate governance report Audit Committee Nomination Committee Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 97 Directors and officers Articles of Association Significant contracts insurance The Companys Articles of Association The Company is not a party to any are available from Companies House significant agreements that take effect, alter The Company provides Directors and in the UK or by writing to the General or terminate upon a change of control of the Officers Insurance for Board members, Counsel and Company Secretary at the Company following a takeover bid.
directors of the Groups operating Groups registered office in Cheltenham.
There are provisions in the Executive Amendments to the Articles of Association Directors service agreements which The Company has also provided each can only be made by means of a special state that following a takeover or change Director with an indemnity to the extent resolution at a general meeting of the of control, if the Executive Directors permitted by law in respect of the liabilities shareholders of the Company.
employment is terminated then both salary incurred as a result of their holding office as benefits and a sum in respect of lost future a Director of the Company.
Share capital bonus opportunity become payable as a As at 28th February 2014 there were no Appointment and lump sum.
treasury shares held by the Company.
replacement of Directors The Strategic report contains all the Details of shares issued during the year are information required to comply with section The appointment and replacement of set out in note 23 on page 127.
414 c of the Companies Act 2006 and there Directors is governed by the Companys As at 31st December 2013 the Companys are no contractual arrangements that need Articles of Association, the Code, the share capital was made up of Ordinary to be disclosed which are essential to the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
shares which each carry one vote at general business of the Group.
As previously announced, Mr Vernon retired meetings of the Company.
Except as set out as Group Chief Executive on in the Articles of Association or in applicable Disclosure of information to 15th January 2014 and Mr Bullock will legislation, there are no restrictions on the auditor retire as Non-Executive Director and Senior transfer of shares in the Company and there Independent Director following the AGM.
As at the date of the approval of this Annual are no restrictions on the voting rights in the Report and Accounts, as far as each In order to comply with the Code, all Companys shares.
Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Directors, with the exception of Mr Bullock, The Company is not aware of any information of which the Companys auditor will seek re-election at the AGM and will agreements entered into between any is unaware.
do so thereafter on an annual basis at shareholders in the Company which restrict each future AGM.
We are also expecting to Each Director has taken all such steps as he the transfer of shares or the exercise of any appoint a new independent Non-Executive or she ought to have taken as a Director in voting rights attached to the shares.
order to make himself herself aware of any Powers of the Directors and relevant audit information and to establish Conflicts that the Companys auditor is aware of that purchase of own shares Under the Companies Act 2006 and information.
For these purposes, relevant Subject to the provisions of the Articles of the provisions of the Companys Articles audit information as defined by Section Association, the Directors may exercise all of Association, the Board is required to 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 means the powers of the Company.
A shareholders consider potential conflicts of interest.
information needed by the Companys authority for the purchase by the Company The Company has established formal auditor in connection with preparing their of a maximum of 10% of its own shares was procedures for the disclosure and review of report set out on pages 100 to 102. in existence during the year.
However, the any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest Company did not purchase any of its shares which the Directors may have and for the Auditor during that time.
This authority expires at authorisation of such matters of conflict by The Companys auditor for 2013 was the forthcoming AGM and it is proposed the Board.
To this end the Board considers KPMG Audit Plc.
Following a tender that a similar authority be approved.
and, if appropriate, authorises any conflicts, process as set out in the Audit Committee The total number of shares in issue as at or potential conflicts, of interest as they arise report, resolutions will be proposed at the 31stDecember 2013 was 75,509,562. and reviews any such authorisation annually.
2014 AGM to appoint Deloitte LLP as the New Directors are required to declare any In November 2013 the Company instructed Companys auditor and to authorise the conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest to Computershare Trustees Jersey Limited, Directors to determine their remuneration.
the Board at the first Board meeting after as trustee of the Spirax-Sarco Engineering his or her appointment.
The Board believes Employee Benefit Trust, to purchase that the procedures established to deal with 150,000 shares to satisfy awards under conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
At 31st December 2013, 135,486 of these shares were held in the Employee Benefit Trust.
Risk Management Remuneration Committee Remuneration policy Annual report on Regulatory disclosures Statement of Committee letter of introduction report 2014 remuneration 2013 Directors responsibilities 3.
Strategic report 98 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance continued Regulatory disclosures continued Research and development Going concern The Group continues to devote significant The Groups business activities, together resources to the development and the with the main trends and factors likely to updating and expansion of its range of affect its future development, performance products in order to remain at the forefront and position, and the financial position of of its world markets.
The Group steam the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position specialties R&D function, which is based and borrowing facilities, are set out in in Cheltenham, is tasked with improving the Financial review on pages 44 to 47. the Groups pipeline of new products, In addition note 31 on page 141 includes the decreasing the time to launch, expanding Groups objectives, policies and processes the Groups addressable market and for managing its capital, its financial risk realising additional sales.
Further information management objectives, its financial on the expenditure on R&D is contained in instruments and hedging activities, its note 1 on page 111.
The amount of R&D exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
expenditure capitalised, and the amount The Group has considerable financial amortised, in the year, are given in note 13 resources together with contracts with a on pages 120 and 121. diverse range of customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and Treasury and foreign industries.
No one customer accounts exchange for more than 1% of Group turnover.
As a The Group has in place appropriate consequence, the Directors believe that the treasury policies and procedures, which Group is well placed to manage its business are approved by the Board.
The treasury risks successfully despite the current function manages interest rates for both uncertain economic outlook.
borrowings and cash deposits for the The Directors, having made appropriate Group and is also responsible for ensuring enquiries, consider that the Company there is sufficient headroom against any and the Group have adequate resources banking covenants contained within its to continue in operational existence and credit facilities, and for ensuring there are that the Directors intend to do so, for at appropriate facilities available to meet the least one year from the date the Financial Groups strategic plans.
statements were signed, and that therefore In order to mitigate and manage exchange it is appropriate to adopt the going concern rate risk, the Group routinely enters into basis in preparing the Annual Report forward contracts and continues to monitor and Accounts.
exchange rate risk in respect of foreign Pages 96 to 98 form the Directors report for currency exposures.
the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
All these treasury policies and procedures The Strategic report and the Directors are regularly monitored and reviewed.
report were approved by the Board on It is the Groups policy not to undertake 5thMarch 2014. speculative transactions which create additional exposures over and above those arising from normal trading activity.
Political donations There were no political donations made A J Robson during the year 2012: nil.
General Counsel and Company Greenhouse gas emissions Secretary 5th March 2014 Details of our greenhouse gas emissions Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc can be found on page 54 of the Registered no.
Interactive Annual Report andAccounts Our interactive Annual Report and Accounts are available on the Group's website, www.
com, under the Investor Relations section.
The Annual Report and Accounts are fully searchable and downloadable.
Our governance Chairmans introduction Board of Directors Corporate governance report Audit Committee Nomination Committee
