06 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Our marketplace Global trends Our global operations With 64 operating units in 39 countries and a direct sales presence in over 50 countries worldwide, we are an organisation with a truly global reach.
As a global Company, our operations are affected by a number of world megatrends, such as population growth, ageing populations, increasing global energy consumption, the economic rise of the East and climate change.
We predominantly view these megatrends as long-term drivers for growth.
For example, population growth will stimulate increased consumption and, hence, a demand in all our major industries: ageing populations will increase demand for healthcare and pharmaceutical products: an increase in global energy consumption will Key drive investment in the oil and Spirax operating companies petrochemical industry in the short Spirax sales offices term and energy management Watson-Marlow operating companies solutions in the short, medium and Watson-Marlow sales offices long term: the economic rise of the East is opening new markets and increasing consumer demand: while national and international climate change mitigation strategies are Group organic sales and global industrial output % encouraging companies to reduce 12.0% 11 their carbon footprint by managing 9 9 9 energy more effectively, thereby 9.0% 8 8 9 increasing demand for our energy 6 5 5 6.0% management products and services.
6 4 5 5 5 4 3.0% 4 As steam is so widely used across 2 2 industry, our markets tend to reflect 0% 0 changes in industrial production.
Our sales have consistently -3.0% increased ahead of our markets -6.0% -7 as we have expanded our addressable markets, extended -8 -9.0% our geographic penetration and 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 grown our market share.
Group organic sales Global industrial production Operating units include operating companies, branches and associates.
About us Welcome to our Chairmans Our Our Our business Our business Our Our 2013 report statement structure marketplace model model in action strategy KPIs Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 07 35% 27% 19% 19% of Group of Group of Group of Group revenue revenue revenue revenue EMEA 35% Asia Pacific 27% Americas 19% Watson-Marlow 19% Emerging 7% Emerging 23% Emerging 8% Emerging 4% markets markets markets markets Our Group performance Group Chief EMEA Asia Americas Watson-Marlow Financial Sustainability risks at a glance Executives report Pacific review report 3.
Strategic report 08 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Our marketplace continued We estimate that our total addressable market is 4.6 billion, with the steam specialties market representing 3.9 billion and Watson-Marlow 0.7 billion.
Our total market share is 15%, with a 14% share of the global steam specialties market and an18% share of the peristaltic and niche pumps market.
Within the steam specialties market we recognise three principal segments, comprising 84% of our total market opportunity.
Firstly, traditional condensate management products such as steam traps, condensate return pumps and isolation valves: secondly, controls, including automatic control valves, pressure regulators and temperature controls: thirdly, energy management products, consisting principally of our metering products, boiler house products, heat transfer packages and energy services.
Our addressable niche pump market represents the final 16%of the totalmarket.
Niche pumps 16% Condensate management 27% Total market 4.6bn Energy management 35% Controls 22% About us Welcome to our Chairmans Our Our Our business Our business Our Our 2013 report statement structure marketplace model model in action strategy KPIs Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 09 Growing our market share Growing our market share is an essential element of our growth strategy and we have 15% made good gains during the last five years.
We gain market share through our ability to solve problems for our customers, which Total market other suppliers cannot, and by winning new 4.6bn installations that then become the base for 2013 future revenue.
We also view market expansion as an essential element in creating future growth opportunities.
We attribute approximately halfof our addressable market growth during the past five years to new product development and acquisitions.
Good regional balance Group revenues are well spread geographically, with a good balance inregional market share: a key factor Ungroup Ungroup Ungroup Expand Expand Expand intheresiliency of our business.
Pathfinder Trim Pathfinder Trim Pathfinder Trim Delete white paths Delete white paths Delete white paths EMEA Asia Pacific Americas 11% 16% 18% Total market Total market Total market 1.7bn 1.2bn 1.7bn Market size Market share Our Group performance Group Chief EMEA Asia Americas Watson-Marlow Financial Sustainability risks at a glance Executives report Pacific review report 3.
Strategic report 10 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Our marketplace continued Our diverse markets We serve a wide range of industries and have a great diversity of end markets and customers.
Diversity is one of the core strengths of the Group and insulates us from much seasonal and cyclical demand.
We have an excellent balance between higher-growth end markets and those that are more defensive and recession proof.
More than 50% of the Groups revenue is derived from these defensive end markets, including: foods, beverages, HVAC, pharmaceuticals, healthcare, chemicals, water treatment andpower generation.
Within the steam specialties business, approximately 50% of revenue is derived from the replacement of our installed product base.
To maintain operational efficiency, production output and product quality, regular maintenance spending is required by our customers.
In the Group as a whole, more than 85% of our revenues are derived from our customers annual maintenance and operational budgets, ensuring the resiliency of our business intimes of recession.
Revenue by sector Foods Brewing and distilling HVAC OEM machinery Refining and petrochemical Pharmaceuticals Healthcare Precious metal processing Chemicals Total revenue by sector Water treatment Power generation Rubber and plastics 689.4m Other About us Welcome to our Chairmans Our Our Our business Our business Our Our 2013 report statement structure marketplace model model in action strategy KPIs Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11 Foods Brewing and distilling HVAC OEM machinery Steam is widely used in the Our products are used Steam is essential for brewing We work with manufacturers production of packaged to provide space heating, and distilling processes.
to optimise the performance foods, for blanching, cooking, humidification and hot water It is used to protect product of a diverse range of baking, packaging to create comfortable working quality and flavour, and equipment, including and sterilising.
conditions for employees ensure compliance with mixers, reactors, paper and visitors in public and industry standards.
and packaging machines, private buildings.
dryers, sterilisers and clinical diagnostic equipment.
Refining and Healthcare Pharmaceuticals Precious metal petrochemical processing Our steam system services Clean steam reduces the Our products have a wide Peristaltic pumps reduce and products enable optimum risk of product and process range of applications in water, energy and chemical performance in steam and contamination, and our hospitals and clinics for space use and increase reliability and condensate systems, peristaltic pumps enable heating, hot water production, productivity while moving and and reduce energy use precise flow control and humidification and sterilisation.
processing highly abrasive during refining and fluid isolation in the ores and slurries.
Chemicals Water treatment Power generation Rubber and plastics Steam is widely used as an Peristaltic pumps are used Superheated steam is an Our products facilitate energy source in chemical to accurately dose chemicals ideal fluid to transfer chemical temperature control of production and product during water treatment energy in fuel into electrical exothermic process reactors, processing.
processes and efficiently energy through steam critical to the manufacture of transfer viscous and abrasive turbines.
Steam is also used modern composite materials.
to distribute and re-use waste heat formed during the power generation process.
Our Group performance Group Chief EMEA Asia Americas Watson-Marlow Financial Sustainability risks at a glance Executives report Pacific review report 3.
