Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 05 Our structure Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc EMEA Asia Pacific Americas Our Spirax Sarco steam specialties business is the global Watson-Marlow is the global leader in peristaltic leader in the supply of engineered solutions for the design, pumps, specialising in the design and manufacture maintenance and operation of efficient industrial and of the most advanced peristaltic and niche pumps, commercial steam systems.
Our pumps are ideally suited for a wide variety of applications ranging from biotechnology and As a heat source, steam is the natural choice in most industrial pharmaceutical processes that demand sterility and processes due to its high heat-carrying capacity, controllability, precision, to the gentle low-shear requirements of delicate sterility and efficiency as a heat transfer fluid.
With our specialist food processing, to highly corrosive or erosive slurries knowledge, technical expertise and wide range of products and typically seen in precious metal processing.
services, as well as our extensive global presence, Spirax Sarco is uniquely positioned to provide a broad range of environmentally The Watson-Marlow Pumps Group comprises seven established friendly engineered solutions to the manyindustries using steam.
brands, each with its own area of expertise, but together offering ourcustomers an unrivalled breadth of pumping solutions: Our customers face a variety of challenges including high energy Watson-Marlow Pumps peristaltic tube pumps : Watson-Marlow costs, pressure to improve the operating efficiency and capacity Tubing precision tubing for pumping and single-use applications : of existing processes, and the need to comply with increasingly Bio Pure Hygienic Connectors connectors for pumping and stringent health, safety and environmental legislation.
Our direct single-use applications : Bredel heavy duty industrial hose pumps : salesforce is highly trained in product application, system Alitea high-precision peristaltic pumps for OEM customers : performance and the troubleshooting of steam systems.
Flexicon aseptic filling and capping systems : and MasoSine gentle low-shear pumps.
The Spirax Sarco offering is very wide, from single products through to complete turnkey bespoke packages that can include Our pumps are the ideal solution in a wide variety of difficult pumping design, fabrication, installation, commissioning and maintenance.
applications and are highly accurate, controllable and virtually Our extensive product range includes steam traps: pressure and maintenance free.
Our direct field sales force works closely with temperature control valves: condensate recovery pumps: strainers: ourcustomers to reduce their life-cycle pumping costs and improve Ungroup Ungroup separators: humidifiers: flow meters: boiler controls: prefabricated Expand Expand plant operations.
Pathfinder Trim Pathfinder Trim trap manifolds: and heat transfer and recovery packages.
Delete white paths Delete white paths Revenue by business Operating profit by business Steam specialties EMEA 244.3m Steam specialties EMEA 48.2m Steam specialties Asia Pacific 182.8m Steam specialties Asia Pacific 48.0m Steam specialties Americas 132.0m Steam specialties Americas 26.1m Watson-Marlow Pumps 130.3m Watson-Marlow Pumps 39.5m Total 689.4m Corporate expenses 10.2m Total 151.6m Our Group performance Group Chief EMEA Asia Americas Watson-Marlow Financial Sustainability risks at a glance Executives report Pacific review report 3.
