Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35 Asia Pacific We achieved a good sales increase in AsiaPacific, rising by 10% to 182.8 million.
Organic sales increased by 8% with good growth in controls, flowmetering and services.
Klaus Rmler Divisional Director at 26.3% 2012: 26.3% as the benefit from strategy, production at our plant in Shanghai Progress in 2013 the additional sales volume was offset by continues to increase rapidly across an We achieved a good sales increase in the costs of transitioning to a fully-fledged expanding range of products.
This is AsiaPacific, rising by 10% to 182.8 million operating company in the Philippines primarily to meet local demand and also 2012: 166.9 million.
Exchange movements and in preparation for our new company to support regional demand in Southeast were generally favourable adding 2% in Indonesia that commenced trading in Asia, increasing flexibility and improving to sales on translation into sterling due January 2014, following the acquisition of customer service.
to the Chinese RMB and the Korean ourlargest distributor.
won both strengthening by 4% against Our business in Korea again performed sterling, partially offset by the weakening Our steam specialties business in China is well with record sales and profits despite of the Australian dollar and Japanese the largest sales and profit contributor in a more difficult economic environment yen.
Organic sales therefore increased by the Group, accounting for 10% of Group where industrial production was negative 8%, with continued progress in traditional sales in 2013, and again performed strongly, for most of the year.
As expected, second products and good growth in controls, flow although the pace of industrial production half sales were much stronger in Korea as a metering and services.
Market conditions growth eased and some projects were number of large projects were completed.
remained favourable in China but elsewhere delayed.
Our business derives largely Elsewhere, we grew sales in Japan in a were mixed.
The widespread applications from sectors linked to domestic Chinese challenging market but had to contend for industrial steam, in particular in food consumption, particularly food & beverages, with the impact of higher landed costs of & beverage and healthcare, provides pharmaceuticals, textiles and healthcare, all imported products from the significant good resilience to our business in Asia.
of which have been resilient.
We continued to Operating profit increased by 9% to to add sales resource, expanding our invest in market development, adding sales 48.0 million 2012: 43.9 million and at extensive network of sales offices to 43 and resource in both the more established and constant currency the increase was 6%.
deepening our penetration of the market.
The operating profit margin was unchanged In line with our regional manufacturing Revenue Operating profit Operating margin 48.0m 182.8m 26.3% 10% 9% 0bps Ungroup 2012: 43.9m 2012: 26.3% 2012: 166.9m Expand Pathnder Trim Delete white paths Revenue m Operating profit m Percentage of Group revenue 2013 182.8 2013 48.0 2012 166.9 2012 43.9 2011 147.1 2011 37.8 2010 131.5 2010 34.3 2009 104.7 2009 23.1 27% 2012: 25% Our Group performance Group Chief EM EME EA A Asia Americas Watson-Marlow Financial Sustainability risks at a glance Executives report Pacific review report 3.
Strategic report 36 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Asia Pacific continued percentage of sales in Asia Pacific to customers.
A key strategic priority is Market overview than it does elsewhere for the Group.
therefore the training for our customer The Group has invested heavily in This industry segment is continuously facing staff.
This differentiates us from developing the important Asia Pacific growing in a number of countries as we other companies in the market.
We will region over the past 20 years.
Today this see a movement towards better product further focus and invest in training and region generates 33% of total steam quality and higher food safety standards, staff recruitment.
specialties business sales and the Groups which foster higher quality manufacturing business operations in China and Korea Our local manufacturing strategy will further equipment.
We also saw good levels of are continuing to be two of the largest help us to improve customer service and customer spending at the refineries and in the Group.
We have 11 operating drive costs down.
It also helps us manage petrochemical plants and higher levels of companies and one associate in the region our own carbon footprint.
We have made activity in pharmaceuticals.
and additionally have a good, direct sales good progress in controlling stock and presence in newly emerging markets such target further improvements during 2014.
Strategy and outlook as Vietnam and Cambodia.
In the past Our expectations for 2014 are further We see very good mid-term growth three years, our headcount has increased growth and good trading margins.
opportunities throughout Asia Pacific significantly as we have added important This growth will come from general due to the rapidly growing demand in sales and sales support people throughout economic growth, demand for energy local consumption.
Our business model the region and have increased our saving and process improvements, particularly benefits from our direct endmanufacturing footprint.
our own sales initiatives and our newly user approach in foods & beverages, Market conditions were strong in China, developed operations.
healthcare facilities, pharmaceuticals and as we benefited from our direct sales textiles, the chemical industry, rubber and approach to domestic consumer industries tyre and also in public buildings HVAC.
and from our continued investment We therefore see continued good potential in geographic coverage, localised for organic growth.
manufacturing and sales of a broader We employ a direct sales model range of engineering solutions.
throughout the region and we see We see good growth potential in most of additional growth opportunities by Southeast Asia and are taking additional increasing market share and geographic steps to increase our direct selling reach, as our people become more presence in some of these still small, but highly skilled in selling the broad range of important, emerging markets.
Elsewhere in engineering solutions already existing in the region, our Australian and New Zealand our product portfolio.
New and increasing markets were more flat but careful cost demand for energy reduction, process control provided us with good profit.
efficiency improvements, cost reduction, reduced carbon footprint and emissions, Within the Asia Pacific region, our most requires our people to be flexible and highly important industry sector is foods & qualified.
Our business model is based beverages.
It is easily our single largest on highest quality advice and support sector and comprises a much higher Key markets Industrial production growth rate 2013 Foods Refining and petrochemical Pharmaceuticals Chemicals Favourable Neutral Unfavourable -5 to 0% 0 to 5% 5 to 10% 10% Source: CHR Economics Compared with the prior year, in countries where we have operating companies.
About us Welcome to our Chairmans Our Our Our business Our business Our Our 2013 report statement structure marketplace model model in action strategy KPIs S Sp pir ira ax x- -S Sa ar rc co o E En ng gin ine eerin ering g p pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 20 s 201 13 3 37 37 Hospital emergency averted by a rapid response from Spirax Sarco Australia On a Wednesday afternoon in July, at a private hospital in Victoria, one of the hospitals two hot water calorifiers water heating units imploded due to a rupture of the internal steam heating tubes.
Fortunately, the hospitals second calorifier was able to maintain the hospitals hot water supply, but the fear was that if one could fail, so could the second.
Spirax Sarco was asked to assess the damage and ensure that a back-up water heating solution was installed as quickly as possible.
Spirax Sarcos expert engineers found that the calorifier was too extensively damaged to repair and recommended the installation of an Ausiheat 2 heat exchanger package, to replace the damaged calorifier.
The Ausiheat arrived in Spirax Sarcos Melbourne office on Friday and was in place in the hospital by Friday evening.
By the following evening the hospital had a fully operational back-up hot water supply.
Before long, the second calorifier began to show signs of failure, causing it to be shut down, and the Ausiheat 2 became the hospitals sole water supply.
The Ausiheats exceptional performance and ability to handle the peak loads in the hospital, impressed the hospitals engineering staff to such an extent that they requested that Spirax Sarco install a second Ausiheat 2 heat exchanger package, to provide a back-up hot water supply.
Once installed, the two Ausiheat 2 heat exchanger packages only occupied onethird of the space of the two old-style hot water storage calorifiers.
As well as the packages exceptional performance and Spirax Sarcos rapid response and problem solving capability, the hospital was impressed by the after-service support offered by Spirax Sarco.
The hospital engineers now feel confident that the hospitals hot water supply is secure for the foreseeable future.
O Our ur Group performance G Gr ro oup up Ch Chie ief f EM EME EA A Asi Asia a A Am meri erica cas s W Wa at ts so on n-MMa ar rlo low w Fin Fina anc nciia all S Su usta staiin na ab biilliit ty y r riis sks ks at a glance E Ex xe ec cu ut tiiv five e s s r re epor port t Pa Pac ciifi fic c rev reviie ew w r re epor port t 3.
