Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41 Watson-Marlow Organic sales increased by 4% against a tough comparison in the prior year, with the new Qdos and Apex products making a meaningful contribution.
The operating profit margin strengthened further to 30.3%.
Jay Whalen Executive Director Trading conditions were strong in the Sales were higher in all geographic regions.
Progress in 2013 biopharmaceutical market, which is our Despite an unfavourable economic Sales increased by 5% to 130.3 million largest sector, in both North America and in background, sales growth was robust 2012: 124.5 million and were ahead 4% Europe, with positive investment trends by across EMEA, which accounts for almost at constant exchange rates.
Sales growth customers in the industry.
Food & beverage 40% of total Watson-Marlow sales, slowed in the second half, against a markets were ahead with good activity in with virtually all operations contributing.
particularly difficult comparison due to Latin America and also now Asia Pacific.
We reaped the benefit of our strategic several large non-repeating projects that Mining precious metals markets have actions over the last three years to increase shipped in the prior year, but demand been difficult in South Africa and Australia industry sector focus in the sales teams, continued and we ended 2013 with a but this was mitigated by inroads made in continue our conversions to direct sales strong order book.
There was good growth Russia and Brazil.
Water and wastewater and expand our network of direct sales across most product lines with a meaningful markets continued to be under pressure operations, with new companies added in contribution from the new Qdos and Apex due to restrictions on government finances Austria and Poland during 2013.
Growth was products but the larger capacity Bredel hose in many countries, although mitigated by strong in Eastern Europe, particularly Russia.
pump sales were lower due to thereduced increased market penetration from our new project activity in the wastewater treatment Qdos pump and with early indications of and mining segments.
Watson-Marlow improving conditions in the USA.
Overall, operating profit increased by 7% to there was a lower level of projects across 39.5 million 2012: 36.8 million, with an most markets but generally more positive overall neutral effect from exchange rate base business demand.
The operating profit margin strengthened further to 30.3% 2012: 29.6%.
Revenue Operating profit Operating margin 39.5m 130.3m 30.3% 5% 7% 70bps Ungroup 2012: 36.8m 2012: 29.6% 2012: 124.5m Expand Pathnder Trim Delete white paths Revenue m Operating profit m Percentage of Group revenue 2013 130.3 2013 39.5 19% 2012 124.5 2012 36.8 2011 118.4 2011 34.4 2010 103.0 2010 30.8 2009 22.3 2009 83.8 2012: 19% Our Group performance Group Chief EMEA Asi Asia a A Am meri erica cas s W Wa at ts so on n-MMa ar rlo low w Financial Sustainability risks at a glance Executives report Pa Pac ciifi fic c review report 3.
Strategic report 42 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Watson-Marlow continued Sales in Asia Pacific were ahead and our Market overview Strategy and outlook newer operations in India, Singapore and Malaysia all performed well.
Our more The Watson-Marlow pumps business We continue to focus on strategically established operations in China and Korea was acquired in 1990 and since then delivering growth through the penetration made good progress in the food & beverage has grown from contributing 4% of sales of emerging markets, where we see sector but saw lower levels of project work.
that year to 19% of Group sales in 2013. excellent opportunities for growth as We continue to add sector-focused direct Recent acquisitions have played a key role we pioneer the introduction of peristaltic sales resource across the Asia Pacific in expanding our addressable markets pumps.
We aim to grow our market region to increase our market presence by increasing our applications capability share within emerging regions as we and widen the addressable market as we in the important biopharmaceutical demonstrate the peristaltic pumps present the whole life-cycle cost benefits of and foods & beverages industries.
superior technology and lower lifeperistaltic and niche pumps in these underNew product development has expanded cycle cost benefits, for applications in developed markets.
our addressable markets particularly biopharmaceuticals, precious metals in industrial, OEM and water and processing, food production and chemical Sales growth was strong in Latin America wastewater markets.
dosing in water and wastewater treatment.
driven by success with new products and We will also focus on the sectorisation underpinned by additional sector-focused Our Watson-Marlow pumps business is of our field sales force to ensure our sales resource.
North America was unable centred in Europe and the United States, engineers have the specific market and to match the very good performance in the together comprising about 80% of total applications knowledge to add value prior year that included a number of large pump sales, about evenly split, but we to customers.
non-repeating projects but base business continue to expand into emerging markets was nicely ahead across most sectors.
in Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America We have achieved significant success The Americas account for almost 40% of with good results.
Our core markets are through transitioning from distributor total Watson-Marlow sales.
biopharmaceutical, which represents sales to a value-added direct sales about one-third of total pump sales, OEM, approach in our more mature European Product development has been a key driver water and wastewater, mining precious markets and we will continue this process of our sales growth and we continue to metals, foods & beverages and general in more markets in Asia, Europe and add resource focused on expanding the industrial.
These applications are ideal Latin America.
capability, functionality and performance of for our pumps, which are unequalled our niche pump and tubing to reduce the Further, we will continue to expand in the pumping of hygienic fluids and,  for our customers.
the ranges of recently introduced new alternatively, abrasive or aggressive fluids These developments grow our addressable pumps, with revolutionary new pumping or slurries.
market as we displace other pump types technology, which continues our strategy in more applications.
The revolutionary The market conditions for Watson-Marlow of increasing our addressable markets by Qdos peristaltic metering pump with its Pumps in 2013 were largely similar taking market share from other positive ReNu pumphead is a particular success, to the steam specialties business displacement pump types.
We will also exceeding expectations, alongside the from a geographical perspective.
selectively seek acquisitions of synergistic new Apex hose pump, and new product Maintenance and project spending value-added niche pumps and associated developments also in Alitea, Flexicon for biopharmaceuticals increased, equipment that will allow us to leverage and MasoSine.
but capital spending on wastewater sales of new and existing products treatment particularly in the USA and through our direct and market sector mining slowed.
Key markets Industrial production growth rate 2013 Pharmaceuticals Foods Water treatment OEM machinery Favourable Neutral Unfavourable -5 to 0% 0 to 5% 5 to 10% 10% Source: CHR Economics Compared with the prior year, in countries where we have operating units.
About us Welcome to our Chairmans Our Our Our business Our business Our Our 2013 report statement structure marketplace model model in action strategy KPIs Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43 Qdos metering pumps solve turbidity testing dilemma for Welsh Water At the Pontsticill Water Treatment Works in the Brecon Beacons National Park regular turbidity testing is undertaken as a means of assessing water quality.
Turbidity is a measure of the cloudiness of a fluid, caused by the suspension of particles.
While some suspended particles will settle quickly if a sample is left to stand, others will not settle or will require a long period of time to do so, causing the liquid to appear turbid.
In drinking water, a high turbidity level increases the risk that people may develop gastrointestinal problems.
Until recently turbidity testing at the Pontsticill Water Treatment Works relied on bellows pump technology.
However, the bellows pumps introduced air into the samples, giving false or unreliable readings.
Marek Cegielski, a process scientist and manager at Dw r Cymru Welsh Water, explained, This is a clean water site and the quality of sample is very important.
In the past we have tried other types of turbidity monitoring devices, such as dip probes, but without much success.
We have even used bubble traps in conjunction with our bellows pumps, but we still fell short of 100% reliability.
However, the installation of a Qdos 30 metering pump is now ensuring consistently accurate readings.
Our main requirement is for a constant, pulse-free flow, says Mr Cegielski.
Previously we had tried fitting back valves to bellows pumps to stop the pulsing but in truth we could not properly buffer the effect and still ended up with false readings.
The Qdos 30 pump is providing Dw r Cymru Welsh Water with a steady, pulse-free flow speed of 280 ml min, completely free from air or flow variation.
So far, so good, as far as we are concerned when new technology comes along that has a clear advantage over existing market solutions, then we are always willing to give it a try, concludes Mr Cegielski.
If our existing Qdos 30 continues to meet expectations then we will place an order for a further three pumps.
Our Group performance Group Chief EM EME EA A Asia Americas W Wa at ts so on n-MMa ar rlo low w Financial Sustainability risks at a glance Executives report Pacific review report 3.
