Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 73 Remuneration Committee letter of introduction 1 We remain committed to a remuneration policy that maintains the strong link between creating long-term shareholder value and the level of remuneration received by Executive Directors.
Krishnamurthy Rajagopal Chairman, Remuneration Committee Ungroup Expand Pathfinder Trim Dear Shareholder, Business performance How the Committee spent its Delete white paths time during the year As noted in the Chairmans statement on On behalf of the Board, I am pleased page 4, the Company made good progress to present our Remuneration report for in 2013, with Group revenue up 4% and 2013.
In line with the new Government pre-tax profit up 12%, contributing to Department for Business, Innovation and earnings per share EPS growth of 14% Skills reporting regulations on Directors pay, and an improvement in Return on Capital introduced inOctober 2013, this report has Employed ROCE to 44.3%.
Over the been split into three sections: three-year period ending in 2013, the A statement by the Chairman of Company delivered a total shareholder return the Committee TSR of 70.9%.
An 11% increase in the total dividend for the year extends ouryear-onA policy report that describes and year dividend increase record to 46 years.
explains the components of the Determining pay policy 20% Companys proposed remuneration policy Our remuneration policy is designed to Implementing pay policy 20% ensure that a significant percentage of An annual report on remuneration that Directors contracts 20% Executive Director pay is based on the discloses how the current remuneration Bonus target setting 10% achievement of demanding performance policy has been implemented during the targets and is, therefore, at risk.
Bonus achievement 10% year ended 31st December 2013.
Maximum payout in the annual bonus PSP target setting 10% plan and Performance Share Plan PSP We will seek your support for the Annual PSP achievement 10% is only available as a result of significant report on remuneration 2013, in the form outperformance by the business.
of an advisory vote, and for the Policy The Committee considers that the report 2014, in the form of a binding vote, Membership and attendance remuneration paid to Executive Directors at the AGM on 20th May 2014.
It is the in 2013 given as a single figure for each Committees intention that the proposed Committee member Attendance Director on page 83 reflects the good policy should be implemented following Number of meetings 3 progress made by the Company during the AGM.
G. R. Bullock 3 2013, as well as over the last three years.
We would like to thank shareholders for their 1 K. Rajagopal 3 Annual bonuses are based on pre-tax profit support of the 2012 Remuneration report.
and ROCE targets and these targets are G. E. Schoolenberg 3 At the AGM on 9th May 2013, the advisory adjusted as explained in the Annual report on C. G. Watson 3 vote on the 2012 Directors remuneration remuneration 2013 on page85.
The Group report received 96.3% of the votes in favour.
profit achievement of 153.4 million was We have continued to actively seek and 3.8% above the plan target of 147.8 million take into account the views of shareholders and the ROCE achieved of 44.3% was 9.1% when reviewing Executive Director above the 40.6% plan target.
The Committee is satisfied are after adjustment in accordance with the that the remuneration policy proposed in this annual bonus plan rules and therefore differ report reflects the interests of shareholders from the figures on page 1 of the Annual and aligns Executive Director remuneration Report and Accounts.
These achievements with Company strategy, while allowing the resulted in a 95.24% bonus award for the Group to attract and retain motivated and Group Chief Executive and Group Finance talented individuals.
Other Executive Directors' targets have an additional divisional profit element and details of their bonus targets and level 1 Appointed Committee Chairman 1st January 2014. of achievement can be found on pages 84and85.
Risk Management Remuneration Committee Remuneration policy Annual report on Regulatory disclosures Statement of Committee letter of introduction report 2014 remuneration 2013 Directors responsibilities 3.
Strategic report eport 74 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance continued Remuneration Committee letter of introduction continued Continuing difficult macro-economic 2 To align the interests of shareholders and In order to further align Executive Director conditions have resulted in some of the Executive Directors.
This will be achieved interests with those of shareholders, under demanding performance targets in the PSP through the use of long-term incentives, the proposed Remuneration policy Executive not being met.
Shares awarded in the PSP which reward TSR and EPS growth, Directors will be required to defer any bonus vest based on growth of two measures, and by requiring Executive Directors over 60% of base salary into shares until TSR 60% and EPS 40% over the three-year to build a significant shareholding the shareholding guidelines have been plan period.
Performance on the EPS themselves, ensuring that they are met.
Executive Directors are expected to measure resulted in vesting of 74.8% of the directly exposed to the same gains accumulate, over a period of up to five years, shares awarded for this measure.
However, or losses as all other shareholders.
a shareholding in the Company worth at a 70.9% increase in TSR in the three years to least 100% of base salary and to maintain 3 To support the achievement of the 2013 was insufficient to trigger any award for this level of shareholding while remaining on Groups strategic priorities to: the TSR element.
The shares vesting under the Board.
both elements were therefore 29.93% of Strengthen our global market position The Committee believes that the current the total shares awarded.
Details of bonus through local expertise and customer remuneration policy implemented during and PSP awards can be found on pages insight 2013 and the proposed policy to apply, if 85and86 of this report.
approved, following the AGM, outlined in Deliver solutions to reduce energy usage this Remuneration report, offer a fair and Board changes in 2013 through applications engineering and competitive package for Executive Directors energy audits Following Mr Vernons announcement of rewarding performance while supporting the Broaden our global presence through his intention to retire, Mr Anderson was interests of shareholders.
first-to-market leadership in emerging appointed Group Chief Operating Officer markets from 7th August 2013 and was subsequently Changes for 2014 appointed Group Chief Executive following Grow market share through increased The current macro-economic conditions Mr Vernons retirement in January 2014. market penetration and our one-stop and challenges mentioned in the Chairmans In light of his new appointment, the Committee shop customer approach statement have led the Committee to reviewed Mr Andersons contract and review the terms of the PSP award for remuneration package to ensure alignment Generate consistent organic next year.
In particular, to increase focus with the proposed remuneration policy growth through providing increased on earnings growth in present economic set out in this report.
It is the Committees customervalue circumstances, the proportion of the award intention that all new appointments to the Operate sustainably through good based on EPS targets has been increased Board, or significant changes to the scale, corporate governance, financial to 60% compared with 40% at present scope or responsibilities of existing Executive health, employee well-being, and the proportion based on TSR reduced Directors, will result in new contracts being community engagement and correspondingly to 40%.
In addition, the agreed, aligned with the proposed policy.
comparator group has been changed to the For more information see section 1.5 FTSE 350 Industrial Goods and Services Service agreements and termination policy For more details of the alignment between Supersector reflecting the current make-up onpages 79 and 80. strategy and remuneration and the of the Company and providing a larger description of performance measures and comparator group to reduce the effect Committee change in 2013 relevant targets see the Policy table on of a few volatile performers affecting the Mr Bullock stepped down as Chairman of pages 75 to 77.
Groups relative TSR rating either positively the Committee in December 2013, but will or negatively.
4 To align Executive Director remuneration stay on the Committee until the AGM.
As the with financial and non-financial Key new Chairman, I would like to thank Gareth Performance Indicators KPIs.
For more for the valuable contribution he made during details see the description of performance his nine years on the Committee.
measures and relevant targets on pages K Rajagopal 75 to 77.
Our remuneration policy and Chairman, Remuneration Committee links to strategy 5 To ensure that superior awards are only paid for exceptional performance against The elements of Executive Director challenging targets.
remuneration are described and explained in the policy table on pages 75 to 77.
Base salary is reviewed annually and The principal aims of the Committee, as it takes into account the scale, scope and reviews and establishes remuneration policy, responsibilities of Executive Director roles: are outlined below: the skills and experience of individuals: wider workforce comparisons: and market 1 To maintain a competitive remuneration benchmarking, within a defined external Compliance statement package that will attract, retain and We have prepared this Remuneration report comparator group.
motivate Executive Directors of the calibre in accordance with the relevant sections of required to meet the Groups strategic The annual bonus plan and PSP reward the Companies Act 2006 and The Large objectives both in the short and long term.
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups financial performance, both absolute and Accounts and Reports Amendment relative, to ensure that there is clear and Regulations 2013. demonstrable pay for performance.
Our governance Chairmans introduction Board of Directors Corporate governance report Audit Committee Nomination Committee
