SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Market trends Ethernet cemented its role as the common building block for service 2013 was a turning point for our provider, enterprise and critical infrastructure networks.
Cloud moved from being a convenience to an essential part of many industry as the shift from network and peoples lives as the disruptive business models of cloud service transport to applications and services providers made a major impact.
The cloud and data center segments were also impacted by new technologies such as accelerated, with a renewed focus on software-defined networking SDN.
We moved The move to virtualization accelerated, including strong service provider interest in the potential for network functions virtualization NFV to beyond just getting connected towards lower costs, raise efficiency and increase agility.
The entire industry the age of hyper-connectivity, the faced continuing escalation of cyber-security threats, with frequent reports of high profile attacks.
Security was also an issue in the internet of things and  technologies market, as concern grew over the vulnerability of Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS applications.
machine M2M communications, and global connectedness is just Although smartphone growth continued, its focus shifted to emerging markets which caused profitability challenges for all but a getting started... very few device vendors.
4G LTE networks were deployed at a rapid pace around the world, as the industry prepared for widespread roll outs of important new services such as Voice over LTE VoLTE, looking to ensure a positive experience for users.
As a result, the testing needs of our customers have continued to increase in complexity.
With its broad portfolio of products and services in the lab and in live networks, Spirent is uniquely positioned to help address this complexity, enabling the shift to application and user experience testing.
2000 2005 2008 2011 2013 2012 1ST 1BN 0.4EB 5.6BN 10M 954M smartphone people using the mobile data mobile new connected new internet traffic subscribers vehicles smartphones 9BN 2.7BN connected people using the devices internet Key BN Billion EB Exabyte GB Gigabyte M Million 10 STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Nigel Wright Vice President International Sales and Marketing 2020 With our expertise, solutions and global reach were a strong partner to our 47% entertainment customers, helping info in the cloud them to address the internet of things, cloud and virtual roll outs.
24BN connected devices 3.1 connected devices per person 2015 2016 2017 2018 300M 1.6BN 10BN 67M smartmeters new mobile new connected smartphones subscribers vehicles 52EB 1.6GB 1.4 mobile data monthly per mobile devices traffic smartphone user per person Source: Cisco VNI, ITU, GSMA, Gartner, US Census Bureau, Berg Insight, and others.
