STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of the directors Pages 44 to 79 inclusive together with the sections of the Annual Companies House or by writing to the Company Secretary.
The Report incorporated by reference form part of the Directors Report Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special which is presented in accordance with, and with reliance upon, resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
The most recent applicable English company law.
The liabilities of the Directors in changes to the Articles of Association were approved at the 2010 AGM connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and and became effective at the close of that meeting on 5 May 2010. restrictions provided by such law.
The Company has established two employee benefit trusts in Other information, which forms part of the Directors Report, can be connection with the operation of the Companys share incentive found in the following sections of the Annual Report: plans: the Spirent Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT and the Spirent Sharesave Trust SST.
The trustees of both trusts have Location in waived their right to receive dividends on any Ordinary Shares held by Information Annual Report them except for a nominal amount of 1 pence other than for those Acquisitions 29 Ordinary Shares held in the ESOT which are the beneficial property of Audit Committee Report 54 an employee shareholder.
For further details on the employee benefit Board and Committee Membership 46 trusts see Investment in own Ordinary Shares in Note 28 to the Corporate Governance Report 48 consolidated financial statements and Note 14 to the parent Company Directors biographies 46 financial statements.
Trustees of both trusts do not vote their Directors responsibilities statement 79 Ordinary Shares, except for those Ordinary Shares held in the ESOT Financial risk management 28 that are the beneficial property of an employee shareholder, which Treasury policy 28 the trustees will vote in accordance with the instructions received Future developments 16 from the beneficial owner.
Development costs 93 Disability 37 Restrictions on share transfers Diversity 37 There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary Shares in the Greenhouse gas emissions 40 capital of the Company other than certain restrictions which may from Nomination Committee Report 53 time to time be imposed by law, for example, insider trading law.
In Employees 36 accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, Pension schemes 98 Post balance sheet events 120 certain employees are required to seek the approval of the Company Results and dividends 4 prior to dealing in its securities.
Share capital 77 Corporate Social Responsibility 38 The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders Sustainable development 40 that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on Directors indemnity arrangements 51 voting rights.
The Company is also not aware of any contract of significance between itself or any subsidiary undertaking and a controlling shareholder.
Political donations In accordance with the Groups Ethics Policy, no political donations Powers for issue of new shares were made during the year 2012 nil.
During the year to 31 December 2013 and to the date of this Report, no new Ordinary Shares have been allotted as a result of the exercise Share capital of options and rights pursuant to the Companys share incentive plans.
The Company has a single class of share which is divided into Ordinary 1 Shares of 3 pence each.
Each Ordinary Share carries one vote and all 3 At each annual general meeting, the directors seek authority to allot of the Ordinary Shares rank pari passu.
There are no special control shares for cash and to disapply pre-emption rights within prescribed rights relating to any of the Ordinary Shares.
At the date of this Report, 1 limits.
At the 2014 AGM, authority will be sought to allot new Ordinary 611.9 million Ordinary Shares of 3 3 pence each had been issued Shares up to a nominal value of 6,797,132, which is equal to 33.3 per which are fully paid up and are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
cent of the Companys issued share capital as at 7 March 2014.
The Company also operates a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR programme with each ADR representing four Ordinary Shares.
Return of capital The ADRs trade on the US over-the-counter market and The Bank of The Company was first authorised to repurchase up to 14.99 per cent of New York Mellon is the authorised depositary bank for the programme.
its own issued Ordinary Shares, within certain limits and as permitted Further details on share capital are set out in Note 28 to the by the Companys Articles of Association, at the 2006 AGM.
This consolidated financial statements and Note 14 to the parent authority has been renewed at each subsequent AGM, reducing to 9.99 Company financial statements.
per cent at the 2010 AGM and subsequent AGMs.
The authority from the 2013 AGM remains valid until the earlier of the 2014 AGM or 30 The rights, including those relating to voting, obligations and any June 2014.
Since the Company began returning capital to shareholders restrictions on transfer relating to the Companys Ordinary Shares, in May 2006, a total of 260.8 million has been returned, through the as well as the powers of the Companys directors, are set out in the repurchase of 387.9 million Ordinary Shares.
Companys Articles of Association, a copy of which can be found on our website at http: corporate.
com or can be obtained from 77 SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Report of the directors continued During 2013 29.2 million Ordinary Shares, each with a nominal value share incentive plans may cause outstanding unvested options and 1 of 3 pence were repurchased for an aggregate consideration of awards granted to employees under such plans to vest on a takeover 3 34.9 million and cancelled immediately following repurchase.
This as follows: Change represents 4.49 per cent of the Companys issued Ordinary Share of control provisions in Effect on Performance capital at the beginning of 2013.
The Company repurchased a further Share incentive plan the rules vesting condition 10.0 million Ordinary Shares between 1 January 2014 and the date of this Report.
2005 Employee Incentive Plan Yes Pro-rated Still applies Spirent Stock Incentive Plan No None n a The Company will seek authority to repurchase up to 9.99 per cent of its own Ordinary Shares at the 2014 AGM to facilitate any further return The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to which it is of capital if the Board concludes that it is in the best interests of party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the shareholders to do so.
Substantial shareholdings Post balance sheet events In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6 2, the Company has been Details of post balance sheet events are included in Note 35 to the notified of the following significant interests in its Ordinary Shares consolidated financial statements.
pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: Going concern As at 31 December 2013: % of After making appropriate enquiries and taking into account the Companys matters set out in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on total pages 20 and 25 of this Annual Report, the Directors have a reasonable voting expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in Date of notification Total holding rights operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, Prudential plc 9 September 2013 70,463,646 11.34 they continue to adopt the going concern basis on preparing the BlackRock Inc. 11 July 2013 64,825,665 10.43 financial statements.
AXA Investment Managers SA 18 October 2011 47,515,946 7.65 Disclosure of information to auditor Aviva plc 16 December 2013 40,696,410 6.55 Each of the directors of the Company at the date of this Report Schroders plc 5 August 2013 34,270,136 5.52 confirms that: Artemis Investment so far as the director is aware, there is no information needed by the Management Limited 17 September 2010 32,940,888 5.30 Companys auditor in connection with preparing their report of Standard Life which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Investments Ltd 27 January 2011 32,370,026 5.21 he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as Ameriprise a director in order to make himself herself aware of any Financial, Inc. 11 December 2013 31,590,545 5.08 information needed by the Companys auditor in connection with Sun Life Assurance preparing their report and to establish that the Companys auditor is Company of Canada aware of that information.
UK Ltd 5 December 2008 23,382,347 3.76 Norges Bank 30 May 2013 19,516,804 3.14 Independent auditors As described in more detail on page 57 of the Audit Committee report, The following notifications have been received during the period the Board will be proposing a resolution to re-appoint EY as auditiors at 1 January 2014 to 27 February 2014: % of the 2014 AGM.
Companys total Annual General Meeting voting Date of notification Total holding rights The 2014 AGM will be held at 10.30am on Wednesday 23 April 2014 at the offices of UBS, 1 Finsbury Avenue, London EC2M 2PP.
Aviva plc 22 January 2014 40,597,969 6.57 Prudential plc 29 January 2014 67,877,796 11.00 By Order of the Board Change of control provisions The Company does not have agreements with any director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of the Companys Rachel Whiting Company Secretary 27 February 2014 Spirent Communications plc Company number: 470893 78 STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors responsibilities statement The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Report on directors remuneration, the consolidated financial statements of the Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Group and financial statements of the parent Company.
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements The Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary consolidated financial statements of the Group in accordance with to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and have elected to prepare the parent This Annual Report complies with the Disclosure and Transparency Company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Rules DTR of the Financial Conduct Authority in respect of the Accepted Accounting Principles and applicable law.
requirement to produce an annual financial report.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group are required by The Annual Report and consolidated financial statements are the law and IFRSs to present fairly for each financial period the financial responsibility of, and have been approved by, the directors.
position and performance of the Group: the Companies Act 2006 provides, in relation to such financial statements, that references in the Each of the directors confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view, are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
the consolidated financial statements of the Group and parent Company financial statements, prepared in accordance with the The parent Company financial statements are required by law to give applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent Company.
the assets, liabilities, financial position and the profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken In preparing each of the consolidated financial statements of the as a whole: and Group and parent Company financial statements, the directors are the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and required to: performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: that they face.
state for the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as By Order of the Board adopted by the EU: state for the parent Company financial statements whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Company financial statements: and Rachel Whiting prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it Chief Financial Officer is inappropriate to presume the Group and the parent Company will 27 February 2014 continue in operational business for the foreseeable future.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, for the Group, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards Regulation.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a strategic report, a directors report, a directors remuneration report and a statement on corporate governance that comply with the law and those regulations.
They are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
