S P V I A H L S U N E - O C I T R E A A L T E I R N G R E C M U L O T T U R S U E C SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Our business model margins Spirent achieves.
Annual support and maintenance fees are Spirent is an expert in communications an important source of continuing revenue for Spirent.
Most of our manufacturing is outsourced to sub-contractors and our business is test and measurement technology.
not capital intensive: hence the conversion of earnings into cash is high for the business.
How Spirent creates value Spirents customers are the global network equipment An industry expert manufacturers, service providers, mobile device manufacturers, Our highly skilled people are our major resource: it is they who government and enterprises, all of whom face numerous challenges provide the expert knowledge needed to develop these complex to satisfy the ever-increasing demand for data capacity, reliability and solutions.
Our value-creating culture is critical in providing the right security by all members of society.
environment to foster their innovation.
Spirents solutions enable customers to increase their revenues by We maintain and build on our expertise through investment in reducing their time to bring new products and services to market, product development engineering, the extension of our engagement with higher quality and reliability while reducing associated cost and with industry standards bodies, and close alignment with our risk.
Our test solutions, which span the entire product lifecycle from customers who lead innovation in the industries we serve.
concept to commercial availability, deliver efficiency and effectiveness to development engineers to make better use of their Shareholder returns scarce resources.
Much of our revenue comes from follow on Our focus on value-creation through investment in the business, business with our customers, who have worked with us for many whether that be organically through product development, by years.
This is a result of a combination of our ability to innovate to acquisition of technology, or access to new served markets, is meet their needs and on our emphasis on providing first class aimed at delivering capital growth and cash generation to service professional services and support.
All of the above, with the optimal distributions through dividends and share repurchase.
utilisation of our own resources, supports the sustainability of the Caroline Lee EMEA HR Director 14 I N T E L L N E O C I T T U A A V L O P N R N O I P E R T Y STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our key strengths At the cornerstone of Spirents business model are the key strengths which support the strategy and are the enablers for the creation of value for shareholders and other stakeholders: Innovation Customer relationships We innovate through the endeavours Customer relationships are key.
of our highly skilled and creative Spirents customers are the leading people who build on decades of providers of new technologies for experience.
External inputs are data communications in the world.
important through our technology Our strategy is focused on providing partners as is being located in the our customers with easy-to-use worlds leading centres for solutions for testing and measuring technological development.
We also strive to provide our customers with In September 2013 Spirent launched the highest quality of support and Avalanche NEXT, a powerful, easyservice possible.
to-use solution that tests the performance, scalability and In October 2013 Spirent joined security of todays applicationnetwork equipment vendor, Huawei aware network infrastructures by and independent testing lab, EANTC generating authentic traffic and to conduct a large scale, high density attacks.
The new interface is simple 6.4 terabit second core router test and streamlined, but leverages all at Huaweis IP Technology Gala the power of Spirents Avalanche and the Broadband World Forum.
Test in progress using Avalanche NEXT.
Gene Zhang VP and General and Studio Performance traffic This test verified the performance, Manager APAC.
scalability and resiliency of Huaweis NetEngine 5000E core router with a fully loaded 400G line card.
Value-creating culture Intellectual property We have embedded a culture We have created a large body of aimed at creating value for intellectual property, patented and stakeholders and shareholders, proprietary raising the barriers of entry which encourages rational risk to competition.
We attract and retain are evolutionary in nature and build talented people, offering career on our existing expertise as well as development, a non-discriminatory expanding our capabilities both workplace and fair and competitive organically and through acquisition.
Successful deployment of VoLTE requires voice quality and call In 2013 Spirents Positioning performance to be as good as, and operation received the Investors preferably better than, the services in People Silver award.
This was they are replacing.
In August 2013 we achieved through good planning, launched an integrated test solution strong leadership and people capable of fully quantifying the end management, excellent learning and user quality of experience and testing development support, and good with realistic scenarios prior to evaluation processes, all of which commercial deployment.
This solution Spirents Positioning team Top: Tech-X Flex in-home test solution ensure we get the very best from is backed by years of voice quality Paignton, Devon.
measurement expertise in live networks Bottom: Acoustic lab at Service Experience facility.
from Metrico, a market leading company acquired by Spirent in 2012.
