SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 What we test The boundaries of how fast, far and accurately voice and data can be transmitted have yet to be reached, or even defined but Spirent is leading the way.
Spirent Communications is where the worlds leading communications Spirent addresses the demands of virtualized data centers by testing companies come to test and evaluate their next-generation devices performance, availability, security and scalability, emulating the and applications.
In fact, most of the industrys significant advances actions of millions of real-world subscribers and services to help have been made using our tests as the benchmark.
ensure the quality of experience is maintained.
In an environment where everything is connected, Spirent provides Spirent is leading the validation of software-defined networking hardware and software solutions, services and test methodologies SDN network functions virtualization NFV technologies with that address customers testing needs from network equipment unparalleled realism and scale and accelerating their adoption in in a cloud data center to mobile device performance and user service provider, data center and enterprise environments.
We experience in the lab and on live networks.
develop test methodologies to deliver business benefits without impacting the quality of service QoS of the network or the Spirent is a leader in testing network equipment which utilises Ethernet user experience.
at ever-increasing scale, including switches, routers, firewalls, load balancers, data center fabrics and intrusion detection prevention.
We address the testing needs of all layers of service provider networks, including access, Wi-Fi offload, mobility and performance of the mobile packet core, cloud infrastructure and applications.
Spirent also provides live network monitoring systems for diagnostics and assurance of service levels for wireline, wireless service providers and multi-service cable operators, helping them to deploy and maintain efficient, cost effective and high performing networks and to reduce subscriber churn.
Spirents services help customers around the world accelerate development and deployment by maximising their investment in Spirent test solutions through support, education and professional services.
Spirents infrastructure test optimization solutions help address the challenges of bringing quality products to market faster in the face of rapid change and increasing complexity.
With its broad portfolio of solutions and services Spirent is uniquely positioned to address its customers complex testing needs in areas that include: 12 STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Networks & Applications Cloud Computing Applications & Security Mobility Enterprise Business Services moving to the cloud require Addressing the proliferation of Spirents unique mobility test Spirents solutions enable tuning of end user experience to be validated as application and vulnerability concerns solutions and methodologies enterprise networks across multiple data centers are upgraded with high for enterprise, government and service address the mobile data explosion, sites to maintain maximum speed Ethernet and technologies provider networks, Spirents security growth in applications, and mobility performance, reduce IT spending, such as SDN are introduced.
test solutions offer unprecedented across LTE, 2G 3G and Wi-Fi with enhance scalability and resolve realism and ease-of-use.
Wireless & Service Experience Positioning Technologies Device Performance Voice over LTE VoLTE Service Experience Spirent is the global leader in testing Spirent works with the worlds leading Launching complex new 4G services In an age of exploding complexity multiple positioning technologies carriers to develop methodologies, like VoLTE puts extraordinary and growth in mobile services, such as GPS in mobile devices and automated solutions and services that demands on networks and devices.
Spirents solutions objectively other receivers used in an ensure device performance meets Spirent is a leader in ensuring the predict end user quality of ever-increasing range of commercial strict acceptance criteria in the lab successful end-to-end deployment of experience on any device, any and government applications.
VoLTE and other IMS services.
operating system and any network.
Service Assurance Network Service Assurance Field Testing Customer Experience Spirents service assurance solutions Spirents field test product for service Management allow service providers around the providers enables qualification of the Spirents customer experience and world to diagnose, troubleshoot and service and troubleshooting of service quality management solution determine resolution of issues within transport and service related issues for service providers, aggregates and mobile backhaul, business services within the consumers home and in analyses data from sources including and global IP networks to support the outside plant.
probes, network equipment, end user Ethernet service delivery.
devices, and business systems providing real-time insights into their customers experience.
