SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Our strategy Our vision provides a simple definition of Spirents ultimate goal Expand the markets and our strategy describes how we will achieve this vision.
we serve Vision Through extension of our test product portfolio to serve network To be the leading experts in test and and applications security, mobile communications quality of service in the live network, development of microchip technologies for data measurement technology in the data communications, and monitoring systems for live network deployments for service providers and enterprise.
Key achievements in 2013 We expanded our solutions portfolio and served markets with an Spirent operates in a rapidly changing business environment and integrated applications and security test platform, as well as innovative therefore we regularly review our strategy to ensure it has a clear test solutions for software-defined networking SDN OpenFlow, Wi-Fi focus and direction based on the expected future market trends, offload and mobile device R&D.
We applied our expertise to the needs of opportunities and the challenges we face.
In September 2013 Eric the enterprise market with a new powerful, easy-to-use network test Hutchinson was appointed as CEO which led Spirent to refresh the platform.
We also integrated the measurement tools for live networks strategy and the key actions for its achievement.
acquired with Metrico with test solutions from our Wireless business to address the lab-based quality of experience testing requirements of our mobile device customers.
Strategy Plan 2014 To continuously innovate in test and We plan to further extend our cloud and data center capabilities in SDN and network functions virtualization NFV, differentiate in end-to-end testing, measurement technologies to develop expand into new verticals including machine-to-machine M2M, critical infrastructure, enterprise and automotive, add value to our customers with leading products and services for fixed automation and infrastructure test optimization ITO, and offer more analytics that provide actionable answers from our customers Big Data.
and mobile voice, data and video applications and networks.
Acquire new capabilities and technologies To be recognised by customers for Through expansion of our portfolio through partnerships, licensing the ease-of-use and simplicity of our technologies and or the purchase of businesses.
solutions for testing and measuring Key achievements in 2013 their complex systems.
Although there were no acquisitions in 2013, good progress was made in the integration of technology and expertise acquired in 2012 with Mu and Metrico.
In September 2013 Avalanche NEXT was launched which combines the powerful performance testing of Spirent Avalanche with Key actions Spirent Studios threats and application emulation using capabilities We have identified a number of key actions that we believe are critical acquired with Mu.
In August an integrated test solution capable of in order for Spirent to achieve the strategy and ultimately the vision, quantifying the mobile end user quality of experience and testing with recognising at the same time that Spirent must utilise its resources as realistic scenarios prior to commercial deployment was released, taking efficiently as possible.
advantage of the expertise in user experience testing in live networks acquired with Metrico.
Progress made during 2013 and what we are aiming to achieve in 2014 are summarised in this section: Plan 2014 Further expansion of our partnership programme will take place in 2014 and targeted technology acquisitions are planned in areas of strategic importance.
In 2014 to date, two acquisitions have been announced.
Pages 26 to 29 for Financial review for more details on these acquisitions Embed a culture of responsible and sustainable business practices 16 STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Invest in our people Deepen our customer relationships Spirent is its employees.
Finding, keeping and engaging highly qualified Through emphasis on quality of service, delivery and support.
Our and skilled employees is central to our ability to deliver on our strategy partnership with our customers will be strengthened through new and to the success of our business.
innovative solutions for their future needs and by extending the capabilities of our in-house expertise.
New relationships will be established with the expansion of our sales and marketing reach Key achievements in 2013 into new vertical segments and geographic regions.
We established an employee value proposition in order to clearly communicate our brand to current and prospective employees, and thereby retain and attract the best people.
Leadership bench strength was Key achievements in 2013 developed through various programmes including 360 degree feedback, A Customer Engagement programme focused on customer satisfaction succession management, organisational and individual accountability and improved alignment with our key service provider and equipment and financial acumen training.
Employees in all regions around the globe manufacturer customers and has resulted in market share gains in participated in courses, designed to enhance our ability to service the some of our most important accounts.
Customer satisfaction was also customer and to create innovative, leading products.
enhanced through an integrated approach of on-site resources and collaborative testing that drove improved quality of our solutions.
Plan 2014 Expansion of our training and development programmes is included in our Plan 2014 operating budget for 2014.
In order to align all levels of the organisation We will align our services teams more closely with the critical technology with our vision and strategy as we respond to the rapidly changing developments of our customers.
We will expand our resources to put business environment, emphasis will be placed upon communicating the our experts closer to our customers and enhance our response to their Companys key objectives to every individual, and driving the culture and growing challenges with the complexity of systems and networks technical expertise needed to attain them.
through software automation and expert test methodologies.
Establish and maintain Maintain financial technology leadership strength and flexibility Through investment in product development engineering expertise, the Having a robust balance sheet and strong cash generation gives Spirent extension of our engagement with industry standards bodies, and close the ability to invest in organic growth, pursue strategic acquisitions and alignment with our customers who lead innovation in the industries we pay sustainable progressive dividends to shareholders.
We will expand our competencies in test automation, efficiency and markets that deliver high operating returns and operating performance methodology, high performance test, scalability and in the replication of and cash generation are closely aligned.
and use of live real-world traffic and conditions.
Key achievements in 2013 Key achievements in 2013 Free cash flow for 2013 was $43.9 million, representing 1.3 times In 2013 we increased our investment in product development engineering reported earnings and the closing cash balance was $216.2 million by $14.4 million over the prior year.
In 2013 Spirent released multiple and there was no debt.
Share buybacks and dividends to shareholders important new products and additions to functionality in key areas such amounted to $76.9 million.
The strong balance sheet ensured that as SDN NFV, applications and security, Ethernet service assurance and Spirent was still able to meet its product development investment satellite positioning.
plans despite the lower levels of trading in 2013.
Plan 2014 Plan 2014 We plan to expand our capabilities by increasing investment in product In 2014 Spirent plans to make an additional investment of around development by an additional $15 million, by growing our recognition $33 million to support the future organic growth of the business.
as experts in test and measurement though enhancing our global This additional expenditure will be funded from cash generated from presence and driving more industry standards, through the acquisition operating activities.
of intellectual property and by the acquisition of new software and solution capabilities.
It is important that in the execution of our strategy we act responsibly and consider our impact on all of our stakeholders.
In this way Spirent will remain an efficient, well managed and well respected organisation a business that our employees, customers and communities delight in engaging with.
Employees pages 36 to 37 and CSR pages 38 to 43 for further information 17
