Sports Direct plc Annual Report 2013 38 DIRECTORS REPORT the directors of sports direct international plc present their annual report and accounts for the year ended 28 april 2013.
PRINCIPAL ACTIvITIES AND BUSINESS REvIEW the chief executives report on pages 18 to 31 provides a detailed review of the directors were authorised to allot shares in the capital of the group up to an the groups current activities and potential future developments together with aggregate nominal amount of 19,953,412 being approximately one third of the factors likely to affect future development, performance and conditions.
there then issued share capital for the period expiring at 11 september 2013, the date is also a table of the principal risks and uncertainties likely to affect the group.
of the next 2013 annual general meeting.
the financial position of the group, its cash flow, liquidity position and borrowing in line with guidance from the association of british insurers the company was facilities are described in the financial review on pages 32 to 35. the corporate also granted authority to issue a further third of the issued share capital to a responsibility report on pages 52 to 55 reports on environmental matters, nominal amount of 39,906,824 being approximately 35% of the issued share including the impact of the groups businesses on the environment, the groups capital in connection with a rights issue.
employees, and on social and community issues.
a further authority to allot shares up to a maximum nominal value of 2,993,011 the principal activities of the group during the year remained unchanged being approximately 5% of the then issued share capital as if statutory preand were: emption rights did not apply, was also approved.
retailing of sports and leisure clothing, footwear and equipment: the authorities expire at the close of the next annual general meeting of the wholesale distribution and sale of sports and leisure clothing, footwear and company, but a contract to allot shares under these authorities may be made equipment under group-owned or licensed brands: and prior to the expiry of the authority and concluded in whole or part after the annual general meeting, and at that meeting similar authorities will be sought licensing of group brands.
further information of the groups principal activities is set out in the front of this the group was authorised to make market purchases of ordinary shares of document and in the chief executives report on pages 18 to 31.
10p each in the company of up to a maximum aggregate number 59,855,236 representing 10% of the companys issued ordinary share capital at the 2012 annual general meeting.
the above authority expires at the close of the next RESULTS FOR THE YEAR AND DIvIDENDS annual general meeting of the company, and at that meeting a similar authority will be sought from shareholders.
revenue for the 52 weeks ended 28 april 2013 was 2,185.6m and profit before tax was 207.2m compared with 1,835.8m and 151.5m in the prior year.
the trading results for the year and the groups financial position as at the end of the SHAREHOLDERS year are shown in the attached financial statements, and discussed further in the chief executives report and business review and in the financial review no shareholder enjoys any special control rights, and, except as set out below, on pages 18 to 31 and 32 to 35 respectively.
there are no restrictions in the transfer of shares or of voting rights.
the board has determined not to recommend a dividend this year.
mike ashley has entered into a relationship agreement with the company.
under the terms of the agreement mike ashley undertook that, for so long as he is entitled to exercise, or to control the exercise of, 15% or more of the rights to SHARE CAPITAL AND CONTROL vote at general meetings of the company, he will: the authorised share capital of the company is 100,000,000 divided into conduct all transactions and relationships with any member of the group on 999,500,010 ordinary shares of 10p each and 499,990 redeemable preference arms length terms and on a normal commercial basis and with the approval shares of 10p each.
of the non-executive directors: further information regarding the groups issued share capital can be found on exercise his voting rights or other rights in support of the company being page 78 of the financial statements.
managed in accordance with the listing rules and the principles of good governance set out in the uk corporate governance code and not exercise details of executive and employee share schemes are also set out on page 78. any of his voting or other rights and powers to procure any amendment to no votes are cast in respect of the shares held in the employee benefit trust and the articles of association of the company: dividends would be waived.
other than through his interest in the company, not have any interest in there are 640,602,369 ordinary shares of 10p in issue and fully paid of which any business which sells sports apparel and equipment subject to certain 42,137,508 are currently held in treasury.
rights, after notification to the company, to acquire any such interest of less than 20% of the business concerned, and certain other limited exceptions, there are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares, which are without receiving the prior approval of the non-executive directors: and not governed both by the general provisions of the articles of association and solicit for employment or employ any senior employee of the company.
the directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
the business review Management & Governance financial statements & notes additional information 39 as at 18 July 2013, the company has been advised that the following parties had a significant direct or indirect shareholding in the shares of the company: Percentage of issued ordinary share Number of shares held capital with voting rights held Nature of holding 1 mash holdings limited 385,400,000 64.40% direct 2 odey asset management 44,245,793 7.39% direct schroders plc 28,194,000 4.71% direct 1 2 mash holdings limited is wholly owned by mike ashley odey asset management indirectly held 3,476,023 shares in a contract for difference account SUPPLIERS the group understands the importance of maintaining good relationships with further information on relationships with employees can be found in the suppliers and it is group policy to agree appropriate terms and conditions for its corporate responsibility report on page 52. transactions with suppliers ranging from standard written terms to individually negotiated contracts and for payment to be made in accordance with these EqUAL OPPORTUNITIES terms, provided the supplier has complied with its obligations.
the groups policy for employees and all applicants for employment is to match trade creditors of the groups uk operations as at 28 april 2013 were 28 days the capabilities and talents of each individual to the appropriate job.
such as gender, race, religion or belief, sexual orientation, age, disability or ethnic origin should be ignored and any decision which is made with regard to CONTRACTS ESSENTIAL TO THE BUSINESS OF THE COMPANY candidates should be irrespective of these.
discrimination in any form will not be tolerated under any circumstances within the group.
the chief executives report on pages 18 to 31 details information about persons with whom the group has contractual or other arrangements and are applications for employment by disabled persons are given full and fair deemed essential or material to the business of the group.
consideration for all vacancies, and are assessed in accordance with their particular skills and abilities.
the group does all that is practicable to meet its responsibilities towards the training and employment of disabled people, and TAKEOvERS to ensure that training, career development and promotion opportunities are available to all employees.
the directors do not believe that there are any significant contracts that may change in the event of a successful takeover of the company.
details of the the group makes every effort to provide continuity of employment where impact of any successful takeover of the group on the directors bonus and current employees become disabled.
attempts are made in every circumstance share schemes are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages to provide employment, whether this involves adapting the current job role 47 to 50. and remaining in the same job, or moving to a more appropriate job role.
Job retraining and job adaptation are just two examples of how the group works in the interests of employees to promote equal opportunities in order that the EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES employees employment within the group may continue.
the group values the knowledge and expertise that employees have gained throughout their details of the executive bonus share schemes are set out in the directors employment with us, and therefore does not wish to lose valued employees.
remuneration report on page 48 and details of the employee bonus share schemes on page 52 of the corporate responsibility report.
RESEARCH AND DEvELOPMENT EMPLOYEE INvOLvEMENT the group designs clothing and some footwear for sale in stores and has arrangements with suppliers for the research and development of goods for the the success which the group has enjoyed is largely a result of the loyalty brands division.
and enthusiasm of our c. 24,000 employees.
both the 2009 employee bonus share scheme and the 2011 employee bonus share scheme have incentivised employees and provided them with an opportunity to own shares in the listed CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS company while working towards a shared target.
the schemes are subject to a number of conditions, including personal performance conditions.
the during the year, the group made charitable donations of 25,132 2012: purpose of the schemes has been to encourage hard work in our employees 30,060 in the uk.
no political donations were made 2012: nil.
there have in order that the group achieves the requisite underlying ebitda targets and been a number of further donations of sporting equipment made to worthy the employee achieves a bonus.
the schemes have also assisted the group to causes, and these are set out on pages 54 to 55. retain key employees whose skills and expertise are necessary to the success of the group.
the first part of the 2009 employee bonus share scheme vested in august 2012 and the second part of the scheme is due to vest in august 2013. these awards will provide many employees with life-changing sums.
the 2011 employee bonus share scheme vests in september 2015 and september 2017. this scheme has four essential underlying ebitda targets, two of which have already been achieved.
both of these bonus share schemes will operate in addition to the current workplace bonus schemes, which are directly related to specific workplace performance.
Sports Direct plc Annual Report 2013 40 DIRECTORS REPORT continued DIRECTORS details of current directors, dates of appointment, their roles, responsibilities the group is profitable, highly cash generative and has considerable financial and significant external commitments are set out on pages 36 and 37. resources.
the group is able to operate comfortably within its banking facilities and covenants, which run until march 2015, and is well placed to take although the companys articles of association require retirement by rotation of advantage of strategic opportunities as they arise.
one third of directors each year, the group has chosen to comply with the 2012 uk corporate governance code and at each annual general meeting all of the as a consequence, the directors believe that the group is well placed to directors will retire and stand for reappointment.
manage its business risks successfully despite the continued uncertain economic outlook.
information on service contracts and details of the interests of the directors and their families in the share capital of the company at 28 april 2013 and at the the groups forecast and projections, taking account of reasonable possible date of this report is shown in the directors remuneration report on pages changes in trading performance, show that the group should be able to operate 48 and 49. within the level of the current facility.
copies of the service contracts of executive directors and of the appointment the directors have thoroughly reviewed the groups performance and position letters of the chairman and non-executive directors are available for inspection and the directors are therefore confident that the group will continue in at the companys registered office during normal business hours and at the operational existence for the foreseeable future.
on this basis, the directors annual general meeting.
continue to adopt the going concern basis for the preparation of the annual report and financial statements.
no director has a directorship in common or other significant links with any other director except in the case of the executive directors holding ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT directorships of subsidiary companies of the group.
a statement by the auditor can be found on page 56 detailing their reporting DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST responsibilities.
the directors fulfil their responsibilities and these are set out in the responsibility statement on page 51. the board has formal procedures to deal with directors conflicts of interest.
during the year the board reviewed and, where appropriate, approved certain AUDITOR situational conflicts of interest that were reported to it by directors, and a register of those situational conflicts is maintained and reviewed.
the board grant thornton uk llp have expressed a willingness to continue in office.
in noted any transactional conflicts of interest concerning directors that arose and accordance with section 489 4 of the companies act 2006, resolutions to were declared.
no director took part in the discussion or determination of any determine remuneration are to be agreed at the agm.
matter in respect of which he had disclosed a transactional conflict of interest.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES by order of the board the group have granted the directors with Qualifying third party indemnity Rebecca Tylee-Birdsall provisions within the meaning given to the term by sections 234 and 235 of company secretary the 2006 act.
this is in respect of liabilities to which they may become liable 18 July 2013 in their capacity as director of the company and of any company within the group.
such indemnities were in force throughout the financial year and will remain in force.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING the 2013 annual general meeting will be held on 11 september 2013 at unit d, brook park east, shirebrook, ng20 8ry.
the meeting will commence at 3.00pm.
the board encourages shareholders to attend and participate in the meeting.
GOING CONCERN the companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the business review on pages 18 to 31. the financial position of the company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the finance directors review on pages 30 to 34. in addition, the financial statements include the companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
