Sports Direct plc Annual Report 2013 36 THE BOARD audit committee Dr Keith Hellawell QPM Non-Executive Chairman, Chairman of Nomination Committee remuneration committee Appointed: 24 november 2009 nomination committee Previous Roles: prior to joining the team at sports direct international plc, dr hellawell spent over 40 years in public sector management being a former chief constable of two british police forces.
while working directly for the prime minister between 1998 and 2002, he wrote and coordinated the united kingdom national and international anti-drugs policy.
Present Roles: dr hellawell has been involved in the private sector since 1998 when he joined evans of leeds, a fully listed property company.
since then he has served on the boards of both dalkia plc and sterience limited, subsidiaries of the french company veolia env.
dr hellawell is currently a non-executive director of mortice plc, a singapore based facilities management company and a director of the super-league team huddersfield giants.
he was non-executive chairman of goldshield group plc, a marketing led pharmaceutical and consumer health company, from may 2006 to its sale in december 2009. he has held a number of other non-executive board positions in private companies including vehicle manufacturing and it.
he also runs his own management and training consultancy company.
Key Skills Strengths: dr hellawell has worked in both the public and private sector for over 50 years.
throughout this time he has built up a wealth of experience which he brings to the group to ensure the successful and effective operation of the board.
Mike Ashley Executive Deputy Chairman Appointed: 1982 founder Previous Roles: mike established the business of the group on leaving school in 1982 and was the sole owner until the groups listing in march 2007.
Key Skills Strengths: mike was the founder of the group and has the necessary skills for formulating the vision and strategy of the group.
with over 30 years in the sports retail business with sports direct, he is invaluable to the group.
Dave Forsey Chief Executive Appointed: 1984 Key Skills Strengths: dave has been with the business for over 28 years, during which time he has acquired significant knowledge and experience of the sports retail business.
in conjunction with the deputy chairman, he agrees strategy, appropriate objectives and policies for each of the businesses.
dave has overall responsibility for the daily management of the group.
Bob Mellors Group Finance Director Appointed: 2004 Previous Roles: a graduate in economics, he qualified with  in london before joining eacott worrall, where sports direct became a client in 1982. he was managing partner and head of corporate finance at eacott worrall before joining the group.
Key Skills Strengths: bob qualified as a chartered accountant with  and has extensive financial experience.
bob has extensive knowledge of mergers and acquisitions.
the business review Management & Governance financial statements & notes additional information 37 Simon Bentley Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee Appointed: 02 march 2007 Previous Roles: simon qualified as a chartered accountant in 1980 and in 1987 joined blacks leisure group plc where he was chairman and chief executive for 12 years.
Present Roles: simon chairs and is on the board of a range of companies and organisations.
among these, he is chairman of the hair brand umberto giannini, is the principal owner and chairman of the leading mobile atm operator cash on the move, and is chairman of yad vashem uk foundation.
Key Skills Strengths: he has lengthy experience of the sporting goods industry.
David Singleton Non-Executive Director, Chairman of Remuneration Committee Appointed: 27 october 2007 Previous Roles: dave spent 25 years with reebok international limited.
he stepped down in april 2007 having assisted with the successful integration of reebok following its acquisition by adidas group in January 2006. for eight years he was vice president of northern europe region & uk and then was senior vice president of europe, middle east & africa.
Present Roles: dave is chairman of bolton lads & girls club, chairman of bolton community leisure trust and a trustee at bolton wanderers community trust.
Key Skills Strengths: dave has an extensive senior management record and brings valuable experience of international sports brand operations.
Charles McCreevy Non-Executive Director Appointed: 31 march 2011 Previous Roles: charles is a highly experienced politician who previously served as eu commissioner for internal markets and services between 2004- 2010, and has held positions in several irish government ministerial offices, including minister for finance between 1997-2004, minister for tourism & trade between 1993-1994 and minister for social welfare from 1992-1993.
Present Roles: charles currently holds non-executive director positions at ryanair holdings plc, sentenial limited, celsius funds plc, grove limited and barchester holdco Jersey limited.
Key Skills Strengths: charles has extensive all-round business knowledge with particular relevance to the european union.
Claire Jenkins Non-Executive Director Appointed: 25 may 2011 Previous Roles: until recently, claire was group director corporate affairs and a member of the executive leadership team, responsible for the companys sustainability and communications activities, at rexam plc, a leading global beverage can maker and a major player in rigid plastic packaging.
prior to that, she was a member of the management committee of international tobacco company gallaher group plc acquired by Japan tobacco in 2007 where she was responsible for investor relations and group planning.
claire has also gained corporate experience in various consulting roles at laing & cruickshank, and as a non-executive director of retro classics fund.
Present Roles: claire is chairman of amicus, and a non-executive director of media for development.
Key Skills Strengths: claire has excellent all-round business experience and, in addition, has particular corporate governance and communication skills.
