Strategic overview Questions and answers with the SSE Executive Team Are you pleased with SSEs overall performance in 2012 13?
Answering key Ian After five years of sustaining profit increases during a period of tough underlying conditions for the energy sector, questions.
it is clearly encouraging that we have delivered an increase of 5.6% in adjusted profit before tax.
In the year to March 2013, SSE had three Executive Those tough underlying conditions are Directors: outgoing Chief Executive Ian Marchant, continuing.
Stubbornly low margins for gas Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Executive Designate generation, persistently weak economic conditions, turbulence in global energy Alistair Phillips-Davies and Finance Director Gregor markets and heightened political and Alexander.
Here they answer some of the key regulatory activity at home are continuing questions facing both SSE and the energy industry to make for a challenging and complex operating environment.
Gregor The increase in profit growth in 2012-13 is down to a number of factors.
First and foremost it is down to SSEs vertically integrated business model that invests in a balanced range of energy businesses.
When the market cycle is at a low point, regulated networks deliver solid dependable returns, and when the market picks up, the competitive businesses should provide upside.
It is also down to some good, old-fashioned cost control.
SSE has a long standing reputation for efficiency and controlling costs and we have worked very hard over the last year reinforcing that culture and weeding out any unnecessary spend.
Putting safety first is an often cited SSE mantra.
Are you satisfied with its safety record during 2012-13 and why should this matter to shareholders?
Alistair I am disappointed with the safety performance this year.
It is true that we have safety statistics that many companies would be proud of but, to be frank, thats not the most important thing.
What matters is that we should make consistent progress towards an injury free working environment and we still have a lot of work to do before we reach that target.
Gregor I believe our safety performance has to be our top priority.
First of all because of the human impact of a poor Watch the video safety performance, but also because a Ian, Alistair and Gregor talk about SSEs full-year results.
companys attitude to the safety of its http: www.
com sseplc workforce tells you a lot about what Left to right: Ian, Alistair and Gregor kind of company it is.
Simply put, safe companies are good companies.
You have repeatedly made the There are reports that some is important.
Thermal generation provides point that SSE must earn the big businesses in the UK the critical flexibility that enables us to right to make its profit.
Do you are avoiding making a fair make the most of the renewable resources believe it has done so this year?
contribution to the UK Treasury when the wind blows, the sun shines or the in terms of tax contributions.
We contribute to making energy Alistair This year has been a case of one What is SSEs position?
as affordable as possible by pursuing only step forward: one step back.
The outcome the most economic investment projects at of Ofgems investigation into our previous Gregor SSE disagrees strongly with any the same time as helping our customers sales practices was obviously a significant company that takes an aggressive stance reduce their overall energy consumption.
setback in persuading customers that we in interpreting tax legislation, or uses soare worthy of their trust.
called tax havens as a means of doing Customers are worried about so.
As a UK based and listed company energy bills.
How worried We have a lot of work to do in the months operating solely in the UK and Ireland, SSE should they be?
However, on a more positive note, believes it has a responsibility to operate we introduced a sector-leading Customer within both the letter and spirit of the law Gregor The winter gas price for 2012 13 Service Guarantee that is delivering for at all times.
While the position varies from contributed to the highest-ever financial customers.
year to year, according to the 2012 PwC year average price.
Because the UK is Total Tax Contribution survey, SSE ranked increasingly reliant on gas imports, the More broadly, the performance of the 17th for UK taxes paid, whilst being ranked volatility we have seen in domestic gas Networks businesses, especially in the 30th in the FTSE by market capitalisation prices in recent times becomes very late March snow storms on the west of difficult to avoid.
SSE works hard to counter Scotland, should have helped to build The energy problem in the UK is this volatility and to secure supplies for trust and respect amongst our network often described as a trilemma, customers as cheaply and reliably as customers and other stakeholders.
of competing pressures from possible its in our interests as well as the challenges of climate change, our customers that we do this.
But the The record 10.5m fine imposed security of supply and energy underlying structural issues behind price on SSE for misleading customers affordability.
In the face of spikes show no signs of abating, and has been described as a damning those competing pressures that means we all have an interest in indictment of what SSE has done.
is it possible for SSE to find the ongoing political debate that will How can you square that with the a sustainable balance?
help shape our energy future.
Alistair The key word here is balance Alistair I am acutely aware the overall Ian I cant.
But I do believe that good and to understand the trade offs that cost of energy to our customers is companies can make bad mistakes.
The occur in order to achieve that balance.
becoming an increasing burden on their test of whether an organisation can live The UK could provide all of its energy household budgets.
Energy affordability up to the standards expected of it is in more cheaply for a short time through is a critical issue and we do everything making sure the mistake is put right and fossil fuels but there would be a very we can to avoid price increases, and will never repeated.
We are all determined negative impact on natural resources.
But the additional costs that this will be the case with SSE.
We also cant be sure that fossil fuels that are borne by the energy customer will deliver security of supply given our such as the cost of government-sponsored Alistair The SSE values are about being reliance on unpredictable, but increasingly environmental and social schemes have open and honest and we have made competitive and demanding, global a material impact on their energy bills.
no bones about the fact we got things markets.
The country could put all its These costs are part of an obligation placed wrong, and weve all apologised for that.
eggs in the renewable basket but it on us by Government and there is nothing Ofgem has proved itself to be a tough cannot generate energy 24 7.
Equally, we can do to avoid it.
The key thing the UK could pursue the very expensive that matters now is that we never nuclear option, but even the most ardent Another issue customers are repeat the same mistake.
nuclear supporter is unlikely to claim worried about is security of that it is capable of providing all of the supply.
Do you believe the UKs At the end of 2011 we introduced countrys energy requirements.
We and current plans for Electricity a Sales Guarantee to compensate the country as a whole have to manage Market Reform will enable customers who may have been mis-sold.
these competing demands at the same sufficient investment in electricity Since then, we have created a newlytime as ensuring the choices for future infrastructure to avoid a security structured Retail division and brought generations are not compromised.
of supply crunch in the future?
in from outside SSE new members of the senior management team.
Gregor In this competing trilemma Ian We cant speak on behalf of SSEs strategy is simple.
We will invest other companies that may or may not We have totally changed the way we in the things we know we are good at: invest, but given that SSE is the only UK conduct sales.
We aim to make every renewable energy and lower carbon headquartered energy utility with such sale open, honest and informed so that thermal generation.
The combination a strong and broad focus on the UK customers can make the right choice.
of these two generating technologies electricity market, I would suggest that 09 Strategic overview Questions and answers with the SSE Executive Team continued our assessment should be of particular live well.
SSE has a clearly-defined market is delivering significant growth in its concern to the UK government.
There is focus concentrating all of its activities in regulated asset base, underpinning the a real risk that the continuing uncertainty the UK and Irish markets.
These markets, solid and stable returns that are vital for over measures such as the Contract for in comparison to elsewhere, are noted for our shareholders.
Difference and the capacity market simply their lower political risk.
Of course, even in increase a reluctance to invest.
An early the UK political risk is omnipresent which In the past, SSE would be and appropriate capacity mechanism is why we work hard to make our case to described as an excellent would make a significantly positive impact politicians, government and the regulator.
operator of energy assets, not on the investment case for new gas-fired necessarily as a company that generation plant that is critical to securing The date for a referendum on was excellent at building energy electricity supply throughout this decade.
Scottish independence has now assets.
What does that mean Alistair A good illustration of Ians point for SSE?
Ian In my ten years as Chief Executive is the example of nuclear.
A six month the company has undergone three phases.
delay in agreeing strike prices for nuclear Gregor We made our position on this Firstly we cut waste and duplication in the will simply mean that new nuclear will clear in 2012, and it hasnt changed.
years after the original merger forming come on later than expected and well Constitutional issues are matters for SSE in 1998.
Then there was a phase when after 2020.
But slow progress towards voters.
As we said in 2012, the referendum acquisitions were plenty and SSE built a a capacity mechanism will exacerbate does increase the risk of regulatory and reputation for good judgement and timing an already precarious security of supply legislative change with regard to the in acquiring assets and for successfully problem in the middle of this decade.
electricity and gas industry in Scotland integrating them in to the business.
and we have to take account of that in Finally, from 2008, SSE has undertaken And what will this mean for making decisions about the business.
a large capital programme of investment SSEs investors?
At the same time, we expect SSE to focussing on building new wind farms, continue to be a significant business in new transmission infrastructure and Gregor We will work hard to make England, Wales, Scotland, Northern Ireland the maintenance and development of the case to government for an electricity and the Republic of Ireland in the short, existing and new thermal generation plant.
market framework that will appropriately medium and long term.
The company is becoming increasingly reward the risk that capital providers will skilled in this area.
If, however, proposed generation When the attention of the projects fail to meet the disciplined public, politicians and the Alistair The scale of SSEs programme financial criteria we set, then we will media is fixed firmly onto the of capital investment makes it one of the not put shareholder returns at risk, and debates surrounding security biggest across the UK and Ireland but we we will seek to invest in alternative options.
of supply and the price of have learnt to pursue and deliver those SSE has a broad set of investment options energy, how important are the investments with the same discipline and and there is always an alternative valueNetworks businesses to SSE?
rigour for which we had built a reputation adding project to invest in.
for in operations and acquisitions.
We must Alistair Many people see networks as constantly caution against complacency Alistair As Gregor says, we have plenty the jewel in SSEs crown, and its easy to and have established ways to maintain of options and thats one of the benefits see why.
Of course they provide the basis the process of continuous improvement.
of our balanced business model.
For the under which we can make dependable period up to 2012, for example, the biggest returns but they also provide an important Gregor The focus for us is to make sure element of our investment programme contribution to the culture of SSE as a capital starts earning its way as quickly as was renewable energy, but that has started whole.
Operational excellence and a focus possible.
I am very pleased with the progress to change and over the next few years the and pride for keeping the lights on are in completing our onshore wind farm biggest proportion of our investment will embedded within the network businesses developments to time and within budget be in  electricity and influence all the businesses that make with the key target for the construction networks.
We are very careful to make up the SSE Group.
teams being on achieving first energy.
This sure that we dont over-allocate the financial year we have seen a substantial money we invest to any single part of Gregor All three of SSEs energy networks increase in total installed capacity which is the business and thereby expose SSE businesses are performing well but with now earning income for our shareholders.
and its investors to unnecessary risk.
their own specific challenges to meet.
SGN of which SSE owns 50% has proved Has SSE become capital How do you assess political and itself to be a first class investment, with constrained?
Are you being regulatory risk to the business its operational performance delivering prevented from pursuing in 2013 14 and beyond?
The investment opportunities electricity distribution networks in the due to a lack of capital?
Alistair Political and regulatory risk south of England and the north of Scotland is a prominent feature of the industry are innovating and reforming in a way not Gregor I am comfortable that the current we participate in and for understandable seen for a generation.
And the north of level of investment is appropriate in order reasons.
People need energy to live and to Scotland electricity transmission business to continue delivering the dividend target 10 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 1.
4. over the medium to long term.
There is that is very sure of what it is here to do and diversity and flexibility in our financial what it stands for.
Thats partly because of management and flexibility within the the SSE SET of core values safety, service, capital programme to be able to respond efficiency, sustainability, excellence and to opportunities if they arise but we teamwork.
Theyre very well-established remain firmly committed to the current throughout SSE.
These values, I believe, criteria set out for an Arating from the will endure beyond any of the individuals credit agencies.
that hold the most senior management positions.
With a new Chief Executive, will SSE introduce a new Gregor Alistair and I have thoroughly strategy for the future?
The great thing is that through the work he has Alistair No.
SSEs existing strategy is the led, the company is on a strong footing product of its whole management team for the future, with a clear strategy and of which Gregor and I have been members straightforward financial objective, backed for over a decade.
The Board and the senior up by the core values which go to the heart management team remain as clear as we of everything we do.
have always been SSEs strategic purpose is to provide the energy people need in a Alistair SSE is a good company and Ian reliable and sustainable way.
And in doing has been an outstanding leader.
I am so we will work to meet our core financial enormously looking forward to taking over objective which is to deliver real growth the reins, working alongside Gregor.
But I in the dividend every year.
am clear about what the change means.
This is a change of CEO, or team captain, Gregor Alistair and I have worked not a change in the core strategy or the together since SSE was formed in 1998 and overall make-up of the team.
SSEs core each year since then we have been able strategic purpose remains firm: to provide to point to the benefits of the companys the energy people need in a reliable strategy being realised in practice.
There and sustainable way and in doing so we is no reason to change it, and it would be will work to meet our principal financial wrong to do so.
Obviously, well continue objective: delivering real term increases to anticipate and adapt to changes in the in the dividend year after year.
sector and in the wider economy.
Weve always done that and we always will but always within the framework of our established strategy.
What is the greatest risk of SSE being unable to deliver that dividend target in 2013-14?
Gregor Provided we stick to the financial and operational discipline that has defined SSE for over a decade, I firmly believe we will be in a strong position to deliver an above inflation increase in the dividend next year.
We will also be well positioned to continue to deliver those all important dividend payments to our shareholders every year after that.
Finally, with Ian stepping as Chief Executive do you have any comments for the future?
Ian SSE has always had strength and depth to its management team.
I am proud that our long term succession planning has meant that Alistair is the right person to succeed me.
