0.14 13 12 0.11 11 0.12 0.14 10 09 0.16 Strategic overview Financial overview SSEs principal financial objective is to deliver annual Strategic focus #1 above-inflation increases in the dividend.
To do this, it operates and invests in a balanced range of energy Focusing on our networks, retail and wholesale businesses.
core values Continuing strategy for dividend growth discipline: a disciplined approach to SSE will maintain a strong SSEs core purpose is to provide the energy acquisitions, which should enhance emphasis on its six core values, people need in a reliable and sustainable earnings per share, or should not be the SSE SET of Safety, Service, way.
In fulfilling this purpose, SSE requires pursued at all: and Efficiency, Sustainability, the support of the shareholders who have measurement: safeguarding the Excellence and Teamwork.
invested in its shares, and it continues interests of shareholders by using the to believe their investment should be economics of a company share buyIt believes these values are especially remunerated through the payment of back as the first measurement for significant because energy is something dividends, for four key reasons: financial decisions.
which people need rather than want and so the highest possible standards the ultimate objective of financial The application of these principles supports in its operations and investments investment is to secure a cash return the fulfilment of SSEs first financial goal: are essential.
and receiving and reinvesting dividends the delivery of sustained real dividend is the biggest source of an investors growth.
This means that safety must come return over the long term: first.
SSE believes that the effective dividends provide income for those Targeting sustained real dividend management of safety issues is a investors who do not wish to reinvest growth over the long term barometer of effective management them: In practice, dividends are the principal way of all operational and investmentdividend targets provide a transparent in which corporate profits are distributed related activities.
means with which to hold management and it is in recognition of this that the first to account: and financial objective of SSEs strategy is the In addition, SSE believes that efficiency long-term commitment to dividend delivery of sustained real growth in the in operations and investments, service growth demands a disciplined, consistent dividend paid to shareholders.
of the highest possible standard for and long-term approach to operations, customers, sustainability at the heart investments and acquisitions.
As stated in its Annual Report 2012, SSEs of decision-making, excellence in policy is that dividend targets should be: all aspects of business activity and As a result of this, SSEs strategy is to deliver teamwork on the part of all employees sustained real growth in the dividend set in a way which is consistent with its should support the delivery of annual payable to shareholders through the financial principles see above : above-inflation increases in the dividend efficient operation of, and investment in, a realistic and attainable, so that there paid to shareholders.
balanced range of  can be the fullest possible confidence and market-based businesses in energy in their attainability: and production, storage, distribution, supply consistent with maintaining dividend Priority for 2013 14 and related services in the UK and Ireland.
cover over the medium term within a range around 1.5 times.
Deliver a reduction in the Total Sticking to the financial principles which Recordable Injury Rate.
underpin dividend growth In line with this, its target for 2013 14 This focus on the dividend requires SSE onwards is, as stated in its Annual Report to maintain a disciplined, consistent and 2012, the delivery of annual dividend Total Recordable Injury Rate long-term approach to the management of increases that are greater than RPI per 100,000 hours worked business activities and this is underpinned inflation.
In this context, inflation is 0.20 by its four financial principles: defined as the average annual rate across each of the 12 months to March.
0.15 strength: maintenance of a strong balance sheet, evidenced by the Maintaining a balanced range of energy 0.10 ongoing commitment to the current businesses through which to continue criteria for a single A credit rating: dividend growth 0.05 rigour: rigorous analysis to ensure SSE has three reportable segments investment decisions result in returns covering its Networks, Retail and in excess of the cost of capital: Wholesale businesses: 14 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 13 1,485.5 12 1,706.9 11 1,443.7 10 1,315.2 09 1,279.8 84.2 13 12 80.1 11 75.0 70.0 10 09 66.0 1.
Strategic focus #2 Strategic focus #3 Strategic focus #4 Maintaining a Sticking to Setting clear longbalanced business our financial term priorities principles SSE has adopted reportable The requirement on SSE to maintain SSE has identified five long-term segments covering Networks, a disciplined, consistent and longpriorities across its balanced range Retail and Wholesale businesses.
term approach to the management of businesses which reflect and are of business activities is underpinned consistent with the changes under SSE is the only company listed on the by a series of long-standing financial way at global, EU, UK and Irish levels London Stock Exchange which owns, principles: and with addressing the energy operates and invests in a balanced trilemma.
group of  energy strength: maintenance of a businesses, such as electricity networks, strong balance sheet, evidenced The long-term priorities are: and market-based energy businesses, by commitment to the current criteria such as energy supply and electricity for a single A credit rating: efficiency, responsiveness and generation.
The balance between rigour: rigorous analysis to ensure innovation in energy networks: these activities means that: investment decisions result in returns gaining and retaining the trust of greater than the cost of capital: a growing number of household while energy is at their core, SSE has discipline: deployment of a energy customers: a diverse range of businesses: selective and disciplined approach breadth and depth in the provision of within those businesses, SSE has to acquisitions, which should enhance energy-related services to businesses a diverse range of assets: and earnings per share or should not be and other organisations: to add to those assets, SSE has a pursued at all: and competitive and sustainable energy diverse range of investment options.
measurement: safeguarding the procurement: and interests of shareholders by using flexible and greener electricity This balance, diversity, growing asset base the economics of a company share production.
and range of investment options means buy-back as the first measurement that SSE has a broad platform from which for financial decisions.
SSE believes that the fulfilment of its to deliver the levels of profitability and core purpose, to provide the energy the long-term value required to support The application of these principles people need in a reliable and sustainable sustained real dividend growth.
In supports the fulfilment of SSEs way, and the delivery of annual aboveaddition, the risks to the achievement of first financial responsibility to inflation dividend growth, requires it to that growth are contained by that balance shareholders: the delivery of maintain a long-term view and clear and by the diversity of SSEs businesses, sustained real dividend growth.
long-term priorities across all aspects assets and investment options.
Priority for 2013 14 Priority for 2013 14 Priority for 2013 14 Maintain a diverse balance between Achieve an above-RPI inflation increase Implement a disciplined 1.5bn capital Networks, Retail and Wholesale in the dividend.
Operating profit composition Dividend per share pence Capital expenditure and investment in 2012 13 % m Networks 49 100 2,000 Retail 23 80 1,600 Wholesale 28 60 1,200 40 800 20 400 15 Strategic overview Financial overview continued Networks the  The first value is Safety, which is defined as: should also be reflected in the Annual transmission and distribution of We believe all accidents are preventable, Incentive scheme.
As a result, it concluded electricity and gas, plus other related so we do everything safely and responsibly, that the Executive Directors award earned networks: or not at all.
In 2012 13, however, SSEs should be reduced by 40% in total.
This Retail the supply of electricity, gas Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR per represents a fair response to the issues in and other services to household and 100,000 hours worked by employees was one part of SSEs Retail division, given the business customers: and 0.14, compared with 0.11 in 2011 12.
This significant progress made in other parts of Wholesale the production, storage disappointing result was the first increase the SSE group, including its Networks and and generation of energy and energy in the SSEs TRIR since it was adopted as Wholesale businesses.
This is the second portfolio management.
a key measure of safety performance in consecutive reduction in Annual Incentive 2008 09.
Nevertheless, SSEs long-term Scheme payments to Executive Directors These segments reflect the broad structure goal remains, quite simply, to achieve as a result of sales-related issues in SSEs of the energy sector in Great Britain and injury-free working.
in Ireland and SSEs commitment to the maintenance of a balanced range of In support of that, it has created and During 2012 13, SSE reviewed the definition energy businesses.
They mean that SSE is implementing a company-wide of its Sustainability value and concluded is the only company listed on the London behavioural safety programme in that it should be updated to reflect the Stock Exchange which owns, operates which every employee is participating.
growing emphasis on the triple bottom and invests in such a balanced group of Beyond the company itself, there was line test of environment, society and  energy businesses, the extremely sad loss of the lives of two economy.
It has therefore adopted a such as electricity networks, and marketemployees of contractors to SSE during new definition of its Sustainability value, based energy businesses, such as energy 2012 13.
SSE is prioritising the achievement with effect from 2013 14: our decisions supply and electricity generation.
of enduring improvements in the safety and actions are ethical, responsible performance of its contractors so that and balanced, helping to achieve As a result, SSE has a breadth of perspective standards are as high as possible.
environmental, social and economic wellon the energy sector that is complemented being for current and future generations.
by a depth of knowledge that comes from Although Ofgem announced, and SSE it focusing on a defined geographical area accepted, a penalty in respect of past In terms of Sustainability, there were no and markets in Great Britain and in Ireland.
breaches of Standard Licence Conditions enforcement actions taken against SSE by This gives SSE a specialism and expertise in in April 2013, SSE began the fundamental environmental agencies during 2012 13. the operation of the energy sectors in Great reform of its Energy Supply business SSE did, however, receive four formal Britain and Ireland, and it has unrivalled almost two years before, in July 2011, warnings from the Environment Agency experience of them.
to ensure all aspects of its operations are and the Scottish Environment Protection consistent with the Service value: We give Agency relating to environmental issues, This breadth of perspective and depth our customers service we are proud of to which SSE responded fully in each case.
of knowledge, and accumulated and make commitments that we deliver.
management experience, mean SSE is able The importance of this value was reflected Sustaining dividend growth in a to make the most of its balanced range of in SSEs decision to launch, in February challenging and changing environment energy businesses, its growing asset base 2013, the first Customer Service Guarantee SSE acknowledged in its Annual Report and its range of investment options.
This, of its kind in the energy supply sector 2012 that big challenges lay ahead in in turn, gives SSE strong foundations from under which a failure to meet key defined 2012 13, pointing out that everything which to deliver the levels of profitability commitments results in a discount being from wholesale energy prices to and the long-term value required to applied to the affected customers bill.
the weather can affect its financial support sustained real dividend growth.
The expectation of big In addition, the risks to the achievement In its response to the Ofgem challenges proved to be correct, and of that growth, such as volatility in energy announcement, SSE apologised they are continuing.
They include: markets, are contained by that balance unreservedly to any customers who were and by the diversity of, and within, SSEs affected by the Licence Condition breaches operating and investing in energy businesses, assets and investment options.
in its Energy Supply business which ran networks as the new RIIO Revenue counter to the values and culture of the Incentives Innovation Outputs Focusing on the SSE SET of core values Company.
The Remuneration Committee framework for Price Controls takes shape: Companies dont just have to earn profits: has agreed that the Executive Directors the ongoing need to build trust in Energy they have to earn profits in the right way.
award earned under the Annual Incentive Supply: and It is for this reason that SSE adopted Scheme for 2012 13 should be reduced a significant change in the outlook for in 2006 the SSE SET of core values: by 23%, which is the contribution to SSEs electricity generation capacity margins Safety: Service: Efficiency: Sustainability: operating profit in 2012 13 from the Retail and the mix of the plant on the system.
Amongst other segment, of which Energy Supply is part.
things, the core values are used in SSEs The Committee has also recognised that Against this background, SSE believes that appraisal process to assess employees the issues in Energy Supply exposed SSE its strategy of operating and investing in including Executive Directors and to substantive criticism from a wide range a balanced range of market-based and Managing Directors performance.
of stakeholders and concluded that this  businesses across 16 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 1.
4. just two increasingly interconnected Renewing the commitment More generally, Ofgem has acknowledged markets, and the balanced range of assets to build trust in Energy Supply that a number of suppliers have taken within those businesses and within those Customers demand for energy in the UK steps to improve their interactions with markets, is the one which is most likely and Ireland, on an underlying basis, is on customers, simplify their tariff offerings to exhibit resilience and to sustain annual a downward trend through the effects of and to rebuild trust and the overall above-inflation increases in the dividend investment in, and greater awareness of, direction of the Retail Market Review is payable to shareholders.
energy efficiency measures, more efficient consistent with the strategy adopted by appliances and price sensitivity on the SSE through its Building Trust programme Operating and investing in energy part of customers.
In October 2012, the since 2011: a focus on fairness, simplicity, networks as the RIIO framework EU Council of Ministers formally adopted transparency and customer service takes shape the Energy Efficiency Directive, under including the first Customer Service While SSEs market-based Wholesale which Member States will be required to Guarantee in the Great Britain energy and Retail businesses are experiencing set national targets for energy efficiency industry, which offers customers 20 significant regulatory, legislative, improvements and adopt related measures.
off their next bill if the company fails to technology and market change, its deliver any one of five clearly defined  Networks At the same time as featuring declining and measurable standards.
businesses are also starting to demand for energy as a result of greater operate under a new framework: the efficiency, the retail energy market in Great SSE recognises that it will have to redouble RIIOframework introduced by Ofgem Britain is among the most competitive in its efforts to build trust in energy supply for eight-year Price Control periods the world and the market in Ireland has following the shortcomings in aspects of which started on 1 April 2013. experienced the highest rate of customer its previous energy sales operations that switching of any European energy supply resulted in the fine announced in April SSE has an ownership interest in five market in the last five years.
Its creation in 2012 of a bespoke  energy network to the UK energy statistics published by Retail division, headed by an externallycompanies.
Of these, three that in total DECC in March 2013, UK domestic gas and appointed Managing Director, is one of account for 54% of the total net RAV electricity prices are the lowest and fifth a number of important changes that RegulatedAsset Value of this Group lowest in the EU15 respectively.
SSE is making in Energy Supply and are now operating under a Price Control Energy-related Services.
that will run to 2021: the other two will Both markets are the subject of substantial begin a new eight-year Price Control, political and regulatory intervention, As part of its drive to build trust, SSEs to be agreed under the RIIO framework, leading to non-energy costs accounting emphasis is on being understood by, and on 1 April 2015. for an increasingly significant proportion connected with, customers, a strategy of the bills paid by customers.
The Energy that will be particularly important as This new Price Control RIIO ED-1 Company Obligation in Great Britain is a retail energy markets evolve and if energy will be agreed at a time of significant case in point and is described in more consumption, as expected, continues to technological change as distribution detail in the Retail section.
In this context, SSEs ability to companies aim to respond to changes supply products other than electricity in electricity production and consumption The aim of Ofgems Retail Market Review and gas will also prove to be important in innovative ways that minimise the in Great Britain is to deliver a simpler, in the years ahead and energy-related financial and environmental costs and clearer, fairer energy market.
Reforms to services have contributed 13%of the avoid disruption to customers associated be introduced in 2013 include restricting operating profit of SSEs Retail business with new overhead lines, underground suppliers to no more than four core tariffs over the last three years.
In this per fuel type, new requirements for context, SSEs commitment to efficiency, information on customers bills and Maintaining a balanced approach responsiveness and innovation should more enforceable standards of conduct.
to electricity generation in a period stand it in good stead, and the theme of change of its consultations on RIIO ED-1 Enforcement action by Ofgem has Energy markets across Europe have is Innovating for a greener, more increased significantly in recent years, been dominated by the prevailing efficient future.
and in April 2013 the Gas and Electricity economic conditions.
In the UK, minimal Markets Authority gave notice of its economic growth and a sustained fall in There is relative stability in economic proposal to impose a penalty of 10.5m the underlying demand for energy have regulation, featuring index-linked on SSE for past non-compliance with combined with high wholesale prices for revenue that network companies earn two licence conditions.
SSE accepted gas to create a difficult environment for through charges levied on users to cover immediately the penalty and apologised gas-fired power stations in particular, costs and earn a return on regulated unreservedly to any customers who were with spark spreads proving to be assets.
This means its efficiently-run, affected by sales activity which ran counter stubbornly low, if not negative.
 businesses to the values and culture of the Company.
are core to SSE, to its strategy in the Its Sales Guarantee to customers who may While spark spreads have remained short, medium and long term and have suffered financial disadvantage as a low, the EU Large Combustion Plant to its ability to deliver sustained real result of the sales process remains unique Directive will require the closure by the dividend growth.
end of 2015 of a significant amount of 17 Strategic overview Financial overview continued coaland oil-fired power station capacity the result is significant uncertainty an increase of 5.1% compared with which has not been opted-in to comply about how the electricity market 2011 12: with the Directives emission limit values will operate in the second half of a real terms increase of 2%, based on ELVs for pollutants such as sulphur dioxide this decade and beyond.
The natural the average annual rate of RPI inflation and nitrogen oxides.
This includes almost consequence of this is that investment in the UK between April 2012 and March 1,000MW of capacity at SSEs Ferrybridge in new generation capacity is being 2013, which meets the target set for power station.
The EU Industrial Emission delayed.
SSE is, however, satisfied that the year: Directive represents a further tightening there is robust policy commitment the fourteenth successive aboveof ELVs and its effect will be to limit the to maintaining the investment inflation dividend increase since the amount of hours that capacity at coal-fired support for assets already in first full-year dividend paid by SSE, power stations can operate between 2016 operation or construction.
in 1998 99: and 2023 without being compliant with the just over 2.4 times the full-year dividend new ELVs.
Non-compliant or opted-out In this context, SSE believes that its paid by SSE in 2002 03: and capacity will have to close when the hours balanced approach to business in this covered 1.4 times by SSEs adjusted are used up, or by the end of 2023. case owning and operating electricity earnings per share.
generation capacity in Great Britain At the same time, energy markets in and in Ireland, and generating electricity SSE is now one of just five companies Great Britain and Ireland also operate in from a wide range of sources such as to have delivered  the context of the EU Climate Change and gas, coal, onshore wind, offshore wind, dividend growth every year since 1999, Renewable Energy Package, which aims to water, biomass and, from 2015, multiwhile remaining part of the FTSE 100 for achieve by 2020: fuel puts it in a good position to benefit at least 50% of that time, and ranks third from the more robust and sustainable amongst that group in terms of compound a reduction of at least 20% in the levels electricity market conditions expected annual growth rate over that time.
of greenhouse gas emissions across the in the future as the anticipated reduction EU, compared with 1990 levels: and in the amount of spare capacity begins Targeting above-RPI inflation dividend an increase to at least 20% of all energy to have an impact.
increases in 2013 14 and beyond consumption being generated from The stated goal of SSEs strategy is to renewable sources.
Dividend per share and adjusted deliver sustained real growth in the earnings per share dividend and, as set out in its Annual The net effect of all of this is that, Report 2012 and in its six-month financial until recently, the amount of electricity Increasing the dividend for 2012 13 report in November 2012, its target from generation capacity in Great Britain has SSEs first financial responsibility to its 2013 14 onwards is to deliver annual remained well in excess of that required shareholders is to remunerate their dividend increases which are greater than to meet forecasts of peak demand.
investment through the payment of RPI inflation while maintaining dividend Nevertheless, Ofgems first annual dividends.
The Board is recommending cover over the medium term within a Electricity Capacity Statement, published a final dividend of 59.0p per share to range around 1.5 times.
in October 2012, was one of several which a Scrip alternative is offered, substantive pieces of analysis to forecast compared with 56.1p in the previous Increasing adjusted earnings per share a reduction in the amount of spare year, an increase of 5.2%.
This will make As part of monitoring its financial electricity capacity on the system in a full-year dividend of 84.2p per share, performance over the medium term, the period to 2015 16.
SSE is concerned, which is: SSE focuses consistently on adjusted however, that the speed and scale of the capacity crunch facing Britain in the next Financial overview Mar 13 Mar 12 Mar 11 Mar 10 few years is being under-estimated and m m m m that this could have implications for the Adjusted profit before tax 1,410.7 1,335.7 1,310.1 1,290.1 security of electricity supplies.
Movement on derivatives IAS 39 199.7 509.0 1,423.3 399.8 Exceptional items 584.7 551.6 625.0 The UK Department of Energy and Tax on JCEs and associates 25.4 6.6 3.3 51.3 Climate Change DECC believes that the current Energy Bill will address these Reported profit before tax 600.9 268.5 2,111.7 1,638.6 issues by creating a framework to reform Adjusted profit before tax 1,410.7 1,335.7 1,310.1 1,290.1 the electricity market in Great Britain, Adjusted current tax charge 223.6 213.4 268.2 274.1 including the introduction of a Contract for Adjusted profit after tax 1,187.1 1,122.3 1,041.9 1,016.0 Difference CfD feed-in tariff for electricity Reported profit after tax 425.9 197.8 1,504.5 1,235.5 from low carbon sources and the creation of auctions to establish payments for the Number of shares for basic and adjusted EPS provision of electricity generation capacity.
million 952.0 937.8 927.6 921.9 Essential detail regarding how the reform Adjusted EPS pence 118.0 112.7 112.3 110.2 in general, and the CfD and the capacity Basic EPS pence 44.7 21.1 162.2 134.0 mechanism in particular, will work in practice has yet to be established and After distributions to hybrid capital holders.
4. a 18.9% increase in operating profit SSE is now one of just five companies to have delivered in Networks to 876.1m: and  dividend growth every year since a 27.5% increase in operating profit in Retail to 410.1m.
1999, while remaining part of the FTSE 100 for at least 50% of that time.
The increase in operating profit in Networks was mainly the result of: investment in the asset base of Electricity Transmission: and the level and timing of recovery of allowed income in Electricity Distribution.
earnings per share, which is calculated before tax before exceptional items, by excluding the charge for deferred tax, remeasurements arising from IAS 39, and The increase in operating profit in Retail exceptional items and the impact of after the removal of taxation on profits from was mainly the result of the increase remeasurements arising from IAS 39 jointly controlled entities and associates.
in demand for energy from customers see also Increasing adjusted profit As a result, this adjusted profit before tax : of SSEs Energy Supply business during before tax below.
2012 13, illustrated by: reflects the underlying profits of SSEs Adjusted earnings per share has the business: a 21.0%increase in average household straightforward benefit of defining reflects the basis on which the business consumption of gas by SSEs customers the amount of profit after tax that has is managed: and in Great Britain: and been earned for each Ordinary Share avoids the volatility that arises from a 5.0%increase in average household and so provides an important measure IAS 39. consumption of electricity by SSEs of underlying financial performance.
Moreover, as stated in its Annual Report The table opposite reconciles SSEs adjusted 2012, it is SSEs policy that dividend profit before tax to its reported profit This reflected the fact that the average targets over the medium term should before tax and set out the position after temperature in Great Britain in every be consistent with the dividend being tax and in respect of adjusted earnings per calendar month of the 2012 13 financial covered by its adjusted earnings per share.
The volatility that arises from IAS 39 year was cooler than the same month share within a range of around is also demonstrated.
in 2011 12, with the sole exception of 1.5 times.
The increase in Factors affecting adjusted consumption of gas and electricity In addition to financial performance, profit before tax offset the significantly higher costs however, SSEs adjusted earnings per Adjusted profit before tax rose by 5.6%, that had to be sustained in Energy share is influenced by two specific factors: from 1,335.7m to 1,410.7m in 2012 13 Supply, such as for gas purchases compared with the year before.
SSEs and on UK government sponsored hybrid capital securities qualify for business has proved itself to be resilient environmental and social schemes.
recognition as equity and so charges throughout the period since the UK first for the coupon associated with them entered recession in 2008, with annual The profit margin in Energy Supply are presented within dividends, with this increases in adjusted profit before tax, ie adjusted operating profit as a cost reflected within adjusted earnings but this is its biggest increase in adjusted percentage of revenue rose from 3.5% per share : and profit before tax since 2007 08. to 4.2%in 2012 13, which remains below the Scrip dividend scheme, approved the expected medium-term average of by shareholders in 2010, results in the The increase was achieved despite difficult around 5%.
Over the last three financial issue of additional Ordinary shares.
energy market conditions characterised years the profit margin in SSEs Energy by low spark spreads, meaning much Supply business has averaged 4.0%.
In the year to 31 March 2013, SSEs electricity generation from gas-fired power adjusted earnings per share were 118.0p, stations in particular was barely profitable, Impact of the movement on based on 952.0 million shares, compared if at all.
The impact of these energy market derivatives IAS 39 with 112.7p, based on 937.8 million shares, conditions is reflected in the Wholesale At 31 March 2013, there was a net in the previous year.
segment, in which operating profit fell derivative financial liability in SSEs by 16.2% to 509.5m.
Operating profit balance sheet arising from IAS 39 of Adjusted profit before tax was also affected by the 33%reduction 161.4m, before tax, compared with in output from hydro-electric schemes, a net liability of 17.6m, before tax, Increasing adjusted profit before tax compared with the previous year, which at 31 March 2012.
This consists of: These financial results for the year was the result of lower rainfall in the to 31 March 2013 are reported under catchment areas.
a liability arising from the valuation of International Financial Reporting Standards, financial instruments used by SSE to as adopted by the EU.
In line with its The fall in operating profit in Wholesale hedge its exposure to financial risks policy since 2005 06, SSE focuses on profit was more than offset by: such as interest rates: and 19 Strategic overview Financial overview continued a liability relating to the valuation related issues at Medway power station sole point of SSE.
In addition to enabling of forward purchase contracts for and the lower value of CO emissions employment, investment and payment of 2 commodities such as gas, coal, oil, allowances: taxation, profit is nevertheless an essential carbon and wholesale electricity that means to afinancial end: it supports the SSE, like all major energy suppliers, has In March 2013, SSE announced a dividend, which is the key means through to enter into to ensure that the future series of decisions about its gasand which it remunerates shareholders.
requirements of its customers are met.
coal-fired power stations including, for example, the deep mothballing of At the same time, SSE has delivered 14 The liability arising from the valuation of Keadby power station, the release of successive increases in adjusted profit interest and currency derivatives reduced transmission capacity at Peterhead and before tax since it was formed during during 2012 13 by 85.0m to 46.9m the expectation that Units One and Two the 1998 99 financial year.
The majority of this at Ferrybridge power station will close well-managed  movement related to the foreign exchange before 31 March 2014.
These and related networks provide a relatively stable position and the weakening of Sterling in decisions resulted in impairment charges revenue flow, SSEs adjusted profit relation to the US Dollar.
being made against a number of SSEs before tax for 2013 14 as a whole thermal plants and the recognition of will, as in other years, be determined In addition, IAS 39 requires SSE to record provisions related to the restructuring mainly by issues in its market-based designated forward commodity purchase of thermal generation operations.
In Retail and Wholesale businesses, contracts at their fair value at each addition, SSE has recognised related such as: balance sheet date.
This involves comparing exceptional impairment charges in the contractual price for commodities relation to its investment in thermal electricity market conditions, against the prevailing forward market plants at Barking and Derwent.
the ability of its operating thermal price at 31 March.
On that date this year, In 2008, SSE experienced significant power stations to generate electricity the average contractual price was higher unplanned interruptions to electricity efficiently and the price achieved than the market price in other words, generation at its Medway power station.
for output: the contracts were out of the money, This resulted in a number of associated the interaction between wholesale particularly for future purchases of coal.
costs which gave rise to a claim for an prices for energy and fuel, the nonThe actual value of the contracts will be insurance payment, the expected value energy costs associated with supplying determined as the relevant commodity is of which SSE recognised as receivable electricity and gas and the prices delivered to meet customers energy needs.
in its accounts for that year.
As charged to customers: For around half of the total energy volume, stated in its interimfinancial report the output of renewable energy this will be over the next 12 months.
As a on 14 November 2012, SSE agreed a from its hydro-electric stations and result, SSE believes the movement in fair settlementwith its insurers which, wind farms: value of the contracts is not relevant to although still substantial, was lower the output from its gas production underlying performance in 2012 13. than the amount originally expected.
assets: SSEs intangible assets include the actual and underlying level of The movement on derivatives under IAS 39 purchased CO emissions allowances, customers energy consumption: and 2 of 199.7mshown in the table on page 18 which it recognises at cost.
SSE also the management of the overall energy and on the face of the Income Statement enters into forward contracts for the portfolio, in the context of geopolitical is primarily due to the change in the future delivery of CO allowances.
2 commodity contract position between Due to the continuing low market the in the money position on 31 March prices, SSE has restructured its SSEs emphasis on maintaining a balance 2012 and the out of the money position portfolio of purchased and committed across its business applies to its marketon 31 March 2013, when the average allowances, which resulted in the based Retail and Wholesale segments.
contractual price was higher than the recognition of net exceptional This balance and diversity is illustrated prevailing forward market price.
by the fact SSE: sets out these movements in fair value In addition, SSE also recognised separately, as remeasurements, as the exceptional impairment and provision is an energy producer and an energy extent of the actual profit or loss arising charges in relation to economically retailer: over the life of the contracts giving rise to uncertain new technology and has assets which use a wide range this liability will not be determined until renewable generation development of fuels from which to generate they unwind.
assets and, in relation to the Retail electricity: and businesses, impairments of certain maintains a broad portfolio of commodity Exceptional items assets including legacy metering contracts as the means of securing the The pre-tax exceptional items totalling assets.
Of the exceptional items total, energy it and its customers need.
584.7m predominantly relate to the 39.3m relate to the Retail segment.
continuation of challenging market SSE believes that this balance and conditions affecting SSEs Wholesale Delivering adjusted profit before tax diversity within its range of market-based businesses, including the economic in 2013 14 energy businesses and the extent of the prospects for older thermal generation SSEs first financial goal is not the operations and opportunities within those plants, the resolution of past  of profit and profit is not the businesses, in addition to its economically- 20 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 1.
4. regulated Networks businesses, provides it was exceeded by the combined SSE keeps the economic evaluation of the best means of enabling it to deliver investment in  its investment programme under close a level of adjusted profit before tax electricity networks.
In the three years scrutiny.
It uses analysis of previous capable of supporting the achievement to 31 March 2012, renewable energy projects in making individual investment of its principal financial target for the year, accounted for just over 50% of SSEs decisions and in assessing the overall a full-year dividend increase that is greater capital and investment expenditure: size and structure of its investment than RPI inflation.
in the three years from April 2012 to programme, which is also designed to March 2015, it is likely to account for reflect its established financial principles.
In line with its approach in 2012 13, SSE around 30% of SSEs overall total.
The programme is, in turn, greatly will not provide an outlook for adjusted  electricity influenced by the need to maintain profit before tax in 2013 14 before the networks are likely to require the biggest balance between, and diversity within, publication of its third quarter Interim proportion of capital and investment its  and marketManagement Statement.
Investment and capital During 2012 13, SSE also made acquisitions SSE believes that a greatly expanded asset expenditure with cash consideration totalling 358.4m, base and significant value have been and almost all of which was accounted for are being created from its capital and Investing for sustained real by the acquisition of thermal generation investment expenditure programme and dividend growth assets in Ireland and gas production assets that the long-term nature of the assets In 2010, SSE said that it expected its in the North Sea.
In the last 10 years, SSE which it has developed and continues to investment and capital expenditure would has spent around 4bn on acquiring energy develop means that value will be sustained be in the range of 1.5bn to 1.7bn in each related assets in the UK and Ireland.
of the five years to March 2015.
In 2012 13, its investment and capital expenditure Delivering an expanded asset base Making capital and investment totalled 1,485.5m, compared with In the three years from 2010, SSEs expenditure decisions in 2013 14 1,706.9m in the previous year.
During investment and capital expenditure totalled and beyond the year there was investment of: 4.6bn.
This has resulted in a significantly Central to SSEs strategy is efficient expanded asset base for SSE, including: investment in a balanced range of 334.2m in electricity transmission,  and marketof which 191.5m was spent on the an increase of almost 1bnin the RAV based energy businesses.
This means work to replace SSEs section of the of its electricity networks: that investments should be: Beauly-Denny replacement line: an increase of around 800MWin its 288.8m in electricity distribution, capacity for generating electricity from supportive of the strategic importance the majority of which was spent wind farms resulting in SSEs wind farms of maintaining a balance between, and on system upgrades such as producing 4.3TWhof electricity during diversity within, SSEs economicallythe installation of high voltage 2012 13 : and regulated and market-based businesses: under ground cables between the Aldbrough gas storage facility, consistent with SSEs financial principles Bracknell and Camberley: where the initial capacity is 270 million and so should achieve returns which are 77.0m in retail, the majority of which cubic metres, of which SSE owns a two greater than the cost of capital with was spent on work associated with thirds share.
an appropriate risk premium applied preparations for the roll-out of smart meters: Investment and capital expendituresummary 228.1m in thermal generation, including investment of 45.7m Mar 13 Mar 13 Mar 12 Share m m in the construction of the new Combined Cycle Gas Turbine Electricity transmission 22.5% 334.2 228.7 at Great Island: Electricity distribution 19.4% 288.8 260.3 382.6m in renewable generation, Other networks 3.6% 52.8 48.0 a significant part of which was invested Total Networks 45.5% 675.8 537.0 in new wind farms such as Calliachar Total Retail 5.2% 77.0 78.5 in Scotland and Glenconway in Northern Ireland: Thermal generation 15.3% 228.1 129.7 33.1m in gas storage, including Renewable generation 25.8% 382.6 852.3 investment in the completion of Gas storage 2.2% 33.1 51.0 the new facility at Aldbrough: and Gas production 0.5% 7.2 6.1 7.2m in gas production.
Total Wholesale 43.8% 651.0 1,039.1 Other 5.5% 81.7 52.3 This means that, for the first year since 2007 08, renewable energy did Total investment and capital expenditure 100.0% 1,485.5 1,706.9 not comprise the largest element of 50% of SGN capital replacement expenditure 199.0 202.2 SSEs capital and investment expenditure: 21 Strategic overview Financial overview continued to the expected rate of return from management of its balance sheet.
the 505.0m investment it made to individual projects where appropriate Moreover, the extent of its project pipeline acquire its 50% equity share in that year.
for construction, market, technology, means that SSE has a wide range of regulatory or legislative reasons, investment options from which to select In 2012 13, a 50% share of SGNs enhance earnings and contribute those most likely to deliver the best returns.
capital and replacement expenditure to dividend growth: and It continues to believe that a disciplined was 199.0m, compared with 202.2m governed, developed, approved and investment programme with the principles, in the previous year.
During 2012 13, executed in an effective manner, shape and scale described above should SGNs RAV increased to 4.78bn SSE consistent with SSEs Major Projects allow it to maintain the development of share: 2.39bn, up from 2.80bn SSE Governance Framework which is, a balanced and diverse range of assets share: 1.40bn when it was acquired.
to support annual dividend increases that are above RPI inflation while Financial management The stated goal of the Framework is remaining consistent with the current and balance sheet to ensure safe, sustainable and timely criteria, including the key ratios, associated execution of the major project portfolio, with a single A credit rating, without the Maintaining a prudent treasury policy delivering business revenues and need to issue new shares.
It will deliver: SSEs treasury policy is designed to be shareholder value in line with approved prudent and flexible.
In line with that, business plans.
further significant additions to the its operations and investments are asset base in key businesses, including generally financed by a combination of: For 2013 14 as a whole SSE expects capital  electricity and investment expenditure to total networks: retained profits: around 1.5bn, including expenditure to be a continuing increase in fuel for electricity bank borrowings: incurred on the combined cycle gas turbine in the form of renewable sources of bond issuance: and CCGT development at Great Island that energy, supporting a reduction in the commercial paper.
was acquired in October 2012 and which CO intensity of electricity generated: 2 is currently in construction.
Looking ahead, a hedge against prices for fossil fuels: As a matter of policy, a minimum of there are four main categories in SSEs new, modern capacity for generating 50% of SSEs debt is subject to fixed investment and capital expenditure electricity: and rates of interest.
Within this policy plans to March 2015 and beyond: additional cash flows and profits to framework, SSE borrows as required on support continuing dividend growth.
different interest bases, with derivatives  expenditure and forward rate agreements being used on electricity transmission upgrades: Investing in gas distribution through to achieve the desired out-turn interest  electricity Scotia Gas Networks SGN rate profile.
At 31 March 2013, after taking distribution expenditure plus essential In addition to its own capital and account of interest rate swaps, 87.8% of maintenance of other assets: investment expenditure programme, SSEs borrowings were at fixed rates.
expenditure that is already committed SSE effectively has a 50% interest to development of new assets such in SGNs capital and replacement Borrowings are mainly made in Sterling as the CCGT at Great Island, the multiexpenditure, through its 50% equity and Euro to reflect the underlying currency fuel plant at Ferrybridge and new wind share in that business which it acquired denomination of assets and cash flows farms: and in 2005.
SGN is self-financing and all within SSE.
All other foreign currency expenditure that is not yet committed debt relating to it is separate from SSEs borrowings are swapped back into but which could be incurred to support balance sheet.
Nevertheless, it is a very either Sterling or Euros.
the development of new assets.
substantial business which gives SSE, through its 50% stake, a major interest in The United Kingdom remains SSEs main Decisions on whether to proceed with  gas distribution.
area of operation, although business individual projects are made following Since 2005, SSE has received from SGN activities in the Republic of Ireland are rigorous analysis and: dividends and shareholder loan interest also substantial.
Transactional foreign totalling 414.0m, which compares with exchange risk arises in respect of: in the context of SSEs commitment to maintaining a diverse range of assets within its  and market-based businesses: Adjusted net debt and hybrid capital Mar 13 Mar 12 Mar 11 in the light of developments in public m m m policy and regulation: Adjusted net debt and hybrid capital 7,347.7 6,755.8 5,890.6 on the basis of the experience and Less: hybrid capital 2,186.8 1,161.4 1,161.4 skills available to SSE: and Adjusted net debt 5,160.9 5,594.4 4,729.2 on the basis of SSEs established financial principles.
Less: outstanding liquid funds 55.0 119.9 28.1 Add: finance leases 330.4 342.1 372.2 The uncommitted nature of some Unadjusted net debt 5,546.3 6,056.4 5,129.5 expenditure gives SSE flexibility in the 22 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 1.
Any balance of SSEs adjusted net debt Central to SSEs strategy is efficient investment in a is financed with short-term commercial balanced range of  and marketpaper and bank debt.
SSEs adjusted net debt includes cash and cash equivalents based energy businesses.
Keeping SSE well-financed SSE believes that maintaining a strong balance sheet, evidenced by a commitment to the current criteria for a single A credit rating, such as a funds from operations debt ratio of procurement contracts: Ensuring a strong debt structure through 20% Standard & Poors and a retained fuel and carbon purchasing: mediumand long-term borrowings cash flow debt ratio of 13% Moodys, commodity hedging and energy trading SSEs objective is to maintain a balance is a key financial principle.
operations: and between continuity of funding and long-term service agreements for plant.
flexibility, with debt maturities set across In August 2012, Standard & Poors a broad range of dates.
Its average debt affirmed SSEs long-term rating of ASSEs policy is to hedge all material maturity, excluding hybrid securities, as at while changing its rating outlook from transactional foreign exchange exposures 31 March 2013 was 10.6 years, compared stable to negative.
Moodys corporate through the use of forward currency with 10.5 years at 31 March 2012. credit rating of SSE remains A3 with a purchases and or derivative instruments.
Translational foreign exchange risk arises SSEs debt structure remains strong, with in respect of overseas investments, and around 5.4bn of mediumlong-term SSE is committed to maintaining hedging in respect of such exposures borrowings in the form of issued bonds, financial diversity and diversity of is determined as appropriate to the European Investment Bank debt and funding sources and will move quickly circumstances on a case-by-case basis.
long-term project finance and other loans.
to take the right financing options, Around 1.5bn of mediumto long-term including issuing new bonds and loans.
Managing net debt and borrowings will mature in the period to In line with that it: maintaining cash flow 31 March 2014.
In March 2013, SSE secured SSEs adjusted net debt and hybrid 650m additional bank facilities which will completed in April 2012 a private capital was 7.35bn at 31 March 2013, be drawn down in the course of 2013 14, placement of senior notes with compared with 6.76bn at 31 March at which point they will become term loans.
Fundamentally, this increase The table opposite also includes the issue consideration of US$700m equivalent reflects the quantum and phasing by SSE of: to around 450m.
The senior notes of capital and investment projects to consist of four tranches with a support sustained real dividend growth, hybrid capital of 1.162bn in September weighted average maturity of including the acquisition of electricity 2010: and 10.3 years and an all-in funding generation assets in Ireland in October hybrid capital of 1.025bn in September cost of around 4.25% once swapped 2012.
SSE also made acquisitions with 2012. to Sterling: and cash consideration totalling 358.4m during 2012 13.
Net finance costs Mar 13 Mar 12 m m The adjusted net debt and hybrid capital number was, however, reduced by 130.9m Adjusted net finance costs 372.1 322.1 as a result of the receipt of the net cash add less : proceeds from the sale of 79.5MW of Movement on derivatives 20.3 89.5 1 onshore wind farm capacity in March 2013.
Share of JCE associate interest 152.3 146.5 During 2013 14, SSE expects to receive its Reported net finance costs 199.5 265.1 share of the proceeds from the sale of the offshore transmission assets associated Adjusted net finance costs 372.1 322.1 with the Greater Gabbard wind farm.
add less : Return on pension scheme assets 134.1 147.4 As the table opposite sets out, adjusted net Interest on pension scheme liabilities 142.3 149.8 debt excludes finance leases and includes Finance lease interest 37.1 38.4 outstanding liquid funds that relate to Notional interest arising on discounted provisions 7.7 7.8 wholesale energy transactions.
Hybrid Hybrid coupon payment 63.4 65.5 capital is accounted for as equity within the Financial Statements but has been Adjusted finance costs for interest cover calculation 382.5 339.0 included within SSEs Adjusted net debt and hybrid capital to aid comparability.
23 Strategic overview Financial overview continued successfully issued in September 2012 increase of 1.40% on the issued share The hybrid coupon payment is in respect hybrid capital securities comprising capital on the dividend record date of of the hybrid capital issued in 2010 and US$700m and 750m, which are 27 July 2012. was made on 1 October 2012.
The first perpetual and subordinate to all senior March 2013: A total of 30,180 coupon payment relating to the US Dollar creditors, with an all-in Euro funding shareholders elected to receive the hybrid capital issued in September 2012 cost to SSE of around 5.6% per annum.
interim dividend for the year to 31 March was made on 1 April 2013 this issue has 2013 of 25.2p per Ordinary share in bi-annual coupon payments.
The next Following the completion of the private respect of 327,303,253 Ordinary shares payments, which will relate to all SSEs placement and the issue of hybrid capital in the form of Scrip dividend, resulting issued hybrid capital will be made on securities, SSEs principal sources of debt in a reduction in cash dividend funding 1 October 2013.
Charges are presented funding as at 31 March 2013 were: of 82.5m.
A total of 5,920,120 new as distributions to other equity holders Ordinary shares, fully paid, were issued and are reflected within adjusted earnings bonds 48%: on 22 March 2013, representing an per share.
hybrid capital securities 28%: increase of 0.62%on the issued share European Investment Bank loans 6%: capital on the dividend record date of The average interest rate for SSE, excluding and 25 January 2013.
JCE associate interest, during the 2012 13 The US private placement 6% was 5.26%, compared with 5.06% for the This means that the cumulative cash previous year.
Based on adjusted interest The remaining 12% included index-linked dividend saving or additional equity costs, SSEs adjusted interest cover was debt, long-term project finance and other capital resulting from the introduction of previous years comparison in brackets : loans.
SSEs Scrip Dividend Scheme now stands at 489.5m.
SSEs current Scrip Dividend 5.4 times, excluding interest related With regard to shorter-term funding, Scheme expires in 2015. to SGN 5.9 times : and SSEs core revolving credit facilities of 4.7 times, including interest related 900m are, and are expected to remain, In March 2013, SSE completed the sale of to SGN 4.9 times.
The facilities are the subject four wind farms with a total generation of an agreement with banks which runs capacity of 79.5MW for a net total cash Excluding shareholder loans, SGNs net to 2015.
In addition to these facilities, consideration of 130.9m and an equity debt at 31 March 2013 was unchanged SSE has increased its committed bilateral stake in the fund that bought the assets, at 3.27bn, and within the adjusted net facility of 200m with one other bank to illustrating its ability to create ongoing finance costs of 372.1m, the element 200m in April 2013. value from its pipeline of investments relating to SGNs net finance costs was and its readiness to dispose of assets 94.4m compared with 96.5m in the Furthermore, as stated above, SSE where their retention is not fully previous year, after netting loan stock secured during March 2013 650m consistent with or supportive of its interest payable to SSE.
Its contribution additional bank facilities which will overall strategy.
This, in turn, provides to SSEs adjusted profit before tax was be drawn down in the course of additional financial flexibility.
139.7m, compared with 138.3m in 2013 14 at which point they will 2011 12. become term loans.
Fundamentally, SSE believes its commitment to the long term means Contributing to employees In addition to funding sources, the Scrip it must be: pension schemes Dividend Scheme approved by SSEs In line with the IAS 19 treatment of shareholders in 2010 gives them the disciplined and focused when managing pension scheme assets, liabilities and option to receive new fully paid Ordinary its balance sheet: costs, pension scheme liabilities of shares in the Company in place of their prudent and flexible in financing its 705.8mare recognised in the balance cash dividend payments.
It therefore activities: and sheet at 31 March 2013, before deferred reduces cash outflow and so supports rigorous and selective when making tax.
This compares to a liability of 731.9m the balance sheet, although the extent investment and acquisition decisions.
at 31 March 2012. to which it will do so is inevitably difficult to predict.
Scrip dividend take-up in In summary, it believes that it has During 2012 13, employer cash 2012 13 was as follows: sufficient financial flexibility to pursue contributions amounted to: the best opportunities to provide the September 2012: A total of 30,369 means with which to increase dividends.
47.7m for the Scottish Hydro-Electric shareholders elected to receive the final scheme, including deficit repair dividend for the year to 31 March 2012 Net finance costs contributions of 29.5m: and of 56.1p per Ordinary share in respect The table on page 23 reconciles reported 77.6m for the Southern Electric of 307,842,342 Ordinary shares in the net finance costs to adjusted net finance scheme, including deficit repair form of Scrip dividend, resulting in a costs, which SSE believes is a more contributions of 55.2m.
reduction in cash dividend funding of meaningful measure.
A total of 13,213,634 new SSEs adjusted net finance costs during As part of the electricity Distribution Price Ordinary shares, fully paid, were issued 2012 13 were 372.1m, compared with Control for 2010-15, it was agreed that on 21 September 2012, representing an 322.1m in 2011 12. allowances equivalent to economically- 24 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 1.
4. position, the adjusted current tax charge SSE pays taxes in the United Kingdom and the Republic of is presented in the table below.
Ireland, the only states in which it has trading operations.
For reasons already stated above, SSEs Central to SSEs approach to tax is that it should be focus is on adjusted profit before tax regarded as a responsible tax payer.
and in line with that the adjusted current tax charge is the tax measure that best reflects underlying performance.
The effective adjusted current tax rate, based on adjusted profit before tax, was 15.9%, compared with 16.0% in 2011 12, regulated businesses share of deficit the timing of Corporation Tax payments on the same basis.
The impact of SSEs repair contributions in respect of the and a reduction in tax paid to reflect higher capital expenditure programme Southern Electric and Scottish Hydrotax losses expected to be acquired and the series of UK Corporation Tax rate Electric schemes would be included in from Greater Gabbard Offshore Winds reductions announced in the 2010 and price controlled revenue, with an incentive Limited and SSE Renewables Walney UK subsequent Budgets have had, and will around ongoing pension costs.
Limited for which the consortium relief continue to have, a positive impact on payments have yet to be made: the effective current tax rate.
Tax asset impairments which were recognised in the subsidiary accounts The deferred tax balance has been Being a responsible tax payer for 2011 12 on which Corporation Tax remeasured to reflect the latest of the series SSE pays taxes in the United Kingdom and relief was then recognised in SSEs of annual reductions in the UK Corporation the Republic of Ireland, the only states in final tax instalment for that year Tax rate that were announced in the 2010 which it has trading operations.
Central and which was paid in 2012 13 : and Budget, and the deferred tax balances for to SSEs approach to tax is that it should Corporation Tax refunds received future years will be remeasured as each be regarded as a responsible tax payer.
during 2012 13 that relate to earlier subsequent rate reduction is enacted.
As a consequence, SSE maintains a good years on rolled over capital gains and relationship with HM Revenue & Customs, losses relief from SGN.
Executive Directors based on trust and cooperation.
SSE also pays taxes in the Republic of Responding to sales-related issues SSE strives to manage efficiently its Ireland, in relation to its operations there, in Energy Supply total tax liability, and this is achieved and also indirectly contributed 57.3mto As stated previously see Focusing on through operating within the framework UK government tax revenues through its the SSE SET of core values on page 16, of legislative reliefs.
SSE does not take an significant investment in joint ventures and it has been agreed that the Executive aggressive stance in its interpretation of tax associates.
This compares with 59.5m Directors payment earned under the legislation, or use so-called tax havens as in the previous year.
SSE also collected Annual Incentive Scheme for 2012 13 a means of reducing its tax liability.
SSEs a further 225.4mof employment, should be reduced by 40% as a result of tax policy is to operate within both the environment and other taxes to add SSEs previous non-compliance with two letter and spirit of the law at all times.
to its total tax contribution.
Standard Conditions of the Electricity and Gas Supply Licences.
SSEs tax paid to the government in the In January 2013, PwC has announced the UK, including Corporation Tax, Employers result of its UK 2012 Total Tax Contribution This is the second consecutive reduction National Insurance Contributions and Survey for The Hundred Group, in which SSE in Annual Incentive Scheme payments Business Rates, totalled 312.0mduring ranked 17th for the level of total taxes borne to Executive Directors as a result of past the year to 31 March 2013, compared the amount a company pays that are its sales-related issues in SSEs Energy with 396.4m in the previous year.
last three financial years, SSE has paid 1.0bnin tax on that basis.
The reduction Setting out SSEs tax position The total earnings of SSEs Executive in total tax paid in 2012 13 is the result of: To assist the understanding of SSEs tax Directors in 2012 13 covering base salary, Tax charge Mar 13 Mar 12 m m Adjusted current tax charge 223.6 213.4 Add less : Share of JCE associate tax 25.4 6.6 Deferred tax 115.2 118.0 Tax on exceptional items certain remeasurements 201.8 319.6 Reported tax charge 111.6 5.2 25 Strategic overview Financial overview continued benefits and the cash Annual Incentive The delivery of strong operational performance and the Scheme were 2.320m, compared with achievement of its investment priorities should enable SSE 2.787m in 2011 12. to achieve its first financial priority for 2013 14: an increase Ensuring effective succession planning in the full-year dividend that is greater than RPI inflation.
and Chief Executive transition As announced on 23 January 2013, It should also put SSE in a good position to continue to Alistair Phillips-Davies, currently Deputy deliver above-RPI inflation dividend increases in 2014 15 Chief Executive, will become Chief Executive of SSE plc on 1 July 2013 and beyond.
in succession to Ian Marchant.
Gregor Alexander, Finance Director, will have an expanded role in supporting and deputising for the Chief Executive in the running and operations of the SSE group.
In particular, in addition to Finance and from three to two.
SSEs Management for 2013 14 is to make substantive Group Services, he will take on BoardBoard, which is chaired by the Chief progress towards its core operational level responsibility for Energy Portfolio Executive and of which the Finance objective of injury-free working.
Management and Regulation and Legal Director is also a member, will remain Services.
Brandon Rennet, currently SSEs responsible for implementing strategy Its Networks priorities are: Director of Treasury and Operational and policy and for the operational Finance, will join the Management Board on management of SSEs businesses.
distribute electricity and through 1 July 2013 as Managing Director, Finance.
Scotia Gas Networks gas with the The combined length of service of SSEs minimum possible interruptions From 1 July 2013, Alistair Phillips-Davies Executive Directors and nine Managing to supplies: annual salary as Chief Executive will be Directors from 1 July 2013 will still demonstrate responsiveness and 755,000 per annum, which compares be over 160 years.
The transition over innovation in the management of with Ian Marchants current annual salary the coming months should, therefore, electricity and gas networks: and of 892,000.
In view of his additional be very smooth.
make a good start to the RIIO ED-1 responsibilities from that date, Gregor electricity distribution Price Control Alexanders annual salary will be Priorities and outlook for 2013 14 review.
Setting the right long-term priorities Its Retail priorities are: Alistair Phillips-Davies and Gregor to achieve dividend growth Alexander joined the Board and Ian In support of its strategy, SSE has improve the standards of service Marchant became Chief Executive in the identified five long-term priorities across delivered to energy supply customers, course of 2002.
The progress achieved its balanced range of businesses which reinforce compliance with all licence in the 10 full financial years since then reflect, and are consistent with, the key obligations and renew the focus on is summarised in the table below: issues and trends in its Networks, Retail building trust: and Wholesale segments.
The long-term improve the breadth, depth and SSE from 2003 to 2013 priorities are: integration of the products and services offered to business customers: Mar 13 Mar 03 efficiency, responsiveness and and Full-year dividend per innovation in energy networks: continue to adapt to the technological share pence 84.2 35.0 gaining and retaining the trust change that will result from the rollAdjusted profit before of household energy customers: out of smart meters and increased tax m 1,410.7 589.8 breadth and depth in the provision emphasis on digital channels.
Capital and investment of energy-related services to expenditure m 1,485.5 251.9 businesses and other organisations: Its Wholesale priorities are: Energy networks RAV competitive and sustainable energy net bn 6.4 2.5 procurement: and continue the successful integration Energy customer flexible and greener electricity of recently-acquired electricity accounts m 9.47 4.85 production.
generation assets in Ireland and Electricity generation of gas production assets: capacity GW 13.0 7.0 Setting the right operational successfully operate all assets, including People directly priorities for 2013 14 those  or employed 19,795 9,474 SSEs strategy is based on the efficient undergoing significant change: and operation of, and investment in, a increase SSEs capability in the From 1 July 2013, the number of Executive balanced range of energy businesses.
operation and maintenance of its Directors on the Board of SSE plc will reduce In terms of operations, its first priority assets, especially onand offshore wind.
Setting the right investment priorities for 2013 14 SSE expects to undertake capital and investment expenditure totalling around 1.5bn in 2013 14.
Its priorities are to: Networks: continue progress in the programme of capital investment in electricity and through Scotia Gas Networks gas networks, especially electricity transmission: Retail: make progress with the systems that will be needed to support the roll-out and operation of smart meters: and Wholesale: continue its effective and efficient maintenance, construction and development of assets which support the achievement of flexible and greener electricity generation, especially the new CCGT at Great Island, Co Wexford.
In addition, one of its priorities for 2013 14 is to work with the UK Department of Energy and Climate Change and other stakeholders to secure a package of reforms that will enable it to invest in electricity generation in a sustainable way.
Focusing on the right financial priority for 2013 14 The delivery of strong operational performance and the achievement of its investment priorities should enable SSE to achieve its first financial priority for 2013 14: an increase in the full-year dividend that is greater than RPI inflation.
It should also put SSE in a good position to continue to deliver above-RPI inflation dividend increases in 2014 15 and beyond.
