Performance review Networks  businesses Owning, operating and investing in Networks Keeping the lights Electricity and gas transmission and distribution companies are natural monopolies, serving defined geographical areas.
The performance of SSEs on and supporting  electricity networks businesses is reported within Networks, as is the performance of Scotia growth.
Gas Networks SGN, in which SSE has a 50% stake.
In addition, the marketbased activities of Lighting Services, Utility Solutions and Telecoms are also network-based and are, therefore, Networks Networks Regulated Electricity networks included within SSEs Networks operating profit m Asset Value net bn capital expenditure m segment as Other Networks.
 network 876.1 6.36 623.0 companies with a growing Regulated Asset Value 18.9% 8.2% 27.4% SSE has an ownership interest in five SSE is involved in: electricity The RAV is the price paid SSE owns and invests in  energy network transmission, electricity for  three electricity networks distribution: gas distribution energy networks when they companies: Scottish Hydro companies: through Scotia Gas Networks were privatised plus allowed Electric Transmission: Scottish and other networks-related capital expenditure less Hydro Electric Power Distribution: Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission businesses in lighting services, depreciation.
It is indexed and Southern Electric Power utility solutions and telecoms.
to the Retail Price Index.
100% : Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution 100% : Southern Electric Power Distribution Customer minutes lost Utility Solutions Lighting Services 100% : north electricity networks PFI contracts Scotland Gas Networks 50% : and Southern Gas Networks 50%.
73 137 11 SSE estimates that the total Regulated Asset Value RAV of its economically- 0.0% 16.1% 0.0% regulated natural monopoly businesses Customer minutes lost is the SSEs Utility Solutions business SSEs Lighting Services business is now 6.36bn, up 477.0m from 5.88bn average number of minutes that designs, builds, owns and is the UK and Irelands largest customers are without electricity operates networks for electricity, streetlighting contractor, last year, comprising around: supply in a year.
SSEs north of gas, water and heat.
The involved in the maintenance Scotland network distributes electricity networks are outside and replacement of public 1,050m for electricity transmission: electricity to around 800,000 SSEs two distribution areas.
2,915m for electricity distribution: and 2,392m for gas distribution ie50% of SGNs total RAV.
Key topics in this section SSE is the only energy company in the UK to be involved in electricity transmission, Exceptional weather event on Arran and Kintyre electricity distribution and gas distribution.
See page 32 for more information Through Price Controls, Ofgem sets the index-linked revenue the network Upgrading Scotlands electricity transmission network companies can earn through charges levied See page 32 for more information on users to cover costs and earn a return on their regulated assets.
These lower-risk Innovating for the future of electricity networks  natural monopoly See page 35 for more information businesses provide a financial backbone and operational focus for SSE and balance its activities in the competitive Wholesale and Retail markets.
They are core to SSE, to its strategy in the short-, mediumand long-term and to its ability to deliver sustained real dividend growth.
31 Performance review Networks continued  businesses Financial performance in Networks Electricity Transmission Further work, including on new and Operating profit in Networks increased upgraded substations, is under way by 18.9%, from 737.1m to 876.1m, Increasing operating profit for which, once complete, will allow the contributing 48.8% of SSEs total operating Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission connection of aroundan additional profit.
This comprised: In SHE Transmission, operating profit 400MW of renewable generation in increased by 26.6% from 73.7m to the Caithness and Sutherland area.
This reflected the continuing Beauly-Denny: Full construction work on compared with 73.7m: increase in its investment in its asset the replacement of SHE Transmissions 512.8m in electricity distribution, base and the resultant increase in part of the line, from Beauly to Wharry compared with 396.5m: allowed revenue.
Burn, is now well under way, with all 234.1m representing SSEs share of 136 towers erected in the north section the operating profit for SGN, compared Investing in Scotlands electricity between Beauly and Fort Augustus with 234.8m: and transmission network and expectations that this section will 35.9m in other network businesses, SHE Transmission is responsible for be complete in the next few months.
maintaining and investing in the With a total of around 340m invested transmission network in its area, which so far, SHE Transmissions part of the Managing energy networks comprises almost 5,300km of high replacement line is 200km in length in exceptional situations voltage overhead lines and under ground and involves the development of five In March 2013, SSEs electricity transmission cables covering around 70% of the land substations.
Further work is taking and distribution networks in the west of mass of Scotland serving remote and, place with SP Transmission on the Scotland were affected by severe snow in some cases, island communities.
interface with the network in the drifts and line-icing with the resulting As the licensed transmission company south of Scotland and this will inform requirement to replace around 350 wooden for the area, SHE Transmission has to the timescales for the completion poles on the distribution network and repair ensure there is sufficient network capacity of the entire line.
or replace nine steel towers on the 132kV for those seeking to generate electricity Beauly-Mossford: The first stage Port Ann to Carradale transmission line in from renewable and other sources.
of this project, to construct a new Kintyre.
To restore supplies as quickly as substation at Corriemoille, is well possible, two of the largest mobile power A total of 334.2m was invested by SHE under way.
This already has an Ofgem generation installations ever seen in the UK Transmission in its network in 2012 13, up allowance of 14m.
Access was a key issue in from 228.7m in 2011 12, taking its total RAV replacement 132kV transmission line what was an exceptional weather event.
to over 1bn for the first time.
In 2013 14 between Beauly and Mossford has SHE Transmission expects to incur capital been received from Scottish Ministers.
Working closely with partners across expenditure of over 300m and its RAV Progress is being made for Ofgem government, local authorities and the should reach around 1.6bn by March 2015. authorisation and contracts are being emergency services, power was restored negotiated in order to complete to the majority of homes within five days Upgrading Scotlands electricity the overhead line works by 2015. with the remaining households being transmission network The estimated cost of both parts connected within a week.
The efforts The base of SHE Transmissions plans for of the project is around 70m.
of SSEs employees were recognised by, 2013 to 2021 is an approved 1.1bn capital : Work on amongst many others, the residents of investment programme in 2009 10 prices, replacing the conductors of the 275kV Arran, who gathered hampers of food or 1.4bn in expected out-turn prices transmission lines between Beauly and and toiletries produced on the island based on a future inflation assumption of Blackhillock and Blackhillock and Kintore to say thank you to the SSE employees 3%.
There is flexibility to increase this very to allow an increase in the capacity of the who restored their electricity supply.
significantly, if required, to upgrade the network to transmit electricity is, subject The Chairman of VisitArran said: We are transmission network during the period.
to the outage programme, well under enormously grateful to the small army To proceed to construction, projects way.
Ofgem has authorised investment of men and women who worked in some require a demonstrable commitment of over 90m for this development.
pretty appalling conditions to restore from developers, any necessary consents power to our homes and workplaces.
for development and authorisation A total of 246.1mwas invested in these from Ofgem that SHE Transmission can four projects during 2012 13.
Several months before, the London recover the cost of its investment.
Within Olympic and Paralympic Games were the 1.4bn base capital investment Implementing RIIO-T1 described as the biggest event ever programme, projects completed or under SHE Transmission has now entered the next hosted in the United Kingdom.
Up to and construction include investment numbers Price Control period, RIIO-T1 Revenue during the summer of 2012, Southern are on an expected out-turn basis : Incentives Innovation Outputs which Electric Power Distribution and Southern runs for eight years from 1 April 2013 until Gas Networks worked successfully with Beauly-Dounreay: Work on upgrading 31 March 2021.
The decision to fast track the London Organising Committee of the and reinforcing the transmission with the publication of the Final Proposals Olympic and Paralympic Games to ensure network between Beauly and Dounreay in April 2012 allowed SHE Transmission a venues and designated road networks in is now complete on time and within year to prepare for the implementation of their areas were free from disruption.
This included looking 32 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 1.
4. at opportunities to maximise potential developments.
This will enable new expenditure of 1.4bn: there is also flexibility revenue from incentives and preparing capacity for generating electricity to to increase this very significantly, to upgrade a number of key projects for submission link to the main transmission system the transmission network during 2013-21 under the new flexible funding process and centres of demand.
The project in response to the needs of electricity including: is a key reinforcement in the Scottish generators.
This need is demonstrated by Governments National Planning developers meeting commercial obligations Kintyre-Hunterston: SHE Transmission Framework for Scotland and has a under connection agreements thus enabling has received consent to build a new forecast investment requirement SHE Transmission to make the case for 132kV substation in Crossaig on the of around 415m.
funding for transmission investment with Kintyre peninsula and to replace the Ofgem.
However, developer confidence is existing 132kV overhead line between The key driver for the above projects, currently affected by a period of regulatory Carradale and Crossaig with a higher which could represent an investment of and policy change, including the outcome capacity double circuit overhead line up to 1.9bn, is the need to accommodate of the UK  Market and install two subsea cable circuits renewable energy developments in Reform proposals and the transmission from this new substation round the the north of Scotland.
In line with this, charging regime changes envisaged by north coast of Arran to Hunterston.
SHE Transmission expects to invest an Ofgems Project TransmiT.
An investment case has recently been average of around 350m for the next consulted on by Ofgem.
The current few years, possibly rising to over 500m.
In recognition of some of the challenges programme anticipates that the Throughout that period it will be, in essence, faced by generation on the Scottish reinforcement will be completed by a construction business.
In this context, islands, including the Western Isles, around 2016.
The investment is currently the enforcement of SSEs Major Projects Orkney and Shetland, a Scottish islands estimated to be in excess of 200m.
Governance Framework, including strong Renewables Steering Group, chaired by Caithness to Moray: SHE Transmission control over risk and project management, the UK government with input from the has submitted an investment case to is absolutely critical.
Scottish Government, has examined Ofgem to develop a subsea electricity the commercial viability of renewable cable between Caithness, where work In addition, a joint project between SHE projects on the Scottish islands, the is continuing to secure consents for a Transmission, National Grid Electricity overall value for money that these new substation at Spittal, and Moray, Transmission and SP Transmission to projects would provide for the UK where it is proposed to upgrade the facilitate the proposed development and options to address or mitigate existing substation at Blackhillock.
This is of a 2GW east coast HVDC subsea link the impact of transmission charges.
to transmit the large volume of existing between the north of Scotland and centres and planned electricity from renewable of electricity demand is progressing.
This The report, published in May 2013, concludes sources in the north of Scotland.
The project is subject to some uncertainty in that, under current policy, it is unlikely to be cable will be capable of transmitting generation scenarios, against which the economic to develop further onshore wind around 1,200MW of electricity and has cost benefit assessment is being carried out projects on the Scottish islands and that the a forecast investment requirement of in order to ensure that the preferred option marine renewables industry will continue around 1.2bn.
This proposal to develop for development remains economic and to require financial support at levels at or a subsea cable retains the flexibility efficient.
While this is taking place, a number above those currently being offered.
The to accommodate further generation of technical and environmental assessments report calls on government to weigh up the developments in the north of Scotland and consultations have been carried out costs and benefits of renewable generation as and when the need to do so arises.
and consultation processes relating to the on the Scottish islands against other sources East coast 400kV: SHE Transmission is proposed infrastructure are under way.
of electricity, considering the impact on the planning to upgrade the existing east local economies and communities, and on coast transmission line which runs Working with stakeholders wider GB consumers.
from Blackhillock to Kincardinefrom on the Scottish island groups an operating voltage of 275kV to As stated above SHE Transmissions plans Prior to a decision from the UK and Scottish 400kV, with associated substation for 2013 to 2021 include approved capital governments on how to address the above issue, SHE Transmission continues to make progress in developing projects to connect the Scottish islands including: Restoring power Orkney to Caithness: SHE Transmission In March, engineers re-built the is continuing to develop a project for electricity network in Kintyre a new 220kV subsea cable between and on Arran after catastrophic Orkney and Dounreay to increase damage due to heavy snow and transmission system capacity to support high winds.
renewable energy projects, mainly marine, in and around Orkney.
Site investigations, survey and design work See the page opposite for more information Also see YouTube: http: bit.
ly 11U9EbV is continuing and, pending the required consents and regulatory approval, the 33 Performance review Networks continued  businesses completion of the link is planned for In addition to the incorporation of innovation in day-to-day 2018. activities, wider change is taking place which means the Western Isles: SHE Transmission has undertaken a considerable amount of way customers use electricity will evolve.
SSEs electricity work in relation to the proposed Western distribution businesses continue preparations to make Isles HVDC link and Lewis infrastructure.
However, under the regulatory the network ready for a low carbon future over the framework, SHE Transmission needs next decade.
to be able to demonstrate a robust economic case for constructing the link and, in light of the findings of the Scottish Islands Renewables Project, the funding gap for developers continues to Transmission continues to engage with into England and, potentially, Wales.
Therefore, while SHE key global suppliers for HVDC technology Transmission participates in the Electricity Transmission awaits a decision from the and has recently awarded contracts with Networks Steering Group, jointly chaired UK and Scottish governments on how to four global businesses to help facilitate by the UK government and Ofgem, overcome the costs faced by renewable the delivery of new electricity substations to identify and co-ordinate work to help developers on the Western Isles, the in the north of Scotland, an integral address key strategic issues that affect placing of the 700m cable contract part of the investment programme.
SHE the electricity networks in the transition by July 2013 is no longer achievable.
Transmission is also working on similar to a low carbon future.
As a result it will not be possible to awards for all of the proposed overhead commission a link before 2017. line and under ground cable works.
Electricity Transmission priorities Shetland: SHE Transmission is in for 2013 14 and Beyond the process of securing consents for In addition, SHE Transmission is investing in converter stations and the proposed skills for the future through the recruitment SHE Transmission is SSEs fastestsubsea onshore under ground HVDC of apprentices, Technical Staff Trainees and growing business, where the core transmission link between the Shetland graduates to help deliver the infrastructure activity for much of the next decade islands and the Scottish mainland programme over the next decade.
In the will be construction.
Against this to accommodate renewable energy last three years, almost 100 such roles background, its priorities for 2013 14 developments in Shetland.
The link have been created and SHE Transmission and beyond are to: would also connect properties in plans to recruit for more than 50 additional Shetland to the mainland electricity roles this year.
meet key milestones in projects network for the first time and could under construction, in a way that be installed in the second half of this Working with customers and stakeholders is consistent with all safety and decade.
Pending the required consents, As the licensed electricity Transmission environmental requirements: regulatory approval and securing Owner TO in the north of Scotland, implement the new operational of HVDC supply chain capacity, the SHE Transmission has a duty to maintain regimes for the 2013-21 Price Control completion of the link is currently and develop the transmission system.
and maintain high levels of system planned for 2018.
In carrying out this duty, SHE Transmissions availability: activities are scrutinised and regulated by make progress with projects For these island projects, a decision from Ofgem, including the level of engagement in development, including the UK and Scottish governments on with customers and stakeholders.
implementing the programme the issues raised in the Scottish Island of consulting with, and updating, Renewables Project report is required The programme to expand the network to interested parties: before SHE Transmission will submit the facilitate the growth of electricity generation maintain and develop effective projects for regulatory approval.
In the from renewable sources is of interest to a stakeholder relationships: and meantime, it will continue to seek planning wide range of individuals and organisations ensure it has the people, skills, consents and engage the supply chain.
including developers, communities, national resources and supply chain and local government, the supply chain relationships that will be necessary to Building a supply chain for and trade organisations.
Keeping these support growth on a significant scale.
transmission infrastructure stakeholders updated and informed about Global demand for key plant items its programme is a key priority for SHE such as HVDC technology, cable Transmission.
Electricity Distribution manufacturing capacity and subsea installation equipment is high, with the In addition, there is a complex system Performance in Southern Electric Power result that there is a restricted market of co-ordination for development of the Distribution and Scottish Hydro Electric place and competition with projects network in Great Britain, which means that Power Distribution within the UK as well as further afield significant new generation connecting The performance of SSEs two electricity across Europe and the rest of the world.
into the system in the north of Scotland is distribution companies during 2012 13 Equally important is the availability of a likely to impact on the network in the south was as follows comparison with skilled and experienced workforce.
SHE of Scotland and require reinforcement previous year : 34 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 1.
4. operating profit increased by 29.3% keeping assets in good condition Innovating for the future to 512.8m: through a regular programme of electricity networks electricity distributed rose by 0.9TWh of inspection, maintenance, In addition to the incorporation of to 41.6TWh: refurbishment and replacement: innovation in day-to-day activities, wider the average number of minutes of lost investing in areas to reinforce the change is taking place which means the supply per customer was 73 in the north existing network or build new lines way customers use electricity will evolve.
73 and 65 in the south 60 : and to provide an alternative supply should SSEs electricity distribution businesses the number of supply interruptions per the existing line be damaged: continue preparations to make the network 100 customers was 69 in the north 71 fast response to faults with up to ready for a low carbon future over the and 62 in the south 70.
1,000 people based in 40 sites in next decade.
the south of England and north of The increase in operating profit Scotland, supported by Network The drivers for change are numerous and principally reflected additional allowed Management Centres in Perth and include: revenue under the existing Distribution Portsmouth: and Price Control, the recovery of allowed communication with customers during increasing electrification of heat and income not received in the previous year, planned and unplanned interruptions transport: 2011 12, and revenue resulting from through telephone, website, email and further growth of large distributed the increase in the volume of electricity social media.
generators, as well as widespread distributed during 2012 13 see below community and micro-generation in addition to continued emphasis on the SSE now restores power within 12 hours using solar, hydro and wind: and control of costs.
to over 99% of customers who experience significant energy conservation.
To achieve this Volume of electricity distributed it has used a combination of fast response All of this will change the traditional The total volume of electricity distributed teams and innovative technologies to find flows of electricity, which means smarter, by the two companies during 2012 13 and repair faults quickly.
more dynamic networks will be required.
was 41.6TWh, compared with 40.7TWh Two major smart projects, with total in the previous year.
Under the electricity Each year customer tariffs are set to approved funding under the Ofgem Distribution Price Control for 2010-15, recover the amount of money agreed Low Carbon Networks LCN Fund of the volume of electricity distributed with Ofgem during the Price Control 26m, are being led by SSEs electricity does not affect companies overall review.
In turn, electricity supply distribution businesses: allowed revenue although it does companies then include these costs have an impact on the timing in the charges they make to their My Electric Avenue, in which SSE is the of revenue collection.
In 2012 13 electricity host electricity distribution company, distribution charges made up 16%of working together with partners, to Investing in electricity networks an average GB household electricity bill.
undertake a programme of trials with at the lowest possible cost customers using electric vehicles for customers Therefore, since any investment to assess their impact on the local Capital expenditure in electricity made in the electricity distribution electricity network.
The results of distribution networks was 288.8m network is ultimately paid for by these trials will be shared with other in 2012 13, taking the total for the customers, the approach adopted distribution companies, UK government 2010-15 Price Control to 761.1m so by SSEs two electricity distribution and other stakeholders once the project far.
This investment contributes to its companies is to make sufficient is complete at the end of 2015. priority of providing a good service to its up front investment, either through Thames Valley Vision TVV, in and customers by delivering a reliable supply conventional reinforcement or around Bracknell, aims to demonstrate of electricity.
Investing in its network to use of new technologies, so that that applying new technologies to maintain reliability takes a number of a quick response, when customers Bracknells network will provide a lower forms, including: needs become clear, can be made.
cost alternative to redeveloping the substation to meet increasing electricity demand, with the potential to reduce significantly costs to customers.
Investing in our networks Around 550 participants are now involved in the project and further Weve invested over 288m in our work is being undertaken to increase electricity distribution networks to this number.
TVV involves monitoring make sure that the electricity supply and predicting electricity demand is more reliable than ever.
and usage patterns and using a range of innovative technologies, including network automation, energy storage and automated demand response, to manage the network flows predicted by modelling.
35 Performance review Networks continued  businesses In addition to these two projects, Northern Investment will continue to be a top priority for SGN and, Isles New Energy Solutions NINES in line with that, it expects to invest around 350.0m in features the use of heat and electricity storage to manage intelligently the impact capital expenditure and mains and service replacement of movements in demand on electricity projects during 2013 14. generation, which could allow more renewable energy to be connected to the network.
It also features new active network management solutions.
This means NINES is not just a smart programme but a comprehensive and sustainable solution 98.4% of uncontrolled gas escapes were Electricity Distribution priorities to the energy challenges on Shetland.
attended within one hour of notification, in 2013 14 and beyond Information gathered through the project compared with 98.7% in the previous is making an important contribution to year, and exceeding the standard of 97%.
During 2013 14 and beyond SSEs SSEs proposals for long-term energy priorities in Electricity Distribution security on Shetland, which are due The minimal change in operating profit for are to: to be submitted to Ofgem in July.
SGN reflects good operational performance offset by accounting treatment of some comply fully with all safety standards The deployment of innovations and regulatory and pension costs.
and environmental requirements: technologies, as well as good performance ensure that the networks are in response to Ofgems enhanced incentive Only 3.5% of SGNs transportation income managed as efficiently as possible, mechanisms in areas such as customer is volume-related: the remaining 96.5% delivering required outputs while service, should enable SSE to continue is related to the maximum capacity maintaining tight controls over to achieve the post-tax real return in requirements of its customers.
A small operational expenditure: excess of 5% which it is targeting in part of SGNs operating profit is derived place customers needs at the centre electricity distribution.
from the non-regulated activities of its of plans for the networks: contracting, connections and commercial put responsiveness at the heart of Working with stakeholders on the new services operations.
day-to-day operations, so that the electricity distribution Price Control number and duration of power cuts RIIO-ED1 will be the first electricity Implementing the new experienced by customers is kept distribution Price Control review to Gas Distribution Price Control to a minimum: reflect the new regulatory framework Following the RIIO-GD1 Final Proposals ensure there is adequate capacity first adopted in RIIO-T1 and RIIO-GD1.
from Ofgem for the next Gas Distribution to meet changing demands on the It will run from 2015 to 2023.
In line with Price Control for the period 1 April 2013 electricity system: wider trends in electricity networks, it is to 31 March 2021, SGN accepted the work with stakeholders on RIIO-ED1: likely to put an emphasis on incentives Price Control and believes that the and to secure the innovation required for low level of total capital and operational make progress on the deployment of carbon transition.
In March 2013 Ofgem expenditure is enough to allow it to innovative investment in smart grids.
published its strategy decision for RIIO-ED1, maintain safe and reliable networks, confirming that the regulatory policy for which cover approximately 40% of the With such significant changes required over it will build on the existing framework and UK land mass and serve around 5.8m the next few years, not least in adapting benefit efficient distribution companies customers, and to secure a fair return the networks to accommodate changes in that meet the expectations of their for doing so.
production and consumption, the scope for stakeholders.
additional incremental growth in electricity SGNs preparations for the implementation distribution networks is clear.
As with RIIO-T1, distribution companies of RIIO-GD1 included retaining a strong will be required to develop comprehensive focus on operating cost efficiency.
During business plans setting out their planned the next eight years, SGN has committed outputs for the eight-year period and Gas Distribution to deliver a wide range of outputs and how they propose to deliver them.
has been allowed by Ofgem over 4.6bn SSE continues to work extensively Performance in SGN at 2012 13 prices of cost allowances with stakeholders to ensure that its plans SSE receives 50% of the distributable to deliver these outputs efficiently.
meet the requirements of all users of its earnings from Scotia Gas Networks SGN, distribution networks and in February 2013 in line with its equity holding, and also SGNs investment programme is key published Innovating for a greener, more provides it with some corporate and to this delivery and within the overall efficient future: Our Second Consultation management services.
In 2012 13: cost allowances, Ofgem has allowed to invite further views on the priorities around 2.8bn over the next eight identified for the electricity distribution SSEs share of SGNs operating profit years to cover new investment and businesses between 2015 and 2023. was 234.1m, compared with 234.8m: to manage the risks relating to SGNs RIIO-ED1 business plans are to be gas transported rose by 19.1TWh to existing assets.
This investment will submitted to Ofgem in July.
162.5TWh: and allow SGN to: 36 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 1.
4. deliver a safe and reliable network Dorset, SGN is now developing this through Airtricity Utility Solutions for its customers: technology so that larger volumes this was previously 28 individual minimise the impact on the of biomethane can be introduced contracts : and environment and reduce disruption into the network.
SGN believes that this 11 contracts under the Private Finance for customers and communities: and innovation will help the UK meet its Initiative, to replace and maintain deliver new customer-driven initiatives decarbonisation targets, contribute nearly 630,000 lighting units.
to help reduce fuel poverty and to the UKs energy security and help increase awareness of the dangers with energy affordability.
Lighting services has been successful of carbon monoxide.
in offering a fully integrated solution for SGN is in discussions with potential combined technology contracts covering, Investing in gas networks and partners on a further 10 proposals amongst other things, the maintenance securing growth in their RAV for biomethane network entry points and installation of lighting units and The five-year Gas Distribution Price from anaerobic digestion projects to traffic signs, traffic signals and intelligent Control, which began in April 2008, be delivered in the next 18 months in transport systems such as vehicle activated provided the opportunity for SGN to Scotland and southern England.
signs, CCTV traffic control cameras and increase significantly investment in speed enforcement cameras.
These types its gas distribution networks, thereby of contract have the benefit of promoting Gas Distribution priorities in reinforcing safety and reliability and best practice systems across an area, 2013 14 and beyond securing another significant increase enabling local authorities and residents in its RAV.
By the end of 2012 13, SGNs to be provided with an enhanced, During 2013 14, SGNs priorities are to: total RAV was estimated to have integrated solution.
In line with this, reached 4.78bn.
it has secured a 56m, eight-year continue to deliver a safe and secure contract for all of the street lighting gas supply to customers: During 2012 13, SGN invested 398.0m and intelligent traffic management work with stakeholders and the in capital expenditure and mains and systems across Cornwall.
Regulator to implement the new Gas services replacement projects, compared Distribution Price Control 2013-21 : with 404.3m in the previous year: As part of developing innovative deliver to time and budget the solutions, it has developed future proof 2013 14 mains replacement and The majority of the mains replacement fit and forget models aimed at reducing capital works programmes: and expenditure was incurred under the unit maintenance regimes, improving support and invest in sustainable 30:30 mains replacement programme efficiency, cost effectiveness and saving developments in gas distribution which was started in 2002.
Lighting Services is working with and biogas production.
that all iron gas mains within 30 metres a number of clients installing Mayflower, of homes and premises must be replaced an SSE-owned total lighting control over a 30-year period.
During 2012 13, management system, in the UK, with over SGN replaced 1,124km of its metallic gas Other Networks 94,000nodes installed, whilst continuing mains with modern polyethylene pipes.
to develop the business in Ireland, where Capital projects also included the Performance in Other Networks Lighting Services operates as the largest development of a new UK leading SSEs Other Networks businesses street lighting operator in the Republic.
biogas plant at Poundbury in Dorset Lighting Services, Utility Solutions and which was opened by HRH The Prince Telecoms are relatively small when The success of lighting services of Wales in November 2012. compared with its  depends in part on effective long-term SGN is also committed to making energy networks, and they operate in management of contractual relationships new gas connections to existing tough and competitive markets.
More generally, homes that are not on mains gas contribution to SSEs operating profit Lighting Services fits well within SSEs as affordable as possible, and is increased, from 32.1m in 2011 12 to business model and, as in electricity running an Assisted Connections 35.9m in 2012 13, despite challenging distribution, future success will be based scheme, under which 6,714properties trading conditions.
on effective and efficient customer were connected to its networks service and successful deployment during 2012 13.
Maintaining leadership of new technology.
in lighting services provision Investment will continue to be a top SSE remains the UKs and Irelands Providing comprehensive Utility Solutions priority for SGN and, in line with that, leading street-lighting contractor.
SSE provides a comprehensive range of it expects to invest around 350.0min At 31 March 2013, it had: utility solutions.
It designs, builds, owns, capital expenditure and mains and service operates and maintains cable and pipe replacement projects during 2013 14.
22 contracts with local authorities networks for delivering electricity, gas, water in England, Wales and Scotland to and heat to existing and new commercial Making gas networks more sustainable maintain over 625,000lighting units: and residential developments in England, Following the delivery of the countrys 16 consolidated contracts with local Wales and Scotland.
It is, therefore, first full-scale anaerobic digester and authorities in the Republic of Ireland able to provide a one-stop solution for biomethane-to-grid project in Poundbury, to maintain over 245,000 lighting units, multi-utility infrastructure requirements 37 Performance review Networks continued  businesses to customers in the development and services.
An inset appointment is the business areas and metropolitan data construction sectors.
For example, in the route by which one company replaces centres where it sees the greatest growth past year, SSE has secured contracts at four another as the appointed water and or in demand.
large developments to provide combined sewerage company for a specified area.
electricity, gas and water services to 5,990 SSEW now has 19 such appointments SSE Telecoms has also set out its longerhomes.
Looking at each activity in turn: and provides, or has secured contracts term strategy, which is focused on four to provide, water and sewerage services key objectives: Electricity Networks: SSE now to over 28,000propertiesin England owns and operates 137 embedded and Wales, more than any other new increasing geographic coverage: energised electricity networks outside appointment company.
This number facilitating fast and reliable cloud the traditional areas served by its includes over 3,500 SSEW customers service delivery for customers:  companies already connected.
developing new high-capacity, high Scottish Hydro Electric Power Heat:SSE uses Combined Heat and availability network services: and Distribution and Southern Electric Power Power CHP generation on District becoming ever-easier to work with Distribution.
New sites in operation in Heating schemes to provide hot water as a service provider.
2012 13 include data centres, recycling and space heating mainly to high plants, retail parks and over 1,400 density residential developments.
Other Networks priorities in homes.
A further 61 networks are There are now sevenheat networks in 2013 14 and beyond under construction and contracts have operation and sevenfurther schemes been signed for the development of an where SSE is the preferred bidder.
Lighting Services, Utility Solutions and additional six, taking the total to 204 Over 2,000 new heat customers Telecoms have specific priorities for up from 168 at the end of 2011 12. have been connected in the last 2013 14, but across all of them there is Several significant electricity contracts 12 months, including the delivery a continuing need for: have been signed, including: the 2,012 of one of Scotlands largest district plot development at Emersons Green heating schemes at Wyndford, Glasgow.
efficiency and customer service: in Bristol and the 650 plot development SSEs total heat customers now stands effective product development: and at Monbank in Newport, both of at over 3,000 with a further 4,000 technological change and innovation.
which also include gas and water contracted but not yet completed.
contracts: the 2,300 plot development at Calderwood near Edinburgh, which Operating a national telecoms network also includes a gas contract: and the SSE Telecoms provides high-capacity Networks conclusion adoption of the network at SkyPark resilient network and data centre services The continuing success of SSEs Exeter, one of South West Englands to the UKs cloud services, systems  and marketmost ambitious business park integration and telecoms industries.
based Networks will be founded on developments.
Its reputation for project delivery and efficiency, responsiveness and innovation Gas Pipelines:SSE is also a licensed high availability is based on the effective in operations, such as restoring power gas transporter, installing, owning management of assets including supplies following interruptions, and and operating gas mains and services 12,479km of fibre optic cable, leased investments, such as upgrading the on new housing and commercial fibre, microwave links and a 10MW, transmission network in the north of developments throughout the UK.
80,000 square feet data centre built to Scotland.
This, in turn, underpins SSEs The total number of new premises exceed the demanding Tier 3 standard.
ability to target annual above-inflation connected to its gas networks has In addition, SSE Telecoms manages SSEs dividend increases.
continued to grow and since the start internal call centre, telephony and data of the current financial year it has network infrastructure.
connected a further 15,056 premises, passing 100,000 total connections in The ten-year 30m Janet contract to October 2012.
Contracts have been provide 6,500km of fibre network to over signed for a further 67,297 connections 30 UK sites used by the UKs research and to be completed.
New gas networks education community has been delivered within multi-utility contracts as successfully, further strengthening SSE mentioned above are complemented Telecoms reputation as a service provider by gas-only developments within SSEs for education and public services.
Contract electricity distribution areas such as the wins in the data centre will see the site 312 home development at the former approaching its currently fitted-out Prysmian Cable Works in Eastleigh or capacity, with scope for expansion and the 247 home development at Castle development of existing space and Meadows in Aberdeen.
Water:Through SSE Water SSEW SSE is able to install, own, operate and The focus for the year ahead is the supply water and sewerage services expansion of SSE Telecoms network, which alongside its existing electricity and gas will reduce its cost to service high-density 38 SSE plc Annual Report 2013
