Strategic overview The energy sector Great Britain Around 30 million homes, offices monopoly status competition in and businesses are connected to the this sector is defined by the criteria The energy sector in Great Britain electricity network in Great Britain and set by the regulator, Ofgem.
Network remains one of the most competitive around 23 million to the gas network.
operators compete to prove themselves and deregulated energy markets in Initial figures for 2012 show that total the most efficient and effective operator the world.
The sector is split between electricity generation throughout the of energy networks and by doing so activities which are economicallyUK was 363TWh representing a further they can outperform their allowances, regulated energy transmission and fall in overall electricity demand.
Total adding to returns, and vice versa for the distribution networks and activities gas consumption in 2012 was 855TWh, inefficient operators.
which are market-based energy representing a further fall in gas demand, production and retailing.
Companies largely driven by a significant reduction There are four types of energy network: that are vertically integrated and in gas being used to generate electricity.
operate in both parts of the sector electricity transmission three networks must maintain clear legal separation The stated goal of the UK governments in GB high voltage electricity wires and confidentiality under the Utilities energy policy is to achieve secure, and cables: Act 2000. affordable and low-carbon energy electricity distribution 14 networks in in the years and decades ahead.
GB lower voltage wires and cables Reflecting its island status, Great Britains delivering electricity to customers energy ieelectricity and gas sector is Energy networks premises: largely free-standing with the exception Electricity and gas networks have operated gas transmission one network in GB of some electricity interconnection with under a relatively stable regulatory regime high pressure gas pipelines: and Ireland and mainland Europe and some since privatisation.
Regulation is based on gas distribution eight networks in GB gas pipelines from mainland Europe and allowing a return on a Regulated Asset lower pressure pipes delivering gas to Ireland.
By virtue of their to customers premises.
Moyle interconnector Date Established: 2001Length: Approx 60km Capacity:450MW currently restricted to 250MW 2.
Scotland to Northern Ireland pipeline Date :Approx 130km Capacity:8mcm Electricity interconnector 3.
Scotland to Republic of Ireland Perth Gas pipeline pipeline LNG import terminal Date :Approx 200km Russia Edinburgh Capacity:26mcm 1 2 Europe 4.
East towest interconnector Belfast Date :Approx 260km 3 North Sea Capacity:500MW United States Fukushima 4 5.
Bacton to Balgzand line Iran Dublin Libya Date :Approx 230km 5 Qatar Capacity:46mcm Irish Sea 6 6.
Bacton to Zeebrugge interconnector 7 Date :Approx 230km Cardiff London Capacity:58-74mcm 8 7.
BritNed interconnector Colombia Date :Approx 260km English Channel Capacity:1,000MW 8.
England to France interconnector Date :Approx 70km Capacity:2,000MW DC 04 SSE plc Annual Report 2013
