Strategic overview The energy sector continued off the west coast.
At peak flow it is Ireland is hugely dependent on fossil fuels, over 90% estimated this field will deliver 42% of which are imported.
With two gas interconnectors of all island demand over the first two to GB, potentially carrying over 30mcm daily, indigenous years of operation.
With the Republic of Ireland continental shelf extending to gas storage is limited.
220 million acres, 10 times its land area, the government is keen to encourage In the Republic of Ireland, state-owned Despite competitive business markets for exploration companies in the expectation Bord Gis owns, maintains and develops a number of years, domestic switching in that significant oil and gas reserves may the gas transmission and distribution electricity and gas has only taken hold since lie in deep water in the Atlantic basin.
SSEs retail brand in Ireland, Airtricity, business within Bord Gis, operates the has been a significant contributor to the To further reduce import dependence transmission system.
Regulated by the CER, development of domestic competition and meet strict EU decarbonisation the current Price Control runs until 2017. across the island with almost 800,000 andrenewable energy targets, both RoI and energy customers joining in the last four NI governments have set a target of 40% In NorthernIreland the gas market is in the years.
This has allowed full deregulation renewable electricity to be delivered by 2020. early stage of development.
Two companies of RoI electricity retail market, since April This targetrequires approximately 5,000MW Firmus Energy, a subsidiary of Bord Gis, 2011.
While deregulation in RoI gas and NI of renewable energy capacity to be installed and Phoenix Natural Gas own and operate electricity and gas will follow, significantly across the island.
This is underpinned separate distribution networks, regulated lower switching rates are slowing its delivery.
byestablished support mechanisms: in RoI, by NIAUR.
The forthcoming Phoenix Price the Renewable Energy Feed-in tariffwhich Control will cover the period 2014-16, In June 2012, SSE completed the acquisition provides a floor for renewable energy: and, while Firmus runs to the end of 2016. of Phoenix Supply Limited, to become in NI, Renewable Obligation Certificates the regulated incumbent gas supplier to as in GB.
Renewable energy, mainly Electricity and gas markets 130,000 customers.
The now renamed hydro and wind, currently supplies 17% Across the Republic of Ireland and Airtricity Gas Supply NI business completes of electricity demand in Ireland.
NorthernIreland there is a common its annual tariff review in March each year, wholesale electricity market: the Single with an interim tariff review in October.
Ireland currently has approximately Electricity Market.
This market operates 2,070MW of onshore wind connected but with two currencies Euro and Sterling In early 2013, Airtricity also became the has the resource to increasethisonand and there are separate dual support first new market entrant for Large Energy offshore.
With a view to harnessing this mechanisms for renewable energy.
Users in to Northern Irelands Ten Towns potential, in January 2013, Energy Ministers Gas Supply Network, which was opened to from the UK and RoI governmentssigned a The SingleElectricity Market encompasses competition in October 2012.
Previously, Memorandum of Understanding regarding over 9,000MW of fully dispatchable Large Energy Users had been limited in the development and subsequent export of generation capacity and supplied over their choice of natural gas supplier, with onshore wind from Ireland to GB.
Over the 35TWh in 2012, costing around 2bn in the Ten Towns license being restricted to coming year analysis will be completed to energy payments and 0.5bn in capacity Firmus the network operator there.
assess the economic viability and if proven, payments in 2012 source: EirGrid SONI.
a legal partnership will be examined.
The retail markets operate separately Market structure with around twomillion customers in The RoI Government in early 2012 Economic regulation of networks the Republic of Ireland and 0.8 million announced a programme for the disposal of The Commission for Energy Regulation in Northern Ireland.
State assets through the National Treasury CER and the Northern Ireland Utility Management Agency NTMA.
While, gas Regulator NIAUR regulate the electricity The island consumes approximately and electricity transmission and distribution and natural gas markets and networks 73TWh of gas annually of which around systems will remain in state control, in RoI and NI respectively.
two thirds is used in power generation.
all other state assets are under review.
As in electricity the gas retail market The state-owned RoI Electricity Supply operates as two separate markets with The sale of Bord Gis Energy BGE, Board ESB owns and operates the some 650,000 consumers in the Republic which contains gas and electricity retail distribution and owns the transmission of Irelandand 150,000 in Northern and thermal and renewable generation networks in RoI and NI.
The majority of gas consumed is assets, will comprise the main element these activities are regulated through Price imported.
The governments and regulatory of the disposal in the energy sector, with Controls set by CER and NIAUR typically for authorities are currently developing an some non-strategic power generation five-year periods.
The current Price Controls all-island gas market.
Gas prices in Ireland capacity owned by ESB also proposed.
In NI the price tend to be set by the UK wholesale price.
The sale process of BGE is scheduled control covers the period 2012-17. to be completed by the end of 2013.
Electricity and gas retailing The transmission system in the Republic At 31 March 2013 there were four Weather of Ireland is operated by EirGrid plc and, in main electricity and gas suppliers Northern Ireland, is operated bySONI Ltd, operating in the Republic of Ireland The UK and Ireland lie at a particularly a wholly-owned subsidiary of EirGrid plc.
volatile latitude where warm air from the 06 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 1.
4. tropics and cold air from the Arctic collide the term climate describes the average June 2012 the coldest June since 1991 to create numerous weather systems.
weather expected over a long period and the wettest June on record since This creates unpredictable conditions of time, typically 30 years or more.
records began in 1910. where weather can change very quickly.
August 2012 although the start of this For the UK and Ireland long-term month saw flooding in parts of England, Weather and climate change can weather forecasting is difficult given their in Wales and Scotland the month was both have an effect on SSEs business geographic location sitting between the dry and clear compared with the 30- operations, including: Atlantic Ocean on one side and continental year average.
This means even December 2012 the UK sunshine figure variations in customer demand for subtle changes in the wind direction can for this month was 120% of average.
energy: bring marked changes in the weather.
February 2013 despite generally cold changes in the volume of electricity temperatures, there were few major generated: and, potentially, 2012 13 weather patterns relative weather events impacting the UK during disruption to power supplies as a to the 30 year average February.
result of weather-related damage In the UK 2012 13 will be remembered March 2013 the coldest March since to the electricity network.
as one of the coldest periods of time in 1962.
March was the coldest month of the past 30 years.
Not only was it a cold the extended winter, the first time this Often, when discussing prevailing year but rainfall across the UK was also has happened since 1975. conditions, the terms weather and higher than the 30-year average for a climate are used interchangeably.
Weather is an important influence on This is particularly evident when how SSE manages its business.
Accurate unseasonably warm or cold days are Most noticeably: forecasting, coupled with analysis of contrasted with wider discussions on generation plant availability in SSEs own climate change.
April 2012 the coldest April since portfolio and elsewhere in the market, 1989, it was also the wettest April since customer demand and its contractual The term weather refers to the records began in 1910, only the western position means SSE can assess, and temperature, precipitation and wind, which fringes of Scotland and parts of Northern therefore manage, exposure to weather sees hourly and daily fluctuations: whereas Ireland were drier than average.
fluctuations and wider market prices.
