Performance review Wholesale Market-based businesses Sourcing and producing energy SSEs Wholesale segment comprises four Securing and different business areas: Energy Portfolio Management EPM is responsible for ensuring SSE has producing the the energy supplies it requires to meet the needs of its customers and for procuring the fuel required by the energy people generation plants that SSE owns or has a contractual interest in.
Generation is responsible for the operation and management of SSEs need.
generation assets, their maintenance and ensuring this plant is available for use by EPM.
Gas Production is responsible for Wholesale operating Thermal generation Thermal generation the efficient delivery of gas from the profit m capacity GW output TWh physical gas fields that SSE has a shared ownership in.
Gas Storage is responsible for the 509.5 9.79 29.3 operation and management of SSEs gas storage facilities, their maintenance -16.2% 10.7% -23.7% and ensuring the plant is available for The businesses in SSEs SSE has wholly-owned gas-fired Thermal generation output use by SSE and third parties.
Wholesale segment source, power stations at Keadby, covers the amount of electricity produce and store energy Medway and Peterhead and generated as gasand coal-fired through energy portfolio coal-fired power stations at power stations at which SSE has EPM and Generation are not reported as management, electricity Ferrybridge, Fiddlers Ferry an ownership or contractual discrete profit centres or activities but their generation, gas production and Uskmouth.
shared objective is to provide the lowest cost input to SSEs Retail business for the provision of energy to customers, consistent with the EU Regulation on Energy Market Renewable generation Renewable generation Gas production million Integrity and Transparency REMIT.
capacity GW output TWh therms Financial performance in Wholesale During 2012 13 operating profit in 3.24 7.3 183.8 Wholesale decreased by 16.2%, from 607.9m to 509.5m, contributing 28.4% of 7.3% -3.9% 4.0% SSEs total operating profit.
This comprised Renewable generation capacity Renewable generation output is Gas production is responsible for EPM and Electricity Generation 451.5m covers hydro-electric schemes output from SSEs conventional the efficient delivery of gas from conventional and pumped hydro-electric schemes, wind the physical gas fields that SSE compared with 541.5m, a decrease of storage, wind farms onshore farms and dedicated biomass has a shared ownership in.
Although profitable, the year was and offshore and dedicated plant.
Output is affected by the challenging, with continued low spark biomass plant.
amount of plant in operation and by weather conditions.
spreads for gas-fired generation and lower underlying output from renewables sources due to calmer and drier weather when compared with the previous year.
Total Key topics in this section electricity output fell by 20% to 36.5TWh.
There was however, 570MW of additional Changing SSEs thermal operations in the future capacity for renewable energy operational See page 52 for more information on 1 April 2012 compared with the previous year.
This resulted in actual wind energy Producing electricity from renewable sources output increasing, although there was See page 54 for more information much lower hydro output: Continuing to expand the gas production business Gas Production 39.6m compared See page 59 for more information with 42.6m.
Despite the small fall in profits the production assets continued to perform well, producing 183.8 million therms compared with 176.7 million therms in the previous year: and 48 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 1.
Gas Storage 18.4m compared the introduction of a UK carbon price In the meantime, SSE will continue with 23.8m.
Lower market volatility floor and the move to auction all carbon to manage its portfolio of electricity anda reduction in the spread between allowances under EU ETS for thermal generation assets in accordance summer and winter gas prices led generation plant: with the principles set out below to a lower Standard Bundled Unit increasing system variability due see Managing Generation assets price being achieved.
Demand for to higher penetrations of variable according to long-standing principles storage was also lower.
These factors energy sources: and in accordance with the financial were only partly offset by additional market integration between Great principles set out above see Sticking storage capacity coming online Britain and Ireland: and to the financial principles which underpin at Aldbrough.
forecasts of tightening generation dividend growth.
capacity in Great Britain as older Working for customers plant including coal, nuclear and gas Energy Portfolio Management EPM The wholesale price of energy can closes as a result of regulatory and fluctuate greatly due to factors including economic pressures.
Managing an energy portfolio the economy, the weather, customer In recent years, SSE has typically demand, infrastructure availability, In addition, the European Target Model required around 10 million therms and world events.
EPM and Electricity is the principal regulatory vehicle for of gas per day to supply all its customers Generation seek to minimise the impact working towards a single European and to fuel its power stations, and of these variables by maintaining a diverse energy market to enable optimal use around 150GWh of electricity per day and well-balanced portfolio of contracts of cross-border capacity and greater to supply all its customers.
EPM has and assets, both long and short term.
harmonisation of electricity wholesale three primary routes to procure In doing so, SSE has: market arrangements.
competitively and sustainably the energy and fuels it needs to meet greater ability to manage wholesale Assessing GB electricity this demand: energy price volatility, thereby market reform protecting customers from it and The UK government believes that SSE-owned assets:includingupstream ensuring greater price stability: its Electricity Market Reform EMR, gas exploration and productionand lower risk from wholesale prices through including the current Energy Bill, thermal and renewable generation: reduced exposure to volatility in any represents the most significant market Contracts: long-term gas producer single commodity: and intervention since the privatisation of contracts, power purchase agreements more scope to deliver the investment electricity.
It features: with SSE-owned plant and third parties, needed in Generation and Gas Production and solid fuel contracts: and because the risks associated with largean annual minimum price for a tonne Wholesale trading: where energy scale and long-term investments are of carbon that applies only in the UK contracts are transparently traded on balanced by the demand from electricity the carbon price floor : international exchanges or through and gas customers.
long-term contracts that will effectively over the counter markets, with 100% fix the price received by generators of electricity supply and demand traded Responding to key trends for each unit of low carbon electricity on the day-ahead auction market.
in the energy sector produced the Contract for Difference The energy sector is undergoing a Feed-in Tariffs : Managing risks associated with energy period of profound change.
The main a mechanism to address the security procurement across these channels is public policy drivers are European and of supply challenges resulting from a key challenge for EPM, as it is heavily UK-led decarbonisation policy, security plant closures and the changing influenced to varying degrees by a of fuel supplies and price competitiveness nature of electricity generation multitude of national and international affordability.
These policy objectives the Capacity Market : and factors including: are influencing and in turn being maximum emissions levels for electricity impacted by: generation technologies the Emissions energy demand growth decline: Performance Standard.
the global economy: slow economic growth implying lower fuel supply disruptions: electricity demand: The origins of EMR go back to 2009, international affairs: reduced domestic gas consumption yet much of the detail is still to be nuclear availability: following the success of energy determined and this prolonged period CCGT demand: efficiency interventions: of uncertainty is having an effect, prices for CO permits: 2 rising energy prices as a result of higher making investment decisions in new internationalisation of gas supply: and input costs and the cost of delivering thermal generation plant very difficult.
mandatory government-sponsored energy efficiency schemes: Clarity and stability are, therefore, By optimising energy procurement uncertainties surrounding Electricity much-needed features of the UK through a diverse portfolio, SSE ensures Market Reform and a regulatory energy policy landscape and their that its customers are protected from framework trending towards absence could eventually jeopardise the unavoidable uncertainty that exists increased central planning: the security of electricity supply.
49 Performance review Wholesale continued Market-based businesses Meeting current and future for smaller suppliers and traded 795GWh sustainability: to deliver an overall requirements for energy with such suppliers in 2012 13.
50% cut in the CO intensity of 2 During 2012 13, EPM was responsible for electricity produced.
the deployment of 7,285GWh of output In taking this action SSE has delivered a new from SSEs renewable portfolio: around level of market transparency, significantly In implementing these principles SSE 250 million therms of gas would be improved liquidity, increased the depth and is focused on doing the right things needed to generate a similar amount credibility of the market and assisted in the now, while selecting the right projects of electricity.
creation of a robust and tangible pricing for the future.
This means capital and index.
SSE is also an active participant in management resources are employed in With no fuel purchasing requirement, this wholesale gas markets.
It has received areas and at stages where SSE best retains generation type is increasingly providing a no formal communication or information competitive advantage, supports business substantive source of energy and a strong requests from any regulatory authority growth, maximises shareholder value and long term hedge against the volatility in in connection with the investigation ensures continued dividend growth.
Maintaining a diverse In April 2013 SSE completed the acquisition generation portfolio EPM priorities for 2013 14 from BP of a 50% non-operational interest Decarbonisation policy at the UK and beyond in the Sean gas field in the southern North and European level is driving the way Sea, adding a further 1.1 billion therms energy is converted to electricity: however, EPM priorities for the coming financial of gas reserves to its existing exploration there is no one size fits all solution to the year include: and production assets, and providing an achievement of this objective.
Rather, SSE important long-term supply of physical is maintaining and investing in a diverse securing a stable and predictable gas at a fixed price.
and sustainable portfolio of thermal and supply of energy to meet SSEs renewable generation plant.
customers needs: SSE has also agreed a number of driving business change to respond long-term gas supply contracts in In moving to a low-carbon generation effectively to new UK and EU recent years including: mix SSE will, by the end of the decade, regulations: transition its generation assets from a identifying and agreeing new longa 10-year contract with Statoil for the portfolio weighted towards gas and coal, term gas supply contracts: annual supply of 500 million cubic metres towards a portfolio weighted towards gas continuing to support improved mcm 185Mth of natural gas which and renewables.
market transparency and liquidity commenced in October 2012: and initiatives: and a 10-year gas supply agreement The practical application of these principles ensuring compliance with UK and EU of 790mcm 292Mth per annum means that SSE currently owns or has an financial regulations at all times.
with Shell Energy Europe, commencing ownership interest in over 13,000MW of in 2015. capacity, which comprised at 31 March 2013: SSE continues to seek proactively new Generation overview 4,350MWof gasand oil-fired capacity capacity and supply contracts to add to GB : its portfolio.
The combination of these Managing generation assets 1,068MWof gasand oil-fired capacity long-term contracts and assets helps SSE according to long-standing principles Ire : minimise the low liquidity and high volatility SSEs strategic objective for its Generation 4,370MW of coal-fired capacity with risks of international commodity markets, business is to be the greenest, most flexible, biomass co-firing capability : and brings greater price stability for customers non-nuclear generator.
3,240MW of renewable capacity than would otherwise be the case and including hydro, pumped storage, supports its commitment to the dividend.
This objective is underpinned by six core onshore and offshore wind and principles that direct the operation of, and dedicated biomass.
Increasing wholesale investment in, its Generation portfolio: market transparency With this portfolio SSE has the greatest SSE has led the way in responding availability: to respond to customer fuel diversity for generating electricity to stakeholders desire for greater demand and market conditions: among UK generators and amongst the transparency and increased liquidity in the capacity: to meet the electricity most flexible.
It also makes SSE the largest short-term wholesale market for electricity.
needs of domestic and small business generator of electricity from renewable customers: sources across the UK and Ireland.
Since 30 September 2012 SSE has regularly compliance: with all safety standards placed 100% of its electricity generation and environmental requirements: Reducing the carbon intensity and demand into Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. diversity: to avoid over-dependency of electricity generated and Nord Pool Spot ASs N2EX daily auction on particular fuels or technologies: A key priority for SSE is a significant and and traded 80.6TWh in the day ahead flexibility: to ensure that changes in continuing reduction in the carbon intensity auction market in 2012 13.
SSE has also demand for electricity can be addressed: of the electricity produced by its generation introduced a series of trading commitments and fleet: in other words reducing significantly its 50 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 1.
4. carbon intensity every decade between now The SEM in Ireland faces similar market load factor than in previous years, and and 2050.
This goal will be achieved through conditions to the UK but has a very different older, less efficient plant struggled to cover a diverse range of solutions including: regulatory regime, including: the fixed costs of staying open.
the commissioning and development of centrally dispatched generation: Many new emissions regulations, including additional renewable energy capacity: a capacity mechanism that the constraints imposed by the Industrial lower emissions from more efficient and remunerates generators for a proportion Emissions Directive and the move towards flexible gas-fired generation: of their fixed costs when plant is made full auctioning of CO emissions allowances 2 delivering innovative solid fuel solutions available: and for all generation plant, have begun to at coal-fired stations: and no support for offshore wind generation.
weigh heavily on the viability of thermal reduced output from coal-fired generation plant.
stations as they use up their allocated This allows SSE to operate generation plant running hours under the EUs Industrial in a way that is familiar, while taking a From 1 April 2013 the UK government Emissions Directive.
different approach to new investment.
introduced a new Climate Change Levy tax rate in the form of the Carbon Price With high gas prices and low spark Generation Great Britain Support Rate.
This acts as an additional spreads for gas-fired generation, during CO emissions cost of about 5 tonne in 2 2012 13 SSE used the portfolio diversity Addressing challenging market 2013 for fossil-fuelled generation in GB, provided by its coal plants to ensure conditions in GB on top of the cost complying with EU ETS.
lowest possible cost power generation The market conditions for electricity The additional cost is set to rise to about for its customers.
While this has resulted generation remain challenging, as 18 in 2015 16 the furthest point for which in a short term increase in emissions evidenced by the 16.6% reduction in the rate has been declared.
This will add SSE remains on track to halve its carbon operating profit for EPM and Electricity further substantial costs to the operation intensity compared with 2006 by 2020.
Generation in 2012 13 compared with of fossil-fuelled plant, particularly coal.
The extent of SSEs diversified may, however, provide some relative value More broadly, SSE has formed a coalition generation portfolio can be seen by the very increase to renewable and other low-carbon with an expanding list of European energy different issues impacting on its thermal generation.
The levy may rise further to give companies to encourage the EU to adopt and renewable generation assets and the a total effective carbon price of 30 in 2020 a greenhouse gas emissions reduction fact that public policy decisions can have in 2009 prices.
However uncertainty about target of 25% up from 20% at present quite different impacts on each portfolio.
future political intervention in the setting of by 2020 as part of a long-term move the price floor limits the impact of the tax as away from fossil fuel-based electricity Responding to difficult times a market signal to further the stated policy generation and full decarbonisation for thermal generation objective to provide an incentive to invest in by 2050.
2012 saw the lowest spark spreads the low-carbon power generation by providing difference between the cost of gas plus greater support and certainty to the carbon Building a more geographically carbon and the price achieved for the price in the UKselectricity generation sector.
diverse portfolio of assets electricity generated from it in the history As well as diversity of fuel type, SSE of the GB power market.
The average dayRealising the potential of now has greater diversity of generation ahead clean spark was negative in every renewable sources of energy plant in the markets in which it operates, month except March, giving an average of SSE continues to respond to and welcomes following the acquisition of the assets -2.29 MWh for the year based on 48.5% the clear policy support for increased of Endesa Ireland in October 2012. efficiency.
This followed two years of below renewable penetration in the portfolio This provided SSE with 1,068MW average spark spreads.
When combined mix in GB delivered through the financial of thermal plant in Irelands Single with high gas prices relative to coal and support of the Renewables Obligation Electricity Market SEM to add to the overall excess capacity in the generation the RO applies also in Northern Ireland.
500MW of wind capacity it already market, this meant much of the UKs gasowned at that stage.
generation plant operated at a much lower Following the revisions to the UKs Renewable Obligation Certificates ROC, the main financial support scheme for renewable energy in the UK, levels from Renewable generation April 2013, the continued delivery of an effective carbon price floor and cost We now have 3,240MW of renewable reductions in the supply chain for renewable energy capacity onshore wind, offshore energy will be of critical importance to the wind, hydro and dedicated biomass continued growth and contribution of the in operation, in the UK and Ireland.
In addition, the need for appropriate longer-term policy support delivered beyond electricity market reform should not be underestimated, and the See page 54 for more information viability of the renewables industry remains dependent on its continued existence.
51 Performance review Wholesale continued Market-based businesses Focusing on operations in generation station, Peterhead, was available to generation and lower hydro output In the year to 31 March 2013, SSE generate electricity 95% of the time, relative to the same period last year.
generation plant in GB comparisons with excluding planned outages, the same This demonstrates the considerable previous years generated: availability as in the previous year.
value of SSEs coal-fired stations as part of a diverse portfolio.
29.3TWh, based on contracted output In addition to its wholly-owned gas of electricity from all thermal power generation, SSE has joint venture Complying with the Industrial stations in which it has an ownership interests in: Emission Directive interest 38.4TWh : and All of the capacity at Fiddlers Ferry and 6.3TWh, based on contracted output Marchwood, the 840MW CCGT owned Uskmouth and half of the capacity at from renewable sources of energy in by Marchwood Power Ltd, a 50:50 Ferrybridge over 3,300MW in total is able which it has an ownership interest, joint venture between SSE and ESB to comply with the Large Combustion Plant including pumped storage 6.4TWh.
All this plant has also plant achieved 94% of its maximum been opted-in to the Transitional National During the same year SSE supplied: availability to operate during the year, Plan under the Industrial Emissions the same as in the previous year: and Directive IED which provides a number 20.0TWh of electricity to its industrial Seabank, the 1,140MW CCGT, owned by of alternative options for how they will and commercial customers: and Seabank Power Limited, a 50:50 joint operate through to at least the end of June 27.0TWh to its small business and venture between SSE and Electricity 2020.
SSE has not made a decision on how household customers.
During 2012 13, the the plant will operate and this will depend plant achieved 94% of its maximum on market conditions and the effects of This means that during 2012 13 SSE: availability to operate during the year, any future capacity mechanism.
compared with 86% in the previous year.
generated the equivalent of 76% Participating in the EU Emissions of the electricity needed to supply All of the electricity output at both plants Trading Scheme all of its customers in GB: and is sold under contract to SSE.
Across its electricity generation portfolio generated the equivalent of 132% taking account of contractual shares, SSE of the electricity needed to supply In the light of challenging market had an allocation of 18.9 million tonnes of its household and small business conditions for gas-fired generation, CO emissions allowances for the calendar 2 customers in GB.
SSE undertook a comprehensive 100m year to 31 December 2012.
In the nine programme of upgrade works at its Keadby months to 31 December 2012, the price Meeting the electricity needs of its 735MW and Medway 735MW gasof allowances ranged from 5.71 to electricity customers is at the heart of SSEs fired power stations, which meant that 9.06 tonne, averaging 7.28 tonne.
EPM and Electricity Generation activities.
they did not generate any output at all during 2012 13, except for short test-firing From 2013, power generators in most Thermal generation operations.
The works included upgrades EU countries, including the UK, are not to gas turbines, steam turbines, boilers issued with free EU allowances.
In the At 31 March 2013, SSE owned or had and process control systems designed three months to 31 March, the price of an ownership interest in 8,720MW of to increase the flexibility and efficiency permits ranged from 3.32 to 6.45 tonne, thermal generation plant in Great Britain, of the plants.
The upgrade programmes averaging 4.68 tonne.
comprising net : proceeded successfully and are now complete.
Medway was successfully reChanging SSEs thermal operations 4,350MW of gasand oil-fired commissioned in early May, but SSE has for the future generation: and decided not to bring Keadby back into In advance of its new financial year on 4,370MW of coal-fired generation.
service and instead the plant has been 1April 2013, SSE completed a review deep mothballed see below.
of its existing thermal generation assets Maintaining effective performance as well as its biomass plant at Slough.
in SSEs gas-fired power stations Maintaining effective performance With reduced gas-fired generation capacity in SSEs coal-fired power stations The primary focus of this review was in operation and lower running periods During 2012 13, SSEs 4,370MW of to ensure that all generation assets due to low spark spreads, the amount of coal-fired power stations, located at continued to contribute to the companys electricity generated by gas-fired power Fiddlers Ferry, Ferrybridge and Uskmouth, performance by safely delivering the stations in which SSE has an ownership generated 20.6TWh of electricity, required levels of availability, efficiency, or contractual interest, including CHP, was compared with 16.8TWh during the cost effectiveness and, ultimately, 8.7TWh in 2012 13, including 3.7TWh from previous year.
The stations achieved 90% sustainable commercial viability.
wholly-owned stations, compared with of their maximum availability to generate 21.6TWh in the previous year including electricity, excluding planned outages, It concluded that the convergence 12.5TWh from wholly owned stations.
compared with 89% in the previous year.
of challenging market conditions and prolonged public policy uncertainty meant During 2012 13 SSEs principal whollyThis increase in output took place against SSE required a significant adjustment to its owned and operating gas-fired power a background of significantly lower gas generation portfolio.
As a result, SSE announced on 21 March One of the three units 120MW therefore its status as the cleanest of the fossil 2013 that it had decided to change ceased generation and closed on 1 April fuel technologies.
the operating regime of a number of 2013 and by doing so avoided the cost generation plants, the net effect of which of a major statutory outage that was With its growing importance, SSE will be the reduction of around 2,000MW otherwise planned for 2013 14.
Following continues to develop a range of CCGT of thermal generation capacity in Great this change Uskmouth has a generation options in Great Britain, for both the Britain over the next year.
The key changes capacity of 240MW through its two mediumand long-term, including sites to SSEs thermal assets are: remaining units.
Given the ongoing at Abernedd South Wales, Keadby financial challenges at Uskmouth, SSE Lincolnshire, and Seabank Bristol.
Ferrybridge, Yorkshire coal-fired : has also notified National Grid that it These locations offer many attractive Two 490MW generation units are opted will release all 345MW of the TEC for characteristics, including established out of the LCPD and are therefore the Uskmouth site from 31 March 2014. grid and gas connections, availability required to close once they have used This will mean that if market conditions of cooling water and land area.
up their allowed 20,000 operating suggest the station is able to operate hours, or by the end of 2015 at the profitably after this date, SSE will need to Although projects such as Abernedd are latest.
These units are both currently purchase the required level of TEC in the close to being shovel ready and others expected to reach their 20,000 allowed open market.
A decision on how SSE will such as Keadby 2 are at an advanced operating hours limit by end of the operate Uskmouth beyond March 2014 stage of development, unless there is 2013 14 financial year.
SSE has therefore will be taken in early 2014. a significant change in UK government notified National Grid that it will be Peterhead, Aberdeenshire gas-fired : policy around EMR and the timing and releasing around 1,000MW of electricity Peterhead technically has an installed operation of a future capacity mechanism, Transmission Entry Capacity TEC at this capacity of 1,840MW.
However, because and clear market signals suggesting the site from 31 March 2014. of the impact of high transmission need for increased gas-fired generation Keadby, Lincolnshire gas-fired : access charges in the north of Scotland, capacity, SSE does not expect to take any Continuing poor market conditions SSE took the decision in March 2010 to final investment decisions to construct for gas generation, combined with release TEC at Peterhead, effectively these projects until at least 2015.
This ongoing uncertainty about the timing constraining the available generation will effectively mean no new capacity and future operation of a capacity capacity of the site to 1,180MW.
will come into operation until 2017 18 mechanism for existing gas-fired Transmission access charges continue at the earliest, given the lead times for generation plant, meant that there was to be excessively expensive in the north constructing new CCGT plant.
no economic reason to bring Keadby of Scotland and, given the challenging back into operation after its extended market conditions for gas-fired Looking to the future of solid upgrade.
Keadby will therefore be deep generation, SSE has decided to reduce fuel generation mothballed effectively meaning the Peterheads TEC to 400MW from SSEs generation strategy is built upon plant at the power station will require 31 March 2014. managing risk through owning a diverse up to one year to recommission.
range of assets and fuels from which This decision meant the immediate The impact of these changes on SSEs to meet its customers needs.
Solid fuel withdrawal of all 735MW of capacity employees is being managed using SSEs remains an important part of that strategy.
SSE will continually monitor policy on organisational change.
This Over recent years SSE has also been market conditions but it expects policy was agreed with trade unions two assessing the potential investment options Keadby to remain in this state for at years ago and operates for the benefit for its coal-fired generation plants, in order least the next two years.
Nevertheless, of people in those parts of the Company to deliver the full potential value from if and when it is required to generate where reorganisation or restructuring its portfolio.
electricity in the future, Keadby will is taking place.
It includes an emphasis be able to operate in a more flexible on opportunities for redeployment and In the next few months SSE will conclude and efficient way as a result of the retraining and other options such as job a significant trial investment on one investment made during 2012 13. sharing and career breaks.
485MW unit at its Fiddlers Ferry site, SSE would also expect to bring this which, if successful, will reduce the capacity back into operation before Making the right investments in emissions of NO and provide the option x commissioning any new investment gas-fired power stations of increased generation under the in gas-fired capacity.
Despite currently experiencing short-term IED Transitional National Plan.
Further Uskmouth, Gwent coal-fired : market challenges, gas-fired plant will play investment in similar technologies could Uskmouth was forecast to be loss an increasingly important role in electricity be extended to the other three units at making in 2013 14.
However, generation driven by its: the plant, as well as to the two remaining improvements in market conditions units at Ferrybridge.
At a low capital cost, and the productivity of the station relatively low capital costs: this investment may provide SSE with suggested that it would be able to flexibility to support increasing amounts significant optionality to operate this operate profitably in the coming year, of generation from onand offshore coal-fired plant up to and beyond 2020 if changes were made to the operation wind farms: and support SSEs commitment to of the station and steps were taken to short construction time: a diverse, flexible and cost effective reduce ongoing maintenance costs.
high thermal efficiency: and generation portfolio.
53 Performance review Wholesale continued Market-based businesses Another investment option considered In addition to the MEL joint venture, Shell is leading the development of has been conversion to biomass and coSSE is also pursuing the development the project, and will take responsibility firing.
In July 2012 the UK government of a new 40MW multi-fuel facility at its for the construction of the CO capture 2 announced its decision to reduce ROC Slough site.
The project is currently at plant and thereafter the operation, banding levels for new biomass co-firing.
the public consultation stage and a full transport and storage elements of In light of this decision, SSE has concluded planning application is expected to be the project.
SSE will be a strategic that the current economic and policy submitted to Slough Borough Council partner, investing in the necessary investment framework will not support the towards the end of 2013. infrastructure at Peterhead power further development of new biomass-based station and providing the flue gas operations at its coal-fired power stations.
Making the right contribution to Carbon from which the CO will be extracted.
2 Capture and Storage CCS developments This arrangement enables both parties SSE continues to maintain options for Delivering the EUs decarbonisation to focus on their respective areas new dedicated biomass capacity through policy will broadly require a halving of of expertise.
its joint venture with Forth Ports, called CO emissions in the electricity sector 2 Forth Energy.
This seeks to develop every decade between now and 2050.
Renewable generation combined heat and power stations On this basis, the use of fossil fuels to with up to 300MW of electrical output generate electricity will eventually depend Successfully constructing and and 260MW of heat output from biomass on the extent to which CCS technology commissioning capacity for capacity at three sites in Scotland.
can be applied to abate CO emissions.
renewable sources of energy 2 Consequently, the development of viable Following a very successful period Generating electricity from multi-fuel carbon capture technology is central constructing and commissioning An important pipeline of potential to the UKs climate change and energy renewable energy projects, SSE had new thermal generation investments security objectives.
2,777MW of renewable energy capacity for SSE, is multi-fuel.
These plants use in operation in GB as well as 463MW waste-derived fuels to generate electricity Against this background, SSE is involved in Ireland by the end of the 2012 13 and therefore benefit from an additional in two important CCS projects: financial year, including its share of joint revenue opportunity in the form of a ventures.
The GB portfolio comprised net : gate fee for taking the waste, which is Coal at Ferrybridge: This project is earned on top of revenue received from the UKs largest operating carbon 1,150MW conventional hydro: any electricity generated by the plant.
capture project and is the first of its 898MW onshore wind: size to be integrated into a working 349MW offshore wind: In April 2012, SSE and Wheelabrator power plant in the UK.
The project, 80MW dedicated biomass: and Technologies Ltd entered into a 50:50 joint which became operational in March 300MW pumped storage.
venture to develop a new 300m multi- 2012, has captured, on average, at the fuel generation facility at SSEs Ferrybridge rate of between 90 and 100 tonnes of Output from over 1,700MW of SSEs site.
The joint venture Multifuel Energy Ltd CO per day over the last year from the renewable portfolio in GB qualifies for 2 MEL has begun construction of the plant equivalent of 5MW of coal-fired power ROCs.
While the UK government has and it is scheduled to be operational in generating capacity.
completed its review of the bands of 2015.
So far, the joint venture has invested Gas at Peterhead: SSE is working support provided by the Renewables 69m in the project.
All the electricity with Shell UK to develop a gas CCS Obligation, the review will have no generated by the plant will be sold to project at SSEs gas-fired power station impact on existing assets in operation SSE.
SSE and Wheelabrator continue to in Peterhead.
In March 2013, DECC or projects being commissioned that consider a range of other investment confirmed that the Peterhead project generated their first energy by 31 March opportunities and expect to create a was one of two CCS projects that 2013, all of which also remain eligible pipeline of new development options would progress to the next stage for the existing 20 year support.
including an option to develop a further of the UK governments CCS plant on the Ferrybridge site.
Producing electricity from renewable sources Total electricity output from SSEs renewable resources in GB excluding Offshore energy pumped storage was 5,950GWh in 2012 13, compared with 6,072GWh With Greater Gabbard now operational in the previous year confirming and a 25.1% stake in another wind farm, SSEs position as the UKs leading Walney, were now generating more generator of electricity from energy from offshore wind than ever.
In energy terms, the slight decrease in output reflects a return to more normal See page 55 for more information hydro and wind conditions after the record breaking wet and windy weather 54 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 1.
This was compared to 1,225GWh in the Beatrice, a demonstration project in partially offset by the impact of additional previous year.
renewable generation capacity that came into operation in the course of 2011 12 The additional output largely reflects the At 31 March 2013, SSEs total net capacity and 2012 13. final commissioning of SSEs 350MW Clyde for generating electricity at offshore wind wind farm, which was officially opened by farms was 349MW.
SSEs share of total Generating electricity from Scotlands First Minister on 14 September electricity output from all turbines during hydro-electric schemes 2012.
At a cost of around 500m the the period was 1,066GWh.
SSE owns and operates 1,150MW of wind farm is SSEs largest and iscapable conventional hydro-electric capacity of producing over 1,000GWh of electricity Managing the issues at Greater Gabbard across 57 hydro-electric power stations during a typical year, enough to supply All of the 140 turbines at Greater Gabbard in the north of Scotland.
Its completion are now fully commissioned and have been comes from its pumped storage facility marked SSEs position as the largest energised and operational since September at Foyers, on Loch Ness.
During 2012 13 generator of electricity from wind across 2012.
SSE is responsible for the day-to-day comparisons with previous years : Great Britain and Ireland.
operation of the completed wind farm and in the six months to March 2013, the total output from all of SSEs Responding to constraints on the wind farm was operationally available to conventional hydro-electric schemes electricity transmission system generate electricity for 87% of the time.
was 2,836GWh 4,262GWh : and, Constraints occur when there are Availability is now regularly exceeding 90% within this, limitations in electricity transmission and is expected to improve further during total output from SSEs hydro-electric capacity or for reasons of system the rest of 2013 14 and beyond.
Based on capacity qualifying for ROCs just over frequency voltage control or stability.
the actual stress levels monitored during 500MW was 1,486GWh 1,954GWh.
Sustained periods of constraint provide the operation of the turbines and a detailed a clear market signal for additional engineering assessment of the impact of While 2011 12 saw a 30-year record output investment in the grid infrastructure.
these levels on the known defects in some from conventional hydro-electric schemes, foundations, GGOWL is now confident rainfall during 2012 13 dropped to below During 2012 13, constraint payments about the long-term structural integrity average levels, resulting in 33% less output totalling around 120m were paid to of the disputed foundations.
generators of electricity from all fuels across Great Britain.
Of this total, around In November 2012, GGOWL received the Generation at the 100MW Glendoe 3m, or less than 3%, was paid to First Partial Award of Fluor Ltds claim hydroelectric scheme near Loch Ness, constrained SSE wind generation.
The Award was in GGOWLs re-started in August 2012, and it produced favour, requiring no payment to be made 100GWh of electricity in the period to At times of constraint, generators in by GGOWL to Fluor Ltd. 31 March 2013.
Indeed, the scheme has Great Britain are required to bid in their now generated more electricity since constrained generation capacity to GGOWL and Fluor Ltd subsequently generation was restored than it did in National Grid.
It is SSEs policy to offer reached agreement on all of the its initial period of operation.
appropriate prices at all times for its outstanding claims relating to the renewable generation, and it believes construction of the offshore wind farm.
Restoration of generation took place that this is the equitable approach for The main claim related to the quality of up after the completion of the work all generators.
to 52 upper foundations transition pieces undertaken at Glendoe following its supporting turbines and the quality of up to interruption in August 2009 as a result Producing electricity from 35 lower foundations supporting the same of a rock fall in the tunnel carrying water offshore wind farms turbines.
The agreement between GGOWL from the scheme reservoir to the power Due to the significantly larger scale and and Fluor was a positive development and station.
SSE is continuing to pursue cost of both consenting and constructing brought to an end the contractual dispute its legal and insurance options.
In offshore wind farms compared with between the two parties.
particular, it has lodged at the Court onshore, SSE believes the inherent risks of Session notification of its intention are best managed through partnership Transferring offshore cable to call a comprehensive action against arrangements.
On this basis, SSE has connections to OFTOs Hochtief Solutions AG and Hochtief UK ownership interests in the following The Great Britain regulatory regime for Construction Limited in respect of all operating offshore wind farms: the construction and operation of offshore losses resulting from the tunnel collapse transmission assets requires generators at Glendoe in 2009.
Greater Gabbard 504MW, through the who construct these assets to transfer partnership Greater Gabbard Offshore them to an Offshore Transmission Owner Producing electricity from Winds Limited GGOWL, in which SSE OFTO post-construction.
onshore wind farms has a 50% stake: At 31 March 2013, SSE owned 898MW Walney 367MW, through the In accordance with this requirement, SSE of onshore wind farm capacity in GB partnership Walney UK Offshore and its partners have already transferred and output from these assets during Windfarms Ltd, in which SSE has the OFTO assets associated with Walney the previous 12 months was 1,880GWh a 25.1% stake: and and are currently in the process of 55 Performance review Wholesale continued Market-based businesses transferring the OFTO assets associated of capacity and flexibility, but it remains works have begun at the site and full with Greater Gabbard.
Around half of subject to: construction is anticipated to begin SSEs share of the proceeds from Walney in mid-2013.
25m were received in the financial year securing planning consent from the 2011 12, with a further 26m received at Scottish Government: SSE had around 300MW of fully consented the end of December 2012.
Proceeds for the availability of a timely grid projects across Great Britain at 31 March Greater Gabbard of around 150m SSEs connection date: 2013.
A major proportion of this is SSEs share have been agreed with Ofgem and a satisfactory public policy and share in the 101 turbine Viking wind farm are expected to be received in the 2013 14 regulatory framework, including the in Shetland, which is a joint venture with financial year.
outcome of the electricity market Viking Energy Partnership.
Although this reform proposals and the transmission project is consented, this determination Producing electricity from biomass charging regime changes envisaged is currently subject to a Judicial Review.
During 2012 13, SSEs 80MW biomass plant by Ofgems Project TransmiT: and The project also faces the same issues at Slough produced 168GWh of electricity, compliance with SSEs financial as many island wind farms of high compared with 156GWh during the previous principles and its Major Projects transmission entry costs and extended grid year.
Slough was loss-making in 2012 13 Governance Framework.
No investment decision and faced a similar challenging financial has therefore been taken on Viking and it is position in 2013 14, particularly following All of this means that a decision on currently unlikely to be fully commissioned the removal of the free allocation of whether to construct Coire Glas is unlikely before the end of the decade.
to be taken before 2015 at the earliest.
SSE acquired the 99MW consented Dunmaglass scheme in May 2013.
Following the review of its thermal and Developing new onshore wind farms biomass assets at the end of March 2013, At 31 March 2013, SSEs onshore wind SSE has over 600MW of development SSE has decided to decommission two farm portfolio in Great Britain comprised projects currently in planning, and expects generation units and the associated around net : to receive decisions on around 400MW of infrastructure on a phased basis over the these during 2013 14.
In addition, SSE has next few months.
Both units will cease 898MW in operation: around 300MW of new onshore wind farm generation completely by October 2013.
187MW in construction or preprojects currently in pre-planning.
Sloughs remaining boiler and steam construction: and turbines will continue to operate as normal 300MW with consent for development.
Developing new offshore wind farms and SSE will invest approximately 8m to Offshore wind continues to play an increase the output and efficiency of this The following projects are currently in important role in the delivery of low carbon unit and broaden its fuel envelope.
The construction or pre-construction and energy for GB.
GB has been the global station will provide 20MW of capacity after are key components of SSEs portfolio of leader in offshore wind since 2008 and this upgrade.
strategic onshore wind projects in GB: with over 3,300MW in operation, it has more installed capacity than the rest of Developing new hydro-electric schemes Calliachar 32MW The first turbines the world combined.
A further 3,800MW The Scottish Governments decision have been erected at the site and is currently under construction and a to maintain support for output from generated their first energy during total of up to 18GW is planned by 2020. conventional hydro-electric schemes March 2013, meaning the site is at 1.0 ROCs MWh, meant that SSE eligible to receive support through the SSE has gained valuable experience continued with pre-construction work Renewable Obligation under the existing of offshore wind farm development, at its 7.5MW Glasa formerly known full 20 year ROC scheme.
The project is construction and operation through the as Kildermorie hydro-electric project expected to be completed during the Greater Gabbard and Walney projects, near Ardross in Ross-shire.
In May 2013, summer of 2013. and it is this experience that enables it announced that it would begin full Keadby 68MW Adjacent to SSEs it to exercise informed and disciplined construction work on the project in the Keadby gas-fired power station, judgement when prioritising projects summer of 2013. construction is well under way, with the in its development pipeline.
first turbines expected to be erected In October 2012, the Highland Council and generating energy by the end of the The next offshore wind farm in SSEs confirmed it had no objections to the summer 2013.
As a result of a delayed development pipeline is the Galloper development of SSEs proposed Coire Glas grid connection, the project is still able project, which is located close to the Loch Lochy 600MW pumped storage to qualify for full ROC support if, as existing Greater Gabbard development and scheme, and the planning consent will now expected, it successfully generates its has a potential capacity of up to 504MW.
be determined by the Scottish Ministers.
The This project is also a 50:50 partnership SSE has concluded that Coire Glas is its project is scheduled for full completion with RWE npower Renewables.
Significant preferred option for a pumped storage in 2014. progress has been made in the planning development in the near future.
Strathy North 75MW Located phases of this project and it now awaits in Sutherland, this project will be a a final decision on planning consent Coire Glas could offer significant benefits to significant new development for SSE from the Secretary of State for Energy the Great Britain electricity system in terms during 2013 14.
Pre-construction and Climate Change, expected by the end 56 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 1.
Assuming consent is received, SSE has a number of initiatives to increase balance between the electricity required SSE expects to make a final investment the effectiveness, and decrease the cost, to meet the demands of its growing decision on the project in the first half of offshore wind deployment, including customer base in Ireland and the electricity of 2014 with the aim of progressing with the development of the UKs national it produces from its own generation assets a development programme that would offshore wind testing facility at Hunterston on the island.
enable Galloper to retain the option in North Ayrshire.
In partnership with to benefit from the existing ROC regime Scottish Enterprise and leading turbine In October 2012, SSE completed the for offshore wind.
suppliers Mitsubishi and Siemens, up to acquisition from Endesa Generacion SA of three prototype offshore wind turbines the shares of Endesa Ireland Limited, the Beyond this, the planning proposal for will be tested at the facility for a period assets of which included plant in operation, the 1,000MW Beatrice project located in of five years.
Construction of the facility under construction and with consent for the Moray Firth, a 75:25 partnership with began in March 2013 and it is expected development.
The acquisition involved a Repsol Nuevas Energias UK, is currently to be fully operational by the end of 2013. total cash consideration of 350m 282m with Marine Scotland with a planning plus 10m 8m of deferred consideration.
The In seeking to reduce supply chain cost, onshore grid connection for this project SSE is giving practical leadership in the The acquisition included 1,068MW of received consent from Moray Council in delivery of the UK governments ambitious operational assets at four sites: February 2013.
2020 target to lower the levelised cost of energy from offshore wind to 100 MWh.
620MW fuel oil Tarbert Power Station SSE is also involved in two consortia that in County Kerry: provide it with valuable development rights Developing marine-based 240MW fuel oil Great Island Power for potentially up to 4.2GW net additional renewable energy Station in County Wexford: offshore wind farm assets beyond 2020: Marine-based wave and tidal 104MW peaking gasoil Tawnaghmore technologies are interesting and Power Station in County Mayo: and SeaGreen, a 50:50 partnership potentially important longer-term 104MW peaking gasoil Rhode Power between SSE Renewables and Fluor prospects for the next generation of Station in County Offaly.
Limited, which has recently sought renewable energy technologies, which consent for two wind farm areas, could start to make a significant energy The electricity generated by this plant with a capacity of 525MW each, which contribution in the next decade.
is traded in the all-island SEM, where represent the first of three phases a proportion of fixed capital costs are in the 3.5GW Firth of Forth offshore SSE has workedwith JV partners for remunerated via a capacity payment wind farm.
a number of years to support the mechanism when plant is made available, Forewind, a four-way partnership development of potential technologies and and variable costs, including fuel and with RWE npower Renewables, Statoil sites for marine projects, with development carbon, are remunerated through the and Statkraft, which plans to submit activities focussed on four sites around energy market.
consent applications for two wind farm Orkneys Pentland Firth.
Although the areas, each with a capacity of 1.2GW, technological and site-related issues have SSE is now the third largest electricity which represent the first phase of proved to be substantive, SSE believes generation capacity owner on the island development of the 9GW Dogger that wave and tidal technologies could of Ireland with around 13% of installed Bank wind farm.
ultimately make an important contribution capacity.
However, decisions by SSE regarding the Maintaining effective operational extent of the build out of this pipeline Generation Ireland performance will be based on its disciplined approach, At 31 March 2013, SSE owned 463MW consistent with its financial principles Creating an integrated business of onshore wind farm capacity in Ireland and focused on taking forward only the in Ireland including 42MW in Northern Ireland best investments and achieving the The acquisition of Airtricity in 2008 and 1,068MW of thermal generation strongest possible returns to support established SSE as a significant participant capacity.
Output in 2012 13 was as dividend growth.
in the all-island Single Electricity Market follows comparison with previous years : SEM and created a platform for SSE to Reducing the cost of offshore wind create and develop a fully integrated 19.5GWh from thermal generation from A robust, sustainable and ultimately lower energy business across Ireland.
SSE has date of acquisition, October 2012: and cost supply chain offers significant value since built a strong retail business in 1,335GWh from renewable generation to renewable energy developers and is Ireland and through its long established 1,545GWh.
essential to delivering the UKs offshore Ireland-based renewables team, operates wind potential.
As GBs largest owner, over 463MW of renewable generation and In the Republic of Ireland renewable developer and operator of renewable manages a substantial pipeline of new generation receives policy support through energy, SSE has an important role to renewable developments.
the Renewable Energy Feed-in Tariff.
play and is focused on forming strategic Policy support for renewable generation in alliances and investments to secure this In line with its approach in Great Britain, Northern Ireland is delivered through the supply chain.
SSE is keen to maintain an effective Renewables Obligation, the same as in GB.
57 Performance review Wholesale continued Market-based businesses Investing in new capacity for SSE has around 100MW of other Group RES to acquire the Dunmaglass generating electricity at Great Island development projects currently in planning wind farm project, located near Loch In addition to the operational generation across Ireland.
The 33 turbine assets, the Endesa acquisition included a Dunmaglass project received planning 460MW CCGT currently under construction Meeting customers future requirements consent in December 2010 and off-site preat Great Island, County Wexford.
for electricity in Ireland construction works have already begun.
Over the medium and long term, the SSE expects to begin full construction Construction at the site is well advanced, completion of the 460MW CCGT at Great of the wind farm in late 2013 with an with the gas turbine, steam turbine and Island and the continuing development of expected project completion date of early generator placed on site.
A total of59m its wind farm projects will give SSE a more 2016.
Once constructed, the project will was spent on the development from its balanced generation portfolio in Ireland and have an installed capacity of 99MW and acquisition by SSE in October 2012 to significantly increased output of electricity potential load factors of above 40%.
The plant is expected with a lower CO intensity than the SEM total investment in the project is expected 2 to be commissioned in the second average.
to be around 200m and is consistent with half of 2014, at which time the existing the scale and composition of SSEs planned 240MW fuel oil unit at the site will In a typical year, the Great Island CCGT and investment programme to 2015. be decommissioned.
SSEs wind farms are expected to generate the equivalent of around two thirds of the Investing in new renewable SSE will incur capital expenditure of around electricity needed to supply SSEs current sources of energy 140m 110m over three financial years customers in Ireland.
Along with its power As SSE moves forward the next phase to complete the construction of the new purchase agreements, this means SSE of its renewable development pipeline CCGT.
This is included in its plans to incur can securely and cost-effectively meet it is focusing on projects that best allow capital and investment expenditure in the the demand of its rapidly growing Irish the efficient allocation of resources and range of 1.5bn to 1.7bn in each of the supply business, Airtricity, in a way that economies of scale.
While the scale of years to March 2015. is sustainable.
overall development is likely to be lower than in recent years, the focus is on a The SEM in Ireland has an effective Generation future priorities consistent pipeline of new developments.
This In addition to its own developed sites, mechanism was an importantfactor in Optimising the onshore wind SSE will also consider opportunities SSEs decision to progress with the Great farm portfolio to acquire projects.
These projects Island development and means it is able To optimise its portfolio of onshore wind would complement SSEs existing to proceed with investment in new thermal assets, both in operation and development, generation portfolio and development electricity generation plant in the Irish SSE continues to have a programme of pipeline, generally have planning market, which is in contrast to the position selective acquisitions and disposals.
consent and be aligned with SSEs in respect of the Great Britain market.
The SEM itself is expected to undergo At the end of March 2013, SSE completed some modifications in order to implement the sale of four wind farms with a total With Great Britain and Ireland identified the EU target model in electricity.
generation capacity of 79.5MW, to a new as its core markets, a broad portfolio fund managed by Greencoat Capital, for of development options held in both Developing new renewable generation a total cash consideration of 140.9m.
jurisdictions and 1GW of electricity in the all-island market SSE then re-invested 10m in the new interconnection between the two At 31 March 2013, SSEs onshore wind fund.
As part of the deal, SSE entered into markets, SSE has disposed of its farm development portfolio in Ireland power purchase agreements PPA for three interests in Sweden including a 295MW comprised around: of the wind farms totalling 43.5MW the development pipeline of which 80MW fourth wind farm already had a PPA with had consent for development.
80MW in construction or prea third party and will continue to have the construction: and operation and maintenance contract for all Securing new sources of capital 130MW with consent for development.
for renewable investment SSE is committed to maintaining a Projects under construction in Ireland The proceeds from this disposal will diverse range of funding sources for are Athea 34MW in County Limerick, support further investment in new its new investments.
In line with this and Glenconway 46MW, part of SSEs renewable assets and, in line with its it is continuing to develop ways to involve Slieve Kirk strategic area located in County commitment to financial discipline, new investors and new sources of capital Derry.
Construction at both projects is represent an excellent example of SSE in its renewable development pipeline.
The first energy was creating ongoing value from its investment exported from Glenconway in March programme while improving the liquidity These include: 2013, qualifying it for the full Northern of the market for investment in new Ireland ROC support mechanism.
opportunities for involving new is on target to generate its first energy in partners at the individual project level, September which would qualify it for the In line with that, in May 2013, SSE reached particularly for large scale capital ReFiT support mechanism in RoI.
agreement with Renewable Energy Systems intensive projects such as offshore wind: 58 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 1.
4. establishment of an intermediate assets was a measured entry into nonThere are a number of maintenance holding company for offshore renewable operated upstream assets.
In November programmes scheduled over the coming energy, which will remain wholly-owned 2012, it increased its equity interest in year which will improve the longevity by SSE for the foreseeable future but will three of these assets Apollo, Minerva and integrity of the original assets provide it with the flexibility to introduce and Mercury to 50% for a total cash acquired from Hess.
Scrutiny and new sources of funding to support the consideration of 25.5m.
control of these activities and working development portfolio: and with the operating partners for each the recycling of capital through the On 12 April 2013, SSE completed the field, Perenco, Centrica and Shell, to sale of selected operating assets to acquisition of 50% of the Sean gas field minimise downtime, is a key objective investment funds, such as Greencoat from BP, for a total cash consideration for 2013 14.
Capital, while retaining the electricity of 117.4m.
Continuing to expand the Gas Following completion of the Sean Production business acquisition, SSE has a Gas Production The addition of the Sean asset scaled-up Generation priorities in 2013 14 business that is a top 10 gas producer SSEs Gas Production business considerably, and beyond in the UK, and is in the top 20 for oil and with a measured hand-over of the asset gas production combined.
essential for all partners and for maximum In Generation, SSEs 2013 14 hydrocarbon recovery.
operational priorities remain consistent SSEs portfolio is deliberately 100% gaswith its established principles to: weighted, since SSEs primary reason for SSE continues to proactively seek new owning gas assets is to secure a long-term opportunities to increase its 2P reserve comply fully with all safety standards supply of physical gas at a fixed-price, base.
The UK and north-west Europe and environmental requirements: to enable it to effectively meet the remains the focus for this activity, since ensure power stations are available energy needs of its customers.
it provides a relatively stable tax and to respond to customer demand and fiscal regime and is near to SSEs domestic market conditions: and SSEs total portfolio of gas production supply market.
operate power stations efficiently to assets at April 2013 represented achieve the optimum conversion of approximately three billion therms SSE will continue to evaluate gas-weighted primary fuel into electricity.
of proven and probable 2P reserves.
opportunities in line with its investment criteria, with a view to growing its Gas Investment priorities for the next The volume and production profile of Production business at a similar rate over financial year are to: these assets represents a secure and the medium term.
As its gas production fixed-price supply of gas that can meet business grows this may also naturally ensure continued high quality around 25% of the forecast demand lead SSE into the operatorship of certain project execution on new thermal from SSEs domestic gas customers assets if they are deemed appropriate.
developments and in particular the over the next three years.
achievement of first energy from the SSE has not set a target scale for its Gas Great Island CCGT project before the In addition to owning these physical Production business, but will grow it in line end of 2013: assets SSE also has a 5% shareholding with its core financial principles and the maintain a significant pipeline in the oil and gas explorer, Faroe primary reason for it owning gas assets of onshore wind developments Petroleum plc.
being one of the ways it can secure a longthat successfully proceed through term supply of physical gas that enables development, consent and SSE is not actively engaged with Faroe it to meet effectively the energy needs construction and ultimately deliver Petroleum other than as a shareholder, of its customers.
around 150MW of new onshore wind but is content with the strategy that farm capacity in 2013 14: Faroe Petroleum is pursuing.
Examining the opportunities in shale gas secure consent for up to 1GW net Shale gas has the potential to become of new offshore wind capacity Securing output from gas an important new source of indigenous through the Galloper and Beatrice production assets gas supply for the UK, although SSE offshore wind projects: and The Gas Production business continued to does not expect UK output to reach introduce new and potentially perform well in 2012 13 and benefitted significant volumes until the next decade.
diverse sources of funding into from the increased share in the Apollo, the offshore portfolio.
Minerva and Mercury gas fields.
The SSE has an exclusive five year off-take increase in the asset base was partially agreement with Dart Energy, covering offset by forecast and normal production its coal-bed methane CBM operation Gas Production decline rates from the existing wells.
Producing gas to meet the needs Total output to 31 March 2013 which While SSE is prepared to enter into similar of customers excludes the Sean gas field was 183.8 agreements with future CBM and shale SSEs 2011 acquisition from Hess Limited million therms, compared with 176.7 gas operators, it has no such agreements of North Sea natural gas and infrastructure million therms in the previous year.
59 Performance review Wholesale continued Market-based businesses wholesale gas prices and less volatile uncertainty of annual revenues required to Gas Production priorities for shorter-term gas prices.
This was off-set compensate for large capital investments 2013 14 and beyond by increased capacity available for storage over a long build period five to seven as a result of the progress at the Aldbrough years and the long commercial operation Gas production priorities for the coming facility.
lifetimes required to earn a return.
In financial year include: addition, the act of investing in new gas Both sites continue to operate with storage facilities increases capacity and ensuring the safe operation of all the good availability to meet commercial lowers returns for all owners, further assets in which it has an ownership requirements, despite ongoing discouraging investment.
SSE and Statoil interest: development activities.
During 2012 13: will therefore, not make a decision on the successful integration of the Sean development of a second gas storage gas asset: Hornsea again met 100% of customer facility at the Aldbrough site until market stringent cost control on Operator nominations with the site 98% available conditions improve.
budgets and enhanced monitoring during the key winter period and 86% and reporting of operator work available overall, except in instances Gas Storage priorities in 2013 14 programmes: and of planned maintenance: and and beyond continuing the robust investment Aldbrough met close to 100% of appraisal process to identify suitable customer nominations and was 90% Gas storage priorities for the coming acquisition targets.
available overall, while commissioning financial year include: the final three caverns during the period.
ensuring on-going high safety Gas Storage standards of operation of the facilities Looking to the future for gas storage at Hornsea and Aldbrough and the Providing capacity to store gas Current gas storage capacity, both at compliant operation of the Gas Gas storage provides physical flexibility SSE and within the UK as a whole, plays Storage business: that enables capacity owners to manage an important role in the UKs energy continuing to listen to customers, their market risks and respond to trading infrastructure.
working with them to shape flexible opportunities.
It also provides an important products which cost-effectively security of supply function for the UK.
Further gas storage would understandably support their portfolios: improve UK gas security of supply and maintaining availability and SSE has an ownership interest in two major improve price stability.
However, the UK operational performance at Hornsea gas storage facilities in East Yorkshire already meets the EU Regulation for and Aldbrough: and Hornsea Atwick and Aldbrough.
The Security of Supply of Gas and will do so continuing targeted investment as primary objective of these facilities is to for the foreseeable future.
As a result, required and justified to prolong maximise safely the availability of the plant no new storage is required unless the operational life of the existing to import and export gas.
UK government wishes to introduce facilities.
Hornsea provided up to 313 million cubic metres mcm of gas storage capacity to It is also clear that the market returns its customers during 2012 13.
It accounts for gas storage are already too low to Wholesale conclusion for around 6% of the total gas storage encourage additional capacity to be Producing and securing energy to meet the capacity in the UK and 12% of deliverability.
deployed without UK government support, needs of SSEs customers is at the heart of and SSE believes this situation is unlikely SSEs Wholesale business.
While 2012 13 Aldbrough is one of the UKs newest and to change in the foreseeable future.
As a presented many challenges, continued largest onshore gas storage facilities, result, it has urged the UK government to excellence in operating its portfolio of which SSE 66.6% share has developed be extremely cautious about designing a assets, ongoing progress in the delivery of with Statoil UK Ltd. All nine caverns are mechanism to incentivise gas storage.
key assets, including Glendoe and Greater operational and its capacity at March Gabbard, and strategic investments in 2013 was 270mcm.
It will ultimately SSE is only in favour of intervention which Ireland and in Gas Production, meant have the capacity to store up to 320mcm, treats equally new and existing plant, and that SSEs activities in Energy Portfolio and account for up to 20% of the UKs shorter-range and longer-range facilities.
Management, Electricity Generation, storage deliverability.
Failure to adhere to this principle would Gas Production and Gas Storage continued distort the market, adversely impacting on to deliver against this primary objective.
Managing operations at Hornsea existing assets and leading to unintended and Aldbrough and undesirable outcomes.
As a result of It also supported the achievement The decline in the profitability of the Gas this risk SSE believes that no intervention of SSEs first financial goal of sustained Storage business in 2012 13, reflects a is preferable to the wrong type of real growth in the dividend payable decline in the price achieved for Standard intervention.
to shareholders and the fulfilment Bundled Units of storage capacity.
This of SSEs core purpose of providing the has been driven primarily by a reduction in As a gas storage operator, SSE considers energy people need in a reliable and the spread between summer and winter the main barrier to investment to be the sustainable way.
