Strategic overview Our business explained Three connected businesses SSEs strategy is to deliver sustained 1 - 3 real growth in the dividend payable to shareholders through the efficient Wholesale operation of, and investment in, a balanced range of economicallyTo secure energy for its customers, SSE is involved in energy regulated and market-based portfolio management, electricity generation, gas production and gas storage.
Amongst other things, it is the leading energy-related businesses.
generator of electricity from renewable sources across the UK and Ireland.
Its Wholesale businesses priorities This balance means SSE has a are competitiveness, sustainability and flexibility.
strong and diverse group of energy assets and businesses from which to secure the revenue to support future dividend growth.
Gas Production Energy Portfolio Gas Storage Electricity Transmission Using platforms to extract Using caverns to store Using higher voltage lines Management and natural gas, from fields large volumes of natural and cables to transmit Electricity Generation in the North Sea, for gas under ground for use electricity from generating Using turbines to convert use onshore.
plant to the distribution energy from gas, oil, coal, network.
water and wind to generate electricity.
Wholesale Networks Market-based Economically Regulated 12 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 1.
4 -7 8 -9 Networks R etail SSE has an ownership interest in  Through its brands SSE, Southern Electric, SWALEC, Scottish network businesses in electricity transmission and electricity Hydro, Atlantic and Airtricity, SSE supplies electricity and gas and gas distribution and has other networks businesses in markets in Great Britain and Ireland and also provides other in market-based areas such as lighting services, utility energy-related services such as mechanical and electrical solutions and telecoms.
In operating and investing in contracting.
Its Retail priorities are fair prices, simple products these businesses, SSEs Networks priorities are efficiency, and excellent service.
Electricity Distribution Gas Distribution Other Networks Energy Supply Energy-related Services Using lower voltage lines Using pipes to distribute Maintaining street and Retailing gas and electricity Providing energy-related and cables to distribute gas from the transmission highway lighting.
Designing, to household, small products and services electricity to homes, network to homes, work building, owning and business and industrial and to household, small workplaces and other places and other premises.
operating networks for commercial customers.
business and industrial and premises.
electricity, gas, water and commercial customers.
Providing network capacity, bandwidth and data centre services.
Networks Retail Economically Regulated Market-based 13
