Distribution networks are each owned and from 90.4GW at the end of 2010.
Through they can manage their gas portfolio operated by the same company.
Electricity 2012 and early 2013 further plant closures more effectively and the country transmission networks have a single, GBand reductions in capacity have been benefits from greater gas security.
wide system operator National Grid with announced by generators, including SSE.
network ownership spread amongst three Electricity and gas retailing different private owners.
The production of electricity and gas for Great Britain has one of the most customers in Great Britain is a marketcompetitive energy retail markets in the The companies operating these networks based activity with wholesale markets world.
There are six electricity and gas are the subject of economic regulation in which: suppliers in Great Britain with a market through a Price Control determined by share each of more than 5%.
Across Ofgem which sets the index-linked revenue producers generators, retailers Europe, there are only three countries they can earn, through charges levied on or suppliers, large users, National that have a larger number of suppliers network users, to cover their costs and Grid Electricity Transmission Ltd and with a market share of more than 5%.
earn a return on their regulated assets.
other energy traders buy and sell Ofgem also places incentives on companies electricity like any other commodity.
In the retail electricity and gas markets, to be more efficient and innovative and It can be purchased through bilateral customers are free to choose their retailer to deliver an enhanced quality of service.
contracts of various lengths and or supplier.
It is the responsibility of through trading in the market: and the retailer to buy the electricity and It also sets the framework for the capital producers, shippers, retailers, electricity gas customers need, arrange for it to be investment they are able to make in generators, large gas users, National Grid distributed to them through the relevant maintaining and upgrading the networks.
Gas plc and other energy traders buy networks, provide the associated services Each network has a Regulated Asset Value and sell gas like any other commodity.
such as metering and billing and promote RAV indexed to the Retail Price Index, As with electricity, gas natural or the efficient use of energy.
which represents: liquefied natural can be purchased through bilateral contracts of various Ofgem is responsible for licensing the the price paid for them when they were lengths and through trading in supply of electricity and gas and also privatised: plus the market.
scrutinises retail prices for electricity and allowed capital expenditure: less gas and the overall effectiveness of the annual depreciation.
Gas production from the UK Continental retail energy market.
Its Retail Market Shelf is in long term decline.
In 2012, Review represents Ofgems attempt to Overall, Ofgem seeks to strike the right roughly half of UK gas demand was enhance competition in the retail energy balance between attracting investment in supplied through UK production with market and make it work more effectively electricity and gas networks, encouraging the remainder being supplied via pipelines so that the benefits can be realised for companies to operate them as efficiently from European gas fields, the Englandmore consumers.
as possible and ensuring that prices Belgium pipeline or liquefied natural ultimately borne by customers are no gas terminals.
This is set to increase Ireland higher than they need to be.
Companies significantly in the years ahead, as cannot charge network users more than production of gas from the North The energy market in Ireland is split over is allowed under the Price Control.
two political and regulatory jurisdictions the Republic of Ireland RoI and Northern The first set of Price Controls under It is part of Ofgems responsibility to Ireland NI.
At the same time it has a Ofgems new RIIO Revenue Incentives licence electricity generation and to make common electricity wholesale market.
Innovation Outputs model have sure that electricity and gas markets are As in GB, Ireland has limited interconnection been set for electricity transmission, gas competitive.
The markets are designed though this has improved since December transmission and gas distribution and will to maintain a downward pressure on the 2012 with the commissioning of the Eastrun until 2021.
The existing Price Control for cost of electricity and gas, for the benefit West interconnector connecting Dublin to electricity distribution was set under the of customers, and to encourage greater Wales.
Total interconnection now consists of: old regime and will run until March 2015. diversity in the supply of fuels in order Thereafter electricity distribution networks to enhance energy security.
In line with 450MW Moyle electricity interconnector: will be subject to a new eight year Price that, the Renewables Obligation requires 500MW East-West electricity Control set under the RIIO regime.
This new licensed UK electricity suppliers to source interconnector: model delivers eight year price controls, a specified proportion of the electricity Scotland-Northern Ireland gas pipeline: delivering greater certainty to the sector they provide to customers from eligible and over the medium term.
This proportion is set Scotland-Republic of Ireland gas pipeline.
each year and has increased annually.
Wholesale electricity andgas Ireland is hugely dependent on fossil fuels, In line with its island status, around 98% of Unlike electricity, gas can be stored in over 90% of which are imported.
With the electricity consumed by UK customers large-scale facilities such as under ground two gas interconnectors to GB, potentially is generated in the UK.
At the beginning of caverns.
Customers of these facilities carrying over 30mcm daily, indigenous 2012, the UK as a whole had around 89GW can have gas injected or withdrawn, gas storage is limited.
However, a new gas of electricity capacity, representing a drop according to their needs, which means production field, Corrib, is being developed 05
