Governance Other statutory information Principal activities Directors are set out on pages 62 and 63. market the Companys own shares at the SSE plc is the holding company of the Group.
Details of the service contracts for the AGM on 25 July 2013, and this remains Its subsidiaries are organised into the main Executive Directors and the letters a benchmark against which financial businesses of: of appointment for the non-Executive decisions are taken.
Directors are set out in the Remuneration Networks the  Report on pages 97 and 98 respectively.
Substantial shareholdings transmission and distribution of electricity As at 21 May 2013 the Company has been and gas and other related networks: The interests of the Directors in the notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Retail the supply of electricity, gas Ordinary Shares of the Company Transparency Rules of the interests in its and other services to household and at 31 March 2013 are set out in the shares as shown in the table below.
business customers: and Remuneration Report on page 100.
Wholesale the production, storage Creditor payment policy and generation of energy and energy Results and dividends It is the Companys policy that payment portfolio management.
The Group profit attributable to Ordinary terms are agreed at the outset of a Shareholders for the financial year transaction and are adhered to: that bills are Business review amounted to 425.9m.
The Directors paid in accordance with the contract: and The Company is required to set out a fair recommend a final dividend of 59.0p that there are no alterations to payment review of the business of the Group and per Ordinary Share which, subject to terms without prior agreement.
The number a description of the principal risks and approval at the AGM, will be payable on of suppliers days represented by trade uncertainties facing the Group known as 27 September 2013 to shareholders on the creditors was 35 days at 31 March 2013.
The Business Review Register of Members at close of business on is signing up to the Prompt Payment Code.
is required to set out a balanced and 2 August 2013.
With the interim dividend of comprehensive analysis of the development 25.2p per Ordinary Share paid on 22 March Accounting policies, financial and performance of the Groups business 2013, this makes a total dividend of 84.2p instruments and risk during the financial year ended 31 March per Ordinary Share.
Details of the Groups accounting 2013 and of the position of the Group at the policies, together with details of financial end of that financial year.
The information Going Concern instruments and risk, are provided in notes that fulfils these requirements, and is After making enquiries, the Directors 1 to 3 and 33 to the Financial Statements.
deemed to be the Directors Report, is have a reasonable expectation that the contained within pages 1 to 102 of this Company and the Group have adequate Additional information Annual Report.
The management report resources to continue in operational Where not provided elsewhere in the for the year, as required by the Disclosure existence for the foreseeable future.
Directors Report, the following provides and Transparency Rules, is incorporated by The Financial Statements are therefore the information required to be disclosed reference within the Directors Report.
prepared on a Going Concern basis.
Further by Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006. details of the Groups liquidity position Directors and Going Concern review are provided Each Ordinary Share of the Company The Directors during the year and at the in Note 33 to the Financial Statements.
carries one vote at general meetings date of this report are: of the Company.
Share capital Executive Details of the Companys issued share capital There are no restrictions on the transfer Ian Marchant Chief Executive at 31 March 2013, which includes options of Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Gregor Alexander granted under the Groups employee share Company other than certain restrictions Alistair Phillips-Davies option schemes, are set out in notes 28 and which may from time-to-time be imposed 32 to the Financial Statements.
by law for example, insider trading law.
Non-Executive In accordance with the Listing Rules of Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman Authority to purchase shares the Financial Conduct Authority, certain Thomas Thune Andersen The Company was authorised at the 2012 employees are required to seek the approval Jeremy Beeton AGM to purchase its own shares within of the Company to deal in its shares.
During 2012 13, SSE did not Richard Gillingwater Senior Independent purchase any shares under this authority.
Employees who participate in the Share Director The Directors will, however, seek renewal Incentive Plan whose shares remain in Lady Rice of their authority to purchase in the the schemes trusts give directions to the Ren Mdori resigned 25 June 2012 Substantial shareholdings Entity Number of shares Percentage Nature of holding At the 2013 AGM all of the current Directors apart from Ian Marchant will retire and The Capital Group Companies, Inc 85,895,986 8.96% Indirect offer themselves for re-appointment.
Legal & General Group Plc 37,426,851 3.99% Direct Ian Marchant will resign from the Board Norges Bank 29,138,248 3.02% Direct on 30 June 2013.
Alistair Phillips-Davies will assume the position of Chief Executive At date of disclosure by relevant entity.
Biographical details of all Since the date of disclosure to the Company, the interests of the shareholders listed above may have increased or decreased.
101 Governance Other statutory information continued trustees to vote on their behalf by way of a Form of Direction.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent may result in restrictions on the transfer company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
of securities and or voting rights.
The rules governing the appointment and Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial replacement of Directors are set out in statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Companys Articles of Association.
the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and The Companys Articles of Association may applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements only be amended by a special resolution on the same basis.
at a general meeting of shareholders.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless The Company is not aware of any significant they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group agreements to which it is party that take and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the effect, alter or terminate upon a change Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: of control of the Company following a takeover.
The Company is not aware of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: any contractual or other agreements which make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: are essential to its business which ought state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the to be disclosed in this Directors Report.
EU: and prepare the financial statements on the Going Concern basis unless it is inappropriate Details of any post balance sheet events to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
are provided in Note 36 to the Financial Statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with Auditors reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and KPMG Audit Plc has informed the enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act Company that they have initiated a 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to process to streamline their two registered them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other audit firms KPMG Audit Plc and KPMG irregularities.
As such, KPMG Audit Plc have notified the Company that they are not seeking Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing re-appointment.
Consequently, the Audit a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Committee has recommended, and the Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
Board has approved, the resolutions to appoint KPMG LLP as Auditor of the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate Company and its subsidiaries, and and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the to authorise the Directors to fix their UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ remuneration, which will be proposed from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of Report confirms that, so far as each accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Director is aware, there is no relevant position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the audit information of which the Companys consolidation taken as a whole: and Auditors are unaware and each Director the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance has taken all the steps that ought to have of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the been taken in his or her duty as a Director consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks to make himself or herself aware of any and uncertainties that they face.
relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware For and on behalf of the Board of that information.
Ian Marchant Gregor Alexander By Order of the Board Chief Executive Finance Director 21 May 2013 Vincent Donnelly Company Secretary 21 May 2013 102 SSE plc Annual Report 2013
