Performance review Retail Market-based businesses Supplying energy and related services across the Great Britain Earning the right to and Ireland markets SSEs Retail segment comprises two business areas: Energy Supply and Energy-related Services.
SSE is the second largest energy supplier in the competitive market in Great Britain and the second largest supplier in the competitive markets in Ireland.
At 31 March 2013, it supplied electricity and gas to 9.47 million household and Retail operating profit Energy customer Home services customer business accounts under its brands SSE, m accounts millions accounts millions Scottish Hydro, Southern Electric, SWALEC and Atlantic in the Great Britain market and Airtricity in the markets on the 410.1 9.47 0.42 island of Ireland.
27.5% -0.8% 2.4% SSE also provides other energy-related SSE is involved in the supply of SSE supplies electricity and Home services provided by products and services to over 400,000 electricity and gas and in other gas to household and business SSE include gas boiler, central energy-related services such as customers in the energy markets heating and wiring maintenance customers, covering three principal areas: electrical contracting to business in Great Britain and Ireland.
It and installation and telephone home services: metering: and mechanical and household customers.
is the second largest supplier in line rental, calls and broadband and electrical contracting.
Financial performance in Retail Operating profit in Retail in 2012 13 was 410.1m, compared with 321.6m in the Meters read millions Financial assistance for SSE Contracting order previous year and 400.5m in 2010 11. vulnerable customers book m This amounted to 22.8% of SSEs total m operating profit and comprised: 364.2m in Energy Supply, compared 14.4 50 88 with 271.7m in the previous year and 347.7m in 2010 11: and -4.0% 8.7% 12.8% 45.9m in Energy-related Services, SSE is involved in supplying, SSE provides assistance for SSE Contracting is one of the compared with 49.9m in the previous installing, maintaining and customers who struggle to largest mechanical and electrical reading meters in the household, pay for their basic energy contracting businesses in the UK, year and 52.8m in 2010 11. commercial, industrial and needs, including discounts operating from regional offices generation sectors in Great on energy bills.
As stated in its Annual Report 2012, SSE Britain.
expects that its annual profit margin ie adjusted operating profit as a percentage of revenue in Energy Supply should average Key topics in this section around 5% over the medium term ie three to five years.
Demonstrating that saying sorry is not enough See page 41 for more information In 2012 13, it was 4.2%, up from 3.5% in the previous year, and compared with Introducing a new Customer Service Guarantee 4.3% in 2011 12.
Energy Supply profit See page 42 for more information margin has, therefore, averaged 4.0% over three years.
Focusing on energy efficiency obligations See page 43 for more information SSE believes that its expected profit margin over the medium term is reasonable and sustainable and that it stands comparison to organisations that provide other everyday essentials such as food retailers, telecoms companies and high street retailers.
39 Performance review Retail continued Market-based businesses Energy Supply To provide customers with the best possible value for money SSE believes that it should deliver excellent Supplying energy across Great Britain and Ireland customer service, simple products and fair prices.
The key responsibilities of the Energy Supply business are to: ensure it secures enough electricity and gas to meet customers needs: Including these, customer account the weather was colder in 11 of the arrange for electricity and gas to be numbers in Ireland rose by 200,000.
12 months to March 2013 than it distributed to customers premises was during the same month in the through the relevant networks: In contrast, there was a reduction of previous year: provide customers with necessary around 275,000 in customer account at London Heathrow, 2012 13 was the associated services such as metering numbers in Great Britain.
Fundamentally, coldest year since 1987 88: and and billing: and this decline reflects the highly competitive March 2013 was the coldest March since meet obligations in respect of energy market conditions in Great Britain.
1962 and the equal second coldest since efficiency and any related social or Nevertheless, SSEs energy customer records began in 1910. environmental schemes promoted account numbers across Great Britain and by government.
Ireland are still just 3% below their peak in As a result, SSE estimates its household March 2011, on a like-for-like basis and are customers in Great Britain used, on average SSE appreciates that its core products of still nearly double their level in March 2003. comparisons with the previous year : electricity and gas are not discretionary items except, in some instances, in the Making a reasonable profit 544 therms of gas 451 : and extent of their use but something in Energy Supply 4,299kWh of electricity 4,104. people rely on to heat and power their SSEs Energy Supply business buys the homes and live comfortably.
That means electricity and gas it needs through Nevertheless, on a weather-corrected there is legitimate regulatory, political SSEs Energy Portfolio Management and basis, there has been a sustained fall in and public interest in its activities and it Generation divisions.
The associated cost average household consumption of gas is SSEs responsibility to provide value for to the Energy Supply business comprises: and electricity in Great Britain: in 2012 13 money, fairness and transparency it was 21.7% and 15.5% lower respectively to customers.
the weighted average cost of electricity, than was the case in 2008. made up of fuel used in generation Supplying energy to customers plus associated costs of CO emissions, Retail energy prices in Great Britain 2 in Great Britain and Ireland power purchase agreements and direct Despite the significant improvements in In the year to 31 March 2013, SSEs energy bilateral electricity contracts: and energy efficiency, SSE recognises that energy customer accounts in Great Britain and the weighted average cost of gas, made affordability is a major societal issue and was Ireland fell from 9.55 million to 9.47 million.
up of gas purchase contracts and direct therefore disappointed to have to implement This comprised: bilateral gas contracts and payments for in October 2012 price increases for gas storage.
household gas and electricity supply in Great 4.87 million domestic electricity accounts Britain of an average of 9%.
This followed in GB: In addition the Energy Supply business a cut in the unit price of gas of 4.5% in 3.35 million domestic gas accounts in GB: has to meet costs associated with the March 2012.
SSEs gas prices had previously 0.43 million business electricity and gas transmission and distribution of energy, increased in December 2010 and September accounts: and customer service and government- 2011 and its electricity prices increased in 0.82 million electricity and gas accounts sponsored social and environmental August 2008 and September 2011. in Northern Ireland and the Republic obligations.
The decision to increase prices was Operating profit in Energy Supply in necessary due to rising costs putting Within the overall total, 2.4 million 2012 13 increased from 271.7m to an upward pressure on prices.
The main customer accounts in Great Britain are 364.2m and comprised 20.3% of SSEs pressures were: for loyalty and fixed term products.
This includes These include M&S Energy, available to operating profit from the household the average price in the wholesale customers through Marks & Spencers and business sectors in Great Britain energy markets to secure gas for the stores and website.
coming winter was around 14% higher than it was for the winter before.
Indeed, The total customer account numbers The increase in SSEs operating profit in the actual cost of gas turned out to be include the acquisition in June 2012 Energy Supply was mainly due to an increase even higher than that forecast at the of 130,000 gas customer accounts in in energy consumption as a result of colder time the decision was taken to increase Northern Ireland from Phoenix Energy than normal weather in 2012 13 compared prices.
Wholesale energy costs account Holdings Ltd for 29.3m, excluding with the warmer weather of the preceding for around 50% of a typical gas and working capital-related adjustments.
This is illustrated by the fact that: electricity customers dual fuel bill: 40 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 1.
4. the increasing costs of delivering gas comparison with the UK governments During 2012 13, the number of SSE-related and electricity to customers homes original plan.
This is expected to inflate complaints to third party organisations through the gas and electricity the cost of a programme that was the Ombudsman Services: Energy UK, transmission and distribution networks, already based on an optimistic set Consumer Focus, Consumer Direct and which are determined by Ofgem and of cost assumptions.
SSE believes that Consumer Focus Extra Help Unit was 942, which are needed to finance necessary a cap should be put on energy suppliers compared with 896 in the previous year.
These costs spend on ECO to ensure value for money The increase reflects greater sensitivity on represent around 25% of a typical dual for customers, who ultimately pay for the part of customers to all aspects of their fuel customers bill and were 9% higher the scheme.
energy supply at a time of higher prices than they were the previous year: and and greater public scrutiny.
Nevertheless, the cost of government economic and The need for this is highlighted by the the energy complaints league table, last social initiatives including the Carbon ECO brokerage mechanism established to published by Consumer Focus in July Emissions Reduction Target CERT and give Green Deal providers an alternative 2012, awarded SSE a five star rating with Warm Homes Discount WHD that route to ECO funding and to give obligated the lowest number of complaints to suppliers are required to fund and pass companies an alternative means of Ombudsman Services.
At the time of the securing the carbon savings they need to price increase announcement they had meet their ECO targets.
Results from it, SSE topped the uSwitch Customer increased by 30% on the previous year, to date, indicate that the actual cost of Satisfaction Award run by uSwitch.
com accounting for around 10% of a typical delivering ECO is over 30% higher than that seven years in a row.
In the most recent customers bill.
forecast by the UK government, while other survey, in November 2012, SSE came top evidence points to a risk of further cost for customer service but came second for At the same time as the price increase increases over the course of the scheme.
the overall Customer Satisfaction Award.
was announced SSE also committed to cap At the time of the survey SSE was the only household energy prices in Great Britain until Other non-energy costs are also increasing, major energy supplier to have announced at least the second half of 2013.
This has with the requirement for investment in a price increase.
Other energy suppliers delivered certainty around its tariff offering transmission and distribution resulting in followed suit in the following months.
SSE in very competitive market conditions.
Taken together is working hard to regain the top ranking in these increases point to additional costs of the Customer Satisfaction Index, although Looking ahead to 2013 14, the cost over 80 per dual fuel customer in 2013 14. survey-based rankings can be influenced by of government-sponsored social and Unless there is a sustained reduction in events that are current or recent when the environmental schemes is leading to prices in wholesale gas and electricity surveys take place.
further increases in costs in Great Britain.
markets, it is highly likely that these The amount of money paid out by SSE additional costs will eventually have to be Demonstrating that saying sorry under the fuel poverty-related Warm reflected in higher prices for household is not enough Home Discount scheme will be around customers.
Nevertheless, SSE intends to On 3 April 2013 Ofgem announced its 50m, similar to the level paid in 2012 13. resist this trend of higher costs for as long decision to fine SSE 10.5m for breaches The costs of the feed-in tariffs programme as possible to shield customers from the of two Standard Licence Conditions: for promoting micro-renewables are unwelcome impact of higher prices.
Notification of Domestic Supply Contract rising significantly and are on the point Terms: and Marketing to Gas Electricity of overtaking the amount spent on the Putting customers first Domestic Customers.
SSE apologised fully Warm Home Discount.
To provide customers with the best possible for the breaches and accepted the fine value for money SSE believes that it should without appeal.
This marked the conclusion The delay in the start date for the new deliver excellent customer service, simple of Ofgems investigation and associated Energy Company Obligation, designed products and fair prices.
In recent years enforcement action, financial or otherwise, to reduce the energy consumption and SSE consistently led the energy supply against SSE in relation to these breaches.
support people living in fuel poverty, means industry in customer service and became Up to that point, SSE has been the only that timescales for it are compressed in a benchmark for other energy suppliers.
leading supplier in Great Britain that had not been subject of a finding of breach of its supply licence conditions.
Building trust Breaches occurred for varying periods between October 2009 and September Weve let some customers down in the past, 2012, but mainly in the period to July 2011, but with our Customer Service Guarantee we the point at which SSE became the first are continuing to add to our record of sectorcompany to suspend doorstep energy leading service.
They related mainly to inadequate monitoring, auditing and execution of SSEs sales activities.
SSE believes it worked hard and in good faith to See page 42 for more information implement changes to licence conditions made by Ofgem in 2009 and 2010 41 Performance review Retail continued Market-based businesses designed to ensure sales were conducted SSE has decided to donate to energyhelping customers save money: in a fairer and more transparent manner.
related charities all of the money that is making life easier for customers: and Nevertheless, it accepts unreservedly that remaining on 31 August 2013 from the helping customers when they need it did not move fast or far enough in some 5m it provided for the retrospective it most.
areas and acknowledges readily that some implementation of its Sales Guarantee.
of its processes were not as effective as The sum that will be donated is currently There are five clearly defined and they should have been.
SSE estimates expected to be around 2.5m.
SSE measurable standards for SSEs customer that around 23,000 customers may have will confirm which charities are being service team including: moved to a more expensive energy supply supported at the end of August.
contract as a result of its energy sales always calling customers back at the activity on the doorstep and at venues.
The safeguard offered by the Sales agreed time: Guarantee, the only one of its kind in never transferring calls more than once While the investigation was being the Great Britain energy industry, will unless the customer agrees: undertaken, SSE took significant action to continue to apply to any sale made by giving customers the opportunity to begin remedying the substantive issues SSE in the future.
speak to a manager if they want: raised.
In addition to ending doorstep sales offering to find ways to save customers in Great Britain, these included the creation Redoubling the effort to money on every call: and of a new Retail division, the external engage with customers offering help with energy bills through recruitment of a new Managing Director and In October 2011 SSE announced a package payment plans or checking eligibility the development of new sales processes of proposals designed to build greater for assistance such as the Warm and related training for employees as well trust with its customers.
as new safeguards for customers.
a commitment to reduce the number of tariffs offered, to ensure customers The Customer Service Guarantee goes To provide redress for customers affected, receive personalised Annual Energy significantly beyond existing industry-wide SSE introduced in December 2011 its Sales Reviews AERs to help reduce their bills, Guaranteed Standards and further than Guarantee setting aside up to 5m to and to ensure all customers have the other energy supply companies customer deal with historic issues to ensure that any opportunity to access any SSE product.
By 31 March 2013, household customer who shows that they SSEs Building Trust programme led the SSE had made 292 individual payments switched their energy supply to SSE after energy supply industry and was followed totalling 5,840. being given inaccurate information or being by similar, but often less radical schemes misled will have any resulting financial from other energy suppliers.
Communicating with customers loss made good.
Although five of the six through digital channels leading suppliers have been or are being Following the success of Building Trust In Ireland SSE leads the energy supply investigated in this area, SSE remains the SSE published a second document, Still sector in digital services to domestic only leading energy supplier to offer such a Building Trust, in April 2012 which set out customers with around half of customer guarantee.
The processes underpinning the a number of further measures to maintain interactions, such as submitting meter Sales Guarantee have been independently momentum, including steps to simplify readings, making secure payments reviewed and audited to make sure energy bills, tackle estimated bills and and updating personal account details that they are fair and reasonable.
opened up the best tariff to prepayment carried out through Airtricitys online self meter customers.
Between 3 April and 17 May 2013, SSE was contacted by around 14,000 customers SSE also introduced new measures to SSE is also the leading innovator of mobile relating to its Sales Guarantee.
SSE has improve customer service, including communications methods in the Irish already assessed around 80% of the the Sales Guarantee and implemented energy supply sector with technology cases raised since 3 April and advised the Annual Energy Reviews that allow in place that supports a broad range of the customers concerned about the customers to check they are on the customer activity on smartphone devices.
In around 85% of assessed best tariff for them, are receiving cases the customer has not experienced benefits they may be entitled to This illustrates that digital channels any financial disadvantage: in the 15% and are taking advantage of energy are now established as an important where the customer has suffered financial efficiency options.
way of communicating with customers disadvantage payments have been and around one quarter of all of SSEs made.
Discussions with a further 25% of Introducing a new Customer transactions with energy supply customers the customers whose situation has been Service Guarantee are carried out in this way.
In Great Britain assessed have resulted in a decision by SSE In addition to the Sales Guarantee, and Ireland SSE has 1.9m customers who to address concerns other than financial in February 2013 SSE launched a new, receive paperless billing.
Customers can disadvantage arising from the sales process.
separate Customer Service Guarantee view their account and payment history, As a result, since 3 April 2013, SSE has so which promised to meet a new set submit meter readings and receive an far made payments averaging around 80 of customer service commitments or up-to-date balance on their account and to just over 5,000 customers a total of give customers 20 off their next bill.
make secure payments on their account.
SSE is continuing to assess The commitments are based on three Customers can also undertake online the outstanding cases raised by customers.
core objectives: Annual Energy Reviews.
Providing customers with a high-quality Delivering past energy SSE has always agreed with the aims of user experience when they choose to efficiency obligations the schemes and has achieved significant utilise digital channels is now one of SSEs As a leading energy supplier, SSE had savings for customers.
For example top customer service priorities.
Substantial obligations under the Carbon Emissions through CERT, SSE insulated nearly 500,000 investment is being made in digital services Reduction Target CERT 2008-12 to deliver cavity wall insulations and nearly 700,000 based on a customer proposition that is energy efficiency measures to households lofts.
SSE has also replaced almost 30,000 simple, value-adding and relevant.
SSE throughout Great Britain that delivered boilers.
As DECC recently stated, there has is working to ensure that all of the main savings in CO emissions.
been a substantial reduction in customers 2 customer service requirements are available gas and electricity usage as a result of online and plans to broaden the digital Of the total obligation, 40% had to be these schemes.
touch points on offer, reflecting customers met in a Priority Group of households, enthusiasm for these channels evidenced within which there was also a Super These schemes have delivered real across the energy supply and other sectors.
Priority Group SPG of households which benefits for customers, but it has been are low income and qualify for certain extremely challenging for suppliers Helping customers save energy benefits.
There were also requirements to find, deliver and verify measures in While the average amount of energy used in respect of promoting professionally peoples homes without having access by SSEs customers increased during 2012 13 installed insulation measures the to any data on income and benefits.
as a result of the colder weather experienced Insulation Obligation.
These difficulties, along with delivery during the year, the longer-term weatherand capability issues in the insulation corrected position is as follows: SSE has delivered the carbon savings set industry have caused cost inflation out by the CERT scheme and has contracts during the schemes.
Important lessons average household consumption of gas in place to ensure it meets it allocation for, and amendments to, the ECO by SSEs customers has fallen by 21.7% under the Community Energy Saving scheme are also needed to ensure the since 2008: and Scheme CESP.
schemes are delivered at reasonable average household consumption of cost for consumers.
electricity by SSEs customers has fallen SSE complied with the CERT scheme by 15.5% since 2008. in full but was unable to verify and report Focusing on future energy the delivery of some of the obligations, efficiency obligations Based on SSEs unit prices in March 2013, namely the Priority Group PG and Super SSE is now focussing on the delivery the underlying fall in consumption since Priority Group SPG to Ofgem before the of the new Energy Company Obligation 2008 is equivalent to taking 248 off a reporting date.
Following verification work ECO, the next phase of the governments dual fuel bill.
This illustrates the distinction with the Department of Work and Pensions mandatory energy efficiency programmes.
between the price of a unit of energy and DWP SSE was able to show it delivered the amount customers pay for heating the obligations.
ECO creates a legal obligation on energy and powering their homes.
suppliers to improve the energy efficiency In relation to CESP, SSE acknowledges of households through the establishment The decline in energy consumption is that despite best efforts it was not able of three distinct targets: expected to continue for the next few to physically deliver all of the obligations years.
SSE has observed greater reductions by December 2012.
However contracts the Carbon Emissions Reduction in gas than in electricity, most likely due were in place shortly afterwards for the Obligation, focusing primarily on hardto more efficient boilers and to more delivery of the obligations in full.
to-treat homes and with solid wall energy efficient homes lowering gas insulation and hard-to-treat cavity heating requirements.
Electricity In line with other energy companies, wall insulation as primary measures: demand is reducing, but efficiencies in SSEs delivery at the reporting date was the Carbon Saving Community appliances are balanced by increasing under 100% of the target because it did Obligation, focusing on the provision household technology.
not achieve the schemes bonus uplifts of insulation measures and connections for multiple measures in a home and to district heating systems to domestic Falling consumption presents short-term density bonuses within an area.
Despite energy users that live within an area of issues in relation to the revenue that this, SSE has delivered nearly twice the low income.
This target has a sub-target, companies are able to earn from supplying unadjusted carbon reduction ie the real which states that at least 15% of each energy and in relation to the operation carbon before bonuses and spent 40m suppliers Carbon Saving Community and development of plant for generating more than was suggested in DECCs Obligation must be achieved by electricity.
Nevertheless, as a result of the impact assessment.
promoting measures to low income underlying fall in energy consumption, and vulnerable households living households are less exposed to the impact Ofgem announced in May 2013 that it in rural areas: and of high unit prices than they otherwise will investigate SSE and five other energy the Home Heating Cost Reduction would be and the overall sustainability of companies failure to achieve 100% of Obligation, requiring energy suppliers supplies of gas and electricity is improved.
the CESP obligation by the cut-off date.
to provide measures which improve In this context, SSEs goal is to broaden the SSE will co-operate fully with Ofgem the ability of low income and vulnerable range of products and services it offers to as it considers further actions in relation households the Affordable Warmth household customers.
Group to heat affordably their homes.
43 Performance review Retail continued Market-based businesses While some of the final guidance from in 2012 13 a far simpler range of energy warm enough.
In September 2012, the Ofgem is yet to be clarified, SSE is building tariffs which remove unnecessary UK government proposed new ways to its energy efficiency delivery business complexity, featuring: measure fuel poverty.
It is proposing a new and partnerships in order to meet the definition which includes dual indicators of new scheme requirements.
While very three core products standard, capped fuel poverty that separate the extent of the supportive of the need for schemes to drive and fixed: issue the number of people affected from take-up of energy efficiency measures, general availability for customers: its depth how badly people are affected.
particularly among vulnerable customers, five simple questions to help customers SSE remains concerned by the potential find their best deal: and In addition to the successful deployment of costs of the new ECO.
measures under energy efficiency schemes, SSE fulfils other key responsibilities in order The Department of Energy and Climate SSE also announced that its lowest to help those of its customers who struggle Change DECC estimates the annual cost priced tariff would be made available to to pay for their basic energy needs by: of ECO at 1.3bn a year, an independent prepayment meter customers, becoming report by economic consultancy NERA for the first energy supplier to do so.
giving financial assistance with energy Energy UK found it could be 2.35bn or bills, helping an estimated 370,000 more.
Currently the market is indicating The current Energy Bill contains clauses customers, with a total of around a cost somewhere in between.
Given this designed to enshrine Ofgems Retail Market 50m being provided in 2012 13: potentially huge variation in costs, SSE Review into primary legislation.
The aims providing tailor-made payment has been engaging with the Government of these interventions are to: arrangements, helping customers who regarding placing a cap on the total cost may be experiencing hardship and having of the scheme, so that consumers, who limit tariff numbers difficulty in paying their energy bills: will pay for it via their gas and electricity prescribe provision of information undertaking income maximisation bills, are not unduly penalised should to customers: and checks, delivered in partnership with costs escalate.
impose new Standards of Conduct for Citizens Advice Direct: and licence holders.
maintaining, through a Careline Given the expected cost escalation and that supported by specifically-trained people, it is ultimately paid for through energy bills While supportive of the simpler, clearer, extra services for vulnerable customers and delivered by companies supplying more fairer objective, SSE does remain concerned and contacting potentially vulnerable than 250,000 domestic customers, the about the overly-prescriptive nature of customers each winter, helping them Energy Company Obligation highlights three some of the reforms, many of which with practical advice and support.
issues that are becoming increasingly acute: will add cost and complexity to energy suppliers relationship with customers.
In addition, SSE did not disconnect the gas competition: small suppliers or electricity supply of any customer in exemptions from governmentClearly the high level of political and media Great Britain between 1 December 2012 sponsored schemes and obligations interest in the sector is meaning that UK and 28 February 2013, in line with its winter which means they can avoid passing energy suppliers are going through a period policy in this area.
on costs totalling an average of of strong intervention in the regulatory around 100 per dual fuel account cycle.
It is possible that this may result in Working with customers to their customers: too much regulation, leading to a stifling to manage energy-related debt fairness: small suppliers in the Great of innovation in the sector.
It is clear that At 31 March 2013, the total aged debt Britain market have a significant Ofgem and the UK government need to ie debt that is overdue by more than number of customer accounts.
These create strong and coherent measures six months of SSEs domestic and small customers are not required to contribute with which to define the success of these business electricity and gas customers to the costs of government-sponsored interventions, given that over-simplification in Great Britain and Ireland was 90.4m, schemes through their bills, but could may result in lower switching rates among compared with 88.3m in the previous year.
still benefit from them: and electricity and gas customers.
A bad debt-related charge of 50.7m was equity: a larger proportion of the recognised in the period.
This compares with obligations on energy suppliers fall on SSE is nonetheless well placed to deal a charge of 40.5m in the previous year.
This means with these interventions, having already that more than two million households migrated customers onto its new tariff The general economic climate continues to in Great Britain who do not have structure, invested in new systems and give rise to significant debt management access to the gas grid have to bear a with its sector leading customer service.
Debt less than three months disproportionate share of the burden SSE is committed to being at the vanguard old was 20% higher on 31 March 2013 than of government-sponsored schemes.
of good practice in the sector.
the year before and debt overdue by four to six months was 4.5% lower.
Simplifying tariffs and anticipating Continuing to help vulnerable customers new regulations Under the existing definition, a household SSE has officeand field-based employees SSE recognised that the buying of energy is classed as being in fuel poverty if it who work with customers to resolve debt had become too complex and needed to would need to spend more than 10% issues.
They aim to help customers by be simplified.
In response it introduced of its income on fuel to keep its home identifying as early as is practical when their 44 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 1.
4. payments are in arrears and contacting continues to have the largest renewable introduced its SMART Energy card allowing them as soon as possible to discuss the component to its energy sources relative customers, through their local Post Office options available to them.
This proactive to other suppliers: and or convenience store to pay amounts approach is in the best interests of SSE it leads the way in providing customers against their account to a value and at a and the customers concerned.
with an online digital platform from frequency that suits them.
This prevents where they can sign up, manage their the accumulation of a larger bill at the Supplying energy to customers in Ireland account, submit meter readings and pay end of the billing cycle.
The success of the In the Republic of Ireland SSEs supply brand their bills.
This industry-leading service is scheme proved to the regulator the benefit Airtricity increased household energy prices particularly important in a market where of prepayment meters which have now in October 2012 by 4.7% for electricity 1.6 million people own a smartphone been introduced for vulnerable customers.
In Northern Ireland SSE and where the average person spends In 2012 13, Airtricity also introduced a increased prices for gas by 8.75% from April around 150 minutes-a-day online.
further service innovation equal payment 2013 following a number of significant cost plan EPP.
EPP is a free service which allows increases.
The previous April gas prices were The online platform also provided Airtricity customers to spread their costs for the cut by 8.5%.
SSE cut household electricity with its earliest means of helping customers year across 12 equal payments, giving prices by 14.1% from October 2012.
Prices identify ways in which they can save money.
the customer more predictability and in Northern Ireland are set by the Northern From helping householders identify energy more control.
saving measures that can be delivered in the home, to presenting Airtricitys competitive Energy Supply priorities Airtricity, since the early 2000s, has had pricing plans, it provided householders with in 2013 14 and beyond a strong brand presence in Ireland which the information they needed to get the most was synonymous with the development of from their energy supply.
During 2013 14 and beyond, SSEs renewable energy.
While the business had priorities in Energy Supply are to: a small commercial electricity customer Since 2011, Airtricity is also obligated, in base in RoI and NI, it was not until 2010 an initiative introduced by the Irish Energy resist for as long as is practical that it made a significant push into both Ministry, to achieve energy efficiency savings upward pressures on household domestic electricity and subsequently gas across the RoI economy.
While the target energy prices: supply markets across the island.
set is challenging, Airtricity Energy Services complete in a fair and timely way AES is the retail subdivision focused on consideration of all remaining historic This was the first major entry by a privately delivering this for commercial, public sector claims under its Sales Guarantee: owned energy utility into the market, and household customers.
Among a suite ensure sales of electricity and gas a move that was widely welcomed by of energy efficiency measures, AES has are conducted in a professional, regulators and politicians in the north and completed over 20,000 boiler services transparent and compliant way, south of the island.
Domestic switching in the past year.
Meanwhile, linking with consistent with the letter and spirit rates dramatically increased to become SSEs community funding programme of all relevant regulations: one of the highest in Europe, during the for communities surrounding its wind deliver a high standard of customer years 2010 to 2012.
Such was the scale farms, SSE has invested over 2m in local service, in keeping with the of switching it enabled the RoI regulator, community based energy efficiency principles behind its Customer the Commission for Energy Regulation, to projects in Ireland.
Service Guarantee: deregulate the domestic electricity market.
improve customer insight into the Airtricitys entry into the domestic market energy supply market and ensure For customers, Airtricity brings three coincided with difficult economic times in that the value of SSEs products distinctive characteristics to the market: Ireland, and so from the earliest stage it and services are better known sought to implement measures that could and understood: and it offers more competitive energy prices, assist customers in managing their bills.
identify new ways of engaging particularly at a difficult economic time: From 2010, in the absence of pre-payment with energy supply customers, it has a positive green image and today meters in the RoI market, Airtricity including through digital channels.
Keeping you informed Energy-related Services In December 2012 we launched Offering a broader range of energyour news and views website and related products and services Executive blog to keep you upIn addition to electricity and gas, SSE also to-date with what is happening provides energy-related products and at SSE.
services to customers, covering three principal areas: See http: news.
com retailing of home services such as gas boiler, central heating and wiring 45 Performance review Retail continued Market-based businesses maintenance and installation, telephone During 2012 13, SSE introduced new leadership and new line rental, calls and broadband services management in its Retail division, bringing an opportunity and microgeneration: supplying, installing, maintaining to renew and refocus activities throughout this part of SSE.
and reading meters in the household, commercial, industrial and generation sectors in Great Britain: and domestic, commercial and industrial mechanical and electrical contracting and electrical and instrumentation engineering.
The provision of these and other services has expanded the range of energy efficiency over 12,000 AMR automatic meter reading provides scope to expand the business and products offered to domestic customers meters which are remotely read.
provide a quality service to customers.
These including the installation of external wall products and services are clearly linked to insulation on over 500 homes.
During 2012 13, SSE collected 8.7 million the supply of electricity and gas and build on electricity readings and 5.7 million the companys existing strengths rather than Playing a part in the Green Deal gas readings.
Progress is being made The Green Deal is a new financing in broadening the offer to customers and mechanism for customers seeking to install Smart meters which will allow the quantity developing the people and processes energy saving measures, featuring a Golden and value of electricity and gas used to capitalise on these opportunities.
Rule under which the expected financial to be continuously monitored by the savings arising from the measures must customer and exchanged with the supplier Providing services for the home be greater than the cost of the installation electronically are expected to transform Home Services provides products including attached to the customers energy bill.
energy supply in Great Britain.
Around gas boiler, central heating and wiring 53 million smart meters are due to be maintenance and installation.
These SSE has undertaken significant investment installed in around 30 million homes and products are marketed to householders in delivering the customer facing and IT businesses: of these, SSE is due to install who value the security of having their systems obligations with respect to the around nine million meters.
This will be heating, hot water and electrics regularly Green Deal which it has to fulfil as an implemented in two phases: maintained and a repairs service available energy supplier.
These include payment when they need it.
The system a foundation phase to enable the energy delivery was highly challenging but supply industry to build and test all the SSE has around 216,000 gas electricity delivered in time for the scheme launch.
systems needed to start the roll-out, maintenance contract accounts, up 12% on ensure positive customer engagement the previous year.
It has also completed just In May 2013 SSE launched its own Green and deliver energy savings: and over 8,600 gas central heating installations Deal offering to domestic customers.
SSE a mass deployment phase to install and electrical heating wiring installations now provides Green Deal assessments meters across the country once further in 2012 13, up 15% on the previous year.
and eligible measures and believes this is customer support has been achieved.
an important mechanism for customers SSE has also launched a domestic to reduce their energy usage.
Over 700 SSE welcomed the announcement in May renewable installation business in Scotland customers have already agreed to progress 2013 of changes to the delivery timetable focusing on air-source and groundwith a Green Deal assessment which could for the national rollout of smart meters source heat pumps and biomass boilers.
lead to a loan and installation of energy which mean that the foundation phase will Installation volumes at present are low: efficiency measures.
extend to the final quarter of 2015, when it is anticipated, however, that demand the mandated deployment will commence.
will increase once the UK governments Maintaining a national metering business The target date for completion of the rollRenewable Heating Incentive is finalised SSEs metering business undertakes meter out is now the end of 2020. and implemented later in the year.
reading operations and meter operator work in all parts of the UK.
It also provides SSE has consistently had a strategy of SSE offers retail telecoms services including services to most electricity suppliers with developing consumer-friendly, scalable, telephone line rental, calls and broadband customers in central southern England and strategic solutions for smart metering, to over 200,000 customer accounts.
It supplies, installs and avoiding interim solutions and asset In 2012 SSE received accreditation for maintains domestic meters and carries out stranding wherever possible.
This means compliance against Ofcoms metering metering work in the commercial, industrial taking a measured, realistic approach and billing direction.
It also offers data to the roll-out of smart meters.
SSE has collection services to the domestic and installed just under 300 smart meters in Growth plans for the coming year include SME sectors.
The number of SSE electricity customers homes to date while developing the development and launch of innovative and gas supply customers who receive bills the necessary IT systems to support the products in the domestic consumer market.
based on actual meter readings now stands wider roll-out.
Further installations are For example, SSEs Energy Solutions team at 96.8%.
SSE Metering has also installed just planned in 2013-14 to continue to develop 46 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 1.
4. systems, processes and organisational health and safety management amongst capability for mass deployment and UK contractors, for its commitment to deliver an excellent customer experience.
achieving excellence in health and safety.
Investment in systems made up the majority of capital and investment Energy-related Services priorities expenditure in Retail, which totalled in 2013 14 and beyond.
SSEs priorities in Energy-related In Ireland installation of smart meters will Services in 2013 14 and beyond are to: be the responsibility of network companies.
develop and deploy safely the right Managing a leading mechanical and portfolio of products and services: electrical contracting business deliver high standards of customer SSE Contracting has two principal areas service: and of activity: anticipate the changing requirements of customers.
industrial, commercial and domestic mechanical and electrical contracting: and electrical and instrumentation Retail conclusion engineering.
During 2012 13, SSE introduced new leadership and new management in its It is one of the largest mechanical and Retail division, bringing an opportunity to electrical contracting businesses in the UK renew and refocus activities throughout this and its breadth and depth is illustrated by part of SSE.
Through a process of evolution, some of the specific services it provides, designed to build on its strengths in retail such as: and identify opportunities as products and markets develop, SSE plans to develop and mechanical and electrical packaged deploy a central proposition to household services covering consultancy, design and business customers that enables and build, project management and them to receive core services from a single prime contracting: provider, based on value, convenience, high voltage power services, choice and quality.
including design, build, safety testing and maintenance: low voltage infrastructure cabling and services covering design, build, safety testing and maintenance: and electrical storage heating systems and installations.
SSE Contracting is involved in the industrial, commercial, retail, housing, health, defence, transport and local authority sectors.
SSE Contracting continued to make solid progress during 2012 13.
Its order book ended the year at 88m, compared with 78m in the previous year.
It completed a number of major projects, such as the AD47 Air Dispatch Facility at RAF Brize Norton and the Exxon Mobil CAT Turnaround Project in the Fawley Refinery.
It was also listed as a top three contractor in the Electrical Times Top 50 Electrical Contractor Report 2012.
In November 2012, SSE Contracting was awarded accreditation from safecontractor, a leading third party accreditation scheme which recognises very high standards in 47
