96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:02 Page 26 Board of Directors Sir Brian Souter Ann Gloag OBE P P 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 Helen Mahy P 3.5 3.6 3.7 3.8 Garry Watts MBE P Phil White CBE P 3.9 3.10 Gregor Alexander C Details of corporate governance, including the operation of the Board of Directors, are given P in section 5 of this Annual Report.
A brief biography of each director is given below.
Will Whitehorn P Executive Directors 3.1 Martin Griffiths 3.2 Ross Paterson Position: Chief Executive Position: Finance Director Appointment to the Board: 2000 Appointment to the Board: 2013 Age: 47 Age: 41 Committee membership: Health, Safety and Environmental.
External appointments: Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited Co-Chairman, External appointments: Director and Chairman of Audit Committee, Virgin Ewan Brown CBE Robert Walters plc Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, AG Barr plc Rail Group Holdings Limited.
Member of the Audit and Assurance Committee P Non-Executive Director, Rail Delivery Group Limited Director.
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, Martin Griffiths is a former Previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, Ross Paterson joined Director of Troy Income & Growth Trust plc.
He was young Scottish Finance Stagecoach in 1999 and has since held various senior finance and company Director of the year in 2004. secretarial roles.
He became Director of Finance & Company Secretary in 2007, with responsibility for treasury, corporate finance, City relations, financial Executive responsibilities: Previously the Groups Finance Director, Martin reporting, internal audit and the company secretariat.
Griffiths was appointed Chief Executive from 1 May 2013.
Martin Griffiths is responsible for the Groups overall strategy and management of all of the Executive responsibilities: Ross Paterson is responsible for the Groups Groups operations.
overall financial policy, taxation, treasury, corporate finance, City relations, financial reporting, information technology and employee benefits.
He supports the Chief Executive in the management of the Groups operations and new business development.
page 26 | Stagecoach Group plc 96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:03 Page 27 Non-Executive Directors 3.3 Sir Brian Souter 3.7 Ann Gloag OBE Position: Chairman Position: Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board: n a co-founder Appointment to the Board: n a co-founder Age: 59 Age: 70 Committee membership: None.
Committee membership: Health, Safety and Environmental.
External appointments: Chairman, Souter Investments.
External appointments: Mercy Ships International Board Member.
Previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, Sir Brian co-founded Previous experience: Ann Gloag co-founded Stagecoach and served as Stagecoach, Scottish Business Awards Scottish company of the year 2012. executive director until 2000.
Sir Brian was named UK Master Entrepreneur of the Year at the 2010 Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year Awards and, in 2012, became the first 3.8 Helen Mahy public transport entrepreneur to be inducted into the British Travel Industry Position: Non-Executive Director Hall of Fame.
Appointment to the Board: 2010 Sir Brian is the architect of the Groups strategy and philosophy and was the Age: 52 Groups Chief Executive until 1 May 2013.
He has extensive knowledge of the ground transportation industry around the world and continues to support Committee membership: Health, Safety and Environmental Chair, Audit.
Martin Griffiths and the rest of the management team.
Sir Brian has External appointments: Chair of the Advisory Board of Obelisk Legal responsibility for the running of the Board.
Previous experience: Former Group Company Secretary and General 3.4 Garry Watts MBE Counsel, and member of Executive Committee of National Grid plc.
Former Non-Executive Director of Aga Rangemaster Group plc and Advisory Board Position: Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Member of Opportunity Now.
Appointment to the Board: 2007 Age: 56 3.9 Phil White CBE Committee membership: Audit Chair to 30 June 2013 and Nomination Position: Non-Executive Director Chair from 1 May 2013.
Appointment to the Board: 2010 External appointments: Spire Healthcare Limited Executive Chairman, BTG Limited Chairman, Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc Non-Executive Director.
Age: 63 Previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, Garry Watts is a former Chief Committee membership: Remuneration Chair, Audit and Health, Safety Executive of SSL International plc, Non-Executive Director of Medicines and and Environmental.
Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency and Protherics plc and Executive External appointments: Lookers plc Non-Executive Chairman, Kier Director of Celltech plc.
Former Finance Director of Medeva plc and partner Group plc Non-Executive Chairman, Unite Group plc Non-Executive with KPMG.
Chairman, Vp plc Non-Executive Director.
Previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, Phil White served as 3.5 Gregor Alexander Chief Executive of National Express Group plc from 1997 to 2006.
Position: Non-Executive Director i Appointment to the Board: 2013 3.10 Will Whitehorn Age: 50 Position: Non-Executive Director Committee membership: Audit Chair from 1 July 2013.
Appointment to the Board: 2011 External appointments: Finance Director of SSE plc.
Chairman of Scotia Age: 53 Gas Networks, a company 50% owned by SSE plc.
Martin Griffiths Ross Paterson Committee membership: Remuneration, Nomination.
Previous experience: Gregor has worked in the energy industry since 1990, P P External appointments: Speed Communications Chairman, Scottish when he joined Scottish Hydro Electric.
He was appointed Finance Director Exhibition Centre Limited Non-Executive Director, ILN Group Limited and joined the board of SSE in 2002, having previously been its Group Non-Executive Director.
Member of the First Minister of Scotlands Treasurer and Tax Manager.
GlobalScot Business mentoring network and member of Writtle Holdings Limited Advisory Board.
Member of the Science Technology Facilities Council STFC and Chair of the Economic Impact Advisory Board of STFC and 3.6 Ewan Brown CBE Non-Executive Director of STFC Innovations Limited.
Transport Systems Position: Non-Executive Director Catapult Limited Chairman.
Appointment to the Board: 1988 Previous experience: Former President of Virgin Galactic and Brand Age: 71 Development and Corporate Affairs Director at Virgin Group.
Former Committee membership: Pension Oversight Chair and Nomination.
Non-Executive Chairman of Next Fifteen Communications Group plc.
External appointments: Scottish Financial Enterprise Chair.
Noble Grossart Holdings Ltd Non-Executive Director, Senior Governor of St Andrews University, Deputy Chair of the Edinburgh International Festival.
Previous experience: Executive Director of Noble Grossart until 2003, a former Chairman of Lloyds TSB Scotland, NonExecutive Director of Wood Group and Lloyds Banking Group, Chairman of Creative Scotland 2009 Ltd. Stagecoach Group plc | page 27
