Stobart Group I Divisional Structure Stobart Stobart Transport & Distribution Estates This division includes all of the forms of transport, storage and handling services provided by the Group in the Stobart Estates owns a diverse portfolio of UK, Ireland and Europe, encompassing multimodal services provided through road, rail and ports.
Stobart properties, ranging from prestige retail sites Transport & Distribution includes the operations of Eddie Stobart, the UKs leading logistics brand.
through light industrial buildings and distribution centres to premium office spaces.
Stobart GroupWith 2,300 units, more than 3,200 trailers and over six million square feet of warehousing, Stobart Transport & occupied property held under the Estates division Distribution meets ambient distribution and warehousing requirements, as well as controlling the Groups inland includes airports and a waterway port in addition to ports operation and the long running and successful Rail Freight services.
It is the largest FMCG rail freight a network of offices, warehouse sites and depots operation in the UK and has been extended into Europe.
A recent acquisition, Autologic is now being integrated into the Transport & Distribution division under the Stobart Estates is also responsible for the management, Automotive brand.
development and realisation of all Stobart Group land and building assets.
Performance of this division is monitored by regular independent third party valuations of investment properties in the same way that any stand-alone property asset company would be valued.
Operations Operations UK & International Road Transport Industrial Assets Contract Logistics and Warehousing Office Property Port and Rail Terminal Operations Retail Assets Rail Freight Services Development Specialist Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 11 Stobart Infrastructure Stobart Stobart & Civil Engineering Air Biomass This division delivers both the internal and external Stobart Air is the operator of two complementary The launch of Stobart Biomass has represented a infrastructure and development projects carried out facilities, London Southend Airport LSA and Carlisle pivotal move into a rapidly developing new business by the Group.
The Group intends to grow sector for the Group.
Stobart Air significantly following the completion of Stobart Infrastructure is one of the UKs leading Stobart Biomass sources, processes and transports development at London Southend Airport.
LSA has names in rail network maintenance, repair and sustainable biomass, primarily life-expired timber developed new routes with major operators including improvement.
and low-grade softwood for the generation of easyJet with the ultimate aim of servicing over two minimum-carbon power plants utilised both in largeThe divisions Civil Engineering operation is million passengers annually.
scale electricity generation and smaller, on-site responsible for the development and improvement The Group is also pursuing air freight, maintenance industrial power plants.
of Stobart Groups property holdings.
and airport service opportunities at LSA, including airport retail, private facilities, lounges and fees generated from the rail terminal, which provides up to eight services an hour direct to London Liverpool Street.
Operations Operations Operations Rail Engineering Airport Operations Material Sourcing Civil Engineering Private Handling Material Processing Infrastructure Development Airport Retail Biomass Logistics Plant Hire Airside Services Biomass Exports Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 12 Ben Whawell, Chief Financial Officer Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 13
