Leading The Field I Health and Safety Health and safety remains a key consideration within the Group as it continues its drive forward.
The 2013 Accident Incident Frequency rate AFR came in at 0.17, against a recorded figure of 0.16 for 2012 and significantly improving on 2011s rate of 0.47.
IOSH Training The Safety Pyramid Over 170 operational managers have now been trained to the Work continued across the organisation to positively influence benchmark IOSH the Institute of Occupational Safety and health and safety performance during the year.
2012-13 saw the Health Managing Safely standard, further bolstering the re-launch of a revised Positive Safety Pyramid, which now better Groups robust record in reporting, recording and investigation encompasses the wide-ranging factors impacting health and of accidents, incidents and near-misses.
This four day course safety.
This initiative re-focusses the process onto pro-active risk provides an entry level health and safety qualification that helps management, rather than reactive accident management.
provide Managers with the skills needed in every day health and safety management and incident recording.
Drugs and Alcohol Policy To-date 25 IOSH-trained managers responsible for incident December 2012 saw the implementation of the Groups new reporting have gone on to take the Foundation Certificate in Drugs & Alcohol policy in partnership with leading testing Accident Investigation, helping ensure incident reports are provider, Concateno.
The new policy helps provide employees completed correctly.
Stobart have entered into a strategic with a safe and healthy working environment, free from the risks partnership with the Institute of Industrial Accident Investigators, posed by the misuse of alcohol or drugs within the working who moderate the course, providing a solid foundation for environment.
Stobart Group currently has over 100 members standardised incident recording.
of staff trained in the collection and testing of drug and alcohol samples.
A policy of cause testing in the event of incident or Near-Miss Reporting suspicion is now being implemented, with a further programme of random testing in a sample percentage of employees being Near-miss reporting continues to be a key area of focus for the completed in 2013. business.
The provision of the near-miss cards has encouraged their recording, assisting in the management of near-misses and helping ensure pro-active investigation reduces the risk of RIVO Safeguard future reactive management of an unnecessary incident.
Following procurement and successful introduction of the RIVO To assist in the engagement of staff in the Groups safety Safeguard online safety system in November 2011, a number culture, a quarterly health and safety newsletter is distributed to of additional modules have been purchased.
It plays a valuable role in One example being the asset module that was developed in delivering and reinforcing the message and keeps staff updated partnership with Stobart Groups warehouse management team with accident rates, on-going health and safety developments, as a vehicle for the control of company assets and statutory and engages using safety-specific interviews with employees.
Since its introduction this module has proved highly effective and is proving invaluable.
campaign RIVO Safeguard continues to be rolled-out across all the Stobart During the year, the award-winning Stop, Think, Act!
campaign businesses, with the incident module now adopted by Stobart was extended to encompass vehicle incident trends within Air at Southend: further ensuring a standardised approach to Stobart Transport & Distribution.
This was particularly centred incident reporting and investigation within the business.
on reminding Eddie Stobart drivers of the special risks around the operation of Large Good Vehicles, trailers, reversing and Health and Safety Audits use of equipment.
The acronym SMART has been used Stobart Group health and safety audits were revised and successfully in the campaign to highlight potential issues: refreshed during 2012-13.
The new audit process is carried-out Susies: Dont forget to disconnect your susies the at least once a year by every Stobart site.
couplings between tractor and trailer when uncoupling.
Each audit reviews compliance with all relevant statutory health Manoeuvres: Mirror, signal, manoeuvre.
and safety requirements, as well as internally-applied company Awareness: Observe, anticipate and plan.
controls: ensuring there is a controlled approach that delivers consistent compliance throughout the Group.
Annual audits are Reversing: When reversing, if in doubt, get out.
supplemented by six-monthly inspections at every site, which Trailers: Know your trailer height and length.
place special focus on the major legislative requirements and reenforcing the policy of consistency of approach.
Calculated by dividing the number of reportable accidents in the year by the number of hours worked, multiplied by 100,000.
S St to ob ba ar rt t G Gr ro ou up p A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 13 3 3 38 8
