Operational & Financial Review Stobart Air The last year has seen further major developments at London Southend has now been formally designated as Londons sixth Southend Airport LSA, with the capacity and passenger airport by IATA.
The airport is engaged with the Davis numbers growing in line with our plan.
In the last financial year Commission as it seeks to ensure that best use can be made of some 723,000 passengers travelled through the airport.
This the existing runways in the London area over the next 20 years.
represents a 16-fold increase year-on-year and exceeds the In September the airport won the prestigious airport achievement 697,000 passengers achieved in 1967 when Southend was the award from the European Regional Airlines Association ERA for UKs third busiest airport.
2012-13, the second time in three years the airport has won this award.
Over the last year, LSA has been the top performing In April 2012, following the opening of the runway extension and airport on the easyJet network for customer satisfaction in new passenger terminal, easyJet joined Aer Lingus Regional in surveys carried out by easyJet.
operating scheduled services with aircraft based in Southend.
Later in the year we also obtained planning consent for a major Other revenue streams connected to the airport are increasing.
extension to the passenger terminal, the first phase of which is The new Holiday Inn hotel opened at the airport in October and scheduled for completion in June 2013 with completion business is building steadily.
New revenue streams commenced programmed for December 2013.
This should increase capacity during the year from taxi and car rental companies, foreign to between five and six million passengers per annum.
exchange services and other retail concessions.
With the terminal extension coming on line during 2013, further opportunities exist During the year new services were added by both Aer Lingus and to develop the potential for retail income at the airport.
easyJet and further services are commencing in summer 2013.
Flights, destinations and passenger numbers grew, with new New facilities have now been introduced for the handling of services commencing to Alicante, Amsterdam, Barcelona, business jets.
These have been well received and we have seen Belfast, Faro, Ibiza, Malaga, and Mallorca.
During the year significant growth in this area over the past year.
destinations added included services to Jersey, Dublin, Venice At Carlisle Airport we have secured planning consent for a and Geneva.
easyJet has announced that they would be basing major distribution centre and associated airport works.
Whilst a fourth aircraft at LSA in June 2013 and with it, new services to there remains the possibility of a challenge to the consent, we Edinburgh, Berlin, Krakow and Newquay.
TUI will commence are scheduling a phased build of the infrastructure and other services from London Southend in the summer of 2013 and developments at the airport.
discussions are underway with a number of carriers over additional services for the future.
This summer, LSA will offer over 2013 Operational Highlights 110 passenger flights a week to 15 destinations.
Runway extension and new passenger terminal opened at LSA.
Financial Highlights Commencement of easyJet flights.
Southend has been the top performing easyJet airport for customer satisfaction.
Revenue m Opening of Holiday Inn hotel.
Designation of LSA as a London airport by IATA.
2012 8.8 14.9 Planning consent secured for major LSA terminal extension.
Additional easyJet services and destinations announced.
Granting of planning permission at Carlisle Airport.
EBITDA m Looking Forward, Driving Value Introduction of a second anchor carrier at LSA.
2012 0.2 0.4 300% growth in business jet movements.
Over 2m passengers annually through LSA.
PBT m Continued development of Carlisle Airport.
EBITDA: EBITDA is normalised comprising the underlying operating profit before depreciation and amortisation.
2012 0.4 0.7 PBT: PBT is normalised comprising the underlying operating profit, less finance costs plus finance income.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 23 Case Study I Southend Airport and easyJet In April 2012 after two years of preparatory work, the UKs largest airline, easyJet commenced operations with two aircraft from their new base, London Southend Airport.
A further aircraft joined the base in May and during 2012 the airline operated flights to destinations including Amsterdam, Belfast, Palma, Malaga, Barcelona, Ibiza, Jersey, Faro and Alicante.
The airline announced a ten year partnership with the airport in 2011, partly due to the high operational standards set at the airport.
With commitments that passengers should not wait longer than four minutes for security checks on departures and on arrival that they should be on the railway station platform within fifteen minutes of leaving the aircraft, easyJet believed they could offer their customers a refreshing change to alternative London airports.
Partly due to these high standards, easyJet passengers gave London Southend the highest scores for customer satisfaction across the airlines whole network over the past year.
The airport was also awarded the prestigious European Regions Airline Associations ERA award for airport achievement in 2013.
As a result of the strong partnership that has been built at the airport, easyJet has announced plans to accelerate its growth at the airport and will be basing a fourth aircraft in Southend from June 2013.
This additional aircraft will support increased frequency on popular routes including Barcelona, Alicante and Faro, as well as new services to Edinburgh, Berlin, Krakow and Newquay.
In Summer 2013 the airline will be operating more than 110 flights a week from London Southend Airport.
