Chief Executives Report The current passenger terminal extension is the last phase of our source and supply, matched with premier logistics capability, significant investment in this operating asset.
With the investment means that we are well placed to increase our rate of growth phase now completed we move to the optimisation phase to through 2013. realise the inherent value in the airport.
This will enable us to The strategic fit with the Group is strong with transport being continue to offer an excellent passenger experience and build such a vital ingredient in the Biomass business.
This has the route numbers and volumes up towards our maximum capacity added benefit of expected margins in excess of our standard of around five million per annum.
I am pleased to report that easyJet has settled in well and that they have now taken the decision to bring the planned siting of The Brand their fourth aircraft at Southend forward to June this year, 12 The Stobart brand is an important asset to the Group and we months ahead of schedule.
think it essential to reinforce the levels of quality and service that After a fairly lengthy process, we have finally secured planning our brand stands for and underlines.
Its status reassures our consent for the development of Carlisle Airport.
The consented customers and partners that they are working with a business development includes warehousing and distribution infrastructure, that takes time to understand their needs, a business that runway refurbishment and associated developments.
We are develops innovative and cost-effective solutions and delivers the currently studying route and carrier planning for Carlisle Airport highest quality.
Our positive brand image also plays an extremely and we aim to capitalise on the business potential for Londonimportant role in building employee loyalty.
Our team are happy bound traffic, as well as provide an exclusive new in-bound route and proud to work as part of Stobart Group: we recognise their for some of the Lake Districts 40 million visitors each year.
support and reward it by helping every one of them to reach their full potential within the business.
Stobart Biomass More recently we have leveraged the brand to make big savings Demand for Biomass products is set to increase over the next on insurance and legal costs by taking these functions in-house two years as Biomass-fuelled power plants, which are currently and we are now offering these services externally under the in the confirmed planning or building phase, become operational.
Robust industry intelligence informs us that the Biomass product market for existing and planned power plants totals 3.1m tonnes We are on track.
We know how important it is to deliver strong per annum.
This volume is split between those plants currently return and this is now our focus.
We will continue to communicate operational at 0.2m tonnes, in-build at 0.4m tonnes and 2.5m with you through the year and look forward to sharing further tonnes for plants in pre-build phase.
These predicted volumes good news.
evidence the opportunity for growth.
This year we have already commenced supply on a number of significant contracts, with several additional contacts confirmed for the coming year.
Our comprehensive business offering of fuel Andrew Tinkler I Chief Executive Officer I 16 May 2013 Key Performance Indicators Financial 2013 2012 Change Revenue 572.4m 491.7m 16.4% PBT 32.5m 35.4m -8.2% Earnings Per Ordinary Share 9.0p 8.5p 5.9% Environmental Fleet Utilisation 86% 84% 2.4% Euro 4 5 Compliance 88% 99% -11.1% CO Per Loaded Mile 1.61kg 1.67kg -3.6% 2 People Accident Incident rate RIDDOR 0.17 0.16 6.3% Comparative figures restated to exclude discontinued chilled transport operation for consistency.
Comprising the underlying operating profit of 44.9m 2012: 40.1m less share based payment of 1.2m 2012: 0.4m less finance costs of 12.0m 2012: 6.3m plus finance income of 0.8m 2012: 2.0m.
