Operational & Financial Review Stobart Estates It has been a very busy and successful year for the division.
Elsewhere, the Estates division has achieved a number of Integration of the Moneypenny portfolio acquired in February milestones.
In October 2012 the Holiday Inn development at 2012 has been a key focus.
As part of this process, we have London Southend Airport became operational, a flagship determined a strategy for each property aimed at maximising the development of which we are justifiably proud.
exit value, the benefits of which are already showing in the results We have also secured planning consent for the construction of a for the year: new distribution centre and other redevelopments at Carlisle Several properties have been earmarked for short-term Airport.
We cannot rule out there being continued local opposition disposal, and although disposals have been slower than to our plans but significant progress has been made.
anticipated due to market conditions, we successfully In addition, we have secured planning consent for a 20MW disposed of three properties in the year at a combined profit biomass plant at our Widnes development site, and agreed of 0.4m after previously recognising a 1.05m revaluation development terms with a JV partner.
We have also made a 25% gain, which was ahead of expectations.
If these conditions equity investment into a JV for the development and operation of continue, we will retain these assets for income return rather an anaerobic digestion plant in Teeside.
Development has now than sell cheaply.
commenced and the plant is expected to become operational in We have undertaken a number of asset management Summer 2014.
Both of these investments also provide the initiatives, including negotiation of rent increases, extension potential for our Biomass division to secure fuel supply contracts.
of lease terms and improving the tenant base.
These initiatives We have also invested in the development of the management have been the key driver in increasing the portfolio value by structure of the division and our reporting and control procedures.
5.17m of which 1.05m has been realised on the disposal This process has resulted in the establishment of the Property of 22 Soho Square which we consider an exceptional result Operating Board and the selective appointment of asset in the current economic climate.
managers to manage different elements of the portfolio.
The prestigious residential redevelopment of 37 Soho Square see case study opposite is scheduled for completion in June With strong results achieved in 2012-13 against the backdrop of 2013.
The off-plan sale of two apartments has been agreed, a difficult economic environment, particularly in the property and the strength of the London residential market gives us sector, we are already seeing the benefit of the increased level confidence of a hugely successful outcome for this project.
of expertise these appointments have brought to the management team.
Financial Highlights Operational Highlights Asset management initiatives driving up the value of the Revenue m property portfolio.
Development of 37 Soho Square, London commenced.
Planning consent obtained for Biomass Plant at Widnes.
2012 6.7 16.8 Autologic properties integrated within the portfolio.
Benefits of actively managing the portfolio apparent.
EBITDA m Looking Forward, Driving Value Realise value inherent in the properties listed for disposal.
2012 13.6 17.1 Final development phase at London Southend Airport.
Re-gear investment properties and enhance disposal values.
Commence works at the sites scheduled for development.
PBT m EBITDA: EBITDA is normalised comprising the underlying operating profit before depreciation and amortisation.
2012 12.4 6.5 PBT: PBT is normalised comprising the underlying operating profit, less finance costs plus finance income.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 19 Case Study I 37 Soho Square Previously the home of Bloomsbury Publishing, birthplace of Harry Potter, 37 Soho Square is located perfectly in one of Londons most beautiful garden squares and a prime site for residential development.
Soho is set to become an even more desirable London location over the next few years, with regeneration centred on Tottenham Court Road Station, and the completion of Crossrail.
Built in the seventeenth century, 37 Soho Square, which is Grade II Listed, is steeped in history, and was the residence of various nobles, a general, and even the Swedish envoy, before its life as a commercial premises.
In June 2012 a renovation project started to convert the premises back into residential dwellings.
The project, due to complete in the summer of 2013, will see the building transformed by Stobart Estates into five large, lavishly specified two and three-bedroom apartments ranging in size from 1,646 sq ft to 1,937 sq ft. A first class professional team was put in place to deliver the project with reputable local London firms taking on project management, architectural and interior design roles.
Due to the nature of the building and the exceptional standard of finish required the construction contractor was selected via a procurement process that focussed on evidencing the ability to achieve such a finish.
The appointed marketing agents provide an in-depth knowledge and understanding of the Soho property market and have achieved two off plan sales to date, setting new price per square foot sales records for the location in the process.
The enquiry list for the remaining apartments is strong and with the project now nearing Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 20 completion interest is expected to peak as the quality of finish becomes apparent.
