Operational & Financial Review Stobart Infrastructure & Civil Engineering Our Infrastructure and Civil Engineering division is a critical part Metrolink.
The rail teams dedication, innovative approach, of the overall value engineering that we are able to deliver as an customer service and rigorous health and safety standards integrated Group.
This division has two distinct functions: the ensures its place as a highly respected operator in this field.
securing of external contracts and the delivery of in-house The division also leads on the major remediation and development projects.
The securing of external contracts has been subject to project at the 3MG site in Widnes.
In recognition of the importance the same challenging economic and market pressures felt by of the project it was awarded 4.5 million under the Governments businesses across this sector but this has enabled the division Regional Growth Fund.
As the year closes, work continues on the to focus on maximising on our investments at, for example, extension of the passenger terminal at London Southend Airport.
London Southend Airport through delivering a development Following the construction of the Railway Station and the which was cost-effective, on time and of the highest quality.
successful application the the ORR to license and operate the Despite lower external sales than in the previous year, the rail mainline station we now operate this asset enabling an additional infrastructure operating unit delivered a good result, in part important revenue stream at the airport.
through the highly efficient plant utilisation, despite the lower We never underestimate the huge value that this division brings activity levels.
The team was successful in winning contracts with to the Group.
Through them, we are able to manage projects Birse Rail and AMCO Rail and continues to provide the highest more closely with greater control and visibility and deliver them levels of service and safety to all clients.
As usual we were on time to the required quality and price.
awarded maintenance work over the Christmas period.
We successfully completed these sometimes challenging contracts Overall, Group projects underway and pending include the on time at what for the division is their busiest time of the year.
Widnes 3MG distribution centres and biomass plant, Carlisle Airport, 37 Soho Square and London Southend Airport terminal We continue to seek third party rail services contracts and extension.
Rail infrastructure work is forecast to increase as although opportunities in this market are not myriad in the significantly as we target securing contracts in Thames Link.
immediate future, we are confident of future growth as more government funded significant projects come on line.
During the year the division won the coveted Rail Team of the Year Award at the Rail Staff Awards 2012 for work undertaken on the Manchester Financial Highlights 2013 Operational Highlights Opening of London Southend Airport Hotel.
Revenue m Successful bid for Thames Link bridge strengthening project.
Success at Rail Staff Awards 2012.
2012 57.2 30.9 EBITDA m Looking Forward, Driving Value Secure engagement in renewal of the UK rail network.
Commence development at Carlisle Airport.
2012 5.6 4.9 Complete development of LSA for the Group.
PBT m EBITDA: EBITDA is normalised comprising the underlying operating profit before depreciation and amortisation.
2012 4.4 3.2 PBT: PBT is normalised comprising the underlying operating profit, less finance costs plus finance income.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 21 S St to ob ba ar rt t G Gr ro ou up p A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 13 3 2 22 2
