Stobart Group I Board of Directors Paul Orchard-Lisle CBE Michael Kayser Rodney Baker-Bates Richard Butcher Interim Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Paul has spent fifty years in the property sector, Michael is a Fellow of the CIMA and has extensive Rodney has had a long career in the City and Richard joined Eddie Stobart in 1997 after 14 joining Healey & Baker in 1961, where he rose experience in corporate transactions, both in international finance sector and is a seasoned years with HSBC Corporate Finance and has to become Senior Partner, later overseeing the quoted and private markets.
Director of large UK plcs.
In addition to his role at been closely involved in a wide range of Stobart Companys merger with Cushman & Wakefield Stobart Group, Rodneys current roles also business activities, holding a number of key Michael has also held a variety of senior finance in 1998. include Chairmanship of Willis Ltd, Shropshire positions within the business including appointments at Laporte plc, Doncasters Limited, Group, Ridgeons Group and Vice Chairman of Managing Director of Eddie Stobart.
He has been President of The Royal Institution of Amey plc, Unilever and Guinness Brewing AtlasFram Group.
Chartered Surveyors and held numerous plc Worldwide.
He is also currently serving as Senior As CEO, Stobart Estates, Richard plays a key role in positions, both in Directorial and advisory roles.
Independent Director of Biome Technologies plc.
He also serves as a Non-Executive Director on the property asset development.
He is also Company Paul has also been an adviser to The Department boards of several other companies, including Secretary.
of the Environment, The Ministry of Defence and Bedlam Asset Management plc and Royal National HM Treasury on real estate matters.
Andrew Tinkler Ben Whawell William Stobart Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer Andrew acquired Eddie Stobart in 2004 with A Qualified Chartered Accountant, Ben spent nine Long-time Director of Eddie Stobart, William started longstanding colleague William Stobart, and was years at Grant Thornton before joining Eddie his career with the company.
He carried out a broad appointed CEO when the Group became listed.
He Stobart in 2004. spectrum of roles, including HGV driver, planner and has been instrumental in developing the strategy manager within Stobart during his early career.
This Ben oversaw the merger with Westbury Property and vision of todays Group.
comprehensive experience has given him an inFund that resulted in the formation of Stobart Group depth understanding of every level of the business.
A past winner of the IoD North West Director of the in 2007.
Year Award, Andrews proven risk management William left Eddie Stobart in 2001, joining Andrew He has played a key role in a number of successful experience has formed a valuable foundation for Tinklers business as a shareholding Director, and in acquisitions, which have seen the business triple in implementing the Groups multimodal plans and 2004, following the acquisition of Eddie Stobart size over the last five years.
Limited he returned as Managing Director.
Working Ben received the North West Financial Director of closely with Andrew, William led the business the Year Award in 2009 and the Large Company through its rapid expansion and into its floatation in Finance Director of the Year Award in 2012.
William is currently CEO of the Transport & Distribution division and sits on the Board as COO.
Jesper Kjaedegaard David Beever Alan Kelsey Avril Palmer-Baunack Non-Executive Director, Retired 28 June 2012 Non-Executive Director, Retired 21 Janaury 2013 Non-Executive Director, Retired 23 April 2013 Non-Executive Chairman, Retired 15 May 2013 Jesper has more than 30 years experience in David is a former Vice Chairman of SG Warburg and A Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Avril was formerly CEO of Autologic plc, before the transport and logistics and was appointed CEO of has been KPMG Chairman, UK & International Transport, Alan has forty years experience in the City purchase by Stobart Group.
Prior to joining Autologic Maersk Company UK Limited in 2004.
Leaving in Corporate Finance amongst numerous other board and industry, with a strong focus on the Transport Avril was CEO of Universal Salvage plc.
She 2008, he co-founded Mercator International, an Directorships.
He is also a member of the Board of sector.
He has been Group Corporate Development has previously held management positions with independent ports and infrastructure consultancy.
Trustees of the University of London.
Director at National Express Group plc, is currently automotive companies such as FMG support, Jesper is also past President of the British Chamber Chairman of Nord Anglia Education and also NonEuropcar UK and Northgate Motor Holdings plc.
of Shipping and currently holds a number of other Executive Chairman of Explore Learning, a private Avril is Non-Executive Chairman at Molins plc and Non-Executive roles in the UK and South America.
company owned by private equity investors.
Non Executive Chairman at Helphire Group plc.
S St to ob ba ar rt t G Gr ro ou up p A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 13 3 4 41 1 S St to ob ba ar rt t G Gr ro ou up p A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 13 3 4 42 2 Richard Butcher, Company Secretary S St to ob ba ar rt t G Gr ro ou up p A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 13 3 4 43 3
