Operational & Financial Review Stobart Biomass As anticipated, the Biomass division has grown significantly over Our prediction that the UK market would grow is proving the last year and the requisite robust foundations are also in place correct.
The 2016 deadline for biomass plant developers is for further growth over the forthcoming years.
The UK business approaching which means that operators will need to have performed ahead of budget, also benefiting Eddie Stobart Limited their supply contracts in place imminently.
Volumes can be through the associated increased haulage requirements.
The volatile whilst plants are being commissioned but, as they export market suffered from some adverse pricing and demand reach full operating capacity, the fuel flows stabilise and a and as a result these margins were under pressure.
We have delivery cycle is established, leading to a more predictable and worked to rebalance our exports to match the growth in UK more profitable supply.
market and flows are now being spread across UK, which has The plan to have 2.5m tonnes of biomass product on long term the double benefit again of providing transport opportunities.
We contracts by 2015 is achievable.
Our only concern has been are also still exporting over 100,000 tonnes per annum to Belgium.
that Government policy on renewable energy lacked certainty In this past year, we commenced new supply contracts with and hence some of our customers have been experiencing Dalkia at Chilton and Helius CoRDe.
We have also difficulties in raising project funding.
The Government Response commenced commissioning for our supply contract with to the consultation process published in December 2012 Iggesund at Workington.
All these contracts increased our provided greater clarity on eligibility criteria.
As a result we profitability towards the end of the year, but will show their full believe that this is now easing, but it has nevertheless added benefit in the new financial year.
to both delay and uncertainty.
We are now seeing a greater push to conclude fuel supply agreements and achieve financial Our site at Pollington is now fully operational and producing close as the deadlines for completion of projects by March 2,000 tonnes per week for onward sale to our UK customers.
2015 and March 2016 start to approach.
Stobart Biomass In line with our plans, we continue to look for more sites to continues to be a preferred choice as a bankable fuel supplier.
increase our in-house production capabilities and to support future demand.
Financial Highlights 2013 Operational Highlights Tonnage for the year 644,000.
Revenue m Significant new operational business acquired in the year.
New sectors identified and being optimised.
New power generators entering the market with big 2012 8.4 16.4 capital projects.
EBITDA m Looking Forward, Driving Value Lead the growth of the Biomass market.
Grow position in the supply sector.
2012 1.3 4.1 Participate in other wood waste sectors.
PBT m EBITDA: EBITDA is normalised comprising the underlying operating profit before depreciation and amortisation.
2012 1.2 4.0 PBT: PBT is normalised comprising the underlying operating profit, less finance costs plus finance income.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 25 Case Study I Helius CoRDe Limited Stobart Biomass Products Limited commenced a major new contract with Helius CoRDe Limited in January 2013 delivering biomass material to the Helius Power Plant in Rothes, Scotland.
This project, however, started several years ago when, in August 2009, a joint venture company was formed between Helius Energy plc and the Combination of Rothes Distillers, comprising of the key distillers of Speyside in Scotland.
The aim of this new company, Helius CoRDe, was to progress with the production of a new 7.2 MWe Combined Heat and Power plant, known as CHP.
In 2011 they received additional investment and the construction of the plant commenced.
At that time, SBPL were awarded the contract to supply 50,000 tonnes of biomass to fuel the plant.
This is a blended material, consisting of virgin fibre and A Grade recycled wood, which must meet chemical composition and moisture content specifications.
SBPL are delivering six to seven loads of this material on a daily basis, equivalent to approximately 150 tonnes.
Two Stobart Biomass trucks are permanently based at the processing site at Kinnoir, near to the Helius plant to ensure a consistent supply of product.
In addition to this type of material, when the Helius plant is fully operational, it will also take delivery of a material called distilling draff, which is the spent waste left from the production of whisky, a fact not known by many whisky lovers!
Pictured: April 2013, HRH Prince Charles at the opening of the Helius Power Plant at Rothes in Scotland.
By kind courtesy of Helius CoRDe Limited.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 26 Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 27
