Building the Brand I William Stobart, COO The iconic Eddie Stobart brand is instantly recognisable: it is a mark of quality, service, cleanliness and, more recently, sustainability and a concern for the environment.
It is a reassuring name that both the business community and the public trust to deliver in accordance with its core values.
Brands develop and evolve over many years and the Stobart Eddie Stobart has been officially recognised as a Business brand is no exception.
In the reception area of our Crick offices a Superbrand for the last seven years, and in 2013 was nominated 1975 Atkinson Borderer sits side by side with a 2013 Volvo FH12.
as the leading brand in the Supply Chain, Distribution & Freight The first thing that is apparent is the size and scale and complexity Services category.
An accredited Superbrand is considered to of todays tractor units compared to those of the 1970s.
A closer have established the best reputation in its market, providing its look shows that whilst todays Stobart livery is very different to that customers with both tangible and intangible advantages over its of the 1970s it is recognisably a derivative of the first 1970s truck.
Stobart has the highest reputation for quality, service, The distinctive Stobart lettering is readily transferable and performance and sustainability: clearly marking it out from the identifiable from the distinctive red, green and white trucks to the competition for Superbrand status.
fascia or signage at London Southend Airport or to the elevations The unrivalled reputation of the Stobart brand adds significant of a warehouse: the sign of a strong and effective brand.
value to an already market-leading service offering.
The market recognises Stobart as an innovator in its sectors, both customers and partners benefit from participating in that innovation.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 8 William Stobart, Chief Operating Officer Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 9 This cycle of leadership means that Stobart is more prepared to remain conscious of these issues, we will continue to seek new think outside the box and that our customers value Stobart as a platforms through which we can grow the brand in accordance trusted partner in breaking new ground: introducing new with Stobart values.
processes and challenging outdated methods.
As a result, free thinking new prospects see the Company as the partner of Eddie Stobart: Trucks & Trailers choice, and so it continues, onward and upward.
The fifth series of Eddie Stobart: Trucks & Trailers, now showing on Channel 5, regularly attracts over two million viewers, giving Brand Management and Performance the Eddie Stobart logistics brand unique exposure, whilst at the We go to great lengths to manage the Stobart brand effectively.
same time increasing public awareness of the Groups other Company brand names, trademarks and designs are fully activities.
Public recognition of London Southend Airport and our protected and we rigorously monitor their reproduction and use, partnership with easyJet has significantly increased as a result both internally and by third parties.
The brands value is classified of the exposure.
as an Intangible Asset in the Balance Sheet at a value of 60.0m.
Over 15,000 people attended the Stobart Fest event in 2012 and Last year independent third party experts certified their value at membership of the official Stobart Members Club continues to around three times that amount.
grow: matched by rising sales of Stobart merchandise.
The Stobart brand is exceptional in that, despite being a businessto-business brand, it commands huge levels of public awareness Sporting Associations and recognition.
Indeed, with the exception of our landside Over the years the Group has used strategic sponsorship of sport operations at London Southend Airport, we have virtually no retail and marketing partnerships to assist in increasing brand or consumer facing activities.
Once again this has become a self-supporting cycle: from the We currently have a partnership arrangement with the Professional earliest days our trucks were famed for being exceptionally Jockeys Association.
The association provides excellent weekly clean and well presented and their drivers were known to be television exposure for the brand on Jockeys breeches in return smart and polite.
A reputation for great service developed for the Stobart funding of a compensation scheme for jockeys alongside and our fleet started to be noticed on the roads.
As who suffer career-ending injuries, which we manage through our a result many families became proud spotters of our trucks, FSA-approved Stobart Business Services.
forming the basis of a members club that now numbers in excess of 18,000 and drives the substantial and highly profitable Stobart Promotions merchandising business.
Brands must be carefully nurtured, it is easy to over leverage them, polluting the image and ultimately eroding their status.
Whilst we William Stobart I Chief Operating Officer I 16 May 2013 The Brand ports effectively across the businesses.
All airside handling About to enter its sixth series, Eddie Stobart: Trucks and Trailers remains a equipment at London Southend Airport, ranging from fide-icing vehicles hugely popular programme for Channel 5, providing an excellent vehicle for through to baggage tugs features the Eddie Stobart branding, capturing the taking the business-to-business brand into the public domain.
imagination of the almost three quarters of a million passengers travelling through the airport in the last financial year.
