Operational & Financial Review Stobart Transport & Distribution Stobart Transport & Distribution performed well in the year with business would not be viable.
We therefore made the decision to underlying profit before tax from continuing operations improving discontinue these operations.
Discontinuation meant the closure by 7.2%.
The growth in revenues in the year was predominantly of both the Heywood and Newark cross dock operation sites.
We driven by the acquisition of Autologic in August 2012.
We have retained, where appropriate, a modest volume of specific and continue to drive competitive advantage through the exploitation self contained chilled traffic operating on the full load basis.
of our unique systems and processes and, under constant Within the core operating units, operational performance continues review and improvement, these provide us with detailed and to improve through the collation of data through our Time Based sound management information on which we can make the best Planning system and the subsequent business decisions that this possible business decisions.
This has enabled the business to data enables us to make.
We have also optimised our subcontract return a profit before tax margin before the impact of the arrangements and improved the profitability of this aspect of the Autologic acquisition of 6.3% 2012: 6.0%.
At the heart of these operations, we continuously work in In August we took operational control of Tescos Distribution close collaboration and partnership with our customers to improve Centre in Doncaster.
This move was reflective of our strong and the service levels and through this have achieved more incentive symbiotic partnership with Tesco and the scale of operations that payments than we had anticipated.
The move was not without its challenges but We have achieved fuel savings, not only as a consequence of our from January 2013 the Centre has operated as a highly successful planning systems, but also through updating the vehicle fleet and network solution.
We were also awarded In last years Annual Report and Accounts, reference was made funding from the Technology Strategy Board to further explore to a restructuring of the Chilled transport network.
The objective of dual fuel for our trucks, this being an acknowledgement from the restructuring exercise was to enhance the profitability of this Government of our success in the commercial exploitation of business by responding to our customers demand for a full load innovation.
We will also be focussing attention on vehicle service.
To enable this, the depots at Alcester and Corby were maintenance costs as we believe that we can achieve further closed in May 2012 and the business was restructured.
However, improvements in this area.
through our robust and ongoing analysis that was a key feature of this process, it became clear that even with restructuring, the Financial Highlights 2013 Operational Highlights Tesco three year contract awarded for both primary and Revenue m secondary distribution.
Closure of un-viable Chilled transport network.
Acquisition of Autologic Holdings plc.
2012 459.2 517.2 Extension and renewal of key contracts.
EBITDA m Looking Forward, Driving Value Further enhance systems.
Increase and improve sustainable solutions for our customers.
2012 44.3 40.9 Strengthen our links with key customers.
PBT m Revenue: Comparative figures restated to exclude discontinued chilled transport operation for consistency.
EBITDA: EBITDA is normalised comprising the underlying operating profit before depreciation and amortisation.
2012 27.7 29.7 PBT: PBT is normalised comprising the underlying operating profit, less finance costs plus finance income.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 17 In March 2013 we were delighted to formally announce the signing Our warehousing operations continue to perform well, expanding of a three year contract with Tesco.
This provides us with an the customer base with the inclusion of new contracts for Dobbies unrivalled opportunity to continue to grow and improve this Garden Centres and Greencore.
The Lutterworth warehouse, business relationship within a structured and secure partnership.
opened in early 2012, has now been successfully and fully In addition to this, we renewed and extended some key parts of integrated within the network.
our Tesco operations and also secured a number of new contracts The Autologic business was acquired in August 2012 and was with other food and non-food suppliers and retailers.
This acquisition gave us a The inland port business performed well following a positive market leading position in automotive logistics in the UK along management refresh in the summer.
There are currently five with a business in Benelux and the Czech Republic.
In January trains a day: four from Felixstowe and one from Southampton, 2013 we took the opportunity to dispose of the non-core UK and plans are well advanced to increase the number of rail vehicle services business, leaving us with the UK transport containers carried on trains which further displays our business.
This was our primary target for the acquisition and is commitment to providing our customers with smooth and a good fit for our structure.
We have started the process of commercially sound rail freight opportunities.
alignment and are targeting synergies and savings to be achieved in the forthcoming year.
We now control a second container terminal at the Tesco Daventry site which handles over half of its grocery volume.
Our rail freight business is working with its customers on a number of innovative pilot projects to deliver affordable road to rail modal shift thereby reducing emissions and providing smart delivery solutions, particularly in highly congested areas.
