38 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate Governance Statement Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The board remains committed to the achievement of high standards of corporate governance which it considers to be central to the effective management of the Group.
Further progress has been made during the reporting year to continue to develop appropriate and adequate corporate governance arrangements.
The following, together with the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 57, the Directors Report on pages 32 to 35, the Directors Biographies on pages 30 to 31, and the Audit Committee Report on pages 43 to 45 provide an explanation of how the principles of the Code have been applied and of areas of non-compliance during the period in which compliance with the Code was required.
The board The board is responsible collectively for promoting the success of the Group and for implementing the business model as set out in the Business Review on pages 07 to 16.
The board provides leadership for the Group and concentrates its efforts on strategy, performance, governance and internal control, as set out in the schedule of matters reserved for the board.
As at the date of this report, the board has nine members: the non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, three executive directors and four non-executive directors.
Biographies of these directors appear on pages 30 to 31.
At the start of the reporting period the board was not compliant with the ratio of non-executive directors to executive directors.
From 14 August 2012, following the resignation of Theo Karpathios as an executive director, the board became compliant with this part of the Code.
During the financial year ended 28 April 2013, SuperGroup complied with the relevant provisions set out in the Code, in all areas apart from those set out on page 41 under nomination committee and as set out above.
Keith Edelman is the Groups Senior Independent Director.
A summary of the responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director is available on the corporate website.
In his role as Senior Independent Director, he has met with shareholders to listen to their views.
Non-executive director independence The independence of the non-executive directors is considered at least annually along with their commitment and performance on the board and relevant committees.
During the year the Senior Independent Director took on an additional external role and there has been no impact to SuperGroup Plc.
All the non-executive directors are considered by the board to be independent of management and free from any relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The board meets regularly to consider issues relating to the overall performance, strategy and future development of the Group.
In accordance with the Code, the schedule of matters reserved to it for decisions has been reviewed and approved by the board.
The principal matters reserved for the board are: Setting and managing Group strategy: Changes relating to the Groups capital structure including share issues and buy-backs: Financial reporting and controls: Ensuring maintenance of sound internal controls and risk management: Capital expenditure and long-term commitments: Board membership and appointment: Remuneration policy: Delegation of authority: and Corporate governance and company policies.
The requirement for board approval on these matters is understood.
The board receives appropriate and timely information to enable it to discharge its duties.
The division of responsibilities between Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is set out in writing and agreed by the board.
