40 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate Governance Statement The evaluation has highlighted how the changes to board composition over the last year have improved the effectiveness of the board and confirms that the board operating process and practices are appropriate for a fast growing entrepreneurial company at this stage of development.
A number of areas have been identified for further improvement to include: the balance between the roles of executive and non-executive directors, strategy formulation and board administration.
Re-election of directors At the AGM in 2012, all directors offered themselves for election or re-election.
At the AGM in 2013, all of the directors will again retire and will offer themselves for re-election, with the exception of Minnow Powell and Euan Sutherland who, having been appointed during the period, will offer themselves for election.
The board considers the directors offering themselves for election or re-election continue to be effective, committed to their roles and have sufficient time available to perform their duties.
Remuneration committee A description of the work of the remuneration committee is set out on page 55.
Board and committee attendance The table below gives details of directors attendance at scheduled board and committee meetings during the financial year ended 28 April 2013: Board Audit Nomination Remuneration meeting committee committee committee Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Maximum number eligible attended eligible attended eligible attended eligible attended Peter Bamford 11 11 4 4 Keith Edelman 11 10 4 4 6 6 Steven Glew 8 7 4 4 4 4 Indira Thambiah 8 8 4 4 4 4 Minnow Powell 5 4 3 3 2 1 Euan Sutherland 5 5 3 3 2 2 Ken McCall 11 10 6 4 Julian Dunkerton 11 11 4 4 Theo Karpathios 3 3 James Holder 11 10 Susanne Given 11 11 Shaun Wills 11 11 During the year, additional ad hoc board meetings were held as required to respond to the needs of the Group.
From time to time, committee meetings are attended by non-members by invitation from the relevant chairman.
Attendance is set out in the various committee reports.
Directors conflicts of interest The companys Articles of Association permit the directors to consider and, if thought fit, to authorise situations where a director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Group.
In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict, the non-conflicted directors must act in a way they consider would be most likely to promote the success of the Group, and they may impose limits or conditions when giving their authorisation, or subsequently, if they think it is appropriate.
Any authorisation given is recorded in the board minutes.
As disclosed in prior years Julian Dunkertons brother-in-law was a director of Tokyo Retail Limited until this company was acquired by the Group see note 5 on page 81.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the board has considered and authorised any directors reported potential conflicts to date.
The board will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
