SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 07 Business Review Introduction The Group is planning to add around 80,000100,000 square feet during financial year 2014 and will take a panSuperGroup operates in the branded fashion clothing sector European approach to identifying store locations.
selling Superdry branded premium quality clothing and accessories for both men and women at accessible price The Group has added 66,000 square feet during the year points.
The Group operates an expanding international taking the total UK and European portfolio to 536,000 business and continues to grow market share in the UK, square feet 2012: 471,000 square feet.
Twelve new stores Europe and beyond through its internet operation and store were opened including five stores that were extended, one opening programme.
relocated to a larger site, and one store closed at the end of its lease.
Group strategy The success of Superdry products in the Groups 20 Cult The Groups strategy is focused in five key areas: stores resulted in the decision to rebrand the stores as Superdry and this was successfully completed ahead of 1. expanding the UK and European standalone retail peak Christmas trading in 2012.
As a consequence of estate: the rebranding Cult now only trades through the website 2. delivering an e-commerce platform that increases its Cult.
penetration of Group revenue: 3. driving international franchised store expansion: E-commerce 4. extending the product range: and 5. developing an infrastructure that delivers operational The e-commerce sites are complementary to standalone efficiency and a platform for growth.
stores and the Group now sells to 122 territories worldwide through its websites.
During the year the Group added ten local language sites: Canada English and French, Progress continues to be made in each of these areas and Denmark, Finland, Italy, Norway, Spain, Sweden and all are important contributors to the Groups growth.
There are now 16 sites operating throughout the world, all fulfilled from the UK, and Standalone stores the Group will continue to open international sites in the The Group operates three types of store: smaller boutique forthcoming year.
China represents an exciting opportunity stores, typically found in Europe: medium-sized stores and a transactional website is planned to be trialled during of around 5,000 square feet, principally in the UK but 2014.
The site, which is currently under development, will increasingly in Western Europe: and the much larger also be fulfilled from the UK, which will allow it to carry the flagship stores in key cities of up to 25,000 square feet.
full range of Superdry products.
22225.04 25 July 2013 7:38 PM Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction
