30 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Board of Directors Peter Bamford Chairman Peter is chairman of the nomination committee.
Peter is also Chairman of MCPS-PRS Alliance Limited known as PRS for Music and Six Degrees Technology Limited and is a non-executive director of Rentokil Initial Plc.
Peter was a director of Vodafone Group Plc from 1998 to 2006 where he held senior executive roles, including Chief Marketing Officer, Chief Executive of Northern Europe, Middle East and Africa and Chief Executive of Vodafone UK.
Prior to this he held senior positions with WH Smith Plc, Tesco Plc and Kingfisher Plc.
Peter has served on the boards of public companies for the last 18 years and has extensive experience in developing and growing businesses and brands internationally.
Julian Dunkerton Chief Executive Officer Julian is a member of the nomination committee.
Julian has worked exclusively in the retail sector for over 26 years, co-founding the Cult retail chain from a market stall in Cheltenham and turning it into a successful retail chain.
Together with James Holder, Julian established the Superdry clothing brand ten years ago.
Julian has a deep understanding of the Superdry brand, strong commercial instincts and feel for its target customers, developed through his hands-on experience of building SuperGroup from the ground up.
Susanne Given Chief Operating Officer Susanne is responsible for the UK Retail division together with the central support functions.
Susanne has held senior positions in a number of leading retailers including John Lewis, TK Maxx, Harrods, Homebase and House of Fraser.
She brings a disciplined and structured approach to the Group developed from over 21 years retailing experience across a diverse range of retailers and product sectors.
Shaun Wills Chief Financial Officer Shaun was previously Chief Operating Officer at Habitat and Finance Director of Fat Face.
Prior to these appointments Shaun held senior roles at New Look and Debenhams plc.
Shaun has over 21 years experience in the retail sector in finance, strategy, and business development roles.
James Holder Brand and Design Director James is responsible for brand and product development, and heads up SuperGroups team of in-house designers.
James created the Bench clothing brand in 1992, which became the premier English skatewear brand in the niche skate BMX market.
In 2003 he teamed up with Julian Dunkerton and developed the Superdry brand.
James brings exceptional clothing design skills to the Group and has been central to the success of the Superdry brand in appealing to its target market.
22225.04 25 July 2013 7:38 PM Proof 8 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 31 Board of Directors Keith Edelman Senior Independent Non-executive Director Keith is chairman of the remuneration committee and a member of the nomination committee.
He is also non-executive chairman of Goal Soccer Centres Plc effective 19 July 2013 and Chairman at Beale Plc and a non-executive director at Safestore Holdings Plc, the London Legacy Development Corporation and Thorntons Plc.
Keith was Managing Director of Arsenal Holdings Plc from 2000 to 2008 and Chief Executive of Storehouse Plc encompassing BHS and Mothercare, from 1993 to 1999.
Keith has extensive retail and international experience and has served on the boards of public companies for 30 years across a wide range of businesses and markets.
Ken McCall Independent Non-executive Director Ken is a member of the audit committee.
Ken is also Managing Director of Europcar Group UK Ltd. Ken was previously Chief Executive Officer of DHL Express UK & Ireland, Chief Executive Officer of TNT Middle East, Africa and Asia and Chief Executive Officer of TNT China.
He brings over 30 years experience in the logistics sector and of running international businesses in Europe and Asia.
Minnow Powell Independent Non-executive Director Minnow was appointed on 1 December 2012.
Minnow is chairman of the audit committee and is a member of the remuneration committee.
Minnow is a non-executive director at Tui Travel Plc, having previously spent 25 years with Deloitte, where he was made a partner in 1985.
He is a Chartered Accountant and was a member of the UKs Audit Practices Board for six years.
Euan Sutherland Independent Non-executive Director Euan was appointed on 1 December 2012.
Euan is a member of the audit committee and remuneration committee.
Euan is Group Chief Executive Officer for the Co-op group of companies.
Euan was previously Group Chief Operating Officer at Kingfisher Plc and a non-executive director with the Co-op Food Board, and prior to this was Chief Executive of AS Watson UK, owner of Superdrug.
Euan has over 18 years experience within the retail sector having held roles with Boots, Dixons, Coca-Cola, Matalan and Mars.
22225.04 25 July 2013 7:38 PM Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction
