34 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Directors Report Directors indemnity insurance The company maintains directors and officers liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its directors.
In accordance with section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, qualifying third-party indemnity provisions are in place for the directors in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, as far as is permitted by law.
Both the insurance and indemnities applied throughout the year and through to the date of this report.
The Takeover Directive The issued share capital of the company, as at 28 April 2013, consisted of 80,455,547 ordinary shares of 5 pence nominal value.
The rights and obligations attached to these shares are as set out in the Articles of Association available on our website www.
At the AGM in 2012, shareholders approved resolutions to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,337,243 representing, at that time, one-third of the companys issued share capital.
It is intended to renew this authority at the AGM in September 2013 in respect of shares with a nominal value of 1,340,926 again, representing one-third of the issued share capital as at 28 April 2013.
The disapplication of pre-emption rights for cash issues of shares was approved at the AGM in 2012 in respect of ordinary shares with a nominal value of 200,586 representing approximately 5% of the issued share capital.
This disapplication will be renewed at the AGM in September 2013 in respect of ordinary shares with a nominal value of 201,139 again, representing approximately 5% of the issued share capital.
Other relevant disclosure requirements from the Takeover Directive are included elsewhere in the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Statement, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Notes to the Group and Company Financial Statements.
There are no agreements in place between the Group and its employees or directors for compensation for loss of office or employment that occur because of a takeover bid.
Going concern The Groups business activities and growth strategy, together with factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Group, are set out in the Business Review and Financial Review on pages 07 to 22.
The directors have reviewed the Groups forecasts and projections.
These include assumptions around the Groups products, expenditure commitments and expected cash flows.
Taking into account possible changes in trading performance and after making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company and the Group have adequate resources to continue their operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Creditor payment policy The Groups policy, in relation to all of its suppliers, is to agree terms of payment when negotiating the terms of a transaction and to abide by those terms, provided that the Group is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods and services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
At the year end, the Group had creditor days of 72 2012: 95 days.
The company has nil creditor days 2012: nil as the company is not a trading entity.
Donation There were charitable donations during the year of 56,500 2012: 7,500, the details of which are included in the Operating Responsibly section on page 27.
There were no political donations.
Related party transactions Other than in respect of arrangements set out in note 5 to the Financial Statements and in relation to the employment of directors, details of which are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 57, there is no material indebtedness owed to or by the company or the Group to any employee or any other person or entity considered to be a related party.
Employee practices The success of the Group is a direct result of the knowledge, skills, drive, passion and enthusiasm of its people.
From its earliest days, the culture of the Group has been to create and maintain an environment where individuals can flourish in order to fulfil their potential.
