Business review Regional review Asia & Africa Hospital Sterilisation Services A new cost saving strategy to gainacceptance in Chinas healthcareindustry.
When Synergy Health expanded into China in 2009, the concept of outsourcing sterile services to thirdparty providers was new to Chinese hospitals.
The companys first customer in China was Suzhou Municipal Hospital.
To better understand and satisfy the hospitals sterile services needs, Synergy invited its nursing staff to work with its team on secondment for several months, ensuring a smooth transition oftheservice out of the hospital.
Four years later, Synergy Healths China team has not only taken on 61 healthcare institutions as customers, it has helped a new cost saving strategy to gain acceptance in Chinas healthcare industry.
Niclas Olsson, CEO of Asia & Africa, says his team has received great feedback from Chinese customers.
Our customers cost savings are being used to provide even better care, and on top of the financial improvements there are also significant quality improvements that directly benefit the patients.
14 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements Revenue Operating profit 19.7m 4.2m 2013 19.7m 2013 4.2m 2012 17.4m 2012 3.8m The Asia & Africa region continues to present us with Our HSS business grew by 22.4% in the year, showing promising opportunities for sustained growth, but has continued growth of new business at the Suzhou facility.
experienced a slight pause this year as the new regional Anew HSS facility in Chengdu will come on stream in Chief Executive Officer has taken the time to strengthen early2014.
The new service for Chinas largest new private his team with several new appointments, and undertake finance hospital build in Shanghai is expected to open in areview of the strategy to ensure we maximise the 2015.
Whilst the development team has a solid bid book potential of the business.
for new projects, we have looked at the possibility of accelerating progress in partnership with Sinopharm, Reported revenue in Asia & Africa was up 12.8% to which is a Hong Kong listed, state-owned enterprise in 19.7million 2012: 17.4 million with good growth across thepharmaceutical distribution market.
On a constant currency basis revenue was up ajoint marketing agreement in February and is now jointly 13.7%.
Operating profit increased by 9.5% to 4.2 million marketing the outsourcing service in six cities in China.
2012: 3.8 million with operating margins down 0.7% to Ifthe marketing programme is successful we believe 21.3% as a result of the expanding regional team and a thatthe agreement with Sinopharm will be broadened new development office in Hong Kong.
tocover the whole of China.
Our AST operations in the region grew 10.9%, somewhat slower than in previous years, reflecting capacity constraints.
To address these limitations a new ethylene oxide line has opened in Malaysia, together with athird gamma radiation facility that was outsourced by theGovernments nuclear institute.
We are investing in ourgamma radiation facility in Thailand to increase its processing capacity, and in China we are adding additional warehousing to our Suzhou facility to allow further growth.
Our development team is actively looking for other growth opportunities, including potential new facilities in China, Japan and Australia.
Our China HSS business grew in the year, with the continued growth of new business atthe Suzhou facility.
22.4% Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 15
