Business review Regional review Europe & Middle East Applied Sterilisation Technologies Fifth chamber added at Dutch ethylene oxide facility Adding a fifth ethylene oxide sterilisation chamber at Synergys Venlo facility in the Netherlands was a major undertaking.
Sections of the roof had to be removed, with the chamber lowered into the building using a crane.
Installation and validation were completed in June 2012.
The 32-pallet chamber adds 35% to the total processing capacity of the facility, allowing Synergy to continue to meet the demands of customers.
Jan fide Jong, Operations Director for the Europe & Middle East region, said This significant investment in additional capacity is a measure of our success at developing existing customer relationships and identifying and winning new contracts.
12 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements Revenue Operating profit 121.0m 16.8m 2013 121.0m 2013 16.8m 2012 123.3m 2012 19.5m Europe has continued to be a challenging market for Despite the tough economic environment in Europe, Synergy because of the regions economic issues, the demand for AST services has remained robust and with extreme price competition in the Dutch healthcare linen the continued expansion of Daniken and Marcoule we market, and currency headwinds.
expect to see growth continue in the coming year.
Reported revenue for Europe & Middle East was down We have continued to look for opportunities to expand 1.8% to 121.0 million 2012: 123.3 million.
On ourHSS business in Europe, but we have not made aconstant currency basis, revenue grew 4.4%.
Operating theprogress we had hoped for.
This lack of progress in profit declined 13.6% to 16.8 million 2012: 19.5 million part has resulted in a refresh of the management team, with margins decreasing 1.9% to 13.9%.
with the appointment of both a new regional managing director reporting to the Regional CEO and regional The reduction in the regional growth rates and margin finance director, and the creation of a new regional board.
reflects price erosion in the Dutch linen business, which Virtually all of our competitors in the European HSS sector became particularly intense in the third quarter of the year.
are loss-making so we recognise there are challenges to Linen revenue declined 10.9% 5.0% on a constant overcome, but we still believe that this significant market currency basis.
We have redoubled our efforts to reduce can be unlocked.
operating costs and this has led to the closure and consolidation of one facility, with further rationalisation expected in the coming year.
In the fourth quarter we announced our intention to withdraw from heavy price discounting and reinstate prices to a level that would allow the business to maintain an acceptable return.
As a result of our change in strategy price competition appears to have eased, and we now look forward to improved stability and a more rational pricing environment in the coming year.
It may however take a further two to three years to fully restore margins, as the most recent lower margin contracts are typically of three years duration.
Our AST business showed solid growth of 24.8% 32.7% on a constant currency basis, supported by the acquisition of our new x-ray facility in Daniken, Switzerland.
Underlying organic growth, excluding acquisitions and the impact of currencies, was just over 10%.
Our European AST business showed solid Construction has been completed on our new gamma growth of radiation and research facility in Marcoule, developed in collaboration with the Commissariat lnergie atomique etaux nergies alternatives CEA.
In addition to providing 24.8% sterilisation services to medical device manufacturers, Synergy will be providing testing services for nuclear, space, radiation waste and packaging companies.
It was intended that Marcoule would open in September 2012 and contribute to the organic growth rate, but the final licensing and approvals have been delayed andwe expect the facility to open late this summer.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 13
