Governance Directors report The Directors submit their Annual Report and the audited consolidated The Company issued 348,732 ordinary shares of 0.625p each during accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended the period for an aggregate consideration of 1,736,000 in respect of 31 March 2013.
The Corporate Governance report set out on pages 35 options exercised under the Companys share option schemes.
to 39 forms part of the Directors report.
In addition 2,755,520 ordinary shares of 0.625p each were allotted by Principal activities and business review way of a private placing for an aggregate consideration of 22,432,000.
Synergy Health plc is a holding company: its subsidiaries are grouped Directors into four geographic regions and these are set out on pages 10 to 17.
The present Directors of the Company are shown on page 30.
The principal activities of the Group are the provision of outsourced R E Lerwill retired from the Board on 7 June 2012.
With effect from healthcare support services and contract sterilisation services.
7 June 2012 D K Nichol, the previous Senior Independent Director, The Business review comprises the Chairmans statement on page 6, was appointed Chairman.
No other Director served during the period.
the Chief Executive Officers review on page 8, and the Finance review In accordance with the recommendations set out in the UK Corporate on page 18.
Governance Code, all the elected Directors will submit themselves for A separate report on page 23 sets out the principal risks and re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Details of the Directors uncertainties facing the Group.
A further separate report on page 27 sets service contracts are given in the Remuneration report on page 40. out Corporate and Social Responsibility activities.
Details of Directors shareholdings and options held by Directors are The Chief Executive Officers review on page 8 sets out the main trends contained within the Remuneration report.
and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual position of the Groups business.
Report and the financial statements Issues with regard to the financial risk management objectives and All the Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and policies of the Group including hedging policy and the exposure of the the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance Company to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are with applicable law and regulations.
covered in the Finance Directors report.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Results and dividends Company financial statements for each financial period.
Under that law There was a profit for the period after taxation amounting to the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in 31,564,000 2012: 24,821,000.
An interim dividend of 4,614,000 accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 2012: 3,774,000 was paid on 14 December 2012.
A final dividend of as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare 12.80 pence is proposed by the Board for the period ended 31 March the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK 2013.
The final dividend will, subject to shareholders approval, be paid Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted on 5 September 2013 to shareholders on the register at 9 August 2013.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 7 August 2013.
A review Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial of the Groups performance for the period ended 31 March 2013 is statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view contained in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executive Officers of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their review and the Finance Directors report.
profit or loss for that period.
Share capital In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial As at 31 March 2013 the Companys share capital consisted of one statements, the Directors are required to: class of 106,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.625p each of which there Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: were 58,519,934 ordinary shares in issue.
No shares were held in Treasury.
At that date the authority granted to the Company for the Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: purchase of up to 5,541,568 ordinary shares remained in force For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been and unused.
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: The rights and obligations attached to the Companys ordinary shares, For the Parent Company financial statements, state whether and restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company, are set out applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial obtained from Companies House in the UK or the Company Secretary.
statements: and Shareholders are entitled to receive dividends, when declared: to receive the Companys reports and financial statements: to attend and speak at Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it general meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies: and to exercise is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company voting rights.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys agreements between the holders of securities that may result in transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of Association of general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to the Company, the Companys Articles of Association may be amended them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
32 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible Training is provided as required to ensure that we have a skilled for preparing a Directors report, Remuneration report and Corporate workforce: this requires a balance of training for the work our employees Governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
do now and developing and preparing people for the future.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the For several years the Company has operated a Savings Related Share corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Option Scheme for UK-based employees, which gives employees an Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of opportunity to enter into a savings contract for a fixed period, with an financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
opportunity to acquire shares in the Company at the end of that period.
Employee engagement The Group operates a defined contribution Group Personal Pension Plan GPP which permanent employees are invited to join.
With effect from The Group recognises the impact that positive employee engagement 1 March 2013 the provision of the GPP has been via Aviva.
Prior to that has on developing a culture of excellence, maintaining organisational date the GPP had been provided via Prudential.
stability and fostering an environment in which people feel valued and included.
All those employees who transfer from the public sector under the Transfer of Undertakings Protection of Employment Regulations 2006 The Group is an equal opportunities employer.
Equal opportunities are eligible to join the Synergy Health plc Retirement Benefit Scheme, are offered to all regardless of race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, a defined benefit pension arrangement which is otherwise closed to sex including gender reassignment, marital or civil partnership new entrants.
The Group Company Secretary is the Chairman of the status, disability, religion or belief, sexual orientation, age or trade Trustees.
There are two other Company Nominated Trustees, and union membership.
There is a vacancy for one Member The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for Nominated Trustee.
Details of all Group pension schemes are contained employment from people with disabilities.
The policy is to offer equal in note 27 to the accounts on page 87. opportunity to all disabled candidates and employees who have a The Company becomes subject to the Occupational and Personal disability or become disabled in any way during the course of their Pension Schemes Automatic Enrolment Regulations 2010 for employment.
A full assessment of the individuals needs is undertaken employees in the UK on 1 September 2013.
The GPP is compliant and reasonable adjustments are made to the work environment or for the purposes of these regulations and will be registered accordingly.
practices in order to assist those with disabilities.
Permanent employees outside the UK are usually offered membership All candidates and employees are treated equally in respect of of local pension arrangements where they exist.
recruitment, promotion, training, pay and other employment policies and conditions.
All decisions are based on relative merits and abilities.
Directors indemnity The Board has held detailed discussions over the guidance issued by In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Directors Lord Davies of Abersoch in his report Women on Boards and the UK have been granted a continuing indemnity issued by the Company to Corporate Governance Code.
Women currently comprise 40% of the the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of members of the Board.
The Board hopes the Group shall be in a their office.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent position to maintain this level of representation when renewing Board that the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
membership over the coming years.
However, this will always be subject Directors and Officers liability insurance to the overriding need to ensure that appointments are made on merit During the period the Company maintained insurance cover for and having regard to an appropriate balance of skills, experience, Directors and Officers liability as permitted under the Companies independence and knowledge required on the Board.
The Davies Act 2006. report also examines the gender diversity at management levels below the Board.
The Group has a number of initiatives to improve diversity Corporate and Social Responsibility at a senior management level but recognises that these will take time to The statement on Corporate and Social Responsibility on page 27 be reflected in the number of women in the senior management team.
contains disclosures concerning environmental matters, employee We will continue to review our approach on gender diversity, particularly involvement and social and community issues.
in the context of any developing guidance in this area.
Substantial shareholders The Group continues to employ multiple channels of communication At the date of this report the Company had been notified of the and is committed to improving these channels so that all employees following holdings of voting rights attaching to the Companys have access to information as well as having an opportunity to express ordinary shares of 0.625p each in accordance with the Disclosure their views and ideas on matters affecting their employment and and Transparency Rules: the Group.
Name Shareholding % Channels include: AXA Investment Managers SA 7,504,284 12.82% Employee Forums and where appropriate, Works Councils: Prudential plc group of companies 3,458,504 5.91% Touch Point the Group intranet site: INVESCO Asset Management Limited 3,087,757 5.28% Regular Leadership briefings followed by communication Artemis Investment Management LLP 2,928,620 5.00% cascades team briefings: Kames Capital 2,911,186 4.97% An Employee Satisfaction Survey: F&C Asset Management plc 2,819,495 4.82% BlackRock Advisors 2,705,645 4.62% Regular business updates via circulars: Old Mutual Asset Managers UK Limited 2,599,250 4.44% Communication via Yammer a professional social networking tool.
Newton Investment Management 2,561,177 4.38% Employment policies are updated in a timely way to reflect legislative Norges Bank 1,991,170 3.40% changes and training to communicate or embed change is developed RM Steeves 1,832,472 3.13% and rolled out as appropriate.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 33 Governance Directors report continued Contractual relationships or other arrangements Disclosure of information to auditors The Company has no contractual relationships or other arrangements The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this report with contractors, customers or suppliers that are critical to the business.
confirm that so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and each The Company has a number of significant agreements.
The only Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director agreements considered to be essential to the Group as a whole are its to make him herself aware of any relevant audit information and to bank facilities, which include change of control provisions.
In the event ensure that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
of a change in ownership of the Company, these provisions could result in renegotiation or withdrawal of the relevant facilities.
Auditors Our auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has instigated an orderly wind down Policy and practice on payment of creditors of business.
The Board has decided to put KPMG LLP forward to be All Group companies are responsible for establishing terms and appointed as auditor of the Company.
Separate resolutions proposing conditions with their suppliers and it is Group policy that payments are their appointment and determination of their remuneration will be made within such agreed terms and conditions.
Trade creditors at the proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 25 July 2013. period end amount to 48 days 2012: 50 days of average supplies for the period.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on 25 July 2013 at the offices Political and charitable donations of Investec Bank plc, 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP.
The notice During the period the Group made charitable donations totalling 5,000 convening the meeting together with explanatory notes for the special 2012: 20,000.
No political donations were made during the period business are set out in a shareholder circular, which will be posted with 2012: nil.
Further information on the Groups charitable donations is the Annual Report and Financial Statements and proxy voting papers.
contained in the Corporate and Social Responsibility report on page 27.
Full details of all the resolutions to be proposed are provided in the Treasury and risk management Notice of Meeting.
The Groups treasury and financial risk management objectives, and Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the annual details in respect of the Groups exposure to these risks, are detailed financial report in note 19 to the financial statements.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Going concern The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, affect its future development, performance and position are set out liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the in the Business review on pages 6 to 17.
The financial position of undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities The Directors report includes a fair review of the development are described in the Finance Directors report on pages 18 to 22. and performance of the business and the position of the issuer In addition, notes 18 to 19 to the financial statements include the and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments that they face.
and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Company has considerable financial resources together with long term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across On behalf of the Board different geographic areas and market places.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The T C Mason Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate Group Company Secretary resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
5 June 2013 Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
This statement in respect of the business as a going concern has been prepared in accordance with Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
34 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013
