Governance Board of Directors Our Board is responsible for the long-term success of the company, corporate governance, strategy, riskmanagement and financial performance Board of Directors Sir Duncan Nichol Gavin Hill Liz Hewitt Richard Steeves Constance Baroudel Our Executive Team Adrian Coward Paul Santing Marcello Smit Niclas Olsson Tim Mason Richard Steeves Gavin Hill 30 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements Board of Directors Sir Duncan Nichol Gavin Hill Liz Hewitt Non-executive Chairman Group Finance Director Non-executive Director Sir Duncan became a non-executive Director in Gavin joined the Group as Finance Director in Liz was appointed to the Board as a non-executive November 2002.
He was Chief Executive of the April2010.
He was previously Director, Corporate Director in September 2011 and is Chairman National Health Service Management Executive Finance for Serco Group plc following a number of oftheAudit Committee and a member of the between 1989 and 1994, a non-executive divisional Finance Director and Commercial roles.
She is Directorof BUPA between 1994 and 2002, and Prior to Serco, Gavin worked for Syngenta AG and also a non-executive Director and member of the anon-executive Director at the Christie Foundation AstraZeneca plc in both Finance and Corporate Audit and Nomination Committees of Novo Nordisk Trust until 2012.
Sir Duncan is currently Chairman Treasury.
Gavin is a chartered accountant and A S. Liz is also an external member of the Audit of Lorica Employee Benefits Ltd, Chairman of associate member of the Association of Corporate Committee of the House of Lords.
She has theCountess of Chester NHS Trust, and a Treasurers.
Gavin is also a Trustee of the Groups previously been a non-executive Director of an non-executive Director of Deltex Medical Group three UK defined benefit pension schemes.
NHS Trust and a Trustee of Cancer Research UK.
He is also Chairman of Skills for Liz was Group Director Corporate Affairs of Smith & Justice and the Academy for Healthcare Science.
She worked for 3i Non-executive Directors He isamember of the Audit, Remuneration and Group plc for 18 years as an investor and finally as Nomination Committees.
Duncan was appointed Corporate Affairs Director.
Liz was seconded to the Constance Baroudel as Chairman of the Board on 7 June 2012.
UK Government in 2006 where she was involved Non-executive Director in establishing the Enterprise Capital Fund.
She Constance was appointed to the Board as a qualified as a chartered accountant with Arthur Richard Steeves non-executive Director in September 2010.
She Andersen & Co and has a degree in economics Group Chief Executive iscurrently the Group Director of Strategy and from University College London.
Richard founded the business in 1991 and was Business Development at fide La Rue plc.
Prior to appointed Chief Executive in 1992.
Previously fide La Rue she was a senior consultant for Strategic hewas Corporate Development Manager for Decisions Group.
Constance attended lInstitut Braithwaite plc, a plant hire company, and dEtudes Politiques fide Paris where she majored associate consultant with strategic consultants incorporate finance and international relations.
Richard has a PhD in biochemistry Constance also has an MSc in International from St Johns College, Cambridge and a BSc Accounting and Finance from the London School 1stClass Hons in human physiology from the of Economics.
Constance is Chairman of the University of British Columbia in Vancouver, Canada.
Remuneration Committee, and a member of theAudit and Nomination Committees.
Our Executive Team Adrian Coward Tim Mason Richard Steeves CEO UK & Ireland Group Company Secretary Group Chief Executive Adrian joined the Group in 2004 as director of IT Tim joined the Group in September 2009.
He was Richard founded the business in 1991 and was and was later appointed Managing Director for the previously Group Company Secretary of Compass appointed Chief Executive in 1992.
Adrian previously worked for a Group plc as well as being Director and Company hewas Corporate Development Manager for scientific and IT consultancy company providing Secretary of their UK and Ireland holding company.
Braithwaite plc, a plant hire company, and solutions to engineering and R&D companies.
Previously Tim held senior corporate secretariat associate consultant with strategic consultants Adrian has a BSc in mathematics and a PhD in positions with HP Bulmer holdings plc, AMEC Plc LEKConsulting.
Richard has a PhD in biochemistry applied mathematics.
Adrian was appointed CEO and Grand Metropolitan plc.
Tim is a Fellow of from St Johns College, Cambridge and a BSc UK & Ireland in June 2010. theInstitute of Chartered Secretaries and 1stClass Hons in human physiology from the Administrators and holds an MA in professional University of British Columbia in Vancouver, Canada.
Tim is also secretary of the Niclas Olsson Companys Audit, Remuneration and Nomination CEO Asia & Africa Gavin Hill Committees and Chairman of Trustees for each Niclas was appointed CEO of the Asia & Africa Group Finance Director ofthe Groups three UK defined benefit region in June 2012.
Niclas worked for Getinge Gavin joined the Group as Finance Director in pensionschemes.
Group for 10 years in a variety of management April2010.
He was previously Director, Corporate positions, culminating in five years as President Finance for Serco Group plc following a number of ofGetinge China.
His speciality is infection control Paul Santing divisional Finance Director and Commercial roles.
inemerging markets, with experience in eastern Group Commercial Director Prior to Serco, Gavin worked for Syngenta AG and Europe, India, south east Asia and China.
Prior Paul joined the Senior Executive Board of the AstraZeneca plc in both Finance and Corporate tojoining Getinge, he was Marketing Director for Group in 2007, following the acquisition of Isotron Treasury.
Gavin is a chartered accountant and Sanmina-SCI, a world-leading outsourcing plc.
As a qualified industrial pharmacist, Paul associate member of the Association of Corporate company, and Business Area Manager Industrial joined OPG-Group in 1985 and for 13 years he Treasurers.
Gavin is also a Trustee of the Groups Automation for Mannesmann Rexroth in Sweden.
was active in the pharmaceutical division in various three UK defined benefit pension schemes.
Niclas has a mechanical engineering degree and manufacturing and sales and marketing roles and isa graduate of the University of Lund.
joined Gammaster Group in 1988 as Business Development Manager.
From 2000 onwards he became President of the Gammaster Group and Marcello Smit in2002 joined the Executive Board of Isotron plc.
CEO Europe & Middle East Paul has a Masters degree in pharmacy from the Marcello joined LIPS Textielservice Holdings B. V. University of Amsterdam.
Paul was appointed LTS following completion of his post-graduate Group Commercial Director in June 2010. studies in economics at the University of Amsterdam.
He has held various management positions in the organisation and was also a director of a joint venture healthcare foundation.
Marcello was appointed Chief Executive of LTS in 1997.
Hewas a member of the PLC Board between November 2005 and September 2010.
Marcello was appointed CEO Europe & Middle East in June2010.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 31
