Business review Regional review Americas Reusable Surgical Solutions Helping healthcare facilities to improve service at a lower cost.
With the acquisition of SRI Surgical Express Inc, Synergy has launched its reusable surgical solutions RSS service, aiming to improve surgical outcomes and doctor patient safety in US hospitals through arange of environmentally sustainable reusable surgical textiles.
Synergy collects used surgical linen from customer hospitals.
Our nine Food and Drug Administration FDA regulated facilities reprocess and sterilise the linen, and return it to the customer.
Bill Braun, of Synergy Health North America, Inc, said: By switching to reusable gowns, towels, drapes and stainless instruments, hospitals canmaximise patient safety while saving money on landfill charges, thereby improving their environmental performance.
This is a sustainable best practice solution that makes good financialsense.
16 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements Revenue Operating profit 62.4m 7.3m 2013 62.4m 2013 7.3m 2012 13.0m 2012 3.2m Our other most promising region for growth is the TheRSS business also includes the provision of custom Americas.
The United States is the worlds largest market procedure packs: in recent weeks we have entered into a for the manufacture and consumption of medical devices.
partnership with Medline Industries to supply these custom The acquisitions of SRI together with the much smaller packs, whilst at the same time moving towards the launch MSIacquisition have given Synergy scale and stature of a Medline-branded reusable gown service.
developments will leverage Medlines strong 300-plus salesteam and will help to lift RSS growth rates.
In the Reported revenue was up significantly to 62.4 million meantime the RSS bid book has grown to $8 million per 2012: 13.0 million.
Organic growth on a constant annum with approximately $3 million having converted to currency basis was 15.8%.
Operating profit increased contracts in the current financial year.
Operating margins declined by 13.0% to 11.7%, as a resultof the The core AST business in the US market performed very dilution impact of SRI which was loss-making well growing by 16.7%, although growth has been offset by onacquisition.
the temporary loss of a major customer in Costa Rica that has had to rectify its products under an FDA directive.
The A great deal of attention has been devoted to the SRI difficulties in Costa Rica also held back margins, although acquisition to turn the business around and lay the we expect this to be corrected in the current financial year.
foundations for the launch of a revised HSS outsourcing With this years growth the US AST business has become service and the relaunch of the reusable surgical solutions capacity-constrained, and as a result we will be extending business RSS.
Profitability was achieved in early Q3 with the capacity of our Saxonburg facility, to be operational in steady progress made throughout the remainder of the the summer of 2014.
In addition, we continue to evaluate year, almost reaching the 18 month target for 10% margins options for further facility development in Mexico and within nine months.
A cost leadership programme Central America.
supported by Synergys expertise has improved operations considerably, and consolidating and relocating our America A new regional board has been established for the regional headquarters to SRIs offices in Tampa, Florida, Americas, led by the Group Chief Executive Officer on has further lifted margins.
The recruitment of a permanent regional Chief Executive Officer has started, with an appointment The new HSS and RSS businesses have now been expected towards the end of the second quarter of the launched and show much promise for a period of current year.
The HSS service quickly created a$60million per annum outsourcing bid book, whilst theinstrument rental programme Accuset created a $12million per annum bid book.
Around $26 million of theoutsourcing and $2 million of the Accuset bid books have converted to preferred bidder status and we expect this level of activity and conversion rates to be maintained Our US HSS business has generated for the immediate future.
The RSS business has been ahealthy outsourcing bid book completely redesigned with the launch of new high-tech lightweight surgical gowns from Medline Industries.
$60.0m Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 17
