Governance Report of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2013 The Directors submit their annual report and the audited The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys consolidated financial statements for the year ended ordinary shares, being the only class of issued share capital, 31 December 2013. as well as the powers of the Companys Directors, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can Strategic report be obtained from Companies House or can be downloaded The Strategic report which includes the principal activities from the Companys website.
There are no restrictions on the in the course of the year and the principal risks and voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares or uncertainties for the Company can be found on on the transfer of securities in the Company.
No person holds pages 4 to 23. securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to the control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of Results and dividends any agreements between holders of securities that may result The profit attributable to shareholders for the year was in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The interim dividend of 2.4 pence per share Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of was paid on 7 November 2013.
The Directors recommend Association of the Company, the Companys Articles of a final dividend of 3.6 pence per share payable on 4 July 2014 Association may be amended by special resolution of the to those shareholders registered at the close of business on Companys shareholders.
A dividend reinvestment plan is available to shareholders and this alternative will continue to be offered Other than in relation to its borrowings which, unless certain until further notice.
conditions are satisfied, become repayable on a takeover, the Company is not party to any significant agreements that Financial instruments would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control Details of the Groups use of financial instruments and following a takeover bid.
The Company does not have its financial risk management objectives and policies, agreements with any Director or employee that would provide and of its exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash ow compensation for loss of ofce or employment resulting from risk in relation to such instruments, are contained in note 22 a takeover.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions Directors relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and The present membership of the Board is shown on page 24 awards would normally vest and become exercisable on all of whom served throughout the year apart from Mr B W D a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any Connolly who joined on 20 January 2014.
All the Directors will performance conditions at that time.
retire and will be seeking election or re-election as appropriate at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Major shareholdings Other than the shareholdings disclosed as Directors None of the Directors seeking election or re-election has a interests in the remuneration report as at 14 February 2014, service contract other than Mr Whiteld and Mr Blackwood the Company had been notied under Section 5 of the who each have a service contract which contains a twelve Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority month notice period.
Details of Directors emoluments and the of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its interests of each Director in the share capital of the Company ordinary shares: are shown in the Directors remuneration report on Percentage pages 32 to 48. of ordinary Ordinary shares shares Nature number in issue of holding Director indemnity provisions Kuala Lumpur Under the Companys Articles of Association, the Directors Kepong Berhad Direct of the Company have the benefit of a qualifying third-party Group 66,111,401 19.45 interest indemnity provision which provides that they shall be indemnified by the Company against certain liabilities as Direct and Standard Life indirect permitted by Sections 232 and 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and against costs incurred by them in relation to Investments Limited 44,162,410 12.99 interest any liability for which they are indemnified.
The Company Direct and has purchased and maintains insurance against Directors UBS Global Asset indirect and ofcers liabilities in relation to the Company.
Management 17,029,199 5.01 interest Direct Share capital and control interest and Details of the Companys share capital are contained in note qualifying 26 to the financial statements.
During 2013 no shares were financial issued or repurchased.
A total of 195,730 shares were Old Mutual plc 17,238,190 5.07 instruments purchased on the open market on behalf of the shareholders who elected to participate in the dividend reinvestment plan.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013 49 Report of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued Employment policies Corporate governance The Group gives every consideration to applications for The Corporate governance report is set out on pages employment from disabled persons.
Employees who become 25 to 31 and forms part of the report of the Directors.
disabled are given every opportunity to continue employment under normal terms and conditions with appropriate training, Going concern career development and promotion wherever possible.
The Directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on The Group seeks to achieve equal opportunities in going concern and in reaching their conclusions have taken employment through recruitment and training policies.
into account factors including: the Groups euro denominated 150 million term loan Authority to purchase own shares facility and 60 million multicurrency revolving credit facility The Company has a general authority, which expires at the which terminate on 31 March 2015: and conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting, to make the second repayment under the 2004 series private market purchases of not more than 33,988,076 of the placement notes of US$70 million due in September 2014.
Companys ordinary shares in accordance with the terms of the special resolution passed at the 2013 Annual General Further discussion on liquidity and nancing is provided Meeting.
A resolution will be tabled at the 2014 Annual in the Strategic report.
General Meeting to renew this authority.
After making enquiries and taking account of reasonably Employee involvement possible changes in trading performance, the Directors have The Group encourages employee involvement in its affairs and concluded that the Company and the Group have adequate makes use of an intranet system to promote such involvement resources to continue in operational existence for the and to aid communication with employees.
The Group is foreseeable future.
engaged in an ongoing project to improve its communication procedures.
An annual management conference is held to Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis bring senior managers together to share ideas and develop in preparing the annual report and accounts.
policy and values and behaviours.
Dialogue takes place regularly with employees to make them aware of the financial Cautionary statement and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
The purpose of this report is to provide information to the Performance related bonus schemes are in operation members of the Company.
It contains certain forward-looking throughout the Group.
statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these Political donations statements involve uncertainty since future events and No political donations were made in the year.
circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking UK pension funds statements reect knowledge and information available The trustees have reviewed the independent investment at the date of preparation of this report and the Company management of the assets of the Company pension schemes undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking in the UK and assured themselves of the security and controls statements.
Nothing in this report should be construed as in place.
In particular, it is the trustees policy not to invest a profit forecast.
in Synthomer plc shares nor lend money to the Company.
Independent auditors Statement as to disclosure of information to auditor A resolution to appoint  LLP Each Director of the Company confirms that, so far as he as the Companys auditor will be proposed at the Annual is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the General Meeting.
Companys auditor is unaware and that he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to Annual General Meeting make himself aware of any relevant audit information and The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 am to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that on 1 May 2014 at Manor of Groves Hotel, High Wych, information.
For these purposes, relevant audit information Sawbridgeworth, Hertfordshire CM21 0JU.
means information needed by the Companys auditor in connection with preparing their reports on pages 52 to 55 and 95 to 96.
By order of the Board R Atkinson This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in Company secretary accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
27 February 2014 50 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013
