Directors and advisers Executive Directors Registered ofce 2 A M Whiteld Chief Executive officer Synthomer plc Joined the Group and was appointed to the Board in March Temple Fields Harlow 2006.
He assumed the role of Chief Executive in August 2006.
Essex Prior to appointment he was Chief Executive of the plastics CM20 2BH division of D S Smith Plc.
Registered number 98381 D C Blackwood Chief Financial officer Company secretary Joined the Group and was appointed to the Board in October Richard Atkinson 2007.
Prior to appointment he was Group Treasurer of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC.
Bankers Barclays Bank PLC Non-executive Directors Commerzbank AG 2,3 N A Johnson Chairman HSBC Bank plc Joined the Board in September 2011 and was appointed Chairman in May 2012.
He is Chairman of Motability Joint stockbrokers Operations Group plc and e2v technologies plc and the Barclays Capital and Canaccord Genuity Limited senior independent non-executive Director of the Business Growth Fund.
Registrars Computershare Investor Services PLC 1 The Hon.
A G Catto Lochside House Joined the Board in 1981.
He is Managing Director of 7 Lochside Avenue CairnSea Investments Limited, a private investment company, Edinburgh Park and a non-executive Director of several early stage companies Edinburgh that have been backed by CairnSea.
EH12 9DJ J Chen Independent auditors Joined the Board in October 2012.
He is a corporate Vice  LLP President of Alcoa Inc and a board member of China Zhong Chartered accountants and statutory auditor Nan University.
St Albans, UK 3 B W D Connolly Solicitors Joined the Board on 20 January 2014.
Until June 2013 Herbert Smith Freehills LLP he was a senior executive at Intertek Group PLC and Pinsent Masons LLP had previously been Chief Executive officer of Moody Squire Sanders UK LLP International which was acquired by Intertek in 2011.
He is a non-executive Director of Cape plc.
1,3 Dr J J C Jansz Joined the Board in April 2012.
Until July 2010 he was Head, Technology Business, and a member of the management team of LyondellBasell.
He is founder and managing Director of Expertise Beyond Borders BV, an independent technology management consultancy.
Dato Lee Hau Hian Joined the Board in 1993 and stood down in 2000 to become an Alternate Director.
He is a Director of Kuala Lumpur Kepong Bhd and Batu Kawan Bhd.
1,2, 3 J K Maiden Senior Independent Director Joined the Board in August 2007.
He is Group Finance Director of National Express Group PLC and a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
