Directors report: Overview Directors report: Performance review Directors report: Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual report 2013 UK telecoms regulation The UK telecoms market is regulated by Ofcom, in themarket, so that consumers and businesses whichsets the charges and other terms for wholesale benefit from a choice of services and retail access to infrastructure and associated services serviceproviders.
owned by BTOpenreach Openreach, where Compliance with regulation is monitored by the Openreach is deemed to enjoy Significant Market Regulatory Compliance Committee as detailed Power.
Ofcoms objective is to ensure that these onpage 20. wholesale products enable effective competition The areas regulated Next Generation Access a1.47 reduction in the WLR rental charge which has byOfcom that Openreach provides wholesale access to its NGA been implemented from 1 May 2013. aremostmaterial infrastructure predominantly FTTC, on an equivalent In June 2013, Ofcom is expected to publish its LLU forTalkTalk are: basis to all communication providers.
The current Charge Control which will include proposed charges Openreach wholesale product is GEA.
TalkTalk uses for the period from April 2014.
GEA to provide its fibre broadband products.
At present neither the price of GEA nor the margin between the Openreach service performance GEA price and the retail price are regulated.
In June 2013, Openreach is a critical supplier to TalkTalk and we strive Ofcom is expected to publish its Wholesale Local to work closely with them to deliver the best service Access Market Review which will include proposals for for our customers, for example, the timely delivery of regulation which would take effect from April 2014. connections.
As part of the Wholesale Local Access Market Review and LLU Charge Control, Ofcom will set LLU Charge Control new regulations in order to provide effective incentives On 7 March 2012, Ofcom made its statement regarding for Openreach to provide a high quality service.
the level of Openreach charges forLLU for the period until 31 March 2014, which covers MPF, SMPF and Ethernet dispute appeal WLRcharges.
It takes account of a range of factors, In December 2012, Ofcom published its including Openreachs cost of capital, the regulatory determination to resolve a dispute regarding valuation oflocal loop infrastructure, and potential Openreachs pricing for various Ethernet services efficiency gains.
inthe period from April 2006 to July 2009 which required Openreach to repay TalkTalk for their TalkTalk appealed Ofcoms 2012 LLU Charge Control overcharging.
Openreach have appealed that decision as did BT.
The Competition Commission decision to the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT.
found in favour of some of TalkTalks grounds and TalkTalk and others have also appealed the some of Openreachs grounds.
The net adjustment decisionarguing that the determination was too was a 78p reduction in the MPF rental charge and low.
Further detail is provided in notes 9 and 27 totheconsolidated financial statements.
Other regulation and legislation Several other New Communications Bill Government consultation on parental controls areas ofcurrent or The Government has stated that they plan to Between June and September 2012 the Government potentiallegislation introduce a new Communications Bill by the end of held a consultation into parental controls.
The Department for Culture, Media and followed the recommendations of anindependent forTalkTalk: Sport DCMS is leading a Communications Review, Parliamentary Inquiry, chaired by Claire Perry MP, that looking at all the law and rules that affect the pornography should be blockedby default to protect communications industry.
DCMS has stated that children online.
theyplan to publish their recommendations for On 14 December 2012 the Government published anychanges in the first half of 2013. theirresponse to the consultation.
This concluded Digital Economy Act that ISPs should actively encourage parents to switch This Act, enacted in 2010, requires ISPs to send on parental controls and take measures to ensure the notifications to customers and log whose person setting up the controls is over 18.
TalkTalk connections have been used for illegal file sharing.
began offering all new customers an unavoidable Glossary Expectations are that the earliest notifications could yes or no decision about whether they wanted to FTTC: Fibre to theCabinet be sent is 2015.
In parallel, TalkTalk and other ISPs are turn on the parental controls element of HomeSafe GEA: Generic Ethernet Access discussing with rights holders alternative approaches.
in March 2012 and will soon be extending this same ISP: Internet Service Provider unavoidable active choice to existing customers LLU: Local Loop Unbundling Pursuant to various court orders, TalkTalk is required frommid 2013.
MPF: Full unbundling to block access to certain sites that are used for illegal NGA: Next Generation Access file sharing.
As a Board member of the UK Council for Child NGN: Next Generation Network Internet Safety, TalkTalk continues to engage RPI: Retail Price Index activelywith Government about its policy for SMPF: Partial unbundling protecting children online.
