TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual report 2013 What we do Over the past seven YouView including the BBC, ITV and BT.
YouView is a Our network gives us a strong value years, we have built broadband based television service with differentiated formoney advantage one of the UKs largest catch-up and on-demand services, and an open We are able to offer our Consumer and Business broadband and voice platform for future application driven innovation.
customers services at significantly lower cost than customer bases, OurTV offering is proving to be a powerful proposition ourcable and incumbent competitors.
This is because attracting those looking for mass market value seekers who want flexible we operate the UKs most extensive Next Generation for significant bill access to premium content without theneed to Network NGN, which is comprised of our own savings.
FY13 saw us enterinto costly long term subscriptions.
advanced, highly cost effective equipment.
successfully implement We also extended our TalkTalk Mobile offering from our quad play strategy Our NGN now covers approximately 95% of UK homes, SIM-only into mobile contract handsets.
Available with the launch of operating in 2,724 exchanges.
These exchanges are exclusively to TalkTalk customers, TalkTalk Mobile offers mobile handsets for connected via our own high-speed, high capacity simplicity, range and some of the most competitive Consumer customers all-IPnational network, enabling us to carry all of our prices in the market.
As a result our mobile offering and an innovative, customers voice and data traffic efficiently and cost hasgained strong traction amongst our base.
value for money TV effectively.
Our customers benefit through optimised proposition, built on broadband speeds and quality and access to our The launch of TV and mobile handsets are key to our theYouView platform.
growing range of lower cost, value add products and aimof increasing our customers savings, their loyalty services.
For example, our all-IP Content Delivery to TalkTalk, and our revenue potential.
Network which runs over our NGN puts content closer to the end user to increase the quality of experience Services to Businesses for our TV customers.
TalkTalk Business continues to drive innovation and competitive product development that leverages Services to Consumers ourNGN capability.
We believe there issignificant TalkTalk is strongly positioned as the leading value opportunity to use our network togrow all our Next formoney phone, broadband, and TV provider for Generation products within TalkTalk Business.
We are differentiated by our clear and In January 2013, we began offering an Ethernet over simple tariff structure, low prices, flexibility and Fibre service which delivers high-speed symmetrical groundbreaking safety features, namely HomeSafe, services at a significantly lower price point than traditional our unique network based security service which is Ethernet technologies.
We also launched an 80Mbps available freeof charge for all customers on our fibre product with generous data allowances and network and protects the whole home from viruses network prioritisation.
The year also saw us launch andinappropriate content.
avery competitive Next Generation Voice service In FY13 we successfully launched our TV proposition forbusinesses requiring high performance data and for Plus customers, which included a free YouView set voiceservices, which we have made widely available top box.
TalkTalk is one of seven partners behind tochannel partners.
Market overview At the end of December2012 2013 3.870 2013 95 therewere 22.2million Consumer and SME 2012 3.755 2012 92 fixed broadband million % connections inthe On-net base On-net customers UK, 8.5% more than at the same time the There are four key players in the broadband and TV providing discounts to customers who take all three previous year.
BT Retail is the largest broadband service products with them.
BT Retail is also now competing estimated that around provider, followed by BSkyB.
Virgin Media, the cable with BSkyB on pay TV content rights, specifically sports.
85% of UKhouseholds provider, is the third largest player followed by now have a broadband Within this context, TalkTalk is clearly positioned as TalkTalk.
TalkTalk is the largest unbundler.
theleading provider for customers seeking a best value, BT Retail and Virgin Media are positioned at the reliable voice, broadband and TV service.
Especially in TV, premium end of the market, with significantly higher we have a unique proposition for those homes who want price points.
They focus on speed and reliability of flexible access to premium content without costly long broadband connection.
BSkyBs focus is on cross term subscriptions.
We believe this reputation forvalue selling broadband and voice to its pay television base, for money puts TalkTalk in a strong position and will only improve further as we grow our TV and mobile bases.
