Directors report: Overview Directors report: Performance review Directors report: Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual report 2013 Other statutory information Suppliers payment policy Significant shareholdings It is the Companys policy to develop and maintain key At 15 May 2013 the Company had been notified of commercial relationships with its suppliers, one aspect thefollowing interests in the Companys shares: Percentage of of which is payment timing to obtain mutually agreed Name Number of shares share capital payment terms.
The Company has commercially Sir Charles Dunstone 294,059,396 31.58 agreed longer credit terms with certain suppliers.
Excluding these suppliers, the average credit period David Ross 116,160,528 12.47 taken on trade payables was 39days FY12: 32 days.
Capital Research Including these suppliers, the average credit period GlobalInvestors 62,933,100 6.76 taken was 48 days FY12: 32days.
Jupiter Asset ManagementLimited 42,764,602 4.59 Contracts with  Group ESOT 38,728,388 4.16 There are no material contracts with controlling Schroder Investment shareholders, except as disclosed in the Directors Management Ltd SIM 29,369,033 3.15 Remuneration Report on pages 22 to 28.
No Director isentitled to any compensation for loss of office on Invesco Asset atakeover or change of control of the Company.
ManagementLimited 28,158,815 3.02 Details of employee share schemes are set out in The total interests of the Directors are detailed in the note5 to the financial statements.
Shares held Directors Remuneration Report on pages 22 to 28. bytheGroup ESOT abstain from voting.
Going concern Share capital On the basis of current financial projections and facilities available, the Directors are satisfied that the The rights and obligations relating to the Companys Group has adequate resources to continue in operation shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
for the foreseeable future and consequently the financial TheArticles of Association can be requested statements continue to be prepared on the going fromtheCompany Secretary at the Companys concern basis, as discussed in the Chief Financial registered office.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company other than those which Directors indemnities may be imposed by law from time to time.
Inaccordance Directors liability insurance is provided for Directors.
with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, certain In addition, there is an existing indemnity to Amy Stirling employees are required to seek approval to deal in in her capacity as a Director of CPW Support Services theCompanys shares.
The Company is not aware of India Private Limited.
any agreements between shareholders that may result inrestrictions on the transfers of securities and or Equal opportunities votingrights.
We celebrate diversity and have an equal opportunities There is a general right of the Company to purchase policy, which ensures that everyone is provided with the itsown shares, as set out at Article 16 of the Companys same opportunities for employment, career development, Articles of Association.
In addition, at the AGM in 2012, training and promotion.
As part of thispolicy, applications the Directors were granted the right to acquire 91,410,825 for employment by disabled persons are fully considered, shares.
This right expires on the date of the 2013 AGM bearing in mind the abilities of the applicant concerned.
or 28 October 2013 whichever isthe sooner.
Inthe event of employees becoming disabled during employment athorough process is followed and support The Articles of Association may be changed by provided including income support insurance to try to specialresolution.
Details in the movements in authorised and issued Audit information share capitalduring the period are provided in notes 21 and 22 to thefinancial statements.
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date ofapproval ofthis Annual Report confirms that: Appointment of Directors so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant The rules relating to the appointment and or removal audit information of which the Companys auditor of Directors are contained in Section O of the Companys isunaware: and Articles of Association.
The powers of the Directors are the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Property, plant and equipment that the Companys auditor is aware of the information.
Movements in property, plant and equipment are set This confirmation is given and should be interpreted out in note12 to the financial statements.
inaccordance with the provisions of Section 418 of theCompanies Act 2006.
Dividends By order of the Board The Company may, by resolution in a general meeting, declaredividends in accordance with the respective TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC rights ofthemembers, but no dividend can exceed 11 Evesham Street theamount recommended by the Board.
London W11 4AR TS Morris Company Secretary 15 May 2013 29
