Operational Review Innovation and Commercial Development Sustainable long-term growth through successfully commercialising innovation ICD brings together R&D and the commercial functions into one team to drive innovation and bring new products to market Innovation and Commercial Development Research & Platform Global Marketing Open Innovation Development Management Karl Kramer President We have made good A clear focus on three SFI platforms progress developing Sweeteners Texturants Health & Wellness the innovation pipeline.
food science and novel ingredients, in provide an important link between our Remit addition to our ventures fund.
All of our R&D scientists, platform managers and The Innovation and Commercial ideas and innovations are commercialised customers and also to drive the successful Development ICD group was established via our stage-gate process.
commercialisation of new product launches.
on 1 June 2010 as a key enabler of Tate & Lyles growth strategy.
ICD brings Working alongside the Speciality Food together the following: R&D, platform Our achievements during the year Ingredients business unit, ICD has management, global marketing, and open Our first priority, following the transfer of supported the launch of a number of new innovation into one global team, to our ICD operations into our new global products.
In September 2012, we launched provide an integrated approach towards Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in our second natural, no-calorie sweetener, developing and commercialising innovative Chicago, USA at the end of the last financial TASTEVA Stevia Sweetener, which further new products and technologies.
year, was to integrate our people, including enhances our sweeteners offering alongside those who were new to Tate & Lyle, fully PUREFRUIT Monk Fruit Extract and While ICD supports both of Tate & Lyles into the facility and to embed the Centre SPLENDA Sucralose.
In November 2012, global business units, it concentrates into day-to-day operations.
we announced the global launch of our new particularly on growing the Speciality salt-reduction technology, SODA-LO Salt Food Ingredients business unit.
As a In June 2012, we opened the new Centre Microspheres, helping to expand our offering result, ICDs resources are predominantly to customers and since then we have seen within our Health & Wellness platform.
focused on three broad platforms within a step change in the number of customer the global speciality food ingredients visits, including customers based outside The ICD group has continued to lay the market Sweeteners, Texturants, and the US.
foundations for future growth through Health & Wellness.
the expansion and development of the In addition, the new facility is helping us innovation pipeline.
During the year, we We generate ideas across our three to collaborate with customers on new have made good progress developing product platforms from both internal and projects at an earlier stage and has ideas and moving projects through the external sources.
Internally, we generate increased the depth and overall quality pipeline including preparing the ground ideas based on the work done by our own of customer engagement with the for the launch of new products in the final scientists leveraging our deep platform involvement of representatives on both stages of development.
expertise and the investment we have sides from a broader range of areas made in innovation and technical services including R&D, applications and marketing.
Looking ahead, we will remain focused facilities across the world.
Externally, we on building the innovation pipeline, opening generate ideas from engagement with our During the year, we realigned and refreshed up new projects with customers and customers and also from dedicated Open our global marketing capabilities, including supporting the launch of new products, Innovation team which seeks to develop the recruitment of a new Senior Vice a number of which we aim to roll out in partnerships with universities, research President, Global Marketing.
The integration the coming financial year.
institutions and start-ups specialising in of global marketing within ICD is helping to Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 20
