Operational Review Operational Review Speciality Food Ingredients Growth in Speciality Food Ingredients through focus and depth The rising incidence of diabetes and Speciality Food Ingredients obesity in both developed and developing develops, produces and countries is driving consumers and governments to focus more on healthier markets distinctive, highlifestyles and in turn, increasing demand quality ingredients for food for ingredients from food and beverage manufacturers in the health and wellness and beverage customers space.
Consumer demand for more across the world.
By natural, cleaner label products is increasing with close to a third of all leveraging our manufacturing product launches in 2012 in Western 1 facilities, innovative technology Europe making some form of natural claim.
and formulation expertise, Rapid urbanisation in emerging markets and Olivier Rigaud President we help them create more rising levels of disposable income continue to increase the penetration of packaged cost-effective, better tasting and convenience foods which in turn is The market for speciality products for consumers.
supporting demand for speciality ingredients food ingredients is that provide added functionality such as extending shelf-life, stability and texture.
Speciality Food Ingredients supported by three works closely with our strong consumer trends: Against the backdrop of continuing tough macroeconomic conditions and a weaker Innovation and Commercial convenience, health and consumer environment, particularly in Development team to wellness and natural.
Europe, coupled with high and volatile prices for certain raw materials, cost optimisation develop a pipeline of Our strong product continues to be an important driver for food newproducts.
portfolio, technical and and beverage customers, looking at ways to reduce costs and provide more valueapplications expertise Market conditions and trends based alternatives for consumers.
While the food and beverage industry and the investment we remains relatively resilient, it is not We believe that the combination of our have made over the last immune to fluctuations in the wider leading market positions, strong product economy.
Nonetheless, the global three years makes us portfolio and technical and applications market for speciality food ingredients expertise along with the investments we well placed to benefit continued to benefit from a number have made to build a platform capable of of underlying global consumer trends.
from these trends delivering long-term sustainable growth, makes us well placed to benefit from these longer term.
global trends in the future.
Texturants: Customers Speciality starches Large, multi-national food and Sales Locust bean gum beverage manufacturers Health & Wellness: Smalland medium-sized food PROMITOR Soluble Corn Fiber and beverage manufacturers STA-LITE Polydextrose Private label food and beverage 947m SODA-LO Salt Microspheres manufacturers Oat beta glucan 2012 887m Products Food systems: Sweeteners: Food stabiliser systems Adjusted operating profit Speciality corn-based sweeteners Functional ingredient blends including crystalline fructose High intensity sweeteners including SPLENDA Sucralose, 213m PUREFRUIT Monk Fruit Extract and TASTEVA Stevia Sweetener 2012 214m 1 GNPD Mintel: Food and drink products claiming to be natural or all natural as a proportion of all food and drink product launches.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 15 Operational Review Speciality Food Ingredients continued The global speciality food ingredients market is large and growing Global speciality food Where Tate & Lyle plays Our approach to delivering ingredients market approximately US$35 billion a winning strategy in this Sweeteners market is to focus on three SPLENDA Sucralose 1 Speciality corn-based sweeteners core platforms: Texturants, 6 TM PUREFRUIT Monk Fruit Extract 2 Sweeteners and Health & TASTEVA Stevia Sweetener Wellness, and to have deep Texturants expertise within each one.
Speciality food starches 3 Dairy stabilisers 5 4 Health & Wellness PROMITOR Soluble corn fibre 1 14% Sweeteners STA-LITE Polydextrose 2 20% Texturants SODA-LO Salt Microspheres 3 14% F unctional food ingredients Oat beta glucan 4 8% Colours and preservatives 5 33% Flavour 6 11% Other Source: Leatherhead: SRI: LMC International: Company analysis: Data as at 2010. with growth underpinned by three strong consumer trends: Convenience Health and wellness Natural 24 7 lifestyles increasing Greater understanding Trend towards natural, the demand for processed of the link between diet cleaner label foods foods and health 2 Convenience product Product launches Global population who are obese 1 3 launches labelled as natural 4 In North America per year % Men Women In Western Europe % 2,970 14 28 10 8 14 13 5 902 2002 2012 1980 2008 1980 2008 2002 2006 2012 Sources: World Health Organisation, Tate & Lyle analysis of Mintel GNPD data 1 Includes microwaveable, on-the-go and time-saving speedy products.
3 Food and drink products claiming to be natural or all natural as a proportion of all food and drink product launches.
4 Western Europe includes Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the UK.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 16 Operational Review Operational Review Year to 31 March Change 2013 2012 Constant m m Reported currency Sales 947 887 7% 8% Adjusted operating profit 213 214 0% 0% Margin 22.5% 24.1% -160 bps -170 bps We saw strong volume growth in our We expect long-term demand for Financial performance speciality corn sweeteners in emerging SPLENDA Sucralose to continue to be Within Speciality Food Ingredients, volumes markets where demand is driven not only underpinned by the health and wellness grew by 4% and sales increased by 7% by the functional benefits they provide, trend as well as its superior taste profile 8% in constant currency to 947 million including the delivery of a consistent texture and heat stability.
With our two unique 2012 887 million.
Adjusted operating and sweetness profile, but also the role large-scale continuous production facilities profit was broadly in line with the prior year that they play as a substitute for sugar in now operational following the restart of our at 213 million 2012 214 million with cost-optimisation projects.
The strike at facility in McIntosh, Alabama we continue operating margins down 1.6 percentage our plant in Turkey during the first quarter to provide our customers with the highest points at 22.5% 2012 24.1%.
The resulted in volumes in Europe being lower quality, fully traceable sucralose, produced reduction in margin reflects the step than the comparative period.
according to the highest standards of change in fixed costs associated with the sustainability and reliability in the industry.
restart of our SPLENDA Sucralose facility Our fibres range continues to benefit from in McIntosh, Alabama, our business consumers increased focus on health The launch of products by our customers transformation initiatives, lower sucralose and wellness, and we saw strong volume within the table top segment incorporating volumes and higher corn input costs.
growth in Europe and Asia during the our no-calorie, fruit-based sweetener, The effect of exchange translation was TM period.
The acquisition in May 2013 of PUREFRUIT Monk Fruit Extract has to decrease adjusted operating profit Biovelop, an early-stage manufacturer stimulated a number of other customer by 1 million.
of oat beta glucan, adds a clean-label product launches and driven incremental speciality fibre with strong health claims sales within the high-intensity sweetener This segment comprises three broad to our existing corn-based fibres portfolio.
We have also been encouraged product categories namely: starch-based by the initial customer response to our speciality ingredients, high-intensity High-intensity sweeteners stevia-based, natural, no-calorie sweetener, sweeteners and food systems.
Within high-intensity sweeteners, which TASTEVA Stevia Sweetener which comprises SPLENDA Sucralose and launched in September 2012.
Starch-based speciality ingredients our no-calorie, natural sweeteners In starch-based speciality ingredients, TM PUREFRUIT Monk Fruit Extract and Food systems sales increased by 13% 14% in constant TASTEVA Stevia Sweetener, sales were In Food Systems, our blending business, currency to 559 million 2012 494 in line with the comparative period at sales were 3% lower flat in constant million with volume growth of 5%.
While 198 million 2012 197 million with currency at 190 million 2012 197 we increased unit margins, percentage volumes 1% lower.
million with volumes also down 3% on the operating margins were lower due to the prior year.
Despite the price of certain raw increase in fixed costs and higher corn After a very strong prior year, where materials remaining high during the period, prices.
While we expect to deliver an volumes grew by 12%, SPLENDA the performance of this product category increase in unit margins within this category Sucralose volumes were 1% lower than was ahead of the prior year reflecting the for the 2014 financial year, the impact of the prior year as a result of two main improvements we have made in managing passing through a further increase in corn factors.
First, we had a slow start to the these higher input costs and our decision prices during the 2013 calendar year year with a soft first quarter driven by to focus on higher margin blends.
contracting round is expected to result in weakness in Europe.
Second, we a slight reduction in percentage operating experienced lower volumes within the Our new technical and commercial facility margins in this category.
table top segment where competition in Lbeck, Germany which opened in June from natural alternatives has increased.
2012, has helped us to increase the level of In food starches, volumes grew across customer interaction and has provided a all regions, with particularly strong growth While we saw a return towards more focal point for the creation and sharing of in Asia driven by rising demand for normal growth patterns overall in the new ideas between our food systems convenience foods where our value-added second quarter and throughout the facilities around the world.
starches are used to add functionality such remainder of the year, supported by the as mouth-feel and extending shelf life.
Group outlook for the year ending delivery of a number of growth initiatives, We have also seen good demand for our 31 March 2014: pg 14 this was not sufficient to match the strong speciality starches in Europe and the US, prior year result.
particularly within the snacks sector.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 17
