Overview Our Business Model Turning raw Sources Most of our ingredients are produced from crops, predominantly corn.
Ensuring we have a reliable materials into source of corn for our plants is essential.
This involves developing long-term, mutually beneficial relationships with growers, farmers and other commercial partners distinctive, to secure supply: understanding commodity markets: and hedging costs where feasible.
Supply chain ethics are important to us.
We apply clear standards, both high-quality operational and ethical, to our suppliers, and work with them to help them meet our compliance needs.
This is essential if we are to meet our customers ingredients and requirements for traceability, quality and ethical standards throughout the supply chain.
solutions for Developing sustainable products: pg 34 our customers Through our facilities across the world we:  Speciality Food to develop andenhance new Ingredients and existingproducts Customers  applications expertise toprovide a full end-to-end service for ourcustomers Innovation and Raw materials Commercial Development Customers Bulk Ingredients Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 04 Overview Overview Operations Customers We operate through two global business units Speciality Food and beverage is our most significant market Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients.
Each business comprising over 70% of Group sales.
Other markets unit has its own manufacturing and commercial we sell into include industrial, animal feed, and operations to provide the necessary focus and expertise pharmaceutical and personal care.
for customers in their two respective end markets.
Customer understanding drives all that we do.
We use market research to understand the consumer our customers customer, the markets we operate in and our customers needs.
We use this insight to drive our own product development, to differentiate Speciality Food Ingredients SFI ourselves from our competitors and, importantly, SFI produces distinctive, high-value ingredients which are sold to give our customers an advantage by working with in markets where customers look for technical and innovation us.
For large customers, we provide technical and capability, insight and flexibility.
SFI also has a food systems applications support.
For smaller customers, we are or blending business which sources ingredients and uses often their outsourced R&D team.
them along with our own to develop bespoke combinations of ingredients primarily for smallto medium-sized customers.
Speciality Food Ingredients: pg 15 Speciality Food Ingredients Customers Innovation and Commercial Development ICD Both business units, but principally SFI, are supported by the ICD group.
ICD brings together research and development, platform management, Innovation and Raw materials global marketing and open innovation into one Commercial global team, to provide an integrated approach to developing and commercialising innovative new Development products and technologies.
Innovation and Commercial Development: pg 20 Customers Bulk Ingredients Bulk Ingredients BI BI produces ingredients which are relatively undifferentiated and are sold in markets where customers principally look for supplier reliability, quality and value.
Bulk Ingredients: pg 18 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 05
