Overview Key Performance Indicators Measuring our success against our strategy What we measure Why we measure it How we performed Comment Performance We focus on a number of financial performance 2013 2012 Change measures to ensure that our strategy successfully delivers increased value for our shareholders.
Sales of speciality food ingredients To ensure we are successful in growing 947m 887m 8% Delivered solid sales growth in SFI, the business unit which is the key area constant underpinned by 4% volume growth.
Chief Executives Review: pg 12 4 of strategic focus for the business.
currency Adjusted operating profit To track the underlying performance 358m 348m 4% 7% growth in Bulk Ingredients with of the business and to ensure sales constant Speciality Food Ingredients flat as a 4 growth translates into increased profits.
currency result of a step change in fixed costs due to restart of the US Sucralose facility and business transformation initiatives.
5 Return on capital employed: adjusted profit before interest, To ensure that we continue to generate 19.8% 21.6% -180bps Growth in operating assets outstripped tax and exceptional items divided by adjusted average net a strong rate of return on the assets growth in adjusted operating profit 1 operating assets for continuing operations.
that we employ and have a disciplined reflecting restart of the US Sucralose approach to capital investment.
facility, investment in business transformation initiatives and higher working capital.
2 Cash conversion cycle : controllable working capital divided To track how efficient we are in 42 days 36 days Lengthened Higher inventory levels in the US due 6 by quarterly sales, multiplied by the number of days in the quarter.
turning increased sales into cash by 6 days to higher corn prices, aflatoxin and and to ensure that working capital additional sucralose inventory following is managed effectively.
the restart of the US sucralose facility.
What we measure Why we measure it How we performed Comment Financial strength We look at measures of financial strength to ensure that 2013 2012 we maintain the financial flexibility to grow the business whilst maintaining investment-grade credit ratings.
3 Net debt to EBITDA multiple : the number of times the 1.0x 1.1x Ratio remains well inside our internal To ensure that we have the appropriate Groups net borrowing exceeds its trading cash flow.
Improvement level of financial gearing and that we Group Financial Results: pg 21 is earnings before exceptional items, interest, tax, depreciation reflects modest growth in EBITDA and generate sufficient profits to service our andamortisation.
small reduction in net borrowings.
These measures are a key focus for banks and providers of both debt 3 Interest cover : the number of times the profit of the Group 11.1x 11.1x Ratio remains well above internal and equity capital.
exceeds interest payments made to service its debt.
7 What we measure Why we measure it How we performed Comment Corporate responsibility It is important that we act responsibly and consider 2012 2011 Change carefully the impact our activities have on all stakeholders including employees, customers andthecommunities in Recordable incident rate: the number of injuries per 200,000 The safety of our employees and 0.85 0.85 No change which we operate.
hours that require more than first aid, for employees and contractors is of paramount importance.
Ensuring safe and healthy conditions Corporate Responsibility: pg 29 at all our locations is essential to our Lost-work case rate: the number of injuries that resulted in operation asasuccessful business.
0.26 0.21 Three more 19 lost-work cases globally in 2012, lost-work days per 200,000 hours, for employees and contractors.
lost-work cases compared to 16 in 2011.
1 Defined as shareholders equity excluding net debt, net tax assets liabilities, net retirement benefit obligations and net operating assets of discontinued operations.
4 Changes in constant currency are calculated by translating comparative period results at current period exchange rates.
2 Defined as controllable working capital divided by quarterly sales, multiplied by number of days in quarter on a four-quarter rolling basis a reduction in the number 5 Basis points one hundred basis points equates to one percentage point.
of days represents an improvement.
6 A fungus impacting corn quality caused by prolonged hot and dry conditions.
3 Net debt, EBITDA, profit and interest are defined under the Groups bank covenant conditions and are based on unrounded numbers.
Net debt is calculated using 7 Unlike our other KPIs, we report safety performance by calendar year because we are required to do so for other regulatory reporting purposes.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 08 Overview Overview The Board has chosen a number of key performance indicators to measure the Groups progress.
The table sets out these indicators, explaining how they relate to our strategic priorities, and how we performed against them this year.
What we measure Why we measure it How we performed Comment Performance We focus on a number of financial performance 2013 2012 Change measures to ensure that our strategy successfully delivers increased value for our shareholders.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 09 Overview Chairmans Statement We remain on track with our objective of delivering a platform for sustainable long-term growth Introduction A key strength of long-standing companies such as As a company, Tate & Lyle has embraced Tate & Lyle is their ability to reinvent themselves.
As one of change and responded to it effectively over many decades, but it is also important to only two companies currently listed in the FTSE 100 index recognise those aspects of the business that have also been members of the FT30 since its inception that have remained constant and been critical in ensuring our success throughout in 1935, Tate & Lyle has successfully managed change our long history.
for nearly 100 years including our current transformation First, our core values of safety, respect and journey which began in 2010 and this is one of the reasons integrity remain enshrined within the culture why we are still going strong today.
of the business and guide how we operate both internally and externally.
Second is our core competence of manufacturing and delivering food ingredients and solutions to our customers with the highest standards of quality, traceability and reliability.
These attributes have helped us get to where we are today and will remain at the very core of the business in the future as we build upon the work we have done over the last three years.
Safety We have no higher priority than safety and are committed to providing safe and healthy working conditions for all our employees and contractors, and our safety performance continues to compare well with companies both within and outside our industry.
While we delivered an improvement in our contractor recordable incident rate during calendar year 2012, there are still areas where we can do better.
The overall recordable incident rate in 2012 was the same as in 2011 and the number of lost-work cases increased by three.
During the year, we undertook a wide range of safety improvement projects and we continue to work to assure the safety of all those who work at our sites.
Our employees can be rightly proud that we are a leader in safety performance in our sector, but we are not complacent and we continually strive for improvement.
Strategy In May 2010, we announced a number of important steps to help your Company build a platform capable of delivering sustainable long-term growth and to achieve our vision of becoming the leading global provider of speciality food ingredients and solutions underpinned in part by the cash generated Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 10 Overview Overview by our Bulk Ingredients business unit.
Reflecting the importance the Board Our core values of Since then, significant progress has been places on ethical leadership we rolled out made under the leadership of Javed our new Code of Ethics to replace our safety, respect and Ahmed and his team and we have started Code of Business Conduct and reviewed to see the initial signs of the investment we and updated our supply chain standards.
integrity remain have made coming through, but there is still We built additional corporate responsibility more work to do.
requirements into our standard purchase enshrined within contract terms and conditions and Central to our ability to deliver sustainable implemented a new sustainability risk the culture of the growth is improving the way we innovate, assessment and evaluation tool for our something that began with the creation product development pipeline.
business and guide of the Innovation and Commercial Development group ICD in June 2010.
Financial performance how we operate Since its formation, ICD has made good Entering the year, we faced a number progress developing the innovation pipeline of headwinds, including the step change both internally and and in partnership with the Speciality Food in fixed costs associated with the restart Ingredients business unit has driven the of production at our SPLENDA Sucralose externally.
launch of new products during the year.
facility in McIntosh, Alabama and our business transformation initiatives.
I am Our new global Commercial and Food therefore pleased to report that despite Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA these we have delivered growth in adjusted which opened to customers in June 2012, profit before tax of 4% to 329 million reinforces not only our commitment to 2012 318 million and adjusted diluted establish a world-class innovation earnings per share of 5% at constant capability but also significantly improves currency to 57.0p per share 2012 54.7p how we interact and collaborate with 1 per share.
I am delighted to say that since it opened we have seen a significant Dividend increase in the level of activity and The Board recognises the importance of interaction with customers and their 0.95 the dividend to shareholders and follows a 0.85 0.85 feedback has been extremely encouraging.
progressive dividend policy with the aim of growing the dividend over time taking into Board composition and diversity account the long-term earnings prospects On 1 December 2012, we welcomed of the business.
Virginia Ginny Kamsky and Anne Minto to the Board as non-executive directors.
In line with our progressive dividend 2010 2011 2012 Ginnys detailed knowledge and experience policy, the Board is recommending a of China and Annes broad corporate 1 5.6% increase in the final dividend to 18.8p Lost-work case rate experience will be of considerable benefit 2012 17.8p making a full year dividend to the Board.
On behalf of the Board, of 26.2p 2012 24.9p per share, up 5.2% I would also like to thank Evert Henkes, on the prior year.
Subject to shareholder who retired from the Board after nine 0.47 approval, the proposed final dividend will years of highly-valued service.
be due and payable on 2 August 2013 to all shareholders on the Register of 0.26 We have taken advantage of the Members on 28 June 2013.
In addition 0.21 opportunities provided by our new global to the cash dividend option, shareholders Shared Service Centre in Poland and the will continue to be offered a Dividend global Commercial and Food Innovation Reinvestment Plan DRIP alternative.
2010 2011 2012 Centre in Chicago, USA to broaden the 1 Unlike our other KPIs, we report make up of our employees in terms of Finally, I would like to thank all our safety performance by calendar year.
employees who have again worked immensely hard to deliver this years results Corporate responsibility and while continuing to make good progress in transforming Tate & Lyle.
risk management We continue to strengthen our internal Sir Peter Gershon control arrangements and associated Chairman reporting of environmental, social and 29 May 2013 governance matters.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 11
