Governance Board of Directors More online Read full biographies of the Strong governance, directors and members of the Group Executive Committee online at www.
effective leadership 1 Sir Peter Gershon CBE Chairman and Chairman of the Nominations Committee Joined the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate in February 2009.
1 2 Skills and experience Sir Peter has broad business experience gained in large and complex international organisations and has held various leadership roles in the UK private and public sector.
He was formerly Chairman of Premier Farnell plc: Chief Executive of the Office of Government Commerce: 3 4 Managing Director of Marconi Electronic Systems: and a member of the UK Defence Academy Advisory Board.
Other directorships Chairman of National Grid plc Member of HM Government Efficiency and Reform Board 5 6 Member of the advisory board of The Sutton Trust 2 Javed Ahmed Chief Executive Joined the Board as Chief Executive in October 2009.
7 8 Skills and experience Javed has extensive international experience from a wide variety of senior management roles.
He started his career with Procter & Gamble and then spent five years with Bain & Co. before joining Benckiser later Reckitt Benckiser plc in 1992 where he gained significant 9 10 experience of international consumer goods markets and held positions including Senior Vice President, Northern Europe: President, North America: Executive Vice President, North America, Australia and New Zealand: and Executive Vice President, Europe.
Other directorships 11 None Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Our governance Liz Airey, Chairman Robert Walker, Chairman Sir Peter Gershon, Chairman structure Douglas Hurt William Camp Javed Ahmed Certain responsibilities are Anne Minto Sir Peter Gershon Liz Airey delegated to four Board Anne Minto William Camp Committees, details of which Dr Ajai Puri Douglas Hurt are given on pages 46 to 51.
Virginia Kamsky Anne Minto Dr Ajai Puri Robert Walker Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 38 Governance Governance 3 Tim Lodge 6 Douglas Hurt 9 Dr Ajai Puri Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Joined the Board in December 2008 Joined the Board in March 2010.
Joined the Board in April 2012.
Chairman as Group Finance Director.
Aged 48. of the Research Advisory Group.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Douglas is a Chartered Accountant.
He Skills and experience Tim joined the Group in 1988 and has held a number of financial and operational Ajai has a PhD in Food Science from held a number of senior operational and roles, including US and European senior the University of Maryland, USA.
He was financial roles, both in the UK and management positions, at GlaxoSmithKline President Research, Development and internationally, including Managing Director before joining IMI plc as Finance Director Product Integrity and a member of the of Zambia Sugar: Group Financial in 2006.
Executive Board of Koninklijke Numico N. V. Controller: Finance Director of the Food & from 2003 to 2007.
Prior to this, Ajai Other directorships Industrial Ingredients, Europe division: held various management positions with Finance Director of IMI plc and Director of Investor Relations.
He is The Coca-Cola Company, culminating a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of in Senior Vice President Technical, 7 Virginia Kamsky Management Accountants.
Non-Executive Director Other directorships Other directorships Joined the Board in December 2012.
None Member of the supervisory board Aged 59. of Nutreco N. V. Skills and experience Non-executive director of Barry 4 Liz Airey Ginny is Chairman and Chief Executive Callebaut AG Non-Executive Director and Officer of Kamsky Associates, Inc. She also Non-executive director of Britannia Chairman of the Audit Committee served as an Executive Vice President of Industries Limited Joined the Board in January 2007.
Foamex International, Inc. and held a Aged 54. variety of leadership roles at Chase 10 Robert Walker Skills and experience Manhattan Bank.
Senior Independent Director and Liz was an investment banker and has Chairman of the Remuneration extensive financial experience in the UK Other directorships Committee and internationally.
She was formerly Non-executive director of Dana Holding Joined the Board in January 2006.
Finance Director of Monument Oil and Corporation Aged 68.
Member of the US Secretary of the Navy Advisory Panel Skills and experience Other directorships Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Robert spent over 30 years with Procter Chairman of the Unilever UK Pension China Institute in America & Gamble, McKinsey and finally, PepsiCo, Fund where he was responsible for the Senior Independent Director of Jupiter companys beverage operations in Europe, 8 Anne Minto OBE Fund Management PLC the Middle East and Africa.
Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director of Dunedin Joined the Board in December 2012.
Enterprise Investment Trust PLC Other directorships Aged 60.
Chairman of Travis Perkins plc Chairman of Enterprise Inns plc 5 William Camp Skills and experience Chairman of Americana International Non-Executive Director and Chairman Anne was Group Director of Human Holdings Limited of the Corporate Responsibility Resources at Centrica plc from 2002 until Committee her retirement in 2011.
She previously held Joined the Board in May 2010.
Aged 64. senior management roles at Shell UK and 11 Lucie Gilbert Smiths Group plc and was Deputy Company Secretary Skills and experience Director-General of the Engineering Appointed Company Secretary in August Bill worked for 22 years for Archer Daniels Employers Federation.
Midland Company, before retiring in 2007, and held a variety of management Other directorships Skills and experience positions including Executive Vice Non-executive director and Chairman Lucie was appointed Deputy Company President, Asia Strategy: Executive Vice of the Remuneration Committee of Secretary in 2008 and previously held senior President, Processing: and Senior Vice Shire PLC company secretarial roles in several listed President, Global Oil Seeds, Cocoa and Trustee of the University of Aberdeen companies, including Experian PLC and Brit Wheat Milling.
Development Trust Insurance Holdings PLC.
Lucie is a Fellow of Non-executive director of ExlService the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Other directorships Holdings, Inc.
Administrators and an Associate of the Non-executive director of BioAmber Inc Chartered Insurance Institute.
Senior Advisor, Naxos Capital Other directorships None Corporate Responsibility Javed Ahmed Rob Luijten Our Group Executive CR Committee Chief Executive Executive Vice President, Committee William Camp, Chairman Human Resources The Group Executive Tim Lodge Liz Airey Committee oversees the Chief Financial Officer Olivier Rigaud Sir Peter Gershon development and execution of President, Speciality Food Dr Ajai Puri Robert Gibber the Groups strategy, and has Ingredients Executive Vice President, overall responsibility for General Counsel Matt Wineinger achieving business results.
President, Bulk Ingredients Karl Kramer The members of the Committee President, Innovation and are listed opposite.
Commercial Development Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 39 Governance Corporate Governance continued Systems of internal control and risk explained in the Directors Statement of UK Corporate Governance Code management.
Their statement The UK Corporate Governance Code dated on going concern is on page 25.
June 2010 the Code and issued by the Other responsibilities are delegated to Financial Reporting Council is applicable Board Committees, details of which can to companies with a premium listing on the Operation of the Board be found on pages 46 to 51.
As such, we are Board meetings required to state how we have applied the The Board and its Committees meet In addition to the standing Board principles contained in the Code and to regularly according to a schedule linked Committees, the Group established in disclose whether we have complied with to key events in the Companys corporate 2006 the Research Advisory Group RAG the provisions of the Code during the year.
Ad hoc meetings are also which is now chaired by Dr Ajai Puri and Throughout the period from 1 April 2012 arranged to consider matters requiring comprises external subject matter experts to 31 March 2013 the Company has been review and decision outside the scheduled and senior Tate & Lyle managers.
The in full compliance with the Code.
Six scheduled Board meetings focus and composition of the RAG evolved were held during the year ended 31 March during the year and the RAGs remit now This Report, together with the Directors 2013, including one Board meeting held at covers reviewing the innovation pipeline Remuneration Report and the disclosures the global Commercial and Food Innovation and providing insight into how leadingcontained in the Risks section on pages 26 Centre in Chicago, USA.
Three ad hoc edge science and technology can be to 28, provide details of how the Company Board meetings were also held at short applied to enhance the Groups speciality applies the principles and complies with notice to consider proposals relating to food ingredients portfolio.
The RAG meets the provisions of the Code.
Further the Groups strategy and business regularly, principally at the global information on the Code can be found on transformation programme.
The Board also Commercial and Food Innovation Centre the Financial Reporting Councils website, met offsite for one day to focus on strategy in Chicago, USA and Dr Puri provides www.
and, as agreed as part of the 2012 Board regular updates to the Board on the work effectiveness review, held a conference of the RAG.
call to review operational performance The Board when the period between Board meetings The role of the Board The directors responsibilities for the exceeded twomonths.
The Board is collectively responsible for preparation of financial statements are promoting the success of the Company and for providing entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of prudent and effective controls that enable risk to be assessed Key Board roles and responsibilities and managed.
It sets the Companys The roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director are separated and their responsibilities are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
objectives, ensures that the Company has the necessary financial resources The Chairman The Senior Independent Director and people to meet them, and reviews Key responsibilities include: Key responsibilities include: managements performance.
The Board also sets the Companys values and The effective operation, leadership and Acting as a sounding board for standards and ensures that its obligations governance of the Board: the Chairman: to shareholders and others are met.
Ensuring the effectiveness of the Conducting an annual review of Board, and each director individually: the Chairmans performance: and There is a schedule of matters reserved Setting the style and tone of the Board Being available to shareholders if they to the Board for decision, which include discussions: and have any concerns that they have approval of: Ensuring the directors receive accurate, been unable to resolve through the timely and clear information.
Group strategy Annual budget and operating plans The Chief Executive Major capital expenditure, acquisitions Key responsibilities include: or divestments Interim dividends Proposing strategy to the Board and Full-year and half-year results and interim delivering it: management statements Running the business: Board and Company Secretary Communicating the Boards appointments expectations with regard to culture, Senior management structure and values and behaviours: and responsibilities Ensuring the Board is aware of Treasury policies the executive directors views on Directors conflicts of interest business issues.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 40 Governance Governance Directors attendance at the ongoing implementation of the Evert Henkes ceased to be a director on Board meetings project to create one global IS IT 30November 2012, having completed Number of platform: and three terms of three years each.
As Directors as at Number of meetings talent management and succession disclosed in the Annual Report 2012, 31 March 2013 meetings attended planning activities.
Dr Ajai Puri joined the Board with effect Sir Peter Gershon 9 9 from 1April 2012.
Virginia Kamsky and Javed Ahmed 9 9 In the 2014 financial year, the Board will Anne Minto were appointed as additional Tim Lodge 9 9 focus in particular on the areas listed on non-executive directors with effect from Liz Airey 9 8 page 37.
Further information on William Camp 9 8 the selection process is contained within Douglas Hurt 9 7 Board allocation of time the Nominations Committee Report on 1 Virginia Kamsky 3 3 The chart below shows the approximate page 48 and the tailored induction 1 Anne Minto 3 3 time the Board has spent discussing programme is explained on page 42.
Dr Ajai Puri 9 9 agenda items during the year, separated Robert Walker 9 8 into broad categories.
Tenure of non-executive directors Former directors 2 Evert Henkes 6 5 1 1 0 to 3 years 3 directors 1 1 32% Strategy 1 Joined the Board on 1 December 2012.
5 2 4 to 6 years 2 directors 2 20% Execution 3 7 to 9 years 2 directors 2 Ceased to be a director on 30 November 2012. of strategy 3 3 14% Business results The rolling programme of items for 4 4 20% Risk 2 5 14% Governance discussion by the Board is reviewed at 2 3 each Board meeting and updated to reflect topical matters.
All substantive agenda In 2013, the Directors agreed to refine the items have comprehensive briefing papers Independence categorisation of their time to that set out which are distributed via the electronic With the exception of the Chairman, who above to reflect better the nature of the Board portal, generally five working days issues they consider.
is presumed under the Code not to be before themeeting.
In the few instances independent, the Board considers all the where a director is unable to attend a non-executive directors to be independent.
meeting, his or her comments on the Board effectiveness The Senior Independent Director, Robert briefing papers are given in advance to Board diversity Walker, is available to shareholders if they the Chairman.
As set out in the Boards statement on have any issues or concerns which they diversity, published on the Groups website, have not resolved through the usual Meetings are structured to facilitate open the Directors believe Board composition is channels, and leads the annual review discussion, and all directors participate a key element of Board effectiveness and of the Chairmans performance.
in discussing strategy, trading, safety, each member, and potential member, of financial performance and risk the Board must be able to demonstrate the The non-executive directors have a wide management.
Members of executive skills, experience and knowledge required range of skills and knowledge and combine management attend Board meetings to contribute to the effectiveness of the broad business and commercial experience and make presentations regularly.
Subject to that overriding principle, with independent and objective judgement.
the Directors believe that the Boards The terms and conditions of appointment Summary of the Boards work during perspective and approach can be greatly of the non-executive directors can be the year enhanced through gender, age and cultural inspected at the Companys registered During the year, the Board oversaw the diversity.
It is the Boards policy to consider office and will be available for inspection ongoing transformation of the Groups overall Board balance and diversity when at the Annual General Meeting.
culture and business and considered appointing new directors.
all matters within its remit, focusing in As part of the annual Board effectiveness particular on the following: Board composition review, each director goes through a formal At the date of this document, the Board performance review process.
All directors safety: comprises ten directors with deep completed this process and, in line with the the performance of the Speciality Food knowledge and experience in diverse Code, Robert Walker and Liz Airey, who Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients business sectors within global markets: have served for over six years, have been business units and the Innovation and the Chairman, who has no executive subject to a particularly rigorous review.
Commercial Development group, responsibilities: two executive directors: including the impact of the global and seven non-executive directors.
The Commercial and Food Innovation Centre: names and biographies of the directors are on pages 38 and 39.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 41 Governance Corporate Governance continued Time commitment Information and professional the Boards USA visit, as part of their solo All directors have disclosed any significant development site visit programme, the Chairman and external commitments to the Board and The Chairman, assisted by the Company the non-executive directors visited nine confirmed they have sufficient time to Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that of the Groups sites in Europe, the USA discharge their duties to Tate & Lyle.
the directors receive accurate, timely and and Asia Pacific between them.
These The other significant commitments of the clear information on all relevant matters.
visits provide directors with the opportunity Directors are set out on pages 38 and 39. to interact with local management and gain The time commitment of all non-executive Directors receive ongoing training and in-depth knowledge about the challenges directors and the Chairman is reviewed updates on relevant issues as appropriate, being faced by the Groups operations annually and the Board is comfortable that taking into account their individual across the world.
Over the past three all continue to devote the necessary time qualifications and experience.
Bespoke years, directors have visited 22 of the to the Company.
training sessions were held during the Groups key locations.
year, including a session on speciality Advice and support food ingredients.
Directors induction programme All directors have access to the advice and Three new non-executive directors joined services of the Company Secretary, Lucie The Company Secretary helps directors the Board during the financial year.
On Gilbert, who is responsible for ensuring undertake any other professional appointment to the Board, each of the that Board processes are followed and development they consider necessary directors received background reading that applicable rules and regulations are to assist them in carrying out their duties.
about the Group and details of Board complied with.
The appointment and Visits to external events or organisations procedures and other matters related to removal of the Company Secretary is a are also arranged for the Board to help governance.
The Company Secretary then matter for the Board as a whole.
There is non-executive directors in particular to gain worked with each of the new directors to also a formal procedure whereby, in the a deeper insight into the Groups operating deliver a tailored induction programme, furtherance of their duties, directors can environment.
During the year, in addition to as shown in the table below.
obtain independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Director Aim of induction programme Details of programme Dr Ajai Puri To increase Ajais knowledge of the Ajai attended a formal education session led by an external expert, Jon Non-executive director and Groups processes and its people Edis-Bates, and the Company Secretary on the role and responsibilities Chairman of the Research in particular the Innovation and of a UK-listed company director.
He also visited the global Commercial Advisory Group Commercial Development group, and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA, the Innovation Centre in the operation of the Research Lille, France and the London head office.
During his visits, he met with Advisory Group and the UK-listed senior operational and functional management and members of the company environment.
Research Advisory Group, which has since been restructured under his chairmanship.
Virginia Kamsky To increase Virginias knowledge Virginia attended a formal education session led by an external expert, Non-executive director of the Groups business, processes Jon Edis-Bates, and the Company Secretary on the role and and its people in particular the responsibilities of a UK-listed company director.
She also visited the Groups operations in China global Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA, the and the UK-listed company Bulk Ingredients business units plant in Decatur, Illinois, the Speciality environment.
Food Ingredients business units applications laboratory in Shanghai, China and the London head office where she met with senior operational management and key functionalheads.
Anne Minto To increase Annes knowledge Anne visited the global Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in Non-executive director of the Groups business, processes Chicago, the Bulk Ingredients business units plant in Decatur, Illinois, and its people.
the Speciality Food Ingredients business units plant in Koog, the Netherlands and the London head office where she met with senior operational management and key functional heads.
Anne also held additional meetings with the Executive VP Human Resources and members of his team to gain a detailed understanding of the operation of the Groups HR and remuneration policies and processes.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 42 Governance Governance Performance evaluation A review of the Boards effectiveness is undertaken each year.
The process is led either internally or by an external facilitator.
The last external review took place in 2011.
In 2012 and again in 2013, the Board decided that the Chairman should facilitate the review.
2012 Board effectiveness review The progress made since the 2012 evaluation is summarised in the table below: Recommendations Update on actions Strengthen understanding and knowledge of The Directors attended a training session on speciality food ingredients and additional time is the speciality food ingredients market.
now allocated to the consideration of the speciality food ingredients markets in Board meetings.
Nominations Committee to increase its focus The Nominations Committee undertook a detailed review of succession planning for Executive on succession planning.
Identify and implement opportunities for senior The Committee met with additional senior managers as it reviewed items such as business line managers involvement in the Corporate continuity management and product safety: opportunities for additional involvement for senior Responsibility Committee.
managers will continue to be identified.
Enhance arrangements for updating the Board There was only one occasion where the Board was not due to meet for over two months: briefing where there is an interval of more than two papers from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer were circulated to all directors and a months between Board meetings.
conference call was held to update non-executive directors on operational activities.
Overhaul the rolling Board agenda to reflect better The rolling agenda was overhauled with increased emphasis on strategic issues: it continues to the Groups agreed strategy and focus.
2013 Board effectiveness review: As part of the 2013 Board review, the Chairman held one-to-one meetings with each director, the Executive VP General Counsel and the Company Secretary.
The main themes and observations were then summarised in a report that was discussed by the whole Board.
It concluded that the Board continued to operate effectively but made a number of recommendations for improvements, as summarised below.
The Company Secretary is monitoring progress which will be reported in the Annual Report 2014.
Recommendations Agreed actions Increase the amount of time spent on The Board will meet regularly with global enterprise accountmanagers.
understanding the market and how customer relationships are managed.
Enhance knowledge of the innovation pipeline.
Additional time will be allocated to reviewing the development of the innovation pipeline.
Increase the Directors focus on talent Having focused on the Executive Committee in the year ended 31 March 2013, the Nominations management and succession planning.
Committee will regularly review progress for key roles which are below the Executive Committee.
Identify and implement improvements to Board Both reporting of performance and time allocated for Board discussions will be enhanced during reporting in respect of the performance of the the year ending 31 March 2014.
Speciality Food Ingredients business unit.
With regard to the performance of During the year, the non-executive directors The Board agreed that the chairmen of the individual directors, the review concluded met without the Chairman, under the Committees should lead the review of their that all directors continue to make an chairmanship of the Senior Independent own committees effectiveness.
The results effective contribution to the Boards work, Director, to appraise the Chairmans of the reviews were discussed by the were well prepared and informed about performance.
In addition, the Chairman Committees and then by the Board which issues they need to consider, and that their held a private meeting with the nonconcluded that each Committee operated commitment remained strong.
The executive directors to appraise the Chief effectively throughout the year.
Chairman also provided individual Executives performance.
These reviews feedback to each director.
also concluded that both the Chairman and Chief Executive continued to fulfil their The performance of the Chief Executive responsibilities effectively.
and Chief Financial Officer was considered by the Nominations Committee, in line with its terms of reference.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 43 Governance Corporate Governance continued Re-election formerly the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board against these plans is monitored regularly The Board has agreed that all Directors recognises that internal control systems are by the internal audit function.
Summaries of shall seek re-election on an annual basis.
designed to identify and manage, rather both audits and progress on any actions are Details of the recommendations and than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve discussed regularly at meetings of the Audit actions arising from the Board business objectives, and can only provide and CR Committees.
effectiveness reviews carried out in 2012 reasonable and not absolute assurance and 2013 are on page 43. against material misstatement or losses The Board also commissions external and the breach of laws and regulations.
Given the Directors conflicts of interest significant business transformation activity, As permitted under the Companies Act Internal control system in addition to regular reports from the 2006, the Companys Articles of The Board determines the level of risk that internal audit function, the Board continued Association allow directors to authorise it is prepared to accept in the organisation to receive reports from external specialists conflicts of interest and the Board has a risk appetite and oversees the strategies retained to review key elements of the policy and procedures for managing and, for significant risks that have been identified.
where appropriate, authorising, actual Executive management works within the risk or potential conflicts of interest.
Under appetite and develops the mechanisms and Key features of the internal control system those procedures, directors are required processes to direct the organisation, The Groups internal control system has a to declare all directorships or other through setting the tone and expectations number of key features which ensure that appointments to organisations that are not from the top, delegating authority and risk is monitored and managed throughout part of the Group and which could result monitoring compliance.
the year, including those listed below.
in actual or potential conflicts of interest, as well as other situations which could Line management has primary responsibility The schedule of matters reserved to the result in a potential conflict of interest.
for compliance with Group policies, Board ensures that the Directors control, principles and compliance requirements.
among other matters, all significant The Board is required to review directors In certain functions, notably safety and strategic, financial and organisational actual or potential conflicts of interest at product quality, executive management has issues.
Directors are required to also established separate assurance teams A clear organisational structure and limits disclose proposed new appointments to oversee the effective execution of controls.
of authority in respect of items such as to the Chairman before taking them on, capital expenditure, pricing and contract to ensure that any potential conflicts of The risk management function works with authorisation.
interest can be identified and addressed executive management and the business A comprehensive planning and budgeting appropriately.
Any potential conflicts of units to help identify, measure, monitor system for all items of expenditure with interest in relation to proposed directors and report significant risks.
The units an annual budget approved by the are considered by the Board prior to report regularly on progress with the Board.
Performance is reported monthly their appointment.
implementation of the Groups strategy, against budget and prior year results: including the impact on the risk significant variances are investigated: environment, and the key risks are reviewed and revised forecasts for the current Accountability regularly by the Board.
Further information financial year and financial projections Internal control on the Groups risk management process for future years are prepared regularly.
The Board has overall responsibility for can be found on page 26.
The Group has comprehensive safety, the Groups system of internal control product quality assurance and and risk management and for reviewing The internal audit function provides environmental management systems.
independent and objective assessment of Where appropriate, these are the appropriateness and effectiveness of the independently certified to internationally The objective of internal control within Groups internal control systems to the Audit recognised standards: they are also Tate & Lyle is to support efficient and CR Committees, and to the Board.
subject to a regular independent implementation of the Groups strategy It has the authority to review any relevant audit process.
and effective operations whilst enabling aspect of the business and a duty to report Regular meetings of the Audit and CR it to respond appropriately to significant on any material weaknesses.
The Group Committees to oversee the operation of business, operational, financial, compliance has an annual risk-based internal audit plan effective controls.
The Committees report and other risks to achieving the Companys which is approved by the Audit and CR regularly to the Board.
In the event that objectives.
The system of internal controls Committees.
It is updated regularly to reflect any significant losses are incurred during is designed to safeguard the assets of the changes to the control environment.
any year as a result of a failure of controls, Group and to ensure the reliability of a detailed analysis would be provided to financial information for both internal use The findings from audits are discussed with the Audit Committee, CR Committee if and external publication and to comply with executive management and action plans appropriate, and the Board.
guidance published by the FRC, Internal put in place where appropriate.
Progress Control: Revised Guidance for Directors Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 44 Governance Governance Controls over financial reporting to the date of this Annual Report.
In view Relations with Shareholders The financial reporting control system of the Groups recent evolution, including Shareholder communications covers the financial reporting process the embedding of the CR Committee within The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and the Groups process for preparing the governance framework, the activity and Group VP Investor & Media Relations consolidated accounts and includes following the relaunch of core values and maintain a regular programme of visits and policies and procedures which provide the first global employee engagement presentations to institutional shareholders for: the maintenance of records that, in survey, the annual review was redesigned both in the UK and overseas.
During the reasonable detail, accurately and fairly to provide insight into all these areas.
The year, the Chairman undertook separate reflect transactions including the acquisition new process also included a two-stage visits to institutional shareholders and the and disposal of assets: reasonable review to facilitate discussion.
The Audit Senior Independent Director also met with assurance that transactions are recorded Committee, CR Committee and the Board a number of institutional shareholders.
as necessary to permit preparation of discussed the results of the two-stage Feedback on interaction with institutional financial statements in accordance with review at their meetings in March and shareholders is provided to all directors.
Standards: and reasonable assurance The Investor Relations department regarding prevention or timely detection The 2013 review covered financial, provides the Board with a report on any of unauthorised use of the Groups assets.
operational and compliance controls, meetings with major institutional values and behaviours and the risk shareholders at each scheduled Board In addition, specific disclosure controls management process and included meeting.
All directors receive copies of and procedures are in place to support questionnaires and representation letters analysts reports on the Company and the the approval of the Groups financial completed by management.
The internal Board receives an annual briefing from the statements.
Twice a year representatives audit function monitored and selectively Companys external advisers on investors from the business units certify that their checked the results of this review, ensuring perceptions of Tate & Lyle and its investor reported information provides a true and that the responses from management were relations activities.
The non-executive fair view of the state of the financial affairs consistent with the results of its work directors are encouraged to attend the of the business unit and its results for the during the year.
As part of this process, full-year and half-year results presentations.
The results of this financial areas for enhancements to internal disclosure process are reported to the controls, and associated action plans to The Company aims to present a Audit Committee.
deliver them, were identified and delivery balanced and clear assessment in all of these is being monitored by the Audit its communications with shareholders.
During the year, the Group rolled out the Committee or CR Committee as Key announcements, financial reports new global IS IT system across the majority appropriate.
The Board considers that and other information about the Group of our European business.
As part of this none of the areas identified for can be found on the Companys website, process, additional control processes were enhancement in relation to the review www.
put in place to mitigate risks arising on constituted a significant weakness.
Annual General Meeting AGM Remuneration The 2013 AGM will be held at The Queen Joint ventures The Board has delegated to the Elizabeth II Conference Centre in London All material joint ventures follow either the Remuneration Committee responsibility on Wednesday 24 July 2013 at 11.00 am.
Groups formal systems of internal control, for agreeing the remuneration policy for the Full details are set out in the Notice or their own internal control procedures.
Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial ofMeeting.
These separate procedures are subject Officer and senior executives.
The to review by the Groups internal audit Directors Remuneration Report on pages Shareholders have the opportunity to function and the Group works with its 50 to 62 sets out the principles for put questions to the Board at the AGM on partners to ensure that action plans are remuneration at Tate & Lyle and includes matters relating to the Groups operations in place to address any issues identified details of the role and activities of the and performance.
All resolutions are during those reviews.
decided by means of a poll and the votes received in respect of each resolution, 2013 review of the effectiveness of the together with the level of abstentions, are system of internal control notified to the London Stock Exchange Each year, the Board, with the assistance and published on the Companys website.
of the Audit and CR Committees, conducts Shareholders are offered the choice of a review of the effectiveness of the systems receiving shareholder documentation, of risk management and internal control.
including the Annual Report, electronically In 2013, this review was facilitated by the or in paper format as well as the choice of internal audit function and covered the submitting proxy votes either electronically period from the start of the financial year or by post.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 45
