Operational Review Bulk Ingredients Stable long-term cash flows to fuel our growth Market conditions Bulk Ingredients manufactures In the US, the worst drought in the and markets a range of mid-west for 56 years affected both the size and quality of the 2012 13 harvest products including nutritive with supply falling from the original US sweeteners, industrial Department of Agricultures USDA 1 2 projections of 15.6 million to 11.9 million starches, ethanol, acidulants bushels -24%, resulting in a sharp rise and animal feed, for food in corn prices during the summer.
While corn prices remained high and volatile and beverage, industrial throughout the remainder of the financial and agricultural customers year, they eased slightly during the second half based on higher projections for ending around the world.
stocks and on the latest planting intentions Matt Wineinger President for the new harvest which if realised, would Bulk Ingredients also represent the highest acreage since 1936. partners with an increasing Corn prices in Europe, where the harvest Our aim is to provide was also affected by a hot and dry summer, number of bio-based a sustainable source followed a similar pattern to the US.
materials companies of cash to drive growth The extremely dry and hot conditions in the seeking expertise in the in Speciality Food US also affected corn quality with aflatoxin, commercialisation of green a by-product of a grain fungus which tends Ingredients.
Over the to concentrate in certain co-products, chemistry fermentation.
One last three years, we present in the harvest particularly in those such partnership is our joint areas hardest hit by the drought.
have taken a number venture with DuPont which of steps to diversify Sugar is the key competitor of many of manufactures Bio-PDO a our corn bulk sweeteners.
World sugar our income streams prices fell during the year reflecting better bio-based ingredient used into new areas and supplies, underpinned by a better harvest in the textile and plastics in Brazil, which helped stock levels to to reduce volatility recover and created a global surplus.
US, prices also fell as a result of a record beet harvest, a large crop in Mexico where sugar prices also fell and the USDAs decision to allow additional imports before the size of the domestic crop was known.
Conversely, EU prices remained high and increased slightly during the year reflecting Sales Customers Products Large, multi-national food and Liquid sweeteners includingcorn 2,309m beverage manufacturers syrup, dextrose and glucose Paper and board producers Industrial starches 2012 2,201m Fuel and gasoline suppliers Citric acid Textile manufacturers Bio-fuels Adjusted operating profit Animal feed compounders Animal feed including corngluten feed and corn gluten meal 182m 2012 172m 1 10 May 2012.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 18 Operational Review Operational Review Year to 31 March Change 2013 2012 Constant m m Reported currency Sales 2 309 2 201 5% 6% Adjusted operating profit 182 172 6% 7% Margin 7.9% 7.8% 10 bps 10 bps the undersupply of imports from preferential conditions in US ethanol and a 8 million comparative period, we delivered a better cane sugar suppliers over the last few adverse impact from aflatoxin.
The full performance for the year overall driven years, something that has led the EU year result includes the release of accrued by firmer pricing.
In Europe, while volumes Commission to intervene to boost supply.
royalties and other expenses totalling were broadly in line with the prior year, unit 4.5 million following the settlement of margins were somewhat lower reflecting While US domestic demand for nutritive the commercial dispute with Whitefox higher corn costs.
This part of the business sweeteners continued its long-term after the year end.
The effect of exchange remains particularly sensitive to changes downward trend, once again strong translation was to decrease operating in the macro-economic environment.
seasonal demand and an increase in profit by 2 million.
exports helped offset this decline with In US ethanol, which represents a small Mexico continuing to represent the major This business unit comprises three broad part of our business, the challenging export destination.
In Europe, higher corn product categories namely: sweeteners: market conditions resulted in negative prices during the second half reduced industrial starches, acidulants and ethanol: margins for much of the period and an isoglucose HFCS margins.
increase in operating losses for the full year compared to the prior year.
In the US and Europe, overall consumption Sweeteners of paper and board, the main sources of In the Americas, bulk corn sweeteners The performance of our citric acid business demand for our industrial starches, was volumes decreased by 1% and sales was slightly better than the prior year with slightly lower than the prior year.
increased by 8% 7% in constant currency higher volumes more than offsetting the to 942 million 2012 876 million due impact of higher raw material costs.
Having The market for US ethanol continued to be to higher corn prices.
Having achieved made a loss last year, our Bio-PDO joint challenging with negative industry margins a modest increase in HFCS unit margins venture delivered a better performance and inventory overhang for much of the in the 2012 contracting round, profits generating a small operating profit during period as a result of oversupply, following were higher within this segment than the period.
the removal of the blenders tax credit in the comparative period despite the December 2011, and high corn prices.
As part of our strategy to diversify and In response, some industry capacity has reduce volatility within our Bulk Ingredients come off-line in order to get a better In Europe, sales of bulk corn sweeteners business unit, our Bio-Ventures team balance between supply and demand, increased by 4% 10% in constant continued to work on a number of projects leading to lower levels of industry utilisation currency to 146 million 2012 141 to leverage our fermentation facilities with and inventory.
million with volumes in line with the prior our green-chemistry partners.
While unit margins during the first 2012, we completed the first successful Against a backdrop of high corn prices half were higher as a result of higher sugar commercial scale production of and the severe drought in the US, prices prices which provide the reference price 1,4-Butanediol Bio-BDO with our partner for animal feed increased in the summer for isoglucose HFCS in the EU, they were Genomatica using a bio-based peaking in September and remaining high squeezed during the second half on the manufacturing process at our joint-venture for the remainder of the financial year.
back of higher corn prices, with the overall facility in Loudon, Tennessee.
However, as anticipated, the increased performance for the full year ahead of the concentration of aflatoxin above certain comparative period.
Co-products thresholds, particularly in corn gluten meal, Sales of co-products increased by 9% restricted the end markets into which these Operating profits from Almex, our 9% in constant currency to 554 million co-products could be sold, reducing Mexican joint venture, were up on the 2012 507 million.
For the full year, average prices in the second half.
overall we generated a small amount of net additional income from co-products with Industrial starches, acidulants and gains made in corn gluten feed partially Financial performance ethanol offset by lower returns on corn gluten Bulk Ingredients volumes decreased by Sales of industrial starches, acidulants and meal where quality and prices have been 2% as we continued our strategy of ethanol decreased by 2% flat at constant affected by aflatoxin.
We will continue diverting grind to produce speciality food currency to 667 million 2012 677 to manage the risk posed by aflatoxin ingredients, with sales up 5% 6% in million with volumes down by 5%.
throughout the current crop until the new constant currency to 2,309 million harvest in the autumn of 2013.
2012 2,201 million as a result of higher In industrial starches, volumes were 5% corn prices.
Adjusted operating profit lower as we continued to switch a Since over 80% of our US corn grind is increased by 6% 7% in constant currency proportion of corn grind to speciality food utilised to produce bulk ingredients, the to 182 million 2012 172 million driven ingredients.
In the US where we are able to majority of the impact from co-products by a strong performance from bulk contract for longer periods than in Europe, is recorded within this segment.
sweeteners in both the US and Europe, while volumes were lower than the partially offset by challenging market Group outlook for the year ending 31 March 2014: pg 14 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 19
