Statutory, Regulatory and Other Information Introduction Each of the Directors proposed for election or re-election at the AGM This section contains the remaining matters on which the Directors is being unanimously recommended by all of the other members of are required to report each year, which do not appear elsewhere in the Board.
This recommendation follows the completion of the annual this Directors Report.
Certain other matters required to be reported performance evaluation process, which included a detailed appraisal on appear elsewhere in the Report and Accounts as detailed below: of the Board, its Committees and in respect of each Director.
Further information relating to the evaluation is set out below and in the the Strategy Report introduced by the Department for Business Corporate Governance Report on page 50.
Innovation & Skills BIS appears on pages 6 to 36: The Articles of Association of the Company further regulate the the revised reporting on Remuneration introduced by BIS appointment and removal of Directors, as does the Companies Act appears on pages 60 to 75: 2006 and related legislation.
The Companys Articles of Association the new reporting on the Companys carbon footprint introduced may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers by BIS appears on page 26: of the Directors are described in the Corporate Governance Report.
a list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings, including branches outside the UK, principally affecting the profits or net Qualifying third party indemnity assets of the Group in the year appears on page 141: The Company has granted an indemnity in favour of its Directors and changes in asset values are set out in the consolidated officers and those of its Group companies against the financial exposure that they may incur in the course of their professional duties as Directors balance sheet on page 87 and in the Notes to the accounts on pages 90 to 122: and officers of the Company and or its subsidiaries affiliates.
The indemnity has been put in place in accordance with section 234 of the the Groups profit before taxation and the profit after taxation Companies Act 2006 in respect of which the Company took advice and minority interests appear in the consolidated income from Slaughter and May.
statement on page 85 and in the Notes to the accounts on pages 90 to 122: Audit and auditor a detailed statement of the Groups treasury management Each Director has, at the date of approval of this Report, confirmed that: and funding is set out in Note 20 on pages 107 to 109, and: to the best of their knowledge there is no relevant audit a statement that this Annual Report and Accounts meets the information of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and: requirements of Provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Code the Code, as set out in the Corporate Governance a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant Report on page 54. audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor Directors is aware of that information.
The following Directors held office throughout the year: This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Kevin Beeston, Chairman: with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Pete Redfern, Chief Executive: Deloitte LLP have confirmed their willingness to continue in office as auditor of the Company.
Following a review by the Audit Committee Ryan Mangold, Group Finance Director: of their effectiveness, details of which are set out on page 56, a James Jordan, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary: resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP will be proposed at the AGM.
Kate Barker, Independent Non Executive Director: It is the Companys general policy that its auditors will not carry out non-audit services except where it is appropriate to do so and in Mike Hussey, Independent Non Executive Director: accordance with the Companys formal policy for the carrying out Tony Reading, Independent Non Executive Director, and: of such work.
Deloitte LLP provided non-audit services to the Group during the year within the policy framework as described in the Audit Rob Rowley, Independent Non Executive Director and Senior Committee Report, details of which are set out in Note 6 on page 98.
Annual General Meeting Margaret Ford was appointed an Independent Non Executive Director The AGM will be held at 11:00 am on 17 April 2014 at The British Medical on 25 April 2013.
Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, London, WC1H 9JP.
Brenda Dean, Independent Non Executive Director, retired on Formal notice of the AGM including details of special business is set out 25 April 2013. in the Notice of Meeting on pages 132 to 139 and on the Companys The Directors together with their biographical information are shown website www.
Voting on all resolutions at this years on pages 42 and 43.
AGM will again be conducted by way of a poll as the Board believes this gives as many shareholders as possible the opportunity to have their Retirement, election and re-election votes counted, whether their votes are tendered by proxy in advance of, The Company has determined that in accordance with the UK or in person at the AGM.
Corporate Governance Code, all Directors, other than Tony Reading who is retiring at the conclusion of the AGM, should seek election Web communication or re-election, as appropriate, at this years AGM as explained in the With shareholders consent, the Company has adopted Web Notes to the Notice of Meeting and on page 50 of the Corporate communication.
The benefits of Web communication are that it: Governance Report.
enables the Company to significantly reduce its printing and postage costs: enables shareholders to access information faster, on the day documents are published on the Companys website, and: reduces the amount of resources consumed, such as paper, and lessens the impact of printing and mailing activities on the environment.
76 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 Shareholder communications including the 2013 Annual Report and Substantial interests in the Companys shares as at Accounts are available electronically through the Companys website.
25 February 2014 Percentage of The Company provides hard copy documentation to those Number of shares issued voting Name held millions share capital shareholders who have requested this and is, of course, happy to meet any such requests.
BlackRock Inc 205.9 6.37 J. P. Morgan Asset Management Registrar Holdings Inc 159.6 4.99 The Companys registrar is Capita Asset Services.
Their details, Legal & General Group Plc 103.4 3.20 together with information on facilities available to shareholders, Standard Life Investments Limited 96.4 3.01 are set out in the Shareholder Facilities section on page 140.
Capital structure Dividend Details of the Companys issued share capital, together with details Information relating to the recommended 2013 final dividend is set out of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during in the Chairmans Statement on page 8 and in the notes to resolution 2 the year are shown in Note 23 on page 116. on page 132 in the Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Company has two classes of shares: Ordinary Shares of 1p, The Company will be operating a Dividend Re-Investment Plan, further each of which carries the right to one vote at general meetings of details of which are set out on page 136 of this Annual Report.
the Company and such other rights and obligations as are set out The right to receive any dividend has been waived in part by the Trustee in the Companys Articles of Association, and: Deferred Shares of the Companys Employee Share Ownership Trusts over those Trusts which carry no voting rights.
As part of the debt restructuring announced on 21 April 2009 the Research and development Company issued Warrants to certain of its lenders giving the holders During 2013 the Company continued to build the new standard the right, up to 29 April 2014, to subscribe for up to an aggregate of house type range in significant numbers.
This enabled us to validate approximately 58 million Ordinary Shares representing approximately the work that been undertaken in developing them.
This is delivering 5% of the Companys issued share capital at the time the Warrants the customer offering, urban design, cost and process benefits that were issued.
Warrants remain over approximately 0.3% of the current had been targeted.
Feedback from customers and the Companys issued share capital at the subscription price per share of 17.4473 regional business units is used in refining the range and to ensure we pence 25 pence prior to the Placing and Open Offer.
The Warrants have the best house type range to support the business and to provide are transferable and carry entitlement to subscription for three months customers with what they want.
To that end our continued development after the passing of a resolution for the winding-up of the Company.
work will look at ways of enhancing the homes and offering more To date, aggregate exercises of Warrants have resulted in the issue customer choice as well as capturing best practice in their use within of 48.6 million new Ordinary Shares of 1p each.
The authority given by shareholders at the AGM held on 25 April 2013 We continue to work with our supply chain to identify new products for the Company to purchase a maximum of 323 million of its own and techniques available to us and appraise them before they will be shares remained valid at 31 December 2013.
The authority was not needed.
We are also continuing to push our strategy of fabric first in exercised during 2013 or prior to the date of this Report.
The Company meeting energy efficiency as well as evaluating carbon offset methods has no current intention of exercising the authority but will nevertheless of meeting allowable solutions on an individual site basis.
As an adjunct be seeking the usual renewal of this authority at the AGM.
The to our R & D we continue to contribute to several industry working Company currently holds no shares in treasury.
groups looking at energy efficiency, changes to building regulations and There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding, the exercise standards and how to close the gap between design and performance.
of voting rights, nor on the transfer of shares, which are governed by Taylor Wimpey sits on the Advisory Board of HOMBRE Holistic the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are Management of Brownfield Regeneration, a four year Seventh not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys Framework EU funded research project looking at sustainable brownfield shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities re-use.
We continue to work with WRAP Waste and Resources Action or on voting rights.
Programme, most notably on their programme on Clay Bricks & Blocks Details of employee share schemes are set out in the Remuneration Resource Efficiency Action Plan REAP which was completed in 2013.
The Employee Share Ownership Trusts generally Through CIRIA Construction Industry Research Information Association abstain from voting in respect of shares held by them.
Taylor Wimpey personnel have continued to contribute to Steering No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share Groups on asbestos in soils and quality control for the installation capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Substantial interests The persons set out in the table below have notified the Company pursuant to Rule 5.1 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of their interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
At 25 February 2014, no change in these holdings had been notified nor, according to the Register of Members, did any other shareholder at that date have a disclosable holding of the Companys issued share capital.
Directors interests, including interests in the Companys shares, are shown in the Remuneration Report.
co. uk 77 Statutory, Regulatory and Other Information continued Employee involvement and communication Employment of people with disabilities The Company is committed to ensuring open and regular It is our policy that people with disabilities should have fair consideration communication throughout the Group on both business-related for all vacancies within the Group.
issues and issues of general interest.
There is a formal Employee The Company is therefore committed, where possible, to ensuring Consultative Committee structure in place in all operations and that people with disabilities are supported and encouraged to apply elected representatives meet with management to consult on for employment and to achieve progress once employed.
Intranet systems are continually updated which will be treated so as to ensure that they have an equal opportunity provide a valuable communication tool across the Group and an to be selected, trained and promoted.
In addition, every reasonable important facility for providing employees with access to a wide range effort is made for disabled persons to be retained in the employment of information.
Information is regularly cascaded throughout the Group of the Group by investigating the possibility of making reasonable via e-mail including regular communications from the Chief Executive adjustments to the job, workplace or equipment.
and via verbal briefings and by management presentations.
The Companys internal magazine provides further communication.
Charitable donations The Company has a Charity Committee, which operates within There is an internal forum on the Groups intranet inviting employees written terms of reference and charitable guidelines approved by the to comment and make suggestions on the Companys strategy and Board.
The Committees aims are to monitor and review charitable its implementation with each one being read by the Chief Executive donations made by regional businesses as against the guidelines and and responded to.
to assess and administer larger donations centrally.
The members of the Committee are the Group HR Director Chairman, Group Legal This is in addition to the continuing forum on the intranet called Open Door which allows direct communication with the Chief Director and Company Secretary, UK Land and Planning Director, Group Financial Controller, Head of Marketing and Head of Investor Executive on strategic areas of focus and other matters in order to enable all employees to contribute and comment.
The Company and the Committee encourage non-financial contributions also and for employees to participate in charitable causes.
are encouraged to participate and use the forum.
The Company promotes share ownership as widely as possible.
During the year, Group companies donated 255,000 2012: 247,000 In 2012 a new scheme was introduced whereby employees were and an additional 80 2012: 476 hours of volunteer time to various offered the opportunity to exchange part of any cash bonus for charities in the UK.
exceptional performance, into shares of the Company, offering a Further information on the Groups donations, activities and 20% enhancement to the value if taken entirely in shares with a initiatives can be found in the 2013 Corporate Responsibility holding period of 12 months.
The second such offer was made Report which is available on the Companys website: in 2013 and resulted in 697,185 shares 2012: 934,516 being www.
co. uk corporate  acquired by 294 employees 2012: 255.
Political donations In addition, the Company maintains all-employee share plans, including The Company has a policy of not making donations to political parties, the Save As You Earn share option plan and the Share Incentive Plan has not made any this year and neither does it intend to.
The Company SIP, which are offered as widely as possible across the Group.
Over does support certain industry-wide organisations which directly assist half of our eligible employees 53.2% 2012: 48.5% participate in one the housebuilding industry such as the Home Builders Federation or both plans or are otherwise already shareholders of the Company.
and the Confederation of British Industry CBI.
Whilst we do not regard this as political in nature, the Companies Act 2006 definition Equal opportunities As set out in our Diversity Policy, we remain committed to equality of political organisations and related terms is very wide and in certain circumstances a donation or a subscription to a charity or other of opportunity in all of our employment practices, policies and procedures across the Group.
To this end, within the framework of organisation could retrospectively be categorised as a political donation.
Accordingly, the Company will be seeking the usual annual dispensation applicable law, we are committed, wherever practicable, to achieving and maintaining a workforce which broadly reflects that of the local at the Annual General Meeting as a matter of prudency.
catchment area within which we operate.
No employee or potential Policy on payment of suppliers employee will receive less favourable treatment due to their race, The nature of the Groups operations means that there is no single creed, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion, political or other Group standard in respect of payment terms to suppliers.
Generally, opinion, affiliation, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, family business units are responsible for establishing payment terms with connections, age, membership or non-membership of a trade suppliers when entering into each transaction or series of linked union, or disability, unless justifiable in exceptional circumstances, transactions.
In the absence of dispute, valid payment requests are for example due to health and safety considerations.
Instruction on met as expeditiously as possible within such terms.
Our standard equal opportunities is part of the induction programme and diversity framework agreements with contractors establish the due date for is also promoted through awareness training locally and by its inclusion payment as 30 days from the later of the date of issue of the invoice as a business priority at strategy presentations around the business.
or request for payment, or the relevant month end notified by the Our Diversity Policy which can be found on the Companys website: employer, and for suppliers, the due date for payment is the end of www.
co. uk corporate  our-policies the month following the month of receipt of the suppliers invoice for goods and or services delivered to the Company.
Trade creditor days for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2013 were 41 days 2012: 36 days.
This is based on the ratio of year end Group trade creditors excluding sub-contract retentions and unagreed claims of 39.6 million 2012: 38.9 million and land creditors, see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements to amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
The Company had no significant trade creditors at 31 December 2013.
78 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 Agreements A new requirement introduced for this years reporting by Apart from a small number of borrowing agreements, pursuant to Provision C. 1 of the Code is for Directors to: which the Company borrows or is able to borrow money, which could ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts provides potentially be terminated by the other party upon a change of control of the information necessary for shareholders to assess the the Company, there are no significant contracts or agreements which Companys performance, business model and strategy: take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
and as part of that process, Important events since the year end report on the significant items considered in connection with There have been no important events affecting the Company or any the preparation of the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
of its subsidiary undertakings since 31 December 2013.
Details of how these areas were addressed are set out in the Directors responsibilities statement Audit Committee Report on page 59.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Responsibility statement Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the consolidation taken as a whole: the parent company financial statements in accordance with United the strategic report includes a fair review of the development Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom and performance of the business and the position of the Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and risks and uncertainties that they face: and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide are required to: the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable This Report of the Directors was approved by the Board of Directors and prudent: on 25 February 2014. state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
James Jordan In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Group Legal Director and Company Secretary Standard 1 requires that Directors: Taylor Wimpey plc 25 February 2014 properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
co. uk 79 80 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial Statements 03 In this section 82 Independent Auditors report 85 Consolidated Income Statement 86 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 87 Consolidated Balance Sheet 88 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 89 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 90 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 123 Company Balance Sheet 124 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 130 Particulars of Principal Subsidiary Undertakings 131 Five Year Review Diglis Water, The Midlands Diglis Water is a regeneration project which lines the banks of the River Severn.
co. uk for more information Taylor Wimpey plc www.
