Board of Directors Kevin Beeston Ryan Mangold Baroness Ford of Cunninghame Chairman Group Finance Director Independent Non Executive Director Appointed as a Director and to the post Appointed as a Director and to the post of Appointed as a Non Executive Director on of Chairman in July 2010, Kevin chairs the Group Finance Director in November 2010, 25 April 2013, Margaret is a member of the Nomination Committee and is a member of the Ryan previously held the post of Group Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
He is Chairman of Financial Controller from April 2009.
Before She is Chairman of Barchester Healthcare Ltd. Equiniti Group Limited, Partnerships in Care joining Taylor Wimpey, Ryan was Group and STV Group plc and a Non Executive Limited and Domestic & General Limited.
He Financial Controller of Mondi Group for five Director of Grainger plc and SEGRO plc.
An was formerly Chairman of Serco Group plc years, prior to which he held a number of Honorary Professor of Real Estate at Glasgow and a Non Executive Director of IMI plc.
senior finance roles with the Anglo American University and an Honorary Member of the plc group of companies.
Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors, she Pete Redfern formerly chaired the Olympic Park Legacy Chief Executive James Jordan Company, English Partnerships and May Appointed as a Director and to the post of Group Legal Director and Company Secretary Gurney Integrated Services Plc, and had Chief Executive in July 2007.
Pete is a member Appointed Group Legal Director and Company a long career in management consulting of the Nomination Committee.
He was Secretary in July 2011, James, a solicitor, was with Price Waterhouse and then Eglinton previously Group Chief Executive of George previously Group Company Secretary and Management Centre, which she founded.
Wimpey plc and before that successively held General Counsel of George Wimpey Plc the posts of Finance Director and Chief from February 2002 until July 2007, when Rob Rowley Executive of George Wimpeys UK Housing he was appointed to the same position with Independent Non Executive Director business.
He is a Trustee of the homelessness Taylor Wimpey plc.
Before joining the Group, and Senior Independent Director charity Crisis.
James held senior legal and company Appointed as a Non Executive Director in secretary roles in industry which included January 2010 and as Senior Independent positions with The Rugby Group Plc and Director in April 2010, Rob is Chairman of English China Clays Plc.
the Audit Committee and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
He is a Non Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC and is a Non Executive Director of Morgan Advanced Materials plc.
He was previously Deputy Chairman of Cable and Wireless plc, a Director of Reuters Plc, and a Non Executive Director of Prudential plc: Taylor Nelson Sofres plc: and Intu Properties plc where he was Chairman of the Audit Committee.
42 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 The strength and depth of our Board adds value to the effective control and leadership of the Company.
Standing from left to right: Rob Rowley, Baroness Ford of Cunninghame, Kate Barker CBE and James Jordan.
Seated from left to right: Ryan Mangold, Pete Redfern, Kevin Beeston, Mike Hussey and Tony Reading MBE.
Tony Reading MBE Kate Barker CBE Board tenure Independent Non Executive Director Independent Non Executive Director Appointed as a Non Executive Director in July Appointed as a Non Executive Director in 2007, Tony is Chairman of the Remuneration April 2011, Kate is a member of the Audit and Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
She is a business Nomination Committees.
He was previously economist and is presently a Senior Adviser a Director of Tomkins Plc and Chairman and to Credit Suisse and a Non Executive Director Chief Executive of Tomkins Corp. USA, a of Electra Private Equity plc and the Yorkshire Non Executive Director of Spectris Plc and Building Society.
Previously, Kate was a Laird Plc and e2v Technologies plc and was a member of the Bank of Englands Monetary Non Executive Director of George Wimpey Plc Policy Committee MPC from 2001 until prior to its merger with Taylor Woodrow plc.
During this period, she also led two major policy reviews for Government, Mike Hussey on housing supply and on land use planning.
1-4 years Independent Non Executive Director Before joining the MPC she was Chief 4 years Appointed as a Non Executive Director in Economic Adviser at the CBI.
Kate was July 2011, Mike is a member of the Audit and awarded a CBE in 2005 for services to Nomination Committees.
He is Chief Executive social housing.
Board composition of Almacantar, a private property investment Nomination Committee Current members: and development company which he founded Kevin Beeston Committee Chairman, in February 2010.
He has held a number of Kate Barker, Margaret Ford, Mike Hussey, senior roles in the property sector, most Tony Reading, Pete Redfern and Rob Rowley.
recently as an Executive Board Director of Land Securities plc.
Prior to that position, For mor KPI e information see page 51 Mike was Head of Leasing and Marketing for Canary Wharf Group plc, a partner at Knight Audit Committee Current members: Rob Rowley Committee Chairman, Kate Barker, Frank, Chairman of the Regeneration and Mike Hussey and Tony Reading.
Development Committee of the British Property Federation and a Trustee of For more information see page 53 KPI LandAid, the property industry charity.
Remuneration Committee Current members: Chairman Tony Reading Committee Chairman, Kevin Beeston, Margaret Ford and Rob Rowley.
Independent Non Executive Directors Executive Directors For mor KPI e information see page 53 Taylor Wimpey plc www.
