Audit Committee the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns 22 about possible financial reporting irregularities.
During the year, Ronald Stewart was chairman of the Audit committee the Committee.
The other committee members During 2012 the Committee, supported by the senior management were Robert Breare until resignation on 9 January 2013 and team, conducted a rigorous tender process in respect of the David Bernstein.
external audit contract in line with Provision C. 3.7. of the Code.
CORPORATE The incumbent auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, plus four other rms Provision C. 3.1. of the Code sets out differing requirements  LLP, Ernst & Young LLP, Deloitte LLP for smaller companies and larger companies in relation to the and BDO LLP were invited to submit proposals to the Committee membership of the Companys Audit Committee.
As noted above, GOVERNANCE and, of those five, two were short-listed and invited to present the Company entered the FTSE 350 index of companies only part to the Committee in further detail.
Having carefully considered way through the financial year under review: the Board is therefore the proposals and presentations put forward by all applicants, the of Senior Independent Director, was appointed as his successor.
of the view that its compliance with the Code for the year ended STATEMENTS Committee determined that the reappointment of KPMG would 26 January 2013 should be assessed against the provisions applying Following this change, Ronald Stewart was appointed as Senior be in the best interests of the Company.
The Audit Committee to smaller companies.
Independent Director and Anne Sheineld as Chairman of the is satisfied that KPMG are independent of the Company and Remuneration Committee.
Mr Stewart and Mrs Sheineld are that the external audit has been conducted in an objective and Following the resignation of Robert Breare in January 2013, and in considered by the Board to be independent of management and free light of the enhanced requirements of the Code applying to larger effective manner.
of any relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise companies, the Board is in the process of reviewing the membership of their independent judgement.
The Financial Reporting Council recently issued a revised UK of the Committee, but is satisfied that all members have recent and Corporate Governance Code and revised guidance for audit The Board meets regularly throughout the year.
It considers all relevant financial experience.
The Board and the Audit Committee have scheduled issues relating to the strategy, direction and future development Statement of Compliance with the Code time in 2013 to discuss how the Company can best comply with During the year ended 26 January 2012, the Committee undertook of the Group.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it The Board notes that, during the financial year ended 26 January these new requirements.
a formal evaluation of its own performance, which has been revisited for decision that is regularly updated.
The requirement for Board 2013, it entered the FTSE 350 index of companies and acknowledges informally during the current year.
Given the companys entry into approval on these matters is understood and communicated widely Nomination Committee that additional requirements are placed on the constituents of this the FTSE 350, the Board is reviewing the evaluation process around throughout the Group.
The non-executive directors meet with the index under the provisions of the Code.
Whilst the Company has During the year the Nomination Committee the Committee performance for the year ending January 2014.
Chairman separately during the year.
In addition the non-executive endeavoured to comply with these additional requirements, there was chaired by Robert Breare and its other members were David directors meet without the Chairman present to appraise the are a number of areas in which full compliance has not as yet been The Committee meets at least twice a year to review and recommend Bernstein and Ronald Stewart.
The composition of the Committee Chairmans performance.
achieved, and the Board is of the view that the Companys compliance the interim and annual financial statements, before submission during the year complied with Provision B.
2.1. of the Code, however, against the Code during the year under review should be fairly for approval by the Board, and consider any matters raised by following the resignation of Robert Breare, the Board is in the Operational decision making, operational performance and the assessed against the provisions applying to smaller companies.
The Committee considers all significant financial process of reviewing the Committees membership.
It is noted that formulation of strategic proposals to the Board are controlled by the Board will seek to achieve compliance with the enhanced provisions reporting judgements contained in the financial statements, the appointment of David Bernstein as Chairman, following the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee meets regularly for larger Companies during its next financial year and the areas including accounting policies and compliance, areas of management resignation of Robert Breare, was determined to be an issue most throughout the year.
in which the Company is not currently compliant are outlined and judgements and estimates and the effectiveness of financial reporting appropriately considered and decided upon by the Board as a whole, explained below.
To enable the Board to function effectively and the directors to as Mr Stewart was the only independent member of the Nomination discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is provided to Committee in respect of such matter.
Statement About Applying the Main Principles of the Code The Committee oversees the Companys relationship with the all relevant information.
There is an agreed procedure for directors to external auditors, makes recommendations to the Board in The Committee is responsible for nominating candidates for The Company has applied the Main Principles set out in the Code.
take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys relation to their appointment, reappointment and removal and appointment to the Board.
The Board has been satisfied that the Further explanation of how the principles have been applied is set expense.
This is in addition to the access every director has to the approves their remuneration and terms of engagement.
The Board size and composition of the Board has been appropriate throughout out below and, in connection with directors remuneration, in the Company Secretary.
and Committee also review the independence of the external the year and it has been unnecessary for the Committee to meet Directors Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 37. auditors and consider the engagement of the external auditors to The Company maintains an appropriate level of director and during the year.
The Board supply non-audit services.
officer liability insurance cover in place and, through the Articles All non-executive directors are advised of the time commitment of Association and directors terms of appointment, has agreed to The Board currently comprises a non-executive Chairman, the The Company has adopted a formal policy on the supply of nonconsidered necessary to enable them to full their responsibilities indemnify the directors against certain liabilities to third parties and Chief Executive, one other executive director and two independent audit services by the external auditors.
They may only provide such prior to appointment.
costs and expenses incurred as a result of holding office as a director.
Biographies of these directors appear services on condition that such advice does not conict with their Save for such indemnity provisions in the Companys Articles of on page 29.
The Board is of the view that its current membership The terms of reference for the Committee are available on request statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance.
The Committee Association and in the Directors terms of appointment, there are provides an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence from the Company Secretary.
Chairmans pre-approval is required before the Company uses nonno qualifying third party indemnity provisions in force.
and knowledge, which enables it to discharge its responsibilities audit services that exceed financial limits set out by that policy and Appointments to the Board effectively.
Board and Committee attendance the aggregate spend is also reviewed by the Committee on an annual Newly appointed directors are given training appropriate to the level basis.
Details of the auditors remuneration for audit and non-audit The table below details the number of Board and committee meetings On 9 January 2013, Robert Breare stepped down as Non-Executive of their previous experience.
Non-executive directors meet regularly fees are disclosed in note 3 to the financial statements.
held during the year ended 26 January 2013 and the attendance Chairman of the Company, having served in that role for more than with members of the Executive Committee and other personnel record of each director.
11 years, and David Bernstein, who previously held the position The Committee recognises that the independence of the auditors within the organisation.
In addition, site visits ensure that the is an essential part of the audit framework and the assurance that non-executive directors gain first-hand experience of developments it provides.
The Committee monitors any non-audit work that is within the Group.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination undertaken by the external auditors to ensure that their objectivity meetings Committee Committee Committee Any director appointed during the year is required, under the and independence is not compromised.
Number of meetings held 12 3 3 - provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, to retire and seek Robert Breare 10 3 3 - The Committee has formally reviewed the independence of the re-election by the shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
auditors during the year as part of the 2012 review.
KPMG Audit David A Bernstein 73 2 - Plc have provided a letter to the Committee conrming that the The Companys Articles of Association require one third of the Ronald Stewart 10 3 3 - directors for the time being to retire, and each director to retire remain independent within the meaning of the regulations on this Anne Sheineld 9--- from office at least once every three years.
However, as reported last matter and in accordance with their professional standards.
Raymond S Kelvin 11 - - - year, the Board previously determined that the directors would retire Lindsay D Page 12 - - - The Committee is responsible for the review of the Companys and stand for re-election on an annual basis, in line with Provision procedures for responding to the allegations of whistleblowers and B.
DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE TED BAKER ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 13 23
