28 The talent, commitment and passion of the Ted Baker team are key factors in the success of our business and brand.
The value we place on our team is shown in the way we motivate them, encourage learning and development, nurture their growth and potential, and PEOPLE recognise and reward their contributions.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS Reward and Recognition The prevention and identication of risks and accidents is supported by an external Health and Safety service provider and ongoing Remuneration is reviewed annually and a benchmarking review is training of management teams.
A dedicated Health and Safety undertaken to ensure we remain competitive and fair across all areas David Alan Bernstein Non-Executive Chairman 69 Ronald Stewart Non-Executive Director 65 focused team member has been appointed and will strengthen our of the business.
Our rewards include bonus schemes linked to sales knowledge and commitment in this area of our business.
targets and individual and corporate performance.
We encourage Ron spent all his 39 year banking career at The Royal Bank of David is Chairman of The Football Association and Non-Executive our people to join our Save As You Earn SAYE schemes.
This Scotland PLC, retiring in 2003 as Deputy Managing Director of its Director of Wembley National Stadium Limited.
Previously he was Disabled Employees year we celebrated our third year of Wisdom Awards: recognition for Corporate Banking Department in London.
He is a trustee of several joint Managing Director of Pentland Group PLC, Chairman of Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully the longer serving members of the team and a chance for them to Christian charities and a Governor of Reeds School in Surrey.
He is Manchester City PLC, Blacks Leisure PLC and French Connection and fairly considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant celebrate and share their stories with the rest of the team.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Nomination PLC.
He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee and a concerned.
In the event of members of the team becoming and Remuneration Committees.
Ron is an independent director and member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
David is an Learning and Development disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment the Senior Non-Executive Director.
with the Group continues and that where appropriate reasonable Performance is reviewed bi-annually with each team member to adjustments are made and relevant training is arranged.
It is the policy discuss personal and career development.
Within this process, goals Anne Sheineld Non-Executive Director 47 Raymond Stuart Kelvin, CBE Chief Executive 57 of the Group that the training, career development and promotion and objectives are set and linked to personal growth and business Closest Man To Ted of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical with that Anne was appointed as a non-executive director on 15 June 2010. development as well as Teds environmental and social commitments.
Anne is a commercial lawyer with more than two decades of We allow our people to broaden their abilities and knowledge by Ray, the founder of Ted Baker, has worked in the fashion industry for post qualication experience in the theatre, TV and music areas exposing them to new experiences.
We invest in training which over 39 years.
In 1973 he founded PC Clothing Limited, a supplier Culture of entertainment and has a wealth of intellectual property and ranges from specialist and technical skills training, to in-house of womenswear to high street retailers.
In 1987 Ray developed the The spirit in which we conduct our business and interact with our developed courses focusing on management skills, leadership skills, commercial legal experience.
She is Chairman of the Remuneration Ted Baker brand and has been Chief Executive of Ted Baker since team always takes into consideration Would Ted do it that way?.
Firm career paths exist across Committee.
Anne is an independent director.
In the New Year Honours List of 2011 Ray was We regularly host internal events, including Teducation sessions with the Group and inter-departmental and international moves play a appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire CBE for the Chief Executive, telling the story behind the brand, and also Robert Breare 60 Resigned 9 January 2013 large part in retaining and growing talent.
services to the fashion industry.
family days where we open our doors to family and friends.
Diversity Robert has extensive experience of consumer facing businesses Employer Brand Lindsay Dennis Page, MA, ACA Finance Director 54 and was formerly a founder and chief executive officer of Arcadian The Group believes in respecting individuals and their rights in the The culture sets the tone for how our employer brand speaks to International PLC, which included Malmaison Hotels.
With this in mind, specic policies are in place covering Lindsay joined Ted Baker as Finance Director in February 1997.
Aligned to the business brand, our Ted tone of voice Executive Officer of Snoozebox Ltd, a luxury portable events hotel harassment and bullying, whistleblowing and equal opportunities.
Our joined Binder Hamlyn in 1981 and became a founder member of the is translated through every employee touch point throughout operating both in the UK and internationally.
Prior to his resignation team represents a wide and diverse workforce from all backgrounds, corporate finance department in 1986 and a partner in 1990.
Our Coach Station department leads the Robert served as the Non-Executive Chairman and was Chairman sexual orientations, nationalities and ethnic and religious groups.
Hamlyn subsequently merged with Arthur Andersen in 1994. way in communicating a unique approach to all people and team of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Remuneration We support sponsorship of visa applications, where appropriate, to orientated activity.
retain specic talent within the business.
With continued overseas expansion our workforce is becoming more diverse and we respect Employee Engagement cultural differences and actively seek to learn about them in each The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its territory we operate.
employees and continues to keep them informed on matters affecting them and on the significant factors affecting the performance of the Health, Safety and Welfare Group.
This is achieved through formal and informal meetings and Our duty and commitment to the well-being of our team is supported employee representatives are consulted regularly on a wide range of by activity such as private healthcare, occupational health, health matters affecting employees current and future interests.
Employees seminars and funding for u jabs.
During the period, we conducted are regularly informed of the Groups performance and the factors a Wellness health assessment day and we offer health and tness affecting its performance during the year.
classes to our team members at our head office.
We also run a Childcare Voucher Scheme.
We launched an Employee Assistance Programme during the year that further supports our genuine concern for the well-being of our team.
DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE TED BAKER ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 13 29
