44 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Report of the Board Membership of the Board The UK Code provides that independent non-executive Directors should comprise at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman.
Chairman independent on appointment executive Directors Independent non-executive Directors John Hughes Chairman Michael Tobin John Hughes, CBE Claudia Arney Chief Executive officer Chairman Chief Financial officer Simon Batey Senior It is an essential part of the ongoing Independent Director success of any business that it should be John OReilly Maurizio Carli led by directors with the relevant skills, Nancy Cruickshank Brian McArthur-Muscroft stepped down from the role of Group Finance Director knowledge and experience to do so.
Their on 31 January 2014 and a replacement is being recruited.
contributions should then be maximised.
In addition, the Chief Commercial Of cer, the Group Financial Controller and the Country Manager of the UK normally attend This is what I aim for in TelecityGroup.
It is, and will remain key to and participate in Board meetings: the ongoing success of our business.
Other country managers also attend meetings periodically to give speci c presentations on their businesses: As part of this, my colleagues on the Board: External speakers may also be invited to present at meetings, Contribute a wealth and range of knowledge, experience and usually on a matter of strategic interest: and skill sets to the Board, our Committees and more widely in the Sahar Elhabashi was also a member of the Board until she Group: and stepped down in March 2013.
Have been appointed to our Board and Committees, over a period of years, ensuring their memberships are Speci c objectives achieved in 2013 progressively refreshed.
Continued to focus on the Groups plans to grow and innovate: Details of our individual Directors and when we were appointed Followed up on results of 2012 Board evaluation on discussion to the Board are shown in our biographies on pages 42 and 43. topics and investor expectations: A diagram showing the progressive timing of our appointments Continued to understand how technological change and is included in my report as Chairman of the Nominations innovation are transforming the business landscape and Committee on page 64.
The introductory sections of the reports impacting the Group: of our Committees later in this governance review show when Focused on asymmetric information risk and sought out their members were appointed.
dissenting views: and Obtained focussed external input on strategic matters.
In this report, I summarise our activities in the past year as a Board.
Speci c objectives set for 2014 Developments during the year Focus on shareholder value creation, review strategy in the light of changing external climate and develop roll-out Building on the developments in previous years and taking updated equity story based on changing environment: account of the results of the Board evaluation last year, we Develop strategy and consequent group organisation to have sought to achieve further improvements in the way the better align with changing market trends, including country Board operates: region organisation and go-to-market strategy: We increased the size of the Board with the appointment of Act on all key findings of Board assessment: and Claudia Arney and Nancy Cruickshank at the same time as Focus even more deeply on information and Sahar Elhabashi stepped down which has enhanced its infrastructure security.
breadth of skills and experience.
We maximised the value from these appointments as quickly as practical through a comprehensive induction programme commented on further in the diagram on page 47.
UK Code Principles: We increased our focus on long-term strategy at each main Every company should be headed by an effective board which is collectively Board meeting concentrating less of these discussions at an responsible for the long-term success of the company.
There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the company between the running of the board and the executive responsibility for the running of the companys business.
No one individual should have unfettered powers of decision.
The chairman is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 45 These discussions included development of the Groups Division of responsibilities ongoing plans for growth and innovation in the context of Clarity of the responsibilities of, and constructive working changes in business landscape.
relationships amongst, our Directors are at the heart of our Board This resulted in the Groups acquisition of businesses in the achieving its maximum potential.
Most important in these are the key developing markets in Istanbul, So a and Warsaw and the responsibilities of, and clarity between, the roles of Mike Tobin as introduction of the Groups Cloud-IX offering all commented Chief Executive Of cer and me as Chairman.
As recommended on further in the Strategic Report commencing on page 2. by the UK Code, we have a clear written division of responsibilities We sought to address asymmetric information risk by widening between our roles.
In practice, though, success of the relationship and opening up presentations to the Board from individual between us results from the constructive way in which Mike and non-Board members of the management team and increasing I work together.
We often discuss matters before and after they the number of meetings between non-executive Directors and are considered at Board meetings.
Where we are not initially in substantial shareholders.
agreement, we debate matters to reach a mutual understanding Whilst we view the process of enhancement as ever evolving as of each others views, at which point the way forward is generally the Group develops, Egon Zehnder in their evaluation of the Board clear.
A summary of our individual responsibilities, and those commented on further on page 64 in my report as Chairman of our Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary, of the Nominations Committee indicated that the Board was undertaken in 2013 is given in the diagram below.
Division of Board responsibilities Chairman Chief Executive Of cer Agreed with the executive Directors subjects for particular Worked with the Chairman in agreeing subjects for particular consideration by the Board during the year.
consideration by the Board during the year.
With the other members of the Nominations Committee, Led the business and the rest of the management team.
led the recruitment of the two new non-executive Directors.
Led the development of the Groups strategy with input from Provided strategic insight from his wide-ranging business the rest of the Board and our advisors.
experience and contacts built up over many years.
Led the management team in the Groups acquisitions in Worked with management in the Government initiative on Istanbul, So a and Warsaw and in new build decisions.
Was the principal public face of the Group with shareholders, Provided a sounding board for the Chief Executive Of cer customers, suppliers and the industry generally.
on key business decisions, challenging proposals Brought matters of particular signi cance or risk to the where appropriate.
Chairman, for discussion and consideration by the Board Met with nine major shareholders on governance matters if appropriate.
and was an alternate point of contact to the Chief Executive Led the recruitment process for the new Chief Of cer for shareholders on other matters as well.
Effective division of responsibilities and Board operation Senior Independent Director Company Secretary Led the evaluation of the Chairman following on from the Secretary to the Board and each of its Committees, reporting results of the externally facilitated evaluation of the Board.
Provided input to management on business governance Assisted the Chairman and executive Directors in bringing the matters commented on further in the report of the Audit matters they had determined appropriate for consideration Committee as well as more generally.
during the year onto speci c meeting agendas.
Reviewed governance processes in the construction of a key Accompanied the Chairman and Senior Independent Director new data centre at meetings with major shareholders and assisted in the Met with five major shareholders on governance matters and reporting of these to other Directors.
was available as a further point of contact for shareholders Kept the Board and its Committees informed on governance on other matters as well.
matters, advising on these through their Chairmen.
With the Chairman, assisted the Chief Executive and Assisted in the ongoing development of Group policies Nominations Committee in developing the job speci cation including those in relation to share dealing and for the recruitment of the new Chief Financial Of cer.
46 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Report of the Board continued Board calendar for 2013 January March February April June July Reviews of: Reviews of: Review of further acquisition Review of development of Investor expectations Swedish business including opportunities strategic business vision Netherlands business and site expansion plans presented by Initial review of Turkish integration Discussions of acquisition redevelopment presented by Swedish country manager opportunities in Eastern Europe.
Update of Committee Netherlands country manager Acquisition opportunities memberships Review and approval of half in Turkey Agreement of Board objectives for the year results, including: Process map for new-builds Post-acquisition review of coming year Finnish acquisitions Report of the Audit Approval of proposals to be submitted Committee to the AGM Announcement Review and approval of annual results, Investor presentation including: May Declaration of interim dividend Report of the Audit Committee Initial presentation by new Review and approval of: Preliminary announcement Chief Information Of cer Acquisition in Turkey Investor presentation Interim Management Annual Report Statement Plans for final dividend Review and discussion of: Review of reports on: Risk management Acquisition opportunities Customer pipeline and Health and safety Strategic considerations forecast updates Environmental matters Trading results and KPIs Site ll rates Current and planned new build projects and signi cant capital Financing and accounting matters expenditure plans and progress UK Code Principle: The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Board meetings The day-to-day management of our business is delegated to operational management within fide ned authority limits.
As shown in the governance calendar for 2013 on page 41, we This includes approval of customer and supplier contracts and hold six main Board meetings each year at two-monthly intervals.
routine capital expenditure within those limits.
Between Board These meetings, together with any meetings of our Committees, meetings, Mike Tobin and I keep in touch on key matters, and we are generally held in London over a period equivalent to involve other Directors or the Board as a whole where either of us approximately one day.
At least twice each year, we meet at one of the Groups other The operation of the business is reported on to the Board as set locations.
In 2013, we visited London Powergate and Paris, out on page 48. where we toured the existing facilities, as well as meeting local management.
Maximising Director contributions Our meeting in Paris included a particular focus on future strategy I seek to maximise the contribution of our Directors at and, where for the Group.
When appropriate for speci c matters, we also appropriate, outside Board and Committee meetings on an meet usually by telephone conference between main meetings.
We have a schedule of matters speci cally reserved to the I chair our Board and Nominations Committee meetings in a way decision of the Board.
We have designed this to ensure that the that ensures full and open discussions, as my fellow Chairmen of decisions of the greatest signi cance are considered by our Board our other Committees do with their meetings.
A high level summary of key matters considered and decided at each Board meeting and strategy meeting during 2013 is shown in the Board Calendar above.
At each main meeting At speci c meetings Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 47 August September October two meetings November two meetings December three meetings Reviews of: Review and approval of updated Review and approval of: Initial review of Turkish business Acquisition opportunities expansion plans in Ireland Interim management statement post acquisition Interaction between Eastern and communication plans Review of French business presented Review and approval of 2014 Budget European, Turkish and other Acquisition in Poland by French country manager and Paris Reviews of: existing markets site visit Results of Board evaluation and Authorisation to proceed with Reviews of: agreement of actions from this acquisition in Bulgaria Business development plans Group strategy considerations Ecosystem market places and Investor relations and equity markets development of cloud hubs with Groups financial advisors Operational standards in the Group Review and discussion of sales and Post-acquisition processes in the marketing strategy Group Review and approval of updated: Agreement of appropriate strategic Share dealing code business actions Corporate communications policy Presentation and discussion on investor expectations and development of equity strategy Review of Netherlands business and new build opportunities Agreement and announcement of departure of Group Finance Director UK Code Principle: Review and discussion of: Minutes of previous meetings As part of their role as members of Investor relations and feedback Reports on implementation a unitary board, non-executive Corporate communications of actions agreed at previous directors should constructively meetings challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
Induction of new Directors Building upon the process developed for the last time new Directors were appointed, a thorough induction process was undertaken to maximise the contributions of the new Directors appointed during 2013 as quickly as possible.
The induction process was ongoing through, and completed within, the first few months following appointment.
This ensured that the new Directors received information both in advance of the first Board meeting they attended and also with the bene t of having attended that meeting.
On appointment Following appointment Each Director received a comprehensive brie ng prepared by Partly before and partly after the first Board meeting attended, the Company Secretary to supplement the information on the each new Director separately conducted: Groups business provided during recruitment including: Business brie ng meeting with the Chief Executive Of cer.
Board minutes for the previous year.
Meetings with other members of the Group Key papers from the last Board meeting.
Key papers from previous Board meetings Meeting with the UK country manager.
Visits to a number of the Groups data centres.
Key brokers reports on the Group.
Meetings with the Groups Auditors and financial advisors.
Governance information in relation to the Company, including the role of the Board, its Committees, the Chairman and the Chief Executive Of cer.
Guidance for Directors of British public companies generally including under law, the UK Code and the rules of the UK Listing Authority.
48 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Report of the Board continued How the Board operates The Chairman, along with executive Group strategy is reviewed by the Board Clari cation or ampli cation of reports Directors and Company Secretary, has throughout the year, with particular is sought in advance of, or at, meetings established Board processes designed to strategic matters being reviewed as appropriate.
Key aspects of and updated as appropriate at each Once goals have been set and actions these are shown below: main meeting.
agreed, the Board receives regular Good working relationships exist reports on their implementation.
The Chairman, executive Directors and between non-executive Directors and Comprehensive management accounts Company Secretary meet towards the non-Board members of the senior with commentary and analysis beginning of each year to agree an management, which are encouraged are distributed to the Board on overall calendar of subjects to be by executive Directors.
discussed by the Board during the year.
Members of the senior management The Board reviews the Groups risk Board meetings are timetabled to team draw on the collective register at each of its main meetings ensure adequate time for discussion experience of the Board, including and challenges this where appropriate.
of each agenda item for that its non-executive Directors.
The Board systematically visits the particular meeting.
Comprehensive reporting packs are Groups business locations both to Discussions at Board meetings are held provided to the Board, which are review its operations and new builds in a collaborative atmosphere of mutual designed to be clear, accurate and and to meet with local management.
respect and open discussion allowing analytical, whilst avoiding excess and All Directors have open access to for questions, scrutiny and constructive unnecessary information.
the Groups key advisors as well challenge where appropriate.
Reporting packs are normally as to management and the Full debates on key matters allow distributed four days in advance of Company Secretary.
decisions to be taken by consensus Board meetings, enabling them to Directors are also entitled to seek although any dissenting views would be be as up-to-date as possible whilst independent professional advice at minuted accordingly.
allowing suf cient time for their the Groups expense should they The development of strategy is led review and consideration in advance consider this appropriate.
by the Chief Executive Of cer, with of the meeting.
input, challenge, examination and ongoing testing from the non-executive Directors.
Dialogue with shareholders The Board recognises that it is managing the Group ultimately on The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee consults with behalf of its shareholders.
major shareholders before any signi cant changes in executive remuneration and reports the results to the full Committee, It undertakes this responsibility in such a way so as to seek to commented on further in the report of that Committee maximise shareholder value over the long-term and to advance commencing on page 67. the interests of all of the Groups stakeholders.
The Companys Annual Report and Notice of AGM are A mutual understanding of these objectives between published as soon as the time required for their printing allows shareholders and the Board as a whole has been developed normally around the beginning of March to provide the as set out below.
maximum time in advance of the AGM for feedback on these, which is shared with the relevant Directors.
The Chief Executive Of cer meets with institutional A presentation is given to shareholders attending the shareholder representatives regularly during the year to discuss Companys AGM at which shareholder participation is strategic and other matters as well as to give presentations encouraged, all Directors are present and questions and on the Groups results copies of which are available on the feedback are invited.
Proxy votes of shareholders for the AGM are tabulated The Board receives reports from executive Directors of independently by the Companys registrars, announced at the feedback from institutional shareholders at main Board meeting and published on the Groups website shortly after the meetings, as well as reports from the Head of Investor Relations conclusion of the AGM.
who is available to speak with shareholders at any time.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director hold meetings In addition, all Directors are able and available to meet with with a number of the Companys largest institutional investors shareholders if so requested.
In particular, executive Directors, and any other investor who expresses an interest in this on the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are all governance and other matters, key points from which are available to discuss matters with shareholders at any time.
They can all be contacted through the Company Secretary or the Head of Investor Relations.
Details of the substantial shareholders of the Company are set out in the Directors Report on page 128.
For more information contact us at ir@telecity.
htm Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 49 In addition, I ensure that appropriate training is available to all The year ahead our Directors.
Such training covers the Group, its industry and Whilst the results of the externally facilitated evaluation in 2013 governance matters more generally.
I review this annually as part indicated that our Board is operating well, I want to continue to of the evaluation of the Board.
During 2013, this training included the process of improvement in 2014.
As with last years evaluation, attendance at seminars by individual Directors: I have agreed with my Board colleagues further actions arising Run by the Financial Reporting professional bodies, and major from our 2013 evaluation and these are summarised in my accounting rms: report as Chairman of the Nominations Committee on page 64.
On financial reporting, executive remuneration and more With Mike Tobin, I am formulating these into a more detailed general business matters.
agenda for the coming year.
I look forward to reporting on progress again next year.
It also included brie ngs from our Group Finance Director, Company Secretary, Auditors, lawyers and investment bankers on subjects including: Updated guidance on remuneration from institutional shareholder groups: Developments in corporate governance Cyber Security: and Key reporting developments for the Board and our Audit and John Hughes, CBE Remuneration Committees.
Chairman We also enhanced our comprehensive induction process for the 11 February 2014 appointment of Claudia Arney and Nancy Cruickshank and this is summarised in the diagram on page 47.
Management of con icts of interest My Board colleagues and I avoid con icts of interest with the Group as far as possible.
Indeed, one of the criteria for our appointment as Directors was that we were free from any such con icts.
Nonetheless, actual or potential con icts of interest can arise occasionally during a Directors tenure and the Board has a set procedure in place under the Companys Articles of Association to deal with these as follows: Actual and potential con icts of interest are noti ed to the Board before they arise.
On such noti cation, the other Directors consider whether to authorise the actual or potential con ict of interest and, if so, under what conditions.
Such conditions could limit the distribution or use of information to or by a Director or include the Director absenting themselves during discussions on the relevant matter.
No Director noti ed any actual con ict of interest during the year.
Decisions regarding transactions with Directors and their related parties are always dealt with by other Directors.
For example, matters regarding the remuneration of the executive Directors and me as Chairman are handled by the Remuneration Committee.
UK Code Principles: There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
The board should use the AGM to communicate with investors and to encourage their participation.
All directors should receive induction on joining the board and should regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
