12 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Our business model A model designed to create value in the digital economy Customers choose TelecityGroup because of our high quality datacentre infrastructure, service standards, connectivity options andcapacity to support their future growth.
Each TelecityGroup data centre offers signi cant connectivity optionsand we seek constantly to enhance the choice and availability ofnetworks to customers.
Customers are charged primarily for locatingtheir IT equipment within the highlyconnected and resilient environments that our data centres We provide premium data provide.
These charges are supplemented by additional fees for power usage, engineering support, connectivity and other centre infrastructure services IT services.
As organisations online activities grow they need to deploy more IT andcommunications equipment in data centres which, in turn, Secure environments for the IT and telecoms equipment that drives ourgrowth.
powers the digital economy A substantial amount of our growth comes from existing Todays data centres are highly complex facilities requiring customers.
Wealso attract new customers, often due to considerable engineering expertise to build, maintain and operate.
advances in technology, which enable an increasingly wider range of applications to be migrated towards management Our core business is designing, building and operating such and delivery over the internet.
connected and secure data centres to the highest industry standards to provide our customers with resilient, cost-effective Our business model and always-on environments.
We aim to deliver controlled, sustainable and pro table growth by Our reputation has been built on a track record of customer opening and selling data centre capacity in the strategic internet service and engineering excellence.
TelecityGroup removes the economies in Europe.
This enables us to meet the demand for burden of data centre management from organisations, enabling highly-connected and resilient capacity that is being driven by them to focus on their core business activities.
Over 15 years TelecityGroup has invested, and continues to invest, in data centres which offer direct connections to a large number of national and international network providers and internet exchange points.
These data centres require large power feeds and are located in centralareas in the major internet hub cities of Europe where multiple communications networks are congregated.
At the heart of our business is the concept of the digital ecosystem: a highly-connected environment inside each of our data centres which is an attractive marketplace for customers this is discussed in more detail on page 15.
We conduct our business with integrity, and our business practices are shaped, at every level, by the guiding principles and targets laid out in ourCorporate Social Responsibility strategy see page 55.
See p20-21 for more detail See p2 for more detail Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 13 enabling the creation of with a capacity expansion customer ecosystems pipeline Highly-connected environments create data centres which Our growth is enabled by the continued introduction of new are attractive to customers.
The combination of connectivity data centre capacity and customers with shared network requirements helps to We are adding capacity in line with our demand requirements create new digital marketplaces.
of our markets by building new data centresand expanding TelecityGroups data centres offer rich levels of connectivity to existing facilities.
We sell new capacity to customers as they seek to expand the Connected data centres attract organisations because of the footprints of their computer hardware within our data centres.
choice of connectivity, which in turn reduces costs and improves Our facilities are strategically located in each city.
This gives network performance and ef ciency.
proximity to power, helps maximise connectivity options for As our data centres grow the larger the ecosystems become, and customers and makes visiting our data centres easy.
themore our customers bene t, developing new commercial To enable uid customer expansion, new capacity is designed communities of interest and marketplaces within each facility.
andplanned to be brought online as it is required.
This expansion programme is complemented by acquisitions in new and expanding market locations enabling us to capture revenue more quickly than itwould take to create the highly-connected data centre hubs on an organic basis.
See p15 for more detail See p20 for more detail
