128 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report and audited financial Employment statements of the Company and the Group for the year ended The Group is committed to employment policies that follow best 31 December 2013. practice and are based on equal opportunities for all employees, This Directors report contains certain statutory, regulatory and other irrespective of age, gender, race, colour, sexual orientation, disability information and incorporates, by reference, the Strategic Report and or marital status.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to Governance Reviews included earlier in this document.
applications for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Appropriate arrangements Strategic Report are made for the continued employment and training, career development and promotion of disabled persons employed by the A review of the development of the Groups business during the Group.
If members of staff become disabled the Group continues year and its future prospects is included in the Strategic Report employment, either in the same or an alternative position, with and Governance Review on pages 2 to 83, which should be read appropriate retraining being given if necessary.
in conjunction with this report.
The Group systematically provides employees with information on Results and dividends matters of concern to them, consulting them or their representatives regularly.
This enables their views to be taken into account when The results for the year ended 31 December 2013 are set out in making decisions that are likely to affect their interests.
Employee the Consolidated Income Statement on page 89.
The Board has involvement in the Group is encouraged, as is achieving a common proposed a final dividend of 7p per ordinary share in respect of awareness on the part of all employees of the financial and economic the year 2012: 5p, payable on 11 April 2014 to shareholders on factors affecting the Group.
The Group encourages the involvement the register at the close of business on 7 March 2014, giving a total of employees by means of briefing meetings as well as more dividend in respect of 2013 of 10.5p per ordinary share 2012: 7.5p.
2014 Annual General Meeting AGM Going concern The Companys AGM will be held at the offices of Hogan Lovells Comprehensive financial forecasts have been prepared and International LLP, Atlantic House, Holborn Viaduct, London EC1A 2FG submitted to the Board for review.
Based on the information at 3pm on 8 April 2014. contained in these forecasts and the assessment of the Groups An explanation of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, and banking facilities, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the recommendation of Directors in relation to these, are included the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in the circular accompanying this Annual Report to shareholders.
in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, Resolutions regarding the authority to issue and repurchase they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the shares are commented upon under the share capital table on financial statements.
Substantial shareholdings Corporate governance At 11 February 2014, the Company had been notified in accordance The Companys Governance Review is contained on pages 38 to 83. with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority, or was aware, that the following held, or were beneficially Change of control interested in, 3% or more of the Companys shares at that date: Total voting In the event of a takeover, a scheme of arrangement other than a Number of rights scheme of arrangement for the purposes of creating a new holding shares % company or certain other events, unvested executive Director Norge Bank 17,649,638 8.71 and employee share awards may in certain circumstances Oppenheimer Funds 9,661,299 4.77 become exercisable.
BlackRock, Inc 8,420,296 4.16 Such circumstances depend on the achievement of performance 1 Butterfield Trust 8,087,200 3.99 conditions or the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Legal & General Group plc 6,270,070 3.09 The Company does not have any agreements with any Director or officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or Standard Life Investments Ltd 6,094,153 3.01 employment resulting from a takeover.
1 These shares are held by Butterfield Trust as Trustee for trusts for the benefit of Oliver R. Grace Jr and members of his family.
Mr Grace also has an interest in an additional The Group has facility agreements with its bank lenders which contain 3,489,931 shares.
provisions giving those lenders certain rights on a change of control of the Company.
The Company received no notifications of interests of shareholders indicating a different whole percentage holding at 31 December 2013.
Financial instruments Information on the financial risk exposure, management objectives and policies of the Group is set out on pages 22 to 25.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 129 Directors The Group operates employee share plans as set out in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on page 72 and in note 28 of the The Directors of the Company who served during the year were: financial statements.
In relation to the options granted at the time of the Companys IPO John Hughes Chairman in 2007, and the Directors deferred bonus shares, an Employee Michael Tobin Chief Executive Officer Benefit Trust EBT holds shares pending employees becoming Brian McArthur-Muscroft Group Finance Director, entitled to them.
132,302 shares were so held as at 31 December resigned on 31 January 2014 2013.
The EBT has an independent trustee which has full Claudia Arney appointed on 5 March 2013 discretion in relation to the voting of such shares.
Shares held Simon Batey in the EBT have any entitlement to dividends waived.
Save as described above, shares acquired through the Companys Maurizio Carli employee share plans rank pari passu with shares in issue and Nancy Cruickshank appointed on 5 March 2013 have no special rights.
John OReilly At the year end, the Company had authority exercisable by the Sahar Elhabashi resigned on 6 March 2013 Directors to issue up to 67,182,000 shares subject to certain restrictions.
The Company will seek to renew this authority at Certain key matters in connection with the Directors are the 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM.
shown below: At the year end, the Company had authority exercisable by the The business of the Company is managed by its Directors who Directors for the purposes of Section 701 of the Act to make one may exercise all powers of the Company subject to the Articles or more market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of Association and UK legislation.
Directors of the Company are of the Act of up to 20,154,617 shares.
The Company will seek to appointed either by the Board or by shareholders under the renew this authority at the 2014 AGM.
Companys Articles of Association and may resign or be removed Further details of the Companys share capital are set out in note 26 in a similar manner.
Biographical details of the current Directors are set out on pages 42 and 43.
The Directors interests in the ordinary share capital of Directors responsibility statement the Company and any interests known to the Company of their connected persons are set out in the Report of the Remuneration The Directors have prepared the Annual Report and the financial Committee on page 82. statements in accordance with their responsibilities under applicable The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity law and regulations.
Further details of this are shown below.
provisions for the benefit of its Directors in relation to certain Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial losses and liabilities that they may incur in the course of acting as statements for each financial year.
As required by International Directors of the Company or its subsidiaries, which remain in force Accounting Standards Regulations Article 4, the Directors have at the date of this report.
prepared the Group financial statements under International No member of the Board had a material interest in any contract Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiaries at any Union and have also elected to prepare the Parent Company time during the year, except for their interests in shares and in financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the share awards and under their service agreements and letters European Union.
The financial statements have been prepared, of appointment disclosed in the Report of the Remuneration as required by law, to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs Committee commencing on page 67. of the Group and the Company and of the profit of the Group for the year.
Political donations In preparing these financial statements, the Directors confirm that The Group made no political donations during the year 2012: nil.
to the best of their knowledge they have: Share capital properly selected and applied accounting policies and applied them consistently: Certain key information relating to the Companys shares is shown made judgements and assumptions that are reasonable below.
and prudent: The Companys shares at the year end comprised entirely presented information, including accounting policies, in a manner ordinary shares of 0.002 each which rank equally in all respects.
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable The rights attached to the shares, in addition to those conferred information: and on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of provided additional disclosures when compliance with the Association.
The Companys Articles of Association may only specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users be amended by a Special Resolution of the shareholders.
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares or on the events and conditions on the entitys financial position and exercise of voting rights attached to them, except: i where the financial performance.
Company has exercised its right to suspend their voting rights or to prohibit their transfer following the omission of their holder or any person interested in them to provide the Company with information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act : or ii where their holder is precluded from exercising voting rights by the FCAs Listing Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
130 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Directors report continued In accordance with the responsibilities of the Directors, the Group maintains adequate accounting records to record all transactions so that they disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Act.
They are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and have taken reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors in office at the date of approval of this report confirms that to the best of their knowledge: The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and The Strategic Report and Governance review, along with the Directors report, together include a true and fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Directors consider that the Annual report, including the Strategic report, Governance review, Financial statements and this Directors report, taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Disclosure of information to Auditors Each Director in office at the date of this report has confirmed that: so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups Auditors are unaware: and he or she has taken all the reasonable steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups Auditors are aware of and had access to that information and relevant employees.
This confirmation is given in accordance with Section 418 2 of the Act.
Auditors  LLP, the Groups auditors, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee and in accordance with Section 489 of the Act, a resolution to re-appoint them will be put to the 2014 AGM.
By order of the Board Tony Hunter Company Secretary 11 February 2014
