40 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance review introduction We commenced the process for the recruitment of a new Our ethos in this area is simple: best Chief Financial Of cer following the announcement that Brian practice in corporate governance is best McArthur-Muscroft would be stepping down.
Progress in this is again reported in the report of our Nominations Committee.
This is an integral We conducted an evaluation of the Board externally facilitated part of the way TelecityGroup aims to by Egon Zehnder, the process for and results of which are commented on in the Nominations Committee Report, along operate.
It is an essential factor in our with the actions taken in relation to our internally facilitated ability to achieve the Groups pro table evaluation last year.
We conducted a review of reporting of all operational KPIs.
growth on a controlled and sustainable In this Annual Report we have implemented the new reporting basis.
It is a fundamental element of requirements coming into effect this year, including for Strategic, Audit Committee and Remuneration Reports, building maximising shareholder value over the on the work undertaken in our reporting in previous years.
As in prior years, our Board and Committees each set themselves speci c objectives at the beginning of the year.
These objectives What our ethos means in practice is that: were particular to last year, are ongoing from year to year, or are The great entrepreneurial drive and ambition in the Group being developed over a number of years.
Achievement of these operates within appropriate controls and processes: objectives in 2013, and those for the coming year, are summarised Directors lead from the top in setting the tone as well as the in the introductory sections of their individual reports.
direction of the Groups strategy and management: Implementation of our corporate governance is ever evolving UK Code compliance in a similar way to the implementation of the Groups strategy The Company has complied throughout 2013 in all respects itself: and with all the relevant recommendations of the UK Corporate As areas for improvement are identi ed, we seek to apply Governance Code the UK Code.
We have included throughout learnings in all areas in which they are relevant.
this governance review all of the main principles of the UK Code This governance review, including the individual reports of our that apply to the Company.
For readers wishing to review the UK Board and four standing Committees, summarises our work in Code in more detail, it can be found on the Financial Reporting this area in the past year.
On behalf of the Board Overview There have been six particularly notable developments in this area for TelecityGroup in 2013: Having sought to recruit an additional independent Director, we identi ed two exceptional candidates, Claudia Arney and Nancy Cruickshank and decided to appoint them both.
The processes for their recruitment is summarised in the John Hughes, CBE Simon Batey Report of our Nominations Committee on page 62, and for Chairman Senior Independent their induction in the Report of the Board on page 47. non-executive Director With these appointments and following on from the departure of Sahar Elhabashi, we continued to evolve the membership 11 February 2014 of our Board Committees, which are commented on in the introductions to their individual reports.
Simon Batey John Hughes, CBE Senior independent non-executive Director Chairman Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 41 Governance calendar for 2013 The overall calendar of meetings of the Board and its Committees for 2013 is shown below: Full report Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Board main meetings p44 Board conference calls p44 Audit Committee p50 CSR Committee p55 p62 Nominations Committee p67 Remuneration Committee AGM Speci c calendars for the Board and its Committees are shown in their individual reports within this review Meeting attendance by Directors in 2013 The attendance of Directors at the meetings of the Board and its Committees is shown below: Attended Unable to attend and input instead provided in advance of the call Attended all or part of meeting as invitee Audit CSR Nominations Remuneration 2 2 2 2 3 Board meetings Board calls Committee Committee Committee Committee John Hughes Michael Tobin Brian McArthur-Muscroft 1 Claudia Arney Simon Batey Maurizio Carli 1 Nancy Cruickshank John OReilly Sahar Elhabashi attended all Board and Committee meetings until she stepped down from the Board in March 2013.
1 Appointed to the Board in March 2013 2 During the year: Claudia Arney and Nancy Cruickshank were appointed to the CSR, Remuneration and Nominations Committees Claudia Arney was appointed to the Audit Committee 3 John Hughes and Michael Tobin do not attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee whilst it is considering matters in relation to their own remuneration.
All Directors on the Board at that time attended the AGM.
It is an essential part of the ongoing The Board has a CSR Committee in The structure and levels of the success of any business that it should be recognition of the importance it places remuneration of the Groups executive led by Directors with the relevant skills, on these activities of the Group.
Directors and its senior management knowledge and experience to do so.
Michael Tobin OBE, team are critically important to the Group John Hughes, CBE, Board Chairman CSR Committee Chairman successfully achieving and sustaining its Read the full Report of the Board on Read the full Report of the CSR strategic aims.
page 44 Committee on page 55 John OReilly, Remuneration Committee Chairman The integrity of the Groups financial Having the appropriate range of high Read the full Report of the Remuneration results and the effectiveness of its risk calibre Directors on our Board is key to Committee on page 67 management and internal control systems determining and achieving success in For any reader wishing to obtain more detail on the are important both to Directors and to the Groups strategic objectives.
responsibilities of the Board Committees, their shareholders.
John Hughes, CBE, terms of reference are included on the Groups Simon Batey, Audit Committee Chairman Nominations Committee Chairman website at: www.
com investor Read the full Report of the Audit Read the full Report of the Nominations Committee on page 50 Committee on page 62
