42 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Our Board UK Code Principle: The board and its committees should have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
JOHN HUGHES, CBE MICHAEL TOBIN, OBE NANCY CRUICKSHANK Role Chairman, leading the Board of Chief Executive Of cer, leading the Independent non-executive Director, Directors Report on page 44 and management of the Group and the and a member of the Remuneration, working with management on strategic formulation and implementation of its Nominations and CSR Committees.
He is also Chairman strategy: and Chairman of the CSR of the Nominations Committee Report Committee Report on page 55. on page 62 and a member of the CSR Committee.
Appointment date October 2007 July 2007 with the Group since March 2013 March 2002 Experience More than 30 years experience Over 25 years experience in senior Worked for Cond Nast in marketing leading complex, high technology roles across the telecommunications and advertising becoming commercial businesses operating at a global level.
Joined Redbus director of Cond Nast online in 1995.
Signi cant experience of managing Interhouse a constituent part of the In 2001 launched Handbag.
com growth companies, especially those Group in 2002 as Sales and Marketingwhich was sold to Hearst in 2006, supplying complex solutions and Director, becoming Chief Executive continuing on after the buy-out to services to business customers: Of cer in 2003.
Subsequently led the oversee their portfolio of web of mergers and acquisitions: of merger with TeleCity, the acquisition of properties.
international channel expansion: and Globix and the Groups successful IPO In 2008 joined VideoJug and in May of development of leadership teams.
2009 moved to the Telegraph Media Held senior executive positions at Prior to joining the Group: headed up Group TMG as executive Director, Thales Group, latterly executive vice Fujitsus e-Commerce operations in Digital Development.
president and chief operating of cer, Germany: ran ICLs Danish outsourcing From April 2012 to March 2013, was responsible for an organisation with over subsidiary out of Copenhagen: held senior Launch CEO of Weve, leading a team 25,000 people: Lucent Technologies positions based in Paris for over 11 years, that secured clearance from the EC where his responsibilities included being including with International Computer for the UKs leading mobile operators president of its worldwide GSM and Group and Tricord Systems Europe: and EE, Vodafone and Telefonica to UMTS businesses: and Hewlett Packard.
was Managing Director of Goupil UK.
launch a media & mCommerce JV in Until 2010, non-executive chairman Career recognition: Lifetime Achievement the UK.
Successfully launched the of Intec Telecom Systems plc and a Award for Contribution to the Data Centre business in November 2012 and Weve non-executive director of Chloride Industry in 2011 DCE Awards: 2010 Ernst now provides a form of blueprint for Group plc: until 2011 a non-executive & Young Entrepreneur of the Year for UK IT other collaborations like this in various director of Vitec Group plc.
Previous recognition includes: international markets.
Data centre Leaders Awards Industry Leader of the Year: techMARK Personality of the Year.
External appointments Non-executive chairman of Spectris plc Non-executive director of Pacnet, Asia Founder and CEO of MyShowcase.
Non-executive director Paci cs leading provider of integrated com, a Beauty retailer that champions of CSG Systems International, Inc. network and technology solutions for female entrepreneurialism.
enterprise, service provider, and carrier customers.
Non-executive Director of People per Hour.
Charitable and other Ambassador for the Alzheimers Board member of Byte Night, which Society.
raises money for Action for Children: The Technology Leadership Group Awarded the CBE for services to and The Internet & Media Leadership international telecommunications in the Group of the Princes Trust: fundraising Queens 2011 New Year Honours List.
advisory boards of Great Ormond Street Holds a BSc in Electrical and Electronic Hospital and Make a Wish Foundation UK: Engineering.
and Chairman of the Friends of The Has lived and worked in the US and Loomba Trust.
mainland Europe as well as the UK.
Awarded the OBE for services to the Digital Economy in the Queens 2014 New Year Honours List.
Has lived and worked in mainland Europe as well as the UK.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 43 JOHN OREILLY CLAUDIA ARNEY SIMON BATEY MAURIZIO CARLI Independent non-executive Director, Independent non-executive Director, Senior independent non-executive Independent non-executive Director, Chairman of the Remuneration and a member of the Audit, Director, Chairman of the Audit and a member of the Audit, CSR, Committee Report on page 67 and Remuneration, Nominations and Committee Report on page 50 and a Nominations and Remuneration a member of both the Audit and CSR Committees.
member of both the Nominations and Committees.
October 2007 March 2013 October 2007 May 2011 Particular experience in eCommerce, Was Group Managing Director of Over 20 years experience in senior Signi cant experience of managing high marketing, public relations, public Emap Inform from 2008-2010 with finance roles with particular experience growth European organisations with affairs, property and business responsibility for the Media and Public in the construction and utility industries.
direct insight into cloud computing development.
Quali ed Chartered Accountant, having transforming the predominantly Experience within the highly-regulated spent the first 12 years of his career at Role at VMWare extends to strategic advertising funded print trade publishing betting and gaming sector includes Armitage and Norton now part of planning, business operations and the business in to a subscription based being a founder director and former KPMG, latterly as a partner of the rm.
management of key functions including digital data and information business.
vice chairman of the Remote sales channels, services and marketing, Between 2000 and 2006, group finance Gambling Association.
Previously a Director of the Enterprise continuing to grow the region at director of United Utilities plc.
From and Growth Unit at HM Treasury and high pace.
Until 2010, managing director of remote 2006 until 2007, chief financial of cer responsible for many of the policy betting and gaming at Ladbrokes, of Thames Water Utilities Limited.
Previously at Google on a short-term issues which affect business joining the Ladbrokes plc board From 1987 to 2000, worked for AMEC assignment: spent five years at including competition, regulation following the completion of the sale of plc, initially as deputy group finance Business Objects as senior vice and productivity.
the Hilton International hotels division director and then, from 1992, as group president and general manager, EMEA, in February 2006.
Has also worked at Goldman Sachs, finance director.
being responsible for sales, pre-sales, Pearson, the Financial Times marketing, finance, customer support Led the Ladbrokes eGaming division A non-executive director of Arriva plc and Mckinsey.
from its establishment in 2001 from 2003 to 2010 and has also served until 2010, with responsibility for as a non-executive director of THUS Spent 19 years at IBM, latterly as vice international development, including Group plc.
president of software group for IBM Ladbrokes growing retail joint venture EMEA and previously vice president A member of the Postal Services in Spain, and oversaw Ladbrokes core and general manager for IBMs Tivoli Commission, responsible for the bookmaking function.
Systems Division, and held sales and regulation of the UK postal services sales management positions in the sector from 2010 until 2011. government, education and healthcare sectors for IBM Italy.
Managing director of Coral Interactive, Non-executive director of Halfords PLC, Non-executive director of Blackrock Corporate senior vice president and the online and telephone betting and and Which?
Chair of The Public Data New Energy Investment Trust plc since general manager EMEA for VMWare, gaming arm of Gala Coral Group.
Group comprising Ordnance Survey, The 2010. the global leader in virtualisation and Met Of ce, Land Registry and Companies cloud infrastructure, responsible for House.
A member of the Advisory Board managing the EMEA region.
of the Shareholder Executive, and Huawei.
Holds a first class honours degree Not-for-pro t roles include Membership Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Holds a BSc in Electronic Engineering in Business.
of the Business Advisory Council of Accountants and holds an MA in from the Politecnico di Milano in Italy.
the Said Business School at Oxford Geography from Oxford University.
University, and Chairing the Bedales Grants Trust Fund.
