OUR SERVICES Trading as the Utility Warehouse, Telecom Plus PLC provides a range of essential services to households and smallto medium-sized businesses, giving customers the convenience of a single monthly bill and substantial savings on the cost of their utilities.
Most customers are members of our residential Discount Club, giving them access to a wide range of exclusive benefits.
The Company works in partnership with over 39,000 independent Distributors who attract new customers by personal recommendation, thus avoiding the need for expensive national advertising.
Distributors receive a small revenue share from each customer they introduce, which encourages them to focus on gathering creditworthy customers who take multiple services from us.
Customers taking at least four core services are able to benefit from unlimited free calls to landlines in the UK and our most popular international destinations, in addition to the savings they make on the individual services they have taken and the CashBack they earn by using our CashBack card.
FIXED TELEPHONY Our fixed-line and internet telephony services give members significant savings on both call charges and line rental compared with BT, including the opportunity to make unlimited free local, national and international calls 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
MOBILE With a wide choice of handsets and competitive tariffs, our mobile phone service provides outstanding value and great savings.
We also offer a unique 'budget control' option, a loyalty discount, and a range of other benefits.
GAS AND ELECTRICITY We provide consistently low prices to our members, with guaranteed savings for domestic customers compared with the prices charged by their incumbent regional electricity supply company or British Gas.
INTERNET A choice of high-quality low-cost broadband services offering great value for the vast majority of domestic Internet users.
CASHBACK CARD An exclusive pre-paid Mastercard giving Discount Club members between 3% and 7% CashBack at a wide range of leading national retailers.
NON-GEOGRAPHIC NUMBERS A range of low-cost non-geographic services e. g. 0800, 0844, 0845, 0871 designed to meet the needs of both domestic and small business customers.
2 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS The Utility Warehouse Discount Club Benefits of membership include: A single monthly bill Substantial savings Award-winning customer service Unique Price Promise Unlimited free calls Refer a Friend plan Cheaper online shopping Exclusive CashBack card Free mobile phone protection scheme Freephone customer service and technical support Free accidental death cover Free redundancy protection Home Phone Mobile Internet Gas Electricity 3 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
