BUSINESS DIRECTORS REPORT The directors have pleasure in presenting their report and the audited financial statements for the year to 31 March 2013.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW The principal activity of the Group is the supply of fixed telephony, mobile telephony, gas, electricity and internet services to residential and small business customers in the UK, who are primarily acquired through a network of independent Distributors.
The Group intends to expand its subscriber base and continue to develop the systems which are required to provide its customers with a consistently high standard of service.
A full review of the development of the business is contained in the Chairmans Statement, Business Review and Financial Review.
A summary of the financial risk management objectives and policies is contained in note 18 to the financial statements.
This Directors Report, together with the Chairmans Statement, Business Review and Financial Review form the management report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The profit for the year after tax of 27,066,000 2012: 23,453,000 has been transferred to reserves.
An interim dividend of 13p per share 2012: 10p was paid during the year.
A final dividend of 18p per share 2012: 17p per share is proposed.
DIRECTORS The names of directors who served during the year and their interests in the share capital of the Company at the start and end of the year are set out in the table below.
Details of the directors share incentive awards are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 37.
Ordinary 5p shares held at 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Charles Wigoder 15,981,041 15,981,041 Julian Schild 97,624 97,624 Andrew Lindsay 81,465 81,465 Chris Houghton -- Melvin Lawson 2,050,000 2,050,000 Michael Pavia 25,000 25,000 indicates non-executive directors In respect of the above shareholdings, Mr Wigoder has a non-beneficial interest in 2,900,000 shares 2012: 2,700,000.
There have been no movements in any of the directors interests in the share capital of the Company between 1 April 2013 and 20 May 2013.
"The powers of Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association the ""Articles""."
The Articles may be amended by way of a special resolution of the members of the Company.
The Board may exercise all powers conferred on it by the Articles and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, and other applicable legislation.
25 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Board has established a formal, rigorous and transparent process for the selection and subsequent appointment of new directors to the Board.
The rules relating to the appointment and replacement of directors are contained within the Articles.
The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution of the Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, a director appointed in that way retires at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
In addition, Mr Wigoder, as he holds in excess of 20% of the Companys shares, is entitled under the Articles to appoint a director and remove any such director appointed.
In accordance with current best practice, all Board directors will be retiring at the forthcoming AGM and will then offer themselves for re-election.
DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations where they have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles allow the Board to authorise such conflicts of interest should this be deemed to be appropriate.
The Board has put in place effective procedures for managing and, where appropriate, approving conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
Under these procedures, the Directors are required to declare all directorships or other appointments to companies which are not part of the Group, as well as other situations which could give rise to a potential conflict.
The Board will, where appropriate, authorise a conflict or potential conflict, and will impose all necessary restrictions and or conditions where it sees fit.
The Company maintains a register of directors conflicts of interest which is reviewed regularly by the Board.
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE The Company maintains appropriate insurance to cover directors and officers liability and has provided an indemnity, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006, in respect of all of the Companys directors which was in force throughout the financial year and remains in force.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where a director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
CREDITORS PAYMENT POLICY The Company has signed up to the Institute of Credit Management Prompt Payment Code during the year and its policy remains to pay all suppliers in accordance with mutually agreed terms in each case.
At the year end trade creditors were on average 60 days old 2012: 50 days.
DONATIONS The Group made charitable donations of 126,677 during the year 2012: 27,479.
No political donations were made during the year.
EMPLOYEES The requirements of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of employees are set out in the Business Review on pages 16 and 17.
26 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS As at 20 May 2013, in addition to the directors, the following have notified the Company of their substantial shareholdings as detailed below: Percentage of Number of Shares issued Share Capital Schroders plc 6,456,479 9.1% Standard Life Investments Ltd 6,342,774 9.0% Sheldon Management Ltd 2,209,028 3.1% CAPITAL STRUCTURE Restrictions on the transfer of shares The Company only has ordinary shares in issue.
Other than as set out below, there are no restrictions on the transfer of the ordinary shares, except where a holder refuses to comply with a statutory notice requesting details of those who have an interest and the extent of their interest in a particular holding of shares.
In such cases, where the identified shares make up 0.25% or more of the ordinary shares in issue, the directors may refuse to register a transfer of any of the identified shares in certificated form and, so far as permitted by the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, a transfer of any of the identified shares which are held in the electronic share dealing system CREST, unless the directors are satisfied that they have been sold outright to an independent third party.
Other than as set out below and so far as the directors are aware, there were no arrangements at 31 March 2013 by which, with the Companys co-operation, financial rights carried by securities are held by a person other than a holder of securities, or any arrangements between holders of securities that are known to the Company and which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Certain members of senior management have loans secured against some or all of their shareholdings in the Company which restrict their ability to transfer these shares prior to repayment of the loans.
The Company established a Joint Share Ownership Plan the JSOP on 30 March 2011.
As part of the JSOP an employee benefit trust was established to jointly hold shares with the participants in the plan the JSOP Share Trust.
As at 31 March 2013 the JSOP Share Trust jointly held 500,000 shares with Mr Lindsay.
Prior to vesting, all voting and dividend rights attached to these shares have been waived.
Takeovers There are no significant arrangements to which the Company is party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, save in relation to the arrangements with npower and T-Mobile for the supply of energy and mobile telephony respectively, or any agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Authority for purchase of own shares At the last AGM held on 18 July 2012, the Company obtained authority to purchase up to 7,024,406 ordinary shares representing approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as at 13 June 2012.
The Company intends to renew this authority at this years AGM.
Treasury shares The Company had no shares held in treasury during the year.
27 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION Each of the directors has confirmed that so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditor is unaware, and that he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditor is aware of that information.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Companys compliance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council is set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 29 to 33.
GOING CONCERN The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 11 to 20.
The financial position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 21 to 24 and within note 18 to the financial statements.
In addition, notes 14 and 18 include the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
From 1 September 2011, under the revised arrangements agreed with npower on 24 May 2011, the Company was no longer required to procure a letter of credit facility for npower as security against the cost of the energy it was supplying.
Also from this date, npower assumed responsibility for funding the seasonal variations in working capital associated with providing gas and or electricity to those customers who choose to pay for their energy using a budget plan.
The Group has secured from Barclays Bank PLC Barclays total credit facilities of 20 million for the period to 25 August 2013.
Prior to this date, the Group will finalise with Barclays the facilities it requires for the following year for the ongoing support of its day to day operations and for the refurbishment of Merit House.
Barclays has expressed a strong desire to support the Groups funding requirements and the directors are confident that all necessary facilities can be arranged prior to this date.
The Company has considerable financial resources together with a large and diverse retail and small business customer base and long term contracts with a number of key suppliers.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the uncertain economic outlook.
On this basis the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The annual financial statements have therefore been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with the FRCs Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 issued in October 2009.
By Order of the Board David Baxter Company Secretary 20 May 2013 28 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
