12 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Vision and Strategy Wanted and needed A growing business, around the world full of opportunities We see it as essential not only to be the shop of choice Whether its food or general merchandise, books or digital for customers but also the place people want to work, entertainment, banking or eating out, our business is full a business that communities welcome and the retailer of opportunities for both customers and colleagues.
We in which every shareholder wants to invest.
want our business to offer something new every time.
Our Vision sets out what we want to be: In any business, clear direction is vital.
Our Vision guides the direction and the decisions we take as an organisation.
Tesco is a company built around customers and colleagues, highquality assets around the world and multiple opportunities for growth and these characteristics are central to our Vision for the business.
We want Tesco to be the most highly valued business by: the customers we serve, the communities in which we operate, our loyal and committed colleagues and of course, our shareholders.
For these things to be possible, our Vision for the business has five elements each of them describes the sort of company Tesco aspires to be.
Modern, innovative Winners locally whilst and full of ideas applying our skills globally Tescos success has always been based on trying to Retail is local because cultures, tastes, climates, regulations are all understand customers needs better than anyone different.
But the core skills that we have learned in one place can be else and then innovating to make their lives that little applied in others.
For example, setting up our grocery home shopping bit easier.
This attitude, which brought online grocery operations from scratch in eight international markets across the Group shopping, extended shopping hours, Finest, Everyday wouldnt have been possible without what weve learned in the UK.
Value, a range of formats from Express to Extra and all the other things that make us who we are is as central to our Vision now as it ever has been.
Inspiring, earning trust and loyalty from customers, our colleagues and communities We want Tesco to be a company that earns trust, not just respect, through everything we do be it our in-store shopping trip, our Price Promise, or our determination to assure customers on food quality.
We want to be a business that customers, colleagues and communities trust and are loyal to.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 13 Our Strategy reflects our priorities as the business grows and customers needs change: We have a well-established and consistent seven-part strategy for growth, which reflects the way consumer needs are changing and the increasingly global nature of our business and of course driving it forward is critical to our success over the coming years.
To grow the UK core, the largest business To grow the UK core in the Group and a key driver of sales and profit, is a priority.
Our Building a Better Tesco plan has been restoring growth to the business through a comprehensive series of improvements for customers.
We have established profitable businesses To be an outstanding in Asian and European markets.
Today, 32% of our Group sales and 29% of international retailer profits are made internationally and our goal now is to take the performance of in stores and online these businesses to higher levels.
Food is our heritage but as the business To be as strong in has grown and diversified over recent years, we have added an ever-wider range everything we sell of products and services in-store and online, bringing Tesco value and quality as we are in food to many more categories.
Consumers are increasingly spending To grow retail services a bigger proportion of their income on services whether it is in telecoms, eating in all our markets out or financial services.
In the UK, we have built some strong, successful new businesses and our ambition now is to take that experience to all of our markets.
The changes we have made to our To put our responsibilities Core Purpose and Values to reflect Tescos wider social purpose are clear to the communities we signals that we put our responsibilities to the communities we serve at the serve at the heart of heart of what we do.
what we do Brands are about giving customers To be a creator of confidence in the quality, value and reliability of the things we sell.
highly valued brands We aim to be a creator of highly valued brands across our offer, whether it is Finest, F&F or Tesco Bank.
As Tesco continues to grow and diversify To build our team we need more leaders to run the broad range of businesses, operations and so that we create support functions.
We are investing in the development of more leaders and more value a bigger, more diverse talent pool to support the growth of the Group.
