10 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Core Purpose and Values Our Core Purpose is a clear and simple statement of what we do and what we stand for: We make what matters better, together Our Core Purpose needs to reflect how much society has changed Our Core Purpose is a clear and simple in recent years more scepticism about corporations, more desire statement of what we do and what we to see business demonstrate it has a purpose beyond profit, a sense that large companies should be contributing more to tackling some stand for.
It has been the same for many of the big challenges.
The world has changed from a culture of more years but the time has come to update it.
is better to making what matters better.
Thats why weve changed our Core Purpose this profound shift in society must be reflected in the way we think and behave as a business.
Today, our brand must be about more than simply function.
Its about the way we work, the values we live by, the legacy we leave.
We cant solve the worlds problems but we want Tesco to always do the right thing, to inspire and to earn trust and loyalty from all of our stakeholders.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 11 Our Values help us to understand how to put this into practice: No one tries harder 1 for customers Understand customers Be first to meet their needs Act responsibly for our communities Understanding people customers, colleagues, communities and what matters to them, and then trying to make those things better, is at the heart of Tesco.
Its about listening to people and talking to them using all the tools at our disposal from Clubcard data to social media and then acting by changing and innovating to meet their needs.
We treat everyone how 2 we like to be treated Work as a team Trust and respect each other Listen, support and say thank you Share knowledge and experience We know that looking after our colleagues in a culture of trust and respect is essential to the success of Tesco.
Where colleagues feel recognised and rewarded for the work they do together, where they have the opportunity to get on and where they are supported in their development as they move through their careers in the business they in turn try their hardest for customers.
We use our scale 3 for good Creating new opportunities for millions of young people around the world Helping and encouraging our colleagues and customers to live healthier lives and through this helping to tackle the global obesity crisis Leading in reducing food waste globally Our scale means that we can provide affordable, high-quality food to people around the world and create value for customers.
We want to use this scale to create greater value for society as a whole.
In many ways we do this already, whether its by creating thousands of jobs or working with thousands of farmers to provide world-class products.
But now we want to scale up our efforts and make a positive contribution to some of the most pressing challenges facing the world.
Our new Core Purpose is: We make what matters better, And as with our Core Purpose, we have had a hard look at whether together.
It is true to where we came from but more relevant the Values are all that we need in this new world and at a time of to today and to the kind of company we want to be.
change and weve concluded that we need a new Value, one that makes it clear to everyone at Tesco and beyond that we will put more Since we first introduced our Tesco Values more than a decade back into society.
ago, they have become a vital part of our culture and an essential underpinning of our growth and success.
They ensure that every Our new Value is: We use our scale for good.
Tesco is now a large person at Tesco understands what is important about how we work company, touching millions of peoples lives every day.
This scale together as a team and how customers are at the centre of what we gives us an opportunity to make a positive difference to some of the do.
They are universal values, which have helped guide our people biggest challenges facing the world.
Weve set three big ambitions as Tesco has grown into new markets and new countries.
in areas where we can make a real contribution and create value for society as a whole.
Our new Value is also about building on the essential work we already do as a responsible corporate citizen.
