16 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Market overview A growing industry We operate in a growing industry.
In 2012, for the first time, the number of international tourist arrivals overnight visits made by international tourists exceeded 1 billion in a single year.
This represents an increase of 3.8% compared to 2011.
Almost half of those travellers were travelling within, or out of, Europe home to all of our operating source markets and the UN World Tourism Organisation estimates that the European outbound travel market will continue to grow at an average of 2.5% per year until 2030.
Although the travel market has in the past been subject to exceptional external shocks, such as geopolitical events including recent political and civil unrest in MENA destinations such as Egypt, it has nevertheless grown by volume in 16 out of the last 18 years.
own, have also now become subject to air Economic environment Regulatory and political passenger rights legislation whereby airlines environment The global economic recovery is projected may be required to pay compensation to to remain subdued in 2013 at 2.9%, slightly Under the framework of regulations and passengers whose ights are delayed more lower than in 2012.
Our three largest markets, standards in each of our source markets, we than three hours.
Since its introduction, this the UK, Germany and Sweden, are expected offer our customers the assurance of financial legislation has cost the Group 19 million in to achieve GDP growth of 1.4%, 0.5% and protection including the reimbursement compensation payments.
We are actively 0.9% respectively in 2013, reecting the fact of travel costs in the event of insolvency or engaged in lobbying governments in the that global growth remains mainly driven bankruptcy of a tour operator.
Under the interests both of our industry and our by emerging economies, which expect real European Package Travel Directive, we are customers, and reminding them of the GDP growth of 4.5% in 2013 compared to subject to various disclosure and liability importance of travel and tourism as a source advanced economies at just 1.2%.
obligations that apply to the marketers of of employment and driver of growth.
In July 2013, the EC published The outlook for 2014 is slightly improved a proposal for a revision of this Directive, Our holiday programmes are also influenced with real GDP growth worldwide projected at which both enhances consumer protection by national and political events, and the 3.6%, while the European Union, which has rights and creates a more level playing eld responses of governments to them.
barely grown in 2013, is expected to return among operators.
This Directive is now Political and civil unrest in MENA destinations topositive growth of 1.3%.
under consultation in each member state.
impacted our operations most signicantly specifically in the UK, the Government is in 2011 12, but it has continued this year Unemployment rates in the UK at 7.7%, currently consulting with the travel industry most notably in summer 2013, when Germany at 5.6% and Sweden at 8.0% are around possible changes to the ATOL several European national governments well below the Eurozone average at 12.3%.
We continue advised ceasing all but essential travel to toengage with all key European institutions Egypt.
We follow such governmental travel Despite a backdrop of subdued economic toseek the best outcome for consumers advice closely, and are able to shift our ying growth, demand for international leisure travel andfor the industry.
programme and bed capacity to alternative has remained reasonably strong as consumer destinations at short notice in order to spending has held up and unemployment in The airline industry is heavily regulated continue to meet our customers expectations.
our key source markets has remained stable.
It has also been subject to an increasing level of taxation and protection of consumer rights.
Signicantly the UK now imposes an air passenger duty upon travellers from UK airports ranging from 13 for customers travelling to Europe to 94 for customers travelling to Australia in economy class, subject to an annual inationary re-rating.
Germany and Northern Europe, on the other hand, have signicantly lower passenger duties.
