50 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Governance: Board of Directors The Board is chaired by Non-Executive Chairman, Frank Meysman.
Inaddition to the Chairman, the Board currently includes two Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors.
Each of the committees ofthe Board is chaired by a Non-Executive Director.
Michael Healy Directors Group Chief Financial Officer 53 1.
Frank Meysman Non-Executive Chairman 61 Appointment: July 2012 Appointment: October 2011 Skills & experience: Michael Healy joined the Company on 14 May 2012 and became Group Committee memberships: Chief Financial Officer on 1 July 2012.
Prior to Chairman of Nominations Committee.
this, he was Group Finance Director of Kwik-Fit Skills & experience: Frank Meysman was Group.
Michael has considerable international appointed Chairman Designate of the Company experience, across a broad range of industries on 1 October 2011 and became Chairman on and was previously Chief Operating Officer 1 December 2011.
He enjoyed a successful andFinance Director of the Hong Kong listed executive career in dynamic global brand First Pacic Company Limited and subsequently 1 2 3 companies, including Procter & Gamble between Chief Financial Officer of ebookers plc.
1977 and 1986, Douwe Egberts between 1986 and 1990 and the Sara Lee Corporation 4.
Dawn Airey between 1990 and 2003 where, from 1997, Independent Non-Executive Director 53 he was Executive Vice President and amember of the Board of Directors.
Since leaving Sara Appointment: April 2010 Lee, Frankhas been a Non-Executive Director, Committee memberships: Member of Audit including Chairman, of a number of public and Committee, Health, Safety & Environmental private international companies.
Committee, Nominations Committee and Other appointments: Chairman of Betafence Remuneration Committee.
and JBC N. V. He is also an Independent Skills & experience: Dawn Airey was appointed Representative Director of Picanol N. V. as an Independent Non-Executive Director Warehouses fide Pauw WDP and Spadel S. A. on 12 April 2010.
She has over 28 years 11 6 9 experience in the media industry and has held 2.
Harriet Green OBE senior positions at some of the UKs leading Group Chief Executive Officer 51 media companies.
She is currently Senior Vice Appointment: July 2012 President of Yahoo!
Until April 2013 she was President of CLT-UFA UK Television Committee memberships: Member of Health, Limited within the RTL Group and prior to this, Safety & Environmental Committee and she was Chair and Chief Executive Officer of Nominations Committee.
Five TV, after joining the company from her Skills & experience: Harriet Green joined the role as Managing Director, Global Content at Company as Group Chief Executive Officer on ITVplc.
Prior to this, she was Chief Executive alsoaNon-Executive Director of easyJet plc.
Officer of leading high service technology Other appointments: Chair of the National distributor Premier Farnell plc.
global executive with extensive, multi-channel business leadership experience of the worldwide 5.
Emre Berkin technology and industrial markets.
She has driven Independent Non-Executive Director 52 innovation and strategic transformation through profitable global growth strategies and delivered Appointment: November 2012 industry leading results.
Harriet has a real focus on Committee memberships: Member employee engagement, having lived and worked of Health, Safety & Environmental on four continents running businesses for Premier Committee, Nominations Committee and Farnell and volume distributor, ArrowElectronics, Remuneration Committee.
In recognition of the ongoing Transformation of Thomas Cook she was named Leader of the Skills & experience: Emre Berkin was appointed Year 2013 in the National Business Awards.
as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 1 November 2012.
He has considerable Other appointments: Non-Executive Director 12 4 8 experience across the technological sector of BAE Systems plc and Emerson Electric Co. and international markets and, being based She is also a member of the UK Prime Ministers in Turkey, he has vital knowledge of one of the Business Advisory Group and a founder member key destinations for millions of our customers.
and trustee of the PeaceWorks Foundation.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 51 Between 1993 and 2006, he held a number 9.
Warren Tucker Group General Counsel and of senior positions at Microsoft, latterly as Independent Non-Executive Director 51 GroupCompany Secretary Chairman, Middle East & Africa and ViceAppointment: October 2013 President, Europe, Middle East & Africa, where 11.
Craig Stoehr Skills & experience: Warren Tucker was he led all aspects of Microsoft business in 79 Group General Counsel 46 appointed as an Independent Non-Executive countries.
Since 2006, he has acted as a NonAppointment: April 2013 Director on 3 October 2013 and will become Executive Director to a number of companies, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Skills & experience: Craig Stoehr joined the including Pegasus Airlines, Turkeys leading low following the Companys AGM in February 2014.
Company in April 2013, as Group General cost carrier, and a broad range of technology Warren has significant experience in international Counsel.
Prior to joining the Company, Craig companies including Alcatel Lucent Teletas business and strategic transformations.
He was, served as General Counsel and a member of the Telekomunikasyon A. S. which are both listed from 2003 until May 2013, Chief Financial Officer Executive Management Committee of Eastgate 1 onthe Istanbul Stock Exchange.
He is a chartered accountant and Capital Group, the private equity arm of The Other appointments: Non-Executive Director has previously held senior finance positions at National Commercial Bank of Saudi Arabia.
of Alcatel Lucent Teletas Telekomunikasyon A. S. British Airways plc and Cable & Wireless plc.
Prior to joining Eastgate, Craig was a partner and Pegasus Airlines.
atLatham & Watkins, a top tier global law rm.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director Craig also has a significant amount of business of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Roger Burnell experience, having served as chief executive of Senior Independent Director 63 several small sports, media and entertainment 10.
Martine Verluyten businesses in Europe and the United States.
Appointment: March 2007 Independent Non-Executive Director 62 Committee memberships: Chairman of Appointment: May 2011 12.
Derek Woodward Remuneration Committee, Member of Audit Committee memberships: Chairman of Group Company Secretary 55 Committee, Health, Safety & Environmental Audit Committee, Member of Nominations Committee and Nominations Committee.
Appointment: April 2008 Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Skills & experience: Roger Burnell was Skills & experience: Derek Woodward joined Skills & experience: Martine Verluyten was appointed Senior Independent Director of the the Company as Group Company Secretary in appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Company on 4 August 2010, after joining the April 2008.
Prior to this, he spent six years as Director on 9 May 2011.
She has significant Company as a Non-Executive Director in March Head of Secretariat at Centrica plc.
From 1998, international financial and IT expertise and 2007.
He was also a Non-Executive Director of he was Company Secretary of Allied Zurich has held a number of senior finance positions MyTravel Group plc from April 2003 and prior plc, the UK listed holding company of the across the telecommunications, electronics to this, he was Chief Operating Officer and a Zurich Financial Services Group and between andmaterials sectors.
Between 2006 and 2011, 2 Director of Thomson Travel Group plc.
1990 and 1998 he was Assistant Secretary she was Chief Financial Officer of Umicore, a ofB.
A. TIndustries p. l. c. Other appointments: Non-Executive Director Brussels-based materials technology group and and Chairman of the Risk Committee of from 2000 to 2006 she was Group Controller Coventry Building Society.
and subsequently Chief Financial Officer of the mobile telephone operator Mobistar.
Peter Marks CBE Other appointments: Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 64 of 3i Group plc, Supervisory Board member and Appointment: October 2011 chair of audit committee of STMicroelectronics N. V. and Independent Director of Group Committee memberships: Chairman of Bruxelles Lambert.
She also chairs the audit Health, Safety & Environmental Committee.
committee of the Flemish Region in Belgium.
Skills & experience: Peter Marks was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 October 2011.
He has over 45 years experience in the retail industry and has managed a broad range of Board composition Board tenure businesses and functions.
He was Group Chief Executive of The Co-operative Group from 2007 until May 2013 and prior to this he held 1 3 a number of senior positions, including Chief 4 1 Executive, United Co-operatives between 3 2002 and 2007 and Chief Executive, Yorkshire Co-operatives from 2000 to 2002.
Carl Symon Independent Non-Executive Director 67 2 2 Appointment: October 2013 Skills & experience: Carl Symon was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 3 October 2013 and will be appointed Senior 1.
1 year 2 Independent Director following the Companys 2.
3 years 1 global business operations and management 4.
Executive Director s 2 experience, having retired in 2001 from IBM after a long career during which he held various senior positions, both globally and as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of IBM UK.
His other former positions include Non-Executive Director of Rolls Royce Group plc, BT Group plc and Rexam plc and Chairman of HMV Group plc.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of BAE Systems plc.
Financial statements Directors report Strategic report
