20 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Review of strategy The first 365 days of Transformation delivered this is just the start In the first 365 days of the Transformation of Thomas Cook, we have effected arigorous and rapid turnaround of the business and set out a robust strategy ofsustainable profitable growth.
The fact that the business has responded so quickly and positively to the decisive actions taken during the year is a testament to the fundamental strengths of our iconic brand and the value that our customers, who total more than 20 million, place in Thomas Cook to provide them with what they want: trusted and personalised products, delivered both online and offline in a co-ordinated high tech, high touch way.
The extent of progress made, that has Secondly, we are raising our Cost Out and Based on these and our other targets, we exceeded our original expectations of what profit Improvement programme Wave1 believe that the Group has potential to deliver could be achieved by the end of this financial target from more than 400 million to significant value for our shareholders over year, is encouraging for the future.
Thirdly, we are the short, medium and long term.
To realise led us to increase three of our key targets for raising our cash conversion target from this value, we have set out a clear strategy for the year ended 30 September 2015 FY15.
more than 60% to greater than 70%.
This will not Firstly, we are raising our incremental new In addition, we have announced a further only deliver these specic and measurable product revenue target from more than cost out andprot improvement programme targets and key performance indicators 500 million to greater than 700 million.
Wave2 to be delivered by FY18, which KPIs in FY15, but also sustained profitable will be of the same magnitude as Wave1.
Targets and KPIs FY 12 FY 13 FY 14 FY 15 New product revenue N A 94m 300m 700m 1 Targets Web penetration 34% 36% 40% 50% Cost out profit improvement cumulative run-rate 60m 194m 340m 440m 2 Sales CAGR N A N A 2.5% 3.5% 3 Underlying gross margin improvement N A 0.8% 1.2% 1.5% KPIs UK underlying EBIT margin 0.1% 2.2% 3.5% 5% 4 Cash conversion 11% 48% 55% 70% Notes: 1 Measured on a last 12 months departed basis.
2 Compound annual growth rate from FY13 to FY15 including new product revenue.
3 Underlying gross margins, adjusted for disposals and shop closures on a like-for-like basis.
4 Cash conversion dened as net cash from operating activities less interest paid as a percentage of underlying EBITDA.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 21 The Thomas Cook progress report The progress report of the year demonstrates the enormity of what has been achieved.
It also gives us an insight into what Thomas Cook is capable of and, with continued relentless business focus, what it could achieve in the future.
2013 Thomas Cook progress report a major turnaround 1 Year ended 30 September 2012 Year ended 30 September 2013 Operating loss Operating profit EBIT 170 m EBIT 13m Revenue down Revenue up Revenue 9,195m Revenue 9,315m, up 120m from 9,195m in FY12, a rise of 1.3% Operating margin down Operating margin up Underlying EBIT margin 1.9% Underlying EBIT margin 2.8%, up from 1.9% in FY12, a rise of 90 basis points Negative free cash ow Positive free cash ow Free cash ow 103 m Free cash ow 53m, up 156m from 103 m in FY12 Balance sheet renancing required Balance sheet strengthened Bank facilities maturing 2015 1.6bn capital renancing 2 Maturities extended Net debt Net debt almost halved 788m 421m Disposals made to raise cash More disposals made on track to deliver target of between Hotels Y Clubs fide Vacaciones sold 100m to 150m in gross proceeds by FY15 Thomas Cook India sold North American business sold Aircraft sale and leaseback Thomas Cook Personal Finance 50% share sold Three London Foreign Exchange Bureaux sold Egypt and Lebanon business sold 91.5% of our interest in The Airline Group sold Corporate Foreign Exchange Business sold Thomas Cook Tours outsourced Neilson sold Cost Out Programme Wave 1 Cost Out & profit Improvement Programme Wave 1 60m of cumulative benets realised Benets Up and FY15 Targets Increased Total cumulative target 240m by FY15 194m of cumulative benets realised 3 Total cumulative target increased to 440m by FY15 UK operating margin down UK operating margin up UK underlying EBIT margin 0.1% UK underlying EBIT margin 2.2%, up from 0.1% in FY12, a rise of 210 basis points No other Cost Out Programme New Cost Out Programme announced Wave 2 Benets of a similar scale to Wave 1 realised by FY18 Complex brand portfolio Simplied brand portfolio 85 brand labels 30 brand labels Customers booking online More customers booking online 34% of total bookings online 36% of total bookings online New products New product growth 66 Concept Hotels 93 Concept Hotels Subsequent to year end.
Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 22 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Review of strategy continued significant achievements of the year.
Not only improvements in FY14 as our restructuring did it represent a major step on our journey to measures take effect.
reach an optimal capital structure by reducing net debt and extending maturities, it crucially The development of our new One Airline The considerable allowed us to continue with our rapid and structure is also on track.
This brings together progress made successful Transformation of the Group.
the four airlines and enables the realisation of scale benets and efficiency improvements.
transforming the As part of the Transformation, we undertook In the meantime, we have continued to an extensive review of our portfolio of assets.
invest in the refurbishment and renewal of Company in the This resulted in a number of disposals that our airlines, having invested 78 million in first half of the have improved our business mix and enabled maintaining, refurbishing and renewing our more focus on those core assets that will aircraft in FY13.
year enabled us deliver sustained profitable growth.
to undertake a One of the main reasons for Thomas In May we completed the sale of our Cooks previous year losses was that it 1.6 billion capital North American business which reported had too much cost due to the businesses an underlying operating loss in FY12 operating in silos.
of 41.1 million, for cash proceeds of of our Cost Out and profit Improvement 3.4 million.
At the end of May, we disposed Programme to 30 September 2013 we of our 50% share in Thomas Cook Personal have made significant progress successfully Finance and three standalone foreign integrating the businesses and have removed exchange bureaux in London.
Since the end 194 million of cost.
This result is considerably of the financial year, we have made further higher than the 145 million that we had progress.
On 4 October we disposed of originally expected to have achieved by our business in Egypt and Lebanon which the end of September 2013, reecting an reported an underlying operating profit of acceleration ofthe savings.
In the year ended 30 September 2013, we 1.1 million in FY13, for cash proceeds of successfully reversed the negative trends of 6.5 million.
On 18 November we announced One of the key contributors to the cost out the past.
We delivered a positive operating the sale of our Corporate Foreign Exchange programme has been the UK.
We announced profit for the first time since FY10, putting business for cash proceeds of 4.5 million in March our plan to reduce our payroll by Thomas Cook back on a rm trajectory of and an outsourcing agreement in respect of approximately 2,500 to a target of about profitable growth.
We delivered encouraging our escorted tours business, Thomas Cook 13,000 full time employees.
profitable growth with increased revenue, due Tours, for a minimum period of five years.
to pricing and yield improvements as well as On 19 November we announced the disposal We also said that we would reduce the the effect of foreign exchange offsetting a of 91.5% of our shareholding and loan note number of retail stores.
As at 30 September managed reduction in committed capacity.
interests in The Airline Group Limited, a 2013, we had reduced our network by Operating margin was up too: a strong signal 41.9% shareholder in NATS Holdings Limited, 21% from 1,101 stores at the beginning of that Thomas Cook can convert its significant for a cash consideration of approximately the programme to 874 and increased the revenues of over 9 billion into profit.
Finally, on 25 November we percentage of business booked online to 36% announced the sale of Neilson for a cash FY12: 34%.
A recent report by retail property One of the most encouraging signs as we consideration of 9.2 million.
consultants, CWM, confirmed that our store continue to repay debt and set out a strategy network is highly exible, with well over half to enable dividend payments in the future This equates, once The Airline Group available for renegotiation over the next is the positive free cash ow generated transaction completes, to a total of three years.
during the year, a significant reversal from 61 million of gross proceeds from disposals, the negative free cash ow position of the putting us on track to achieve our target As a result of this ongoing turnaround of the previous year.
Reecting improvements in of between 100 million and 150 million business, the UK underlying EBIT margin working capital and the progress that we are by FY15.
improved by 210 basis points from 0.1% in making, we have increased our FY15 cash FY12 to 2.2% in FY13.
conversion target to 70% from our initial We are also making progress transforming target of 60%.
In France, We have also identied more cost savings we have moved closer to our target of as we have dug deeper into the business.
The considerable progress made breakeven by FY15, reducing its loss by Euros Some of these have been due to the transforming the Company in the first half of 5.3 million to Euros 18.7 million FY12: Euros identication of new initiatives.
Some have the year enabled us to undertake a 1.6 billion 24 million.
Having successfully concluded been due to an internally imposed risk capital renancing.
Successfully completed our discussions with the Workers Council, we weighted process, which discounts potential in June we raised 431 million in new equity, are now implementing the restructuring in savings for execution risk, proving to be a new banking facility of 500 million that line with our planned timescale.
In these instances, as the risk matures in 2017 with a second 191 million we have stabilised our Russian business, weighted project moved closer to realisation, tranche available from 2015 and a new reporting a loss of Euros 10.5 million FY12: it became clear that more savings would bond of Euros 525 million that matures in Euros 11 million and expect to see significant materialise, necessitating an adjustment to 2020.
This renancing was one of the most Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 23 the risk weighting which, in turn resulted in This investment cost is estimated to be into hotel assessment and our ongoing the release of additional benets.
This has approximately one third of the annual benefit.
resulted in the total cumulative target for FY15 moving from 240 million at the Over the next six months, we will continue to Quality assurance is also a key differentiator beginning of this financial year to 440 million develop the plan, applying the risk-weighting as we increasingly become a digital business.
at the end of it: an increase of 200 million.
methodology we use for Wave 1 and expect Central to our high tech, high touch approach 1 to include further details with our first half is online delivery combined with protection, Building sustainable value at Thomas Cook is results announcement.
quality assured products and personalised crucial.
We aim to deliver profitable growth, support: all of which we know from our not just to FY15 but also over the long term.
While cost out and profit improvement extensive traveller survey is what customers Sustaining success is about ensuring that are clearly major value drivers and provide want.
Consciously offering a differentiated we have the best people, best products and Thomas Cook with the advantage of a highly model from the way the online industry has best processes, underpinned by the very best competitive, lean and innovative operating evolved, we believe that our high tech, high practices from all industries, not just our own.
platform, it will not, taken in isolation, drive touch offer is more relevant to travellers profitable growth on a sustained basis up to needs today, bringing us closer to them and With our customer at the heart of and beyond FY15.
therefore better able to meet their needs everything we do, we aim to bring further in future.
professionalism to the high tech, high touch This will, however, be delivered by the delivery of trusted, personalised products to successful implementation of our strategy With customers increasingly wishing to book all our customers.
This will be supported by a forsustainable profitable growth.
their holiday online, we plan to increase the lean and innovative operating system that is level of business transacted on the web designed specifically to serve their needs.
As at the end of Delivering our strategy September 2013, the number of customers forprotable growth This is encapsulated by our disciplined booking their holidays online had risen 2 operating model called The Thomas Cook The central driver of our corporate strategy to 36%.
All markets saw increased web Business System.
Consistent with these isour customer.
penetration, including Scandinavia which is values, we plan to deliver further benets over 70%.
We expect this to accelerate more from enhanced margin management, Our traveller survey was highly informative.
towards our FY15 target of over 50% in the more efficient use of shared services and a It told us that trust, consistency and a strong later periods of the plan, as the significant leaner organisational design.
These will be brand are the most important drivers of organisational change that is currently delivered under a Wave 2 Cost Out and profit customer choice.
It also told us that 50% of underway to migrate our six key markets to a Improvement Programme, which will be in travellers feel overwhelmed by the amount OneWeb common platform takes effect.
addition to Wave 1. ofchoice when booking and 66% of travellers want help in choosing the right product At the same time, we continue to enrich our Our new Wave 2 Cost Out and profit for them.
online offer with leading digital innovations Improvement initiatives will drive benets in to improve conversion rates.
In particular, gross margin as well as in cost out through In addition, as we might have expected, 93% DreamCapture is expected to have a reduced overheads.
Gross margin benets of travellers either search for content online particularly high impact.
This latest innovation are expected to arise from further yield or express a preference for booking online if enables the valuable customer relationship management from adopting one system, possible.
However, it also told us that 70% of discussion in the store to continue digitally one inventory and one web across our travellers want a relationship with their holiday after the customer returns home, creating markets, scale benets from purchasing provider that goes beyond just booking and a crucial link between e-tail and retail and 3 accommodation on a centralised basis and paying for a trip.
helping ensure safe passage between the reduced commission expense from growing channels.
We expect this to drive increased online sales of our own branded products.
With trust in our brand being highlighted conversion rates as customers have easy as one of our most powerful competitive access to previously viewed content and have Cost out benets are expected to arise advantages, the value of our extensive and a clear link straight to purchase.
from the migration of customers to online thorough quality assurance programme to channels with lower associated distribution customers became even clearer.
This involves Another innovation, RepAdvisor, allows our costs, the creation of shared service centres a continuous audit of key quality measures representatives to upload information, photos to support the businesses more efficiently including health and safety, customer service and videos on the web so that our customers and the adoption of more lean organisational and overall quality excellence.
The health can benefit from first-hand information about structures within the Group as a whole.
and safety programme measures standards, the resort and local area.
We also continue to audits hotels and includes a clear escalation innovate with enhancements to content such We estimate that the total Wave 2 benets and decision process.
The customer service as increased use of accommodation videos will be of a similar scale to Wave 1 and will be includes structured and regular feedback and improved room descriptions to inspire achieved by FY18.
While it is early stages in that is continually embedded in our customers to book a holiday that meets their the implementation of the plan, we do expect hotel contracting process.
that Wave 2 will have a higher investment excellence includes extensive surveys that cost to achieve the benets than Wave 1. allow us to determine what really matters In recognition of our innovations, we recently to customers which we can then reinvest won the Global Business Excellence Awards Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 24 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Review of strategy continued for Outstanding Innovation and, in respect Our third segment consists of our traditional holidays to each customer by offering a of RepAdvisor, Outstanding App, the latter brochure hotels, providing customers with a broader product range.
being described as an outstanding example quality range of accommodation and style, of harnessing modern technology to deliver as well as more choice across a wide range For example, the analysis of our survey data great customer service.
informed us that 77% of our Sun & Beach customers who took city breaks last year In light of travellers feeling overwhelmed by Finally, we also offer a significant range of booked with another provider.
the amount of choice, it was also clear that exible hotels, that are available online.
we needed to unify and simplify our brands.
Unlike the other segments which are either With a dedicated team in place we are Having inherited as many as 85 brand labels, exclusive or involve a level of commitment to signicantly enhancing our portfolio of city we took action to simplify these to just the hotelier, these hotels are offered on a real hotels across our Group and have already 30, unifying our remaining brands under time basis via the web to allow the greatest doubled our inventory in Central Europe.
one common symbol, the Sunny Heart.
Supported by encouraging We plan to increase the number of city hotels This allows us to focus our considerable trials in our German market, we see potential that we can offer our customers from a brand power, proposition and products in the to attract signicantly more new customers current level of 7,000 to 20,000 by FY15.
fullment of our specic customers needs.
who like to book these hotels online and typically later than our traditional customers.
Further professionalising Building on Thomas Cooks existing strong ourGroup brand heritage, the Sunny Heart highlights Overall, our strategy is to shift from the combined strengths of the Group in approximately 20% of hotel revenues in Consistent with our internal operating the minds of our customers, symbolising exclusive and exible hotels in FY12, to methodology, The Thomas Cook Business personalised and trusted holidays, high tech, approximately 40% by FY17.
Together, they System, we need to ensure that we have the high touch delivery, backed by Thomas Cook will account for incremental new product right people, doing the right things in the right Quality Assurance, international scale and revenue growth of 700 million by FY15.
way to deliver our strategy.
As part of this, we market leading purchasing power.
By 2017 we expect to have increased this have completed a new Executive Committee.
incremental new product growth by a further This is an important step on our journey to Our strategic management of hotel 500 million to more than 1.2 billion.
further professionalise the Group, breaking product is key to our delivery of sustainable down regional silos and realigning leadership profitable growth.
We will focus our total investment spend into responsibilities to deliver the best product in exclusive hotels where we have the highest the best way to our customers.
Having identied from our traveller survey the returns.
Our proven concept hotels already importance of customer attitudes in terms deliver a margin premium relative to the other Led by the Chief Executive Officer, who is of holiday preferences, our hotel portfolio is hotels in our portfolio of as much as 500 basis committed to leading the sustained delivery carefully segmented to ensure that we meet points.
Our partnership hotels also deliver a of profitable growth, the Committee also individual customer needs.
specifically, we margin premium, currently in excess of 150 includes the Group Chief Financial Officer, have segmented our product portfolio into basis points above the other hotels, and it is Chief Operating Officer, Group Head of four areas: concept hotels, partnership hotels, our aim to double this margin premium over Air Travel, Chief Technology Officer, Chief hotels from our brochure and exible hotels, the next three years as we continue to invest Digital Officer, the Group General Counsel including hotels4u.
com that has recently further in this area.
and the Chief People Officer: all key roles broadened its offer to appeal not just to as we realign our operating approach to business but also to retail customers.
Our product growth ambitions also include a deliver performance excellence as one fully relentless pursuit to innovate more product.
In FY13 over 500,000 customers enjoyed In FY13 we have developed and launched a our 93 exclusive concept hotels, which are new concept hotel type called SunConnect This is just the start operated under our own brands, Sentido, which offers value based family holidays with An enormous amount has been achieved Sunwing, Sunprime and Smartline.
a focus on making life simpler through the transforming Thomas Cook and the These hotels provide our customers with a use of technology.
This product has been deliverables in the first 365 days of the consistent experience based on a dened list designed specifically in response to customer Transformation are clear.
of features that meet their needs wherever feedback from our extensive survey.
We will they go on holiday.
These are further trial an initial 10 hotels in the coming 2014 Yet the implementation of our strategy for categorised according to whether their Summer season.
sustained profitable growth has only just customer focus is adult or family orientated.
With our systemised approach to A key driver of our profitable growth, we business under The Thomas Cook Business Our other exclusive hotels are partnership plan to have 800 exclusive partnership and System, our products, people and processes hotels.
In FY13 over 800,000 customers concept hotels open by FY17, enjoyed by over and our powerful unied brand, we are enjoyed these hotels, which currently total 3.5 million customers.
confident of delivering signicantly more in 216.
Partnership hotels are owned by world the years to come.
leading hoteliers and strong local partners, Another key product priority that we with whom we have close relationships and identied in March, when we announced who have strong reputations for providing our strategy for profitable growth, was the consistently high quality service.
conclusion that we should be providing more
