Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 17 Business overview How is 1 valuecreated?
Business model Q: How does Thomas Cook create value through its business model?
A: We offer our customers an integrated, end-to-end travel experience, underpinned by the strength We are one of the worlds leading leisure travel of the Thomas Cook brands companies, with operations in 17 source We help make sense of the overwhelming choice of travel products available to customers markets across Europe.
Our core business We differentiate ourselves from competitors by offering high levels of service throughout the customer journey model is that of a tour operator, sourcing We offer the assurance of a quality controlled product portfolio and financial security holiday components, such as air travel and Service and assurance accommodation either by creating them ourselves or procuring them from thirdparties, and selling them either on a packaged Q: What makes hotel partners or on a component-only basis to consumers, Purchasing and other suppliers want to via both online and offline channels.
We enjoy andsupply of work with Thomas Cook?
ThirdIn-house airline seats a number one or number two position party A: Our distribution strength andhotel beds Our industry expertise measured by revenues among traditional andmarket intelligence package tour operators in our most significant Our deep supplier source markets, being the UK, Germany and 2 relationships, dedicated Northern Europe.
service agents and eld support Our tour operator business is supported by our in-house airlines.
Our airlines provide services to the Group and to third-parties Production and including individuals and other tour operators.
marketing of Brands, services Innovation travel packages, and product Our airlines contribute approximately 17% of components package portfolio the Groups gross revenue.
and ancillaries Our tour operating model has some local adaptations within each of our markets, depending on the degree of vertical integration Q: How does Thomas Cook develop and sustain its among our airlines, tour operators and competitive advantage?
In the UK, Northern Sales via A: We respond to customer Europe and Belgium, our business model is omni-channel needs and preferences, that of a vertically integrated tour operator, distribution Thirdandto industry trends In-house system web, party based largely on the use of our own airlines, We invest in our core brands, phone and and in our processes and and controlled distribution of product through 3 face-to-face technology infrastructure our retail outlets, websites and call centres.
We are proud innovators In Germany, however, a significant proportion inour industry of air capacity requirements are sourced from our German airline Condor, and the majority of travel products and services are distributed through third-party travel agents.
Q: Why do customers buy from In source markets where we do not operate our Thomas Cook and why do they continue to do so?
own airline, all our air capacity requirements Customers Where does Thomas Cooks are sourced from third-parties, and there is competitive advantage generally a lower level of controlled distribution come from?
than in vertically integrated markets.
A: Product range and choice Value for money We offer a wide range of holiday options, Service and assurance Brand strength including traditional pre-packaged holidays, independent travel products including dynamically-packaged holidays and individual holiday components, seat only ights and a Service and assurance selection of travel-related financial and other ancillary services.
Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 18 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Business overview continued Traditional pre-packaged holidays are where In order to generate deeper insights into our Key industry trends two or more components of travel, such as market, in November 2012 we commissioned In recent years, a number of key trends charter ights often using the Groups own one of the largest surveys conducted in our have led to significant changes in the leisure airlines, hotels and transfers are bundled industry in recent years.
We questioned over travel market.
These key trends include together and offered for sale as a single 18,000 consumers including both Thomas the following: product.
We sell our traditional pre-packaged Cook customers and non-customers across holidays directly to customers through our our key source markets of the UK, Germany Online growth own retail outlets, websites and call-centres, and Sweden in order to establish clear facts as well as on a business-to-business basis to about our marketplace.
Those surveyed third-party travel agents.
were asked to respond to a set of questions regarding their travel habits and preferences, The independent travel products we in order to understand why they shop with The growth of the internet has increased offer encompass dynamically-packaged a particular travel brand, and to learn what price transparency and choice, leading holidays where customers can tailor their travellers want and how they feel when they to a significant increase in the availability holiday by bundling together individual book and experience their holidays.
From this of travel products and services online, holiday components to meet their personal survey we learned four key insights: both through direct suppliers and travel requirements with regard to destination, Trust, consistency and an assured intermediaries, and to a proliferation of duration, variety, quality and price, individual experience underpinned by a strong information and reviews about travel holiday components and scheduled brandare the most important drivers of experiences and destinations.
We typically aggregate the various customer choice: components from a wide range of third-party Half of travellers feel overwhelmed by the suppliers and sell this aggregated product amount of information and choice when Low cost air travel either directly to customers or to third-party booking, and two thirds of travellers want travel agents on a business-to-business basis.
help in choosing the right product for them: We either charge a mark-up or are paid a 93% of travellers either search for content commission by a third-party supplier based online or express a preference for booking Availability and choice of airline routes has on the booking price paid by the customer.
online if possible: and also expanded, as the rise of the low-cost 70% of travellers want a relationship with carriers has led to a significant increase in In addition, we provide travel-related financial their holiday provider that goes beyond just the online distribution of seats to a wide services including foreign currency and prebooking and paying for a trip, and includes range of destinations at competitive prices.
paid foreign currency cards, travel insurance supporting them both before and during and travel finance products that allow their travels.
customers to finance their travel, and certain These changes have made it easier for ancillary travel services such as processing of We believe that these insights lay the customers to research and build their passenger baggage at airports.
foundations for a successful business own travel experiences, leading to strong model, and represent a clear competitive growth particularly in the independent advantage over other business models in travel sector including dynamic packages travel distribution.
Through our trusted travel and individual holiday components and in brands and multiple customer touchpoints, online distribution.
we are able to offer customers personalised help and advice when making their holiday arrangements, and support them before departure, during their holiday whilst in destination, and if necessary after their holiday once they return home.
We are able to offer a quality assured product portfolio, and enjoy deep and long lasting relationships with many of our hotel suppliers.
We believe that being able to engage with a trusted travel partner who can provide a competitively 70% of travellers want a priced product, strong customer service relationship with their holiday and the assurance of quality control and financial security is increasingly important provider that goes beyond just to consumers.
booking and paying for a trip.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 19 Our value proposition We create value by offering a wide range of travel products and services to suit all customer needs, reaching our customers seamlessly through omni-channel distribution.
Our value proposition is underpinned by the strength of our brand and our high tech, high touch 1 approach, enabling customers to search for and book their travel arrangements through the channel of their choice, while providing a quality assured travel experience backed up by strong customer service.
The key aspects of our value proposition are as follows: 1 Brand strength Thomas Cook is one of the leading brands in the leisure travel market.
Building on a 172-year history in the travel business, the ThomasCook brand serves as a strong master brand for the Group and is complemented by a range of well-known regional brands, including Neckermann, Condor, Jet tours, Ving, Spies and Tjreborg, which are joined by our new unifying mark, the Sunny Heart.
As part of rolling out the Sunny Heart we have taken the opportunity to concentrate our brand investment, reducing the number of brand labels from 85 to just 30.
Our strong brand recognition in the travel market provides us with a solid platform to develop particularly our online distribution channel, andis a key driver of consumer interest in our products and services, visits to our stores and websites and, ultimately, revenues.
2 2 Product breadth We offer a wide product range and choice of destinations enabling us to meet customer demands and preferences while mitigating the effect of factors which may negatively affect demand for travel to certain regions, such as the political and civil instability in certain MENA destinations.
We have a history of successful product development and launch, including developing exclusive and differentiated products such as the Sunwing, Sunprime, Smartline and Sentido concept hotels, which aim to deliver a consistent, high-quality, branded hotel experience to our customers, as well as partnership hotels which also offer a high quality and exclusive hotel experience under local brands.
We intend to broaden our product offering further by expanding our successful concept and partnership hotel programmes, and by developing new, exible products and services, closely tied to customer demands and preferences.
We also intend to introduce or expand our product offerings to limit the impact of seasonality, for example, through the proposed expansion of our winter sun and city break offerings.
3 Distribution reach We benefit from an omni-channel distribution system for our products, which include retail stores, websites and call centres, as well as third-party travel agents.
Access to such a wide variety of distribution channels enables us to maximise customer reach and provides choice to our customers.
We aim to build on this strength through the development of a single customer gateway which will enable the delivery of a consistent, personalised customer experience with access to a full range of products, services and personal recommendations across all 3 distribution channels.
In support of this objective, a key priority of the Group is to become the leading online tour operator, with an online platform that hosts a broad range of products and services.
Service and quality 4 Our customer service representatives are present at many customer touch points, including in stores, on our aircraft and in destination, providing reassurance and ensuring a high-quality travel experience.
We have a health and safety assurance process for our products.
Our product inventory is quality assured, taking into account reviews and recommendations of our own customers and third-party reviewers.
For our high volume destinations and accommodation, we carry out our own professional checks to ensure our product is fully quality controlled.
Financial statements Directors report Strategic report
