56 DiRECTORS chairman chief executive Robert Walker was appointed as a non-executive John Carter joined Sandell Perkins as a director in September 2009 and became management trainee in 1978. he held a number Chairman in May 2010. he is chairman of of regional management positions, before being Enterprise Inns plc, Americana International appointed Managing Director, Operations in 1996, holdings ltd and Somerset-ladbroke Investments and a director of Travis Perkins plc in july 2001. ltd, and a senior independent director of Tate & he became Chief Operating Officer in February lyle PlC.
he was previously chairman of 2005 and Deputy Chief Executive in December w h Smith PlC, williams lea Group ltd and BCA 2011. he was appointed Chief Executive on Europe and Group Chief Executive of Severn 1 january 2014. he is a trustee of the Building Trent Plc.
he spent over 30 years with Procter Research Establishment.
he is a member of the & Gamble, McKinsey and PepsiCo and has also health & Safety Committee and Chairman of the served as a non-executive director on a number Executive Committee.
he is Chairman of the Nominations Committee and a chief Financial Officer member of the Remuneration and health & Safety Tony Buffin was appointed as Chief Financial Committees.
Officer on 8 April 2013. he is a chartered accountant and was previously with the Coles Group in Australia where he was Chief Financial Officer from 2009.
Prior to that he was Chief Executive Officer of the loyalty Management Group.
he is member of the Executive Committee.
TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 57 non-executive Directors Ruth anderson was appointed as a non-executive Christopher Rogers was appointed as a director in 2011.
She is a non-executive director non-executive director on 1 September 2013. of Ocado plc, Coats plc, The Royal Parks an he is a chartered accountant, Managing Director executive agency of the Department of Culture, of Costa Coffee and a director of whitbread PlC, Media and Sport and a trustee of the charity the of which he was Group Finance Director from Duke of Edinburghs Award.
She is a chartered 2005 to 2012. he was Group Finance Director accountant and held a number of positions of woolworth Group PlC from 2001 to 2005 in KPMG uK from 1976 to 2009, being a and previously held senior roles in both finance member of its board from 1998 to 2004 and and commercial functions in Comet Group PlC vice Chair from 2005 to 2009.
She is Chairman and Kingfisher PlC.
he was also a non-executive of the Audit Committee and a member of the director of hMv Group PlC from 2006 to 2012. health & Safety Committee.
he is a member of the Audit Committee.
John Coleman was appointed as a non-executive andrew Simon O.
B. E. was appointed as director in 2005. he is a chartered management a non-executive director in 2006. he is a accountant and Chairman of AGA Rangemaster non-executive director of Finning International Inc. Group plc and a non-executive director of Canada, Management Consulting Group plc, Bonmarche holdings plc.
he has previously been SGl Carbon SE Germany, Exova Group plc, Icon Chairman of holiday Break plc, Chief Executive Infrastructure Management llP Guernsey, Icon of house of Fraser plc and Chief Executive of 1A GP ltd, British Car Auctions and Gulf Keystone Texas homecare and of a number of businesses Petroleum ltd Bermuda.
he was previously within Burton Group PlC.
he became Senior Deputy Chairman of Dalkia plc, Chairman and or Independent Director in january 2013, and Chief Executive of Evode Group plc and has also is a member of the Remuneration, Audit and held non-executive directorships with Severn Trent Nominations Committees.
Plc, Ibstock PlC, laporte Plc, Associated British Ports holdings PlC, and Brake Bros holdings ltd. he is chairman of the Remuneration and health & Safety Committees and a member of the Nominations Committee.
