BUSiNESS REViEW during the year resulting in sales growth of 6.0% and SupplY chain 24 lFl growth of 4.8%.
For the third year running the innovation and Demand for domestic plumbing and heating skills of our supply chain teams were recognised products grew steadily during the year as by the industry.
The supply chain team achieved housebuilder activity increased.
RMI activity also short-listings for awards in safety, innovation and increased and the government backed ECO Energy technology and one of our team members achieved Company Obligation schemes further assisted the the award for rising star at the European Supply number of boiler installations.
The ECO schemes will Chain Excellence Awards.
continue through to 2014, but most likely at a lower These awards reflect the importance the Group level of activity than experienced in 2013. places on building supply chain skills.
Over 100 of The commercial plumbing and heating market our team members attended tailored courses at displayed good growth during the summer months, Cranfield university.
This investment in people skills however, a number of project delays impacted coupled with continued investment in the Groups volumes towards the end of the year.
supply chain systems and infrastructure are helping Despite the commercial and industrial market to build the building materials sectors most effective sectors remaining weak, BSS performed well due and efficient supply chain.
This will become more to an increased focus on the industrial market.
lFl important as customers increasingly adopt mobile growth was over twice that of the division as a whole.
Ten industrial centres of excellence were opened in During the year significant progress was made in the year, stocking a wider range of products coupled implementing the Groups supply chain strategy: with greater service and technical expertise.
Consolidating one of the wickes warehouses into a Gross margins for the division increased despite sister site market conditions and intense competitive pricing.
Extending the reach of the warrington heavy side This was achieved through strong partnerships with RDC by relocating to a larger site key suppliers, and improvements in sourcing and Bringing our kitchen supply and distribution product mix as well as a number of one-off short in-house for Benchmarx term contract benefits which are not expected to Increasing capacity for Toolstation through a new recur at the same level in 2014. warehouse opening Overheads were well controlled with the ratio Announcing the development of a second heavy of cost to sales reduced during the year.
The materials RDC in Cardiff improvement in the cost ratio was achieved despite Announcing the development of a new Primary further investment in the expansion of toolhire in BSS, Distribution Centre PDC for lighter products, and the continued roll out of new showrooms and which will open in warrington early in 2015 spares implants through the existing branch network.
Completing a tender for the development of our Seven BSS toolhire implants opened in the year new supply chain and warehouse systems bringing the total number of branches to 18.
Seven The supply chain team also achieved a further PTS and F & P sites were closed in the year with the 30% reduction in time lost to injuries on top of an majority of business transferred to nearby locations.
Four new City Plumbing branches were opened and are performing in line with the Groups expectations.
central ServiceS within CPS, the very successful Endeavour The streamlining of central services has continued bathroom showroom offer was extended to 76 through the devolution of more responsibility to showrooms.
In addition, the spares product category divisional management, whilst retaining the benefits delivered impressive growth and market share gains.
arising from the scale of the Group.
Divisional Spares service was extended with orders now being boards have been established and business taken up until 8pm for next day delivery.
partnering from central teams implemented.
The BSS industrial network has been expanded Projects have started which will see considerable during the year with the opening of two new concept investment in the Groups IT systems in the coming branches, one as an implant branch at a Keyline years under two broad themes: site and one as a standalone small footprint branch.
Investing for the future: developing the Groups These branches have traded well in the final quarter new web based trading platforms and other of the year and give the Group confidence that these systems to improve customer propositions formats could be extended into other catchments.
Re-engineering and infrastructure: which will result in the replacement of existing heritage platforms that are approaching the end of their useful lives and upgrading networks to support future growth and capacity demands TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
