85 DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEmBER 2013 The Directors present their annual report and audited Walker, John Coleman, Andrew Simon and Ruth Anderson accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The will all seek re-election at the Annual General meeting.
Corporate Governance statement on pages 59 to 63 forms Chris Bunker will not seek re-election because as explained part of the Directors report.
on page 14 he retired from the Board on 30 September 2013.
Likewise Geoff Cooper will not seek re-election bUsiness review because, as explained on page 13, after 9 years as Chief A review of the Groups position, developments and future Executive Officer, Geoff Cooper retired as a director on prospects can be found in the Strategic report on pages 5 31 December 2013.
However he will remain as a part to 55.
Whilst the Group operates predominately in the UK time senior management adviser, with a particular brief it does have a few branches in the Isle of man, Northern to assist with the further development of the Groups Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
successful Toolstation business, for a period of 12 months from his retirement.
GreenhoUse Gas emissions reportinG The names of the Directors at 31 December 2013, Details of our green house gas emissions can be found in together with their biographical details are set out on pages the Environmental Report on pages 50 to 51.
All of these Directors held office throughout the year, except Christopher Rogers who was appointed with resULts and dividends effect from 1 September 2013.
The executive directors The Group results for the year ended 31 December 2013 have rolling 12 month notice periods in their contracts.
The and dividends for the year ending 31 December 2013 are non-executive directors do not have service contracts.
If approved, the final dividend will be light of the formal evaluation of their performances as a result paid on 30 may 2014 to those shareholders on the register of the process described on pages 60 and 61 Robert Walker, at the close of business on 2 may 2014.
Chairman, confirms on behalf of the Board that all directors continue to be effective in, and committed to, their roles.
baLanCe sheet and post baLanCe Directors and officers of the Company are entitled sheet events to be indemnified out of the assets of the Company in The balance sheet on pages 94 and 95 shows the Groups respect of any liability incurred in relation to the affairs financial position.
No significant events have occurred since of the Company, or any associate company, to the extent the balance sheet date.
In this regard, the Company is required to disclose that under article 140 of the Companys prinCipaL risks and UnCertainties Articles of Association, the Directors have the benefit of an A review of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties is indemnity, to the extent permitted by the Companies Act on pages 39 to 41.
2006 against liabilities incurred by them in the execution of their duties and exercise of their powers.
This indemnity finanCiaL risk manaGement is currently in force.
In addition, if proceedings against Details of the Groups approach to capital management directors are instituted subsequent to any person acquiring and the alleviation of risk through the use of financial control of the Company, the Company has agreed with instruments are given in the Financial Review on pages 28 each of the Directors that pursuant to article 140 D of to 30.
Specific quantitative information on borrowings and the Companys Articles of Association, the Company shall financial instruments is given in notes 23 and 24 on pages provide a director with funds subject to certain restrictions 121 to 127 of the annual financial statements.
to meet expenditure incurred by that director in defending any criminal or civil proceedings.
direCtors and their interests A copy of the Companys Articles of Association which In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, contains this indemnity is available for inspection at the Christopher Rogers will be standing for election by Companys registered office during normal business hours shareholders at the Annual General meeting, having been and will be available for inspection at and during the period appointed to the Board since the last Annual General of 30 minutes prior to the Companys forthcoming Annual meeting.
The Board believes that Christopher Rogers strong General meeting.
general management and financial background coupled None of the Directors had an interest in any contract to with his experience in a number of operational roles will which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was a party greatly benefit the Company, complement the skills of the during the year.
other Board members, and make him an ideal choice as a The Company has undertaken to comply with the best non-executive director.
practice on approval of directors conflicts of interests in The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
These requires that all directors of FTSE 350 companies are provisions have operated effectively.
Under the Companies subject to re-election at the Companys Annual General Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation where he has, or meeting each year and therefore executive directors, John can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly Carter and Tony Buffin, and non-executive directors Robert may conflict, with the Companys interests.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT The disclosable interests of Directors at 31 December persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of 86 2013, including holdings, if any, of spouses and of other employees.
children aged under 18, were as detailed in the Directors The Groups policies and practices have been designed Remuneration Report on page 79. to keep employees informed on matters relevant to them as employees through regular meetings and newsletters.
sUbstantiaL sharehoLdinGs Employee representatives are consulted regularly on a wide As at 31 December 2013, the Company had been notified range of matters affecting their interests.
All employees with of the following interests amounting to 3% or more of the more than three months service are eligible to participate voting rights in the issued ordinary share capital of the in the Companys Sharesave and Buy-As-You Earn plans.
Company as at this date no other such notification from Details are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report.
any other shareholder had been received by the Company : poLitiCaL donations Number % The Group did not give any money for political purposes nor did it make any donations to political organisations or incur Sprucegrove Investment management 13,740,380 5.57% any political expenditure during the year.
BlackRock Inc 12,660,084 5.13% aUditor Scottish Widows Investment Partnership 11,149,896 4.52% Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys UBS 10,447,348 4.23% auditor and to authorise the Directors to fix the auditors remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General AXA Group 9,192,393 3.72% meeting.
Pzena Investment management 7,967,518 3.23% statement on disCLosUre of information Legal & General Investment management 7,862,297 3.19% to the aUditor Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval As at 25 February 2014, the Company had been notified of this report confirms that: of the following interests amounting to 3% or more of the So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit voting rights in the issued ordinary share capital of the information of which the Companys auditor is unaware Company as at this date no other such notification from and any other shareholder had been received by the Company : The director has taken all reasonable steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make themself Number % aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information Sprucegrove Investment management 13,734,600 5.56% This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in Scottish Widows Investment Partnership 10,412,245 4.22% accordance with the provisions of s. 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Axa Framlington Asset management 8,845,432 3.44% Legal & General Investment management 7,844,251 3.18% share CapitaL and ChanGe of ControL As at 31 December 2013 the Company had an allotted and fully paid share capital of 246,786,289 ordinary CLose Company statUs shares of 10 pence each, with an aggregate nominal The close company provisions of the Income and value of 24,678,628.90 including shares owned by the Corporation Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to the Company.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
All the shares rank empLoyees pari passu.
The rights and obligations attaching to the shares Statements on employee matters are contained in the are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Fully Corporate Responsibility Statement on pages 42 to 45. paid shares in the Company are freely transferable.
There Details of the number of employees and related costs can are no persons that hold securities carrying special rights be found in note 7 to the annual financial statements.
with regard to the control of the Company.
Details of the The Company is committed to equality of opportunity structure of the Companys share capital and changes in the and recognises the benefit of diversity within its workforce.
share capital during the year are also included in note 20 to Its approach to the matter of diversity on company boards the annual financial statements.
is set out in the Nominations Committee report on page As at 31 December 2013 the Travis Perkins Employee 84 and in the Corporate Responsibility Statement on pages Share Ownership Trust owned 3,459,161 shares in 44 and 45.
The Company has an equal opportunities the Company 1.40% of issued share capital for use in policy aimed at ensuring that employment decisions are connection with the Companys share schemes.
Any voting based on ability and potential regardless of gender, race, or other similar decisions relating to those shares would colour, ethnic origin or sexual orientation, age or disability.
In be taken by the Trustees, who may take account of any particular, applications for employment by disabled persons recommendation of the Company.
are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes There are no restrictions on voting rights attaching to the of the person concerned.
In the event of a member of staff Companys ordinary shares.
The Company is not aware of becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their any agreements between holders of securities that may employment with the Group continues and that appropriate result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Company that the voting rights.
training, career development and promotion of disabled The rules governing the appointment and replacement of TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 board members and changes to the Articles of Association 87 accord with usual English company law provisions.
The powers of the Companys Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
In particular, the Board has the power to issue shares and to purchase its own shares and is seeking renewal of these powers at the forthcoming Annual General meeting in accordance with the restrictions and within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
There are a number of agreements to which the Company is a party that may take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
None of these agreements is considered significant in the context of the Company as a whole.
There are no agreements providing for compensation for directors or employees on change of control.
As set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 75, service contracts for executive directors do not specify any particular level of compensation in the event of termination following change of control of the Company.
As noted above, the Company has agreed with each of the Directors that it shall provide a director with funds subject to certain restrictions to meet expenditure incurred in defending any criminal or civil proceedings if such proceedings are instituted subsequent to any person acquiring control of the Company.
By order of the Board, Deborah Grimason Company Secretary and General Counsel 25 February 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
