CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT In arriving at their opinion the Directors considered the: and the approval of incentive arrangements, including 62 Groups cash flow forecasts and revenue projections performance criteria.
The remuneration of the non-executive Reasonably possible changes in trading performance directors is determined by the Board as a whole, except that Committed facilities available to the Group to late 2016 the Remuneration Committee makes a recommendation in and the covenants thereon respect of the Chairmans fee.
No director plays a part in the Groups robust policy towards liquidity and cash flow discussion about their own remuneration.
management The Committees key responsibilities and a description of Group managements ability to successfully manage the its work in 2013 are contained in its report, which is set out principal risks and uncertainties outlined on pages 39 to on pages 68 to 82.
41 during periods of uncertain economic outlook and challenging macro economic conditions 5. reLations with sharehoLders The Company encourages two-way communication with Internal control both its institutional and private investors and responds The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal promptly to all enquiries received.
Each year, the Company control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In the design reviews its strategy for engaging with shareholders.
In 2013, of the system of internal control, consideration has been the Senior Independent Director, the executive directors and given to the significant risks to the business, the probability I, either separately or together, attended a large number of of these risks manifesting themselves and the most cost meetings with analysts, and with shareholders representing effective means of controlling them.
The threat posed about 50% of the issued share capital.
by those risks, and any perceived change in that threat, is In December we held our Capital markets day, which was reviewed quarterly by both the Executive Committee and attended by more than 100 investors and analysts as well the Board.
The system manages rather than eliminates risk as a number of representatives from the Groups banks.
and therefore can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, The executive directors together with members of our assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Executive Committee outlined the Groups future strategy The day-to-day operation of the system of internal control for creating shareholder value, our divisional plans and our is delegated to executive directors and senior management, capital management strategy.
A copy of the presentation is but the effectiveness of the system is regularly reviewed available in the investor section of our website at by the Audit Committee and the Board in a process that www.
co. uk accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
We make the Senior Independent Director available as a direct contact for shareholders, if they wish.
The Chairman Risk assessment and executive directors report to the Board on any meetings It is the responsibility of the Board to establish the risk with shareholders or analysts.
In addition, written reports framework within which the Group operates.
The Board about the Company by analysts or brokers are circulated to and the Executive Committee receive reports on specific all directors.
areas of risk at each meeting, in accordance with a rolling As regards governance issues, I aim to meet with major timetable.
They also receive reports of Internal Audit reviews.
shareholders shortly after the previous years annual If appropriate, these reports include recommendations shareholders meeting.
These meetings are deliberately for improvement in controls or for the management timed early in the year so that the Board can consider and of those risks.
measures to integrate risk management respond to shareholder concerns well in advance of the processes into the Groups operations, to extend awareness following years annual report and shareholder meeting.
I of the importance of risk management and to ensure normally contact our 20 largest shareholders to ensure the that recommended improvements are implemented, are widest consultation possible and particularly, given market regularly reviewed and refreshed.
Senior executives and volatility, to ensure that the views of a shareholder who managers are asked, each year, to confirm the adequacy substantially increases its stake during the year have been of internal controls in their areas of responsibility, identify fully taken into account.
any control weaknesses, and to confirm the accuracy and As well as sending the annual report to shareholders, completeness of information given to the directors and to during the year, the Group published its interim results on its the external auditor.
website and issued two interim management statements.
In conjunction with the Audit Committee, the Board has Shareholders receive at least twenty working days notice carried out an annual review of the overall effectiveness of the of the Annual General meeting at which all directors are system of internal control and risk management, during the available for questions and a short business presentation year and up until the date of approval of this Annual Report.
Each substantive issue is the subject of a separate resolution.
I announce the numbers of proxy votes Audit committee and auditors for and against each resolution at the meeting, after the The Board has established an Audit Committee consisting voting has taken place, and these numbers are subsequently of three independent non-executive directors.
Its key published on the Companys website.
responsibilities and a description of its work in 2013 are contained in its report, which is set out on pages 64 to 67. the boards fair, baLanCed and UnderstandabLe deCLaration 4. remUneration At the board meeting during which the Groups results for The Board has established a Remuneration Committee the year were presented by the Chief Executive Officer consisting of the Chairman and two independent and the Chief Financial Officer, the Board also considered non-executive directors.
Its responsibilities include whether the Annual Report and Accounts, when taken as a remuneration policy, a review of the performance of whole, present a fair, balanced and understandable overview executive directors prior to determining their remuneration of the Group and its performance.
TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
