46 STaY SaFE REPORT FOR ThE yEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 Injury frequency rate Our StaY SaFe philOSOphY anD.
OBJectiveS Our underlying philosophy is that all injuries are avoidable and that everyone involved in our.
business should return home safe and well at the end of every day.
To achieve this we have devolved Stay Safe responsibility to our business divisions, rather than dictating a central approach.
to a divisional level has cultivated a more committed level of ownership which is underpinned by: StaY SaFe gOvernance Effective leadership that owns and drives the Throughout 2013 all Stay Safe activity continued Stay Safe message in each of our businesses to be reviewed by the Plc Stay Safe Committee Everyone taking personal responsibility for their which comprises me as Chairman with Group Board own actions and believing that our behaviour can members Ruth Anderson, john Carter and Robert affect Stay Safe performance walker.
In addition Stay Safe performance is also Simplifying safety systems and procedures so that discussed at monthly Plc Board meetings.
they are understood and respected by all In line with our strategy, a particular emphasis of our Data trenDS FOr 2013 investment of time and effort this year has been The graph below shows a plateau effect in the lost developing our safety leadership.
we believe the time frequency rates during most of 2013 for the tone and culture created by each of our business Group as a whole.
whilst some Divisions are making leaders right down to store and branch level in more progress, the combined effect for the Group their businesses has a key influence on overall is not as positive as we had hoped.
however, these Stay Safe performance.
statistics will only reinforce our commitment to In 2013 we were able to actually confirm the increasing awareness and understanding as to the strong statistical link between elements of our kind of incidents that we should be reporting.
organisation culture as measured by our employee Health & safety frequency rates vs opinion survey, which includes a measure of Lost time injuries per million hours worked engagement and our injury rates.
In doing so we have helped our business leaders identify which Rolling month elements of culture may need to be focussed upon Rolling month to improve safety performance and reduce accidents in their areas.
In particular, the ways of working that they establish as leaders, e. g. the challenge, meaning and variety of work done by colleagues: the freedom to express ideas: effective two-way communication Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec and conversations about safety, etc.
can significantly improve safety performance.
we have seen encouraging signs, particularly in The bar chart shows that the more engaged our Supply Chain function and retail businesses, areas of our business have half the injury frequency where we have achieved a 10% and an 11% compared to areas where engagement is not so high.
reduction respectively in lost time injuries when The key message: More engaged businesses have compared with 2012 levels.
This was achieved by fewer injuries.
a reduction in manual handling-related injuries in our Supply Chain areas and a reduction in slips and trips in our retail outlets.
More than 6,000 near misses were recorded in the Travis Perkins Group in 2013, and we believe that by recording and learning from such incidents, we are seeing a corresponding reduction in the TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Lost time injuries number of physical injuries across the Group.
47 Our firm view is that a focus on what is working Injured while Hit something fixed well has greater leverage as we seek to deliver % % manual handling or stationery improvements in our safety performance, and is a more powerful engagement tool than a Hit by moving % falling object Slipped, tripped preoccupation with what has not worked or has failed.
or fell on the % same level As such, we are measuring and communicating the Some other kind % of accident safe branch concept in the Group.
SaFe BrancheS During 2013 85.4% of our branches were free lift is the Groups newly from any reported lost time injuries.
This means developed manual handling that during this time, just over 1,500 branches programme launched during and stores covering 98.5% of our colleagues the second half of 2013 to did not report a lost time injury.
however we are improve lifting techniques of our disappointed that there were 257 which did report colleagues.
It is designed to not a lost time injury and we shall be working closely only tackle the actual lifting, but also the root cause with those branches and stores to improve their of manual handling problems.
To follow up in 2014 we will dedicate more time The highest standard benchmark for all our to educating colleagues to think differently about branches is to be recognised as a safe branch.
This will include implementing lift champions achieving the status of being a safe branch three key in all branches who will carry out the practical criteria have to be satisfied: elements of lift including training and identifying No lost time injuries have been reported local issues including storage that present a risk of Near miss accidents are being reported using our manual handling injury.
online reporting system The Groups audit team has not given the branch a red amber rating on its most recent Stay Safe audit using this internal stretch criteria only 39.1% of our Group branches could truly call themselves a 100% safe branch by the end of 2013. however some of Colleagues undergoing manual handling training our Divisions do achieve higher levels over 50% of safe branches against these stringent criteria.
nOn-cOlleague inJurieS There were 959 injuries to people not employed Percentage of Safe branches by the Group reported in 2013 2012: 789 of which 59% were in our consumer businesses.
% however with well over 30 million store visits in % those businesses during 2013 these regrettable % injury statistics can be viewed more in context.
The % majority were hand cuts when handling products.
As is always the case for our colleagues, we do not % set out to injure our customers and all incidents are % thoroughly investigated and any lessons learned are % acted upon.
General Contracts Consumer Plumbing Overall Merchanting and Heating StaY SaFe innOvatiOnS in tYpe OF lOSt time inJurieS in 2013 Our DiviSiOnS in 2013 The type and pattern of lost time injuries that we Empowering our divisions to develop Stay Safe are experiencing has not changed since 2011 with initiatives and activities that match their type of manual handling contributing to most lost time injuries.
business and calibre is a major part of our strategy.
Therefore, in 2013 we targeted the most It has allowed our Divisions and businesses to tailor commonly occurring lost time injuries, i. e. those initiatives to the specific issues they face.
listed acquired during manual handling.
During the year we below are some examples of the innovations they developed the lift project with the assistance of the have introduced in 2013: strength and conditioning coaches at our partners, In the General Merchanting and Contracts Northampton Saints Rugby club.
divisions, the introduction of the new Pro Pole tool STRATEGIC REPORT 3 Points is 3 Points Your commercial vehicle and car licence are the same STaY SaFE REPORT with its range of tool heads for drivers eliminates embedding of grass roots behavioural safety at our 48 any reason for them to work on the flat-bed of branch and store level to move from compliance their vehicle.
In another project, by working with to proactive discretionary effort, and safe behaviour.
their supplier, TP Merchanting were able to reduce we will target a branch shop floor safety culture the size of reinforcing mesh stocked to make it through our branch managers to achieve this.
easier and safer to be manually handled in the Through our branch managers we will focus on branch and by our customers ways of involving our people in developing safety In our Transport function, the findings of a trial last improvements and ensuring safety conversations year confirmed that the introduction of CCTv into and observations are part of everyday life in our vehicles made our drivers drive more safely.
Branch managers as safety result, we will be fitting 360 degree CCTv vision leaders, will be key to making this happen through cameras into all new vehicles.
Also by investing creating a just culture, showing visible leadership and in more vehicle driver risk assessors, who coach inculcating the habits of regular safety conversations, drivers about safety and risks, we have seen a safety nudges, praise etc.
reduction in accident insurance claims which has we will be engaging external safety experts to resulted in savings of circa 100k year-on-year, assess and provide a fresh independent perspective and all this during a time we have 120 more on where each of our Divisions down to branch hGv trucks store level has got to on their Stay Safe journey by To promote the health of our supply chain referencing where they are today on what experts colleagues we have been trialling a personal fitness call the safety culture ladder.
trainer in one distribution site to raise engagement This external safety expertise will conduct levels and give colleagues access to personal qualitative research and assessment of where we are health and fitness assessments now and help point out to our leaders and managers In wickes, we found that many employees did not what needs to happen locally to nudge us forward wear safety gloves because they could not easily where needed beyond the today position especially carry them around.
The simple introduction of a where statistics suggest we have plateaued.
glove clip meant that gloves could be carried, were always visible and managers could wear them Safety culture ladder GENERATIVE High reliability organisation HSE is to show their support for the Stay Safe initiative.
how we do business round here Following the full roll-out of glove clips by May 2013, wickes has achieved a 26% reduction in PROACTIVE Safety leadership and values drive cut injuries Increasingly continuous improvement informed Our City Plumbing business produced the Stay Safe CALCULATIVE 8 aide-memoire card for all managers and leaders Safety leadership and values drive continuous improvement SaFer rOaDS initiative REACTIVE Increasing trust we have made a great start with our accountability Safety is important, we do a lot SAFER ROADS Safer Roads campaign aimed at our every time we have an accident INITIATIVE drivers and as a result, instances of PATHOLOGICAL SETTING THE STANDARDS speeding by our drivers have dropped by Our drivers are superb and are a credit to our company.
We now have over 3000 drivers working for us.
Who cares as long as were The Group will soon be championing a no speeding initiative to make us a beacon in the industry.
We all know theres no excuse for speeding.
We hope that this programme, combined 58%.
not caught with data from our Masternaut trackers will help us to Stay Safe in our vehicle operations.
Look out for more details on this BUILT UP SINGLE DUAL programme... coming soon AREAS CARRIAGEWAY CARRIAGEWAY MOTORWAY CAR DERIVED VANS In 2013 the Group was a finalist in Travis Perkins Group - Proud Supporter of UP TO 7.5T OVER 7.5T four Motor Transport Industry Awards.
I look forward over the coming years to reporting The road safety charity.
NOT TOWING TRAILERS VANS UP TO 7.5T & TOWING TRAILERS From a safety perspective we were on a real improvement in colleague and customer REMEMBER THESE ARE LIMITS, NOT TARGETS!
For more information visit: www.
uk speed-limits finalists for the Safety in Operation safety statistics and I want to thank all colleagues BUILDING MATERIALS JB73016.02 06 13 Award.
This was predominantly for our who are engaged in making improvements to their brick grab modification to our crane fleet which own and others safety.
I sincerely hope that the reduced the amount of times drivers had to get on excellent innovations and initiatives being taken the bed of the vehicle and made delivery of bulk across the Group will result in a meaningful reduction bags much quicker and safer.
in the number of accidents next year and beyond.
The Group were also finalists for the following awards: Innovation Award, Best use of Technology: andrew Simon Transport team of the year.
Chairman Plc Board health & Safety Committee 25 February 2014 lOOKing aheaD tO 2014 In 2014 our aim is to build on the great progress made in 2013 by continuing to drive forward the TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 49 Recycling centre at Brackmills distribution warehouse STRATEGIC REPORT
