ThE gROUPS MaRKETS aND iTS 17 MaRKET lEaDiNg POSiTiONS The total uK construction and home improvement does not currently operate.
These categories provide materials market is worth approximately 64bn.
potential opportunities into which the Group may Travis Perkins addressable market is 33bn which extend its reach.
excludes certain trade and DIy categories and direct from manufacturer to end-user supplies.
leaD inDicatOrS The Groups businesses supply greater volumes to the more resilient RMI market, albeit with a small Building materials market bn but important component of group turnover coming from the supply of material to the new build market.
Non-Addressable Addressable trade Both new build and RMI markets saw a dramatic trade market bn market bn contraction between 2007 and 2009.
Market volumes did not improve significantly between 2009 Direct contract to trade bn Addressable and 2012 however a meaningful recovery has market been underway since the first quarter of 2013.
The bn governments action to encourage first-time house Non-Addressable Addressable retail buyers through initiatives such as the help-to-Buy retail market bn market bn scheme, has helped ease credit supply with the result that secondary housing transactions have shown Source: i Merchanting Travis Perkins market analysis using BMF.
encouraging growth through the majority of 2013. ii DIY & Gardening Verdict.
iii Adjacent markets combination of public research e. g. AMA research and Travis Perkins analysis.
The Group tracks several market indicators from the housing, retail and construction sectors in order to determine levels of investment and inform the Groups trading stance.
housing transactions and consumer confidence remain the key indicators Addressable market bn plus adjacent categories bn that most closely correlate to future performance.
Traditionally there has been a lag of around nine Independents bn months between a change in those key indicators, branches Travis Perkins and a corresponding uplift in demand volumes.
bn, branches The most recent lead indicators suggest consistent Adjacent signs of improvement across all sectors in which categories bn Nationals the Group operates.
The Group is well placed to bn benefit from the upturn in uK building activity and, branches in particular the strength of secondary housing Source: Travis Perkins analysis transactions.
The Groups businesses serving general trade and plumbing and heating customers have experienced the highest levels of improving demand, Many of the Groups businesses hold market leading however, consumer markets remain weak with positions, and those that do not are generally the modest growth experienced only in the final quarter number two in their respective market.
Therefore of 2013. the Group is well positioned to benefit from the uKs whilst the lead indicators the Group monitors, and economic recovery that is underway and further industry body forecasts, indicate significant growth enhance shareholder returns.
across all new build and RMI channels, further The Groups largest nationwide competitors market shocks would inevitably change the pace account for less than half the turnover in the Groups and shape of recovery.
Risks and uncertainties are addressable markets.
Independents and regional, discussed further on pages 39 to 41. largely private, companies make up the remainder of The following chart shows some of the key lead the market.
There are categories with an addressable indicators the Group tracks: market of approximately 11bn, in which the Group STRATEGIC REPORT L I A T E C R O N S T R Mortgage approvals Thousands Mortgage approvals Thousands Other Remortgages House purchases % Other below peak Remortgages House purchases % below peak Source: Bank of England, October ThE gROUPS MaRKETS aND iTS MaRKET lEaDiNg POSiTiONS Housing transactions Source: Bank of England, October Rolling month property transactions, , Key market indicators Housing transactions 18 Rolling month property transactions Northern Ireland Site Wales visitors, , , , Consumer Scotland % confidence England Site below reservations peak Climate for Northern Ireland purchases Wales Mortgage, , , , approvals Scotland % % recovery Equity England below withdrawal Housing peak transactions Retail sales, , , growth Housing % recovery prices, Source: HM Revenue & Customs, October & Travis Perkins analysis Architect Construction Trade work load output confidence Expected New construction workload orders Source: HM Revenue & Customs, October & Travis Perkins analysis Consumer confidence, although still negative, looking in more detail at a number of the lead began to improve during the year.
That said, the indicators the Group tracks, the chart below shows return of confidence remains fragile with consumers the recent recovery in mortgage approvals.
Despite a circumspect about how much they spend, and when modest improvement in mortgage approvals, owing and where they invest in their homes.
The following to easing credit supply, improvements in customer chart sets out movements in consumer confidence confidence and the governments help-to-Buy between 2004 and 2013. scheme, approvals remain around 65% below the levels achieved in 2007.
Consumer confidence Mortgage approvals Thousands Consumer confidence Other Remortgages House purchases Index figure Index annual % below moving average peak Index figure Index annual Source: GFK UK Consumer Confidence Index, October 2013 moving average marKet trenDS anD cuStOmer Source: Bank of England, October Sour pr ce: GFK UK Consumer Conf OpOSitiOnSidence Index, October 2013 Customers buying behaviours continually evolve and Generally an upturn in mortgage approvals leads it is important that the Group stays ahead of these Housing transactions to an increase in housing transactions.
End-users are becoming more confident Rolling month property transactions in secondary housing transactions in 2013 appears in challenging tradesmen on materials prices with to have followed this general trend.
Similarly to improvements in technology enabling increasing, , mortgage approvals, secondary housing transactions levels of price transparency.
In some of the Groups remain well below the peak volumes achieved in markets, in specific categories and for smaller Northern Ireland 2006 and 2007.
Wales tradesmen, there is an emerging trend towards more, , Scotland % fixed rather than negotiated prices.
larger customers, England below peak quite rightly, continue to demand both increased levels of service and better value.
 % recovery, Source: HM Revenue & Customs, October & Travis Perkins analysis TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Consumer confidence Index figure Index annual moving average Source: GFK UK Consumer Confidence Index, October 2013 U C T I O G N N I S U O H Staying ahead of changes in buying behaviour UK DIY and gardening online penetration currently % 19 Online penetration % of market Travis CPS, PTS, Wickes, BSS, CCF, Toolstation Perkins, F & P, Tile Giant Keyline Benchmarx Spares Tendered quote Fixed pricing Variable pricing framework agreements Smaller customers Source: Conlumino, August Medium Customer sizes: customers Small: 1 2 employees Despite the expectation of relatively modest Larger Medium: 2 15 employees customers growth in penetration of online sales, the Group Large: 15 employees is cognisant of monitoring and responding to the changes in technology, buying behaviour Increasing price transparency and supply arrangements across the Group.
The End-users challenging tradesmen on material Groups acquisition of Toolstation in 2012 and prices an online heating supplies business in 2013 jobbing tradesmen able to better compare prices alongside investment in new multichannel platforms lightside and high-value products demonstrate the Groups intention to ensure it retains large customers demanding increasing levels of and enhances its market leading positions whatever service and value the customers channel of choice.
The Group will continue to monitor changes in The Groups assembly of businesses serving large end-user and customer buying behaviour to ensure and small customers, across a broad range of that it is well placed to invest in and benefit from any categories, through online and offline channels, and changes underway.
Beyond changes to the channels its nationwide delivery capability means it is very well through which products are distributed the Group placed to adapt to and benefit from any changes in has identified further outsourcing opportunities customer behaviour and buying patterns.
where larger end-users, such as local authorities, whilst the internet is having a profound effect have requested full service supply agreements.
on the high Street, online penetration of building material supply is around 3% and for DIy it is 7%.
Penetration is expected to grow, but the nature of heavy and bulky goods supply means it is likely to be weighted to lighter products or products with a high unit value.
The following charts describe the historic and projected growth in online penetration, from industry forecasts, of the DIy and building products markets: UK building products online market estimated 3% Market size billion.
Source: Conlumino, August 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT
