what how 37 group value Division Strategic intent KPis Risks drivers General Cementing mixed merchant leadership Rate of multi-channel migration Merchanting through better prices, range available today higher than assumed and extended ranges tomorrow, unable to source property to meet on-time deliveries when customers need it.
expansion plans Backed up by a fast and efficient Pricing changes do not increase ordering process, credit for customers volumes and a reliable and consistent in-branch lack of available product to supply experience.
Network expansion Plumbing To create the market leading domestic lack of suitable sites for expansion and plumbing and heating business built upon plans Customer heating customer focused and truly differentiated Project delays innovation propositions.
like-for-like Businesses not adapting to the sales growth The plans build on the businesses evolving customer recognised stay safe culture, high lack of available product to supply Optimising employee engagement and development network of talent.
In addition the division will Operating margin grow market leading positions in new sectors, renewables, internet trading and Scale sustainable building solutions.
advantage Capital expenditure Contracts Grow business through network expansion lower prices and extended payment and selling of key products to targeted terms to customer Portfolio customer segments with highly engaged lower specification products offered management colleagues providing excellent customer lease by competitors adjusted service.
Disintermediation of customers by ROCE manufacturers Consumer Rebuilding wickes into the uKs best do Consumers accelerate trend towards a house up store serving local tradesmen fixed price merchanting and online and serious DIyers with the lowest priced positive building materials for their projects.
Competitor response Always in stock with delivery to home or Inability to secure stores for site when it suits the customer.
relocations STRaTEgiC SUMMaRY The Group is well placed to benefit from the The Group has an evolving portfolio model to upturn in uK building activity.
housing transaction exploit opportunities growth should boost those businesses that serve Its strategy is geared towards achieving long term trade related customers whilst improving customer shareholder value with its medium term targets confidence should benefit the consumer businesses.
fully aligned with this strategy.
Group returns will be however, the Group recognises that all customers improved by: are searching for even greater value and it is Continuing to outperform in each of our markets therefore imperative that the Group continues to Operating margin prospects: modify and modernise its customer propositions.
General Merchanting sustain As many Travis Perkins businesses occupy market Plumbing and heating good growth leading positions it is well positioned to exploit new Contracts good growth opportunities.
Its strategy is to ensure it delivers long Consumer good growth term, sustainable growth, which is achievable because: Targeting medium term double digit EBITA growth Market growth indicators are encouraging p. a.
Market developments create compelling Adding 200300bps to lease adjusted ROCE opportunities over the medium term There are significant opportunities for structural Delivering strong and consistent growth in growth shareholder returns STRATEGIC REPORT 38 Graham Sealby, assistant branch manager, Benchmarx TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
