fixed price promotions continued to help improve general Specialist Plumbing and 21 Merchanting Merchanting Consumer heating Total price perception.
A new multi-channel IT platform % % % % % implemented across the Group will be extended to Travis Perkins in 2014 and this should enable the 2012 operating introduction of online product ordering to implement margin 11.5 5.2 5.6 4.5 6.7 the already well established telephone-based ordering and local delivery infrastructure.
Gross margin 0.2 1.5 1.1 0.6 0.4 The extension of toolhire implants continued Overheads 0.2 1.0 0.8 0.3 0.5 with 14 new implants added in the year.
Seven Property profits 0.1 0.1 - - - new branches were opened along with two new managed service outlets which operate solely to 2013 service local authorities, registered social landlords operating margin 11.2 4.6 5.3 5.4 6.8 and their contractors.
Towards the end of the year the warrington Regional Distribution Centre RDC was successfully relocated with no service issues.
work started on the Cardiff RDC, which will come on DiviSiOnal perFOrmance stream during the third quarter of 2014.
These RDCs will enable a wider range of heavyside general Merchanting products to be made more readily available to 2013 2012 Change branches and thus customers.
Revenue 1,579m 1,457m 8.4% The divisions senior commercial and operational teams were re-organised in the latter part of the year lFl growth 6.7% to bring clearer accountability for the improvement Segment profit 176m 167m 5.4% programmes throughout the business and an enhanced focus on operational performance.
Operating margin 11.2% 11.5% 0.3 pp The division continued to refine its zonal delivery initiative to improve availability of transport to meet New housing activity continued to drive market customers requirements and new equipment and volume growth coupled with improvements in in-branch practices were introduced to improve sentiment amongst the Groups trade customers safety for team members and their customers.
during the second half of 2013.
Sales price deflation experienced in the first half, as expected, reversed Specialist Merchanting in the second half of the year.
As the demand for 2013 2012 Change heavyside products improved, a number of brick and block products experienced longer supply lead Revenue 660m 604m 9.4% times.
These supply constraints added to second half lFl growth 8.7% price inflation as manufacturers increased prices in Segment profit 30m 32m 4.1 % exchange for certainty of supply.
General Merchanting revenue grew by 8.4%, Operating margin 4.6% 5.2% 0.6 pp 6.7% on a like-for-like lFl basis.
Momentum accelerated from 2.7% lFl in the first half to 10.1% in the second half.
All product categories The division made good progress improving the contributed to this recovery, with particularly depth of product range available to its customer base strong performances in the lightside and toolwhich was rewarded with strong volume growth.
Gross margin improved in the The divisions revenue grew by 9.4% owing to second half owing to effective price management range improvements, selective price investments and growth in higher margin categories.
Despite and the reduction in capacity from a significant robust cost management and operational gearing, competitor failure.
lack of product inflation, operating investments meant there was only a particularly in the first half, competitor activity and a modest reduction in the overhead to sales ratio for change in sales mix resulted in a reduction in gross the year as a whole.
The reduction in gross margin was lower Travis Perkins continued to develop and trial its new in the second half with the onset of more positive branch format.
The leamington and luton branches trading conditions.
An improvement in the overhead were successfully moved and co-located with other to revenue ratio mitigated some of the impact of the group businesses on two of the Groups Trade Parks.
Timber, forest products and lightside categories Despite the poor weather experienced in the first were reviewed during the year and the Trade Offers quarter, Keylines range extension and customer STRATEGIC REPORT 22 David johnson, commercial stock manager, BSS, luton Trading Park TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 service focus enabled it to deliver double digit Sales improved throughout 2013 following the 23 revenue growth in both the first half and second half protracted cold weather at the start of the year.
Further specialisation improved sales but, The improvements in gardening related sales in the in part, resulted in more direct to site sales which summer were however less marked in wickes given in turn attract a lower gross margin.
Gross margins its limited range in outdoor categories.
improved slightly in the second half.
wickes continued to invest in lower prices through Investment in expertise to support market its red pencil price reduction programme and specialisation was increased in order to access stronger promotional deals.
wickes price investment the rail and utilities markets and in particular in accelerated in the second half with volumes growing drainage and geotextile products.
The expansion of as a result, however, gross margins were impacted the contractor customer base and access to new by these investments.
Improvements in sourcing, customers in the rail and utility markets provides a changes in the distribution of ordered bathrooms solid base for future growth.
levels of activity in the and the removal of the Mycard reward programme new housing market were encouraging and resulted helped reduce the impact of the greater price in an increased level of demand by specialist investment and deeper promotional offers.
wickes increased its focus in reducing operating After a sluggish first quarter, CCFs revenue growth costs and in doing so reduced its cost to sales improved in each successive quarter, recording double ratio during the year.
Good progress was made digit growth in the second half and gaining market in consolidating warehouse operations, improving share for the year.
The development of new market labour productivity following the introduction of autosectors for the business, such as the introduction of replenishment systems and through the downsizing the Sektor brand late in the internal partitions market, and sub-letting of oversized shops.
Four stores were and an improving product mix helped to offset gross relocated or downsized during the year and two new margin declines in commodity categories which faced stores were opened.
New web and mobile platforms intense competitive discounting.
were introduced, offering customers a better online The opening of Belvedere branch, which has shopping experience.
performed in line with expectations, brought the The significant investments in pricing and total network to 31 branches.
The business online promotional offers meant wickes 2013 profit presence continued to grow, albeit from a relatively declined modestly compared to the prior year.
Toolstation had another encouraging year of sales Benchmarx Kitchens and joinery completed growth and network expansion.
Double digit lFl the restructuring of its customer proposition.
The revenue growth was driven by a continued focus on end-to-end review of the customer experience, customer service, strong availability and investments product set and the supply chain started to yield in ensuring the lowest prices in the market.
24 new further improvements to profitability in the second shops were opened during the year, including 9 half.
New standalone branches, which were opened implants in wickes.
with significantly lower set up costs on the Groups Although it is still early in the development of the Trade Park sites in luton and leamington, have proposition, Toolstation implants in wickes appear to resonated well with customers.
On 1 january be resonating well with customers.
Those implants 2014, twenty seven kitchen fascias in Travis Perkins are helping wickes drive additional footfall and are branches were re-branded Benchmarx.
A new contributing to rent costs.
Toolstation is benefiting website was also developed during the year with from wickes footfall thereby achieving profitability encouraging results.
faster than in many of its new standalone shops.
Consumer Plumbing and heating 2013 2012 Change 2013 2012 Change Revenue 1,180m 1,152m 2.4% Revenue 1,730m 1,632m 6.0% lFl growth 1.0% lFl growth 4.8% Segment profit 63m 65m 2.7 % Segment profit 94m 73m 28.8% Operating margin 5.3% 5.6% 0.3 pp Operating margin 5.4% 4.5% 0.9pp Revenue in the consumer division increased by The challenging trading conditions experienced 2.4% in the year despite a challenging customer in 2012 continued into 2013 and were further environment and inclement weather throughout the exacerbated by the poor weather in the first quarter.
however, trading conditions improved significantly STRATEGIC REPORT
