EVOlUTiON OF ThE 31 gROUPS STRaTEgY Following the improving outlook for the overall market the grOupS mODiFieD StrategY and changes to the Groups executive directors The refocused strategy is designed to deliver long the Group reviewed its strategy and presented it term sustainable value through the following levers to investors at a Capital Markets day in December of value creation: 2013.
Improved customer innovation As explained on page 17, the Groups markets Optimising the Groups store and branch network are showing signs of improvement.
As many of the Scale advantage Groups businesses occupy market leading positions Portfolio management they are well positioned to exploit opportunities The levers of value creation and key components of offered by improving markets.
each lever are set out in the diagram below: The Groups main aim over the last five years has been to protect its margins through careful What how management of prices, whilst holding volumes generally stable.
Its careful control of costs, working Portfolio management capital and capital expenditure has helped maintain Scale the strength of the balance sheet.
The improving advantage Streamlined Optimising central market conditions now give the Group the confidence network Supply chain Customer functions to modify its strategy through increasing its capital investment innovation TP expansion investment programme to intensify sales and profit Devolved and leverage Improved management densities from existing space, reinvest in its customer modernisation property value responsibility propositions and continue to use its scale to improve capability wickes Extended service to customers and returns to shareholders.
Disciplined national Group range planning To enable the Group to deliver its strategy the footprint sourcing and capital Product divisional structure was refined with effect from 1 benefits Plumbing and allocation development january 2014.
The most significant change was to heating Shared Regular combine the three businesses that supply products Format format clarity technology market renewal under contract arrangements to large construction investment Implants updates companies and project contractors into one contracts Technology intensify division.
In so doing, the division can better track enabled returns major project activity for all three businesses: Keyline, Multi-channel Trade parks BSS and CCF.
The financial and operating sections of the Annual Enabled through people and evolution of unique culture Report has, however, been prepared using the divisional structure in place throughout 2013.
The diagram below shows the revised structure as a result of the changes made on 1 january 2014.
Portfolio management Starting with the Groups revised approach to managing its portfolio of businesses, the Group has Specialist developed a more robust planning approach enabling General Plumbing Consumer Merchanting and Heating Contracts it to allocate capital to the opportunities which are expected to deliver the most material value for shareholders.
Aligned with this approach to managing Wickes Travis Perkins CCF DHS capital allocation is a revision to the metrics upon Tile Giant Benchmarx Keyline Solfex which the Group is managed.
Future lease-adjusted Toolstation Benchmarx PTS return on capital will become an increasingly BSS City Plumbing important measure of success as the Group believes F & P Wholesale it best aligns investment decisions with the ultimate City Heating Spares goal of shareholders: their return on equity.
BPT In order to improve lease adjusted return on BSS capital management responsibility for both earnings STRATEGIC REPORT EVOlUTiON OF ThE gROUPS STRaTEgY and capital employed will be devolved further down The Group is also focused on using its buying 32 through the business.
This greater accountability scale to source products directly from manufacturers and autonomy will be managed and monitored at lower cost and in creating more commonality in through improved processes for governance.
As product ranges such that it can further consolidate management in each of the businesses take more volumes so reducing costs further.
control for managing returns, central functions will For many years, the Group has benefited from be streamlined to ensure all teams are closer to the efficient, low-cost IT systems.
These systems are businesses they support and ultimately customers.
approaching the end of their useful life and, therefore, This revised approach to capital allocation is creating a clear four point strategy has been developed to more competition for capital.
ensure better IT systems capacity and flexibility in Capital expenditure is expected to increase in the the future.
medium term to take advantage of development Delivering a common and shared trading platform opportunities in the market and will be tiered based across the Groups merchanting businesses upon the risk and return profiles of the various Delivering an appropriate multi-channel presence investment opportunities identified.
The tiering of for each brand making it easier for customers to capital spend will be managed under four broad order, buy and receive delivery headings: Simplifying back office systems to enable 1.
Extending the Groups leadership: investment in decoupling and enhance efficiency proven businesses delivering attractive returns Increasing system usability and the experience for 2.
Investing to grow: investment in customer colleagues and customers so that the Group is propositions to adapt to changing customer needs easier to do business with and cement the Groups market leading positions.
Infrastructure investment: investment to enable Customer innovation and optimising the future outperformance branch and store network 4.
Divest: where there are better uses for capital to The underpinning activities to improving the grow or return to shareholders customer proposition and improve the network including offering better value, extending range, better Scale advantage availability, format renewal, modernising TP branches One of the key value creation levers is using the and creating national networks in a number of the Groups scale to improve efficiency and deliver a Groups businesses are included in the plans for each better customer proposition.
of the divisions in the following sections.
The Groups supply chain ambition is to provide branches and customers with easy access to the general merchanting DiviSiOn StrategY broadest range of products, reliably, efficiently, safely Travis Perkins is, and for the foreseeable future will and on time: continue to be, the Groups core business.
It is the Ordering will be made simpler for branches Groups largest business by sales, profitability and with improved range management tools and one of the highest returning businesses operated automated stock replenishment systems within the Group.
The Groups distribution centre DC footprint will The business benefits from national coverage undergo further change, increasing lightside DC with over 640 branches, an efficient lightside capacity and rolling out regional heavyside DCs central distribution network, access to a range Route planning tools and further optimisation few competitors can match, a modern vehicle of the vehicle fleet will reduce the cost of, and delivery fleet and branch managers with an enhance, the local delivery proposition unparalleled relationship with customers.
Branch The strength of the Groups balance sheet enables manager incentives are based on return on capital businesses within the Group to access properties improvements setting the business apart from its they would otherwise find it difficult to occupy.
competitors which is a key component of Travis Furthermore, by developing multi-fascia sites, the Perkins market outperformance.
Group is able to provide opportunities for the Groups The following chart sets out the key components smaller operating businesses to co-locate with the of the plan to improve Travis Perkins, combining Groups larger businesses and benefit from greater both sales and profit drivers and investments in foot traffic.
TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 33 Toolstation implant in wickes, Bicester, one of nine opened in 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT EVOlUTiON OF ThE gROUPS STRaTEgY Expand the Measure Current Medium term 34 network ambition Managed services Modernising Network 645 TP 5-15 net new development formats expansion branches branches p. a. Toolhire Enhanced like-for-like sales expansion CRM growth outperformance 0-5% 1-4% Category management Multi-channel Operating margin Sector and pricing development improvement prospects leading Sustain Enhanced IT Regional capacity distribution Capital expenditure 44m 40-60m p. a. lease adjusted ROCE - Add 200-300bps Invest in safety and develop our people year ended 31 December 2013 There is significant scope for network expansion Outperformance through: and relocation.
Travis Perkins is targeting 5-15 local customer relationships net new branches per annum and to increase Consistent range and range extension the number of Benchmarx Kitchens and Toolhire Better availability equipment implants.
Furthermore the Group Sourcing and own label development recognises the need to modernise the branch Product knowledge and ease of transactions network with plans underway to develop a new Format improvements branch format, TP 2018, alongside further Network and multi-channel development development of TPs multi-channel proposition.
Managed services expansion The plans to improve the TP multi-channel offer are set out below: plumBing anD heating DiviSiOn StrategY The strategy for the Plumbing and heating division Customer experience infrastructure has three key elements: 1.
Developing clear propositions serving plumbing Clean and functional Branch to site delivery for 1. and heating, bathroom installer and contract Passive heavyside where Non-transactional Branch collection only for we are customers: The focus on bathroom installers, local lightside now plumbers and mid-sized plumbing contractors Branch acting as call centre will provide solid returns through effective pricing and range substitution including through greater Transactional capability heavyside distribution 2. penetration of the Groups iflo exclusive ranges.
Integration to pricing improvements expanding next 2.
Intensifying use of space through the Groups systems range and availability steps showroom concept and spares implants: The Account management lightside range access from Click & collect DCs new Endeavour showrooms are designed to help DC direct to site picking tradesmen win new business.
New showrooms have been opened in 69 locations and are leading online gateway Cross-channel fulfilment for 3. generating healthy returns.
Approximately 40 Interactive and social lightside where new showrooms per annum are planned over the hub CRM and account we will medium term.
Seamless experience management systems get to 3.
Developing multi-channel, sustainability and across channels development Integrated CRM Contact centre coordination own label product offerings: The acquisition of an online heating equipment distributor gives the P&h division access to growth in the online In summary, the Group is confident that Travis channel.
Furthermore, the division is developing Perkins can maintain its market leading position an additional multichannel capability to enable and further drive improvements to the customer ordering, account management, and online proposition and value to shareholders.
The targets transactions as well as providing enhanced for improvement are set out as follows: product information tools to its installer network.
Further work is underway to enhance the exclusive brands the Group owns including iflo and BOSS and to continue the progress already made in launching Sustainable Building Solutions which accesses Government funding for improvements in household energy efficiency.
TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Enablers Sales and profit drivers The plan for the P&h division is graphically The key components of the strategy for the 35 represented as follows: division are set out below.
Division-wide Growth in property planning insulation Develop contract More standalone Develop BSS Major presence business CPS branches Industrial o er in partitions Better pricing Supply chain Category Contract pricing & tools efficiencies expansion project management Whole Contracts Roll-out of Tailored multiDeepen sector & Branch network Division Endeavour & spares channel capability category specialism expansion Multi-channel Talent to lead UKs Stay Safe Excellent IT capability no.
1 P&H business Market-leading Excellent IT customer service The targets for the division are shown below As with the other divisions, the Group has clear alongside how the P&h division intends to performance targets for the division including outcompete in its markets: increasing the level of capital investment with the ambition of outperforming market peers.
Measure Current Medium term ambition Measure Current Medium term ambition Network 525 10 net new expansion branches branches p. a.
Network 181 1-2% net new expansion branches space growth like-for-like sales growth outperformance 0-3% 0-3% like-for-like sales growth outperformance 0-3% 1-3% Operating margin improvement prospects - Good Operating margin improvement prospects - Good Capital expenditure 11m 10-20m p. a.
Capital expenditure 12m 10-20m p. a. lease adjusted ROCE - Add 150-250bps lease adjusted ROCE - Add 200-300bps year ended 31 December 2013 year ended 31 December 2013 Outperformance through: Clarity of contracts and installer propositions Outperformance through: Enhanced branch pricing tools Deeper product knowledge and customer service Sourcing and own label development Extended ranges Spares implants Selective network expansion CPS network expansion Category expansion Endeavour showroom rollout Sourcing and own label development Multi-channel establishment Sustainable solutions growth cOnSumer DiviSiOn StrategY The key elements of the consumer divisions cOntractS DiviSiOn StrategY strategy are to: The Contracts Division was formed on 1 january Enhance wickes proposition to tradesmen and 2014, bringing together the three businesses that serious DIyers supply products to large construction companies Gain nationwide coverage through wickes store and project contractors.
These businesses all track estate including renewing its store format major commercial and infrastructure projects and by Expand the Toolstation network through wickes bringing them together into one division, this will assist implants and standalone shops project tracking and selling into major contractors.
Continue multi-channel development wickes ambition is to always offer lower prices than its competitors alongside ranges, to include brands that trade and serious DIyers demand, which enable customers to complete any DIy or trade RMI project.
Plans are progressing to improve online and in-store Enablers Sales and profit drivers Enablers Sales and profit drivers STRATEGIC REPORT EVOlUTiON OF ThE gROUPS STRaTEgY availability, improve ranges and enhance the level Outperformance through: 36 36 of customer service.
wickes already has a growing Clearer and sharper pricing multi-channel business which holds its fair share of Catalogue and online range extension the online market, however, the Group believes there Improved availability in wickes is opportunity to further enhance sales through this Format renewal and network expansion channel by adding additional ranges.
Toolstation expansion and implants wickes plans to continue to expand its network by Tile Giant implants only between 5 and 10 new stores per year.
Driving multi-channel harder The early signs from the recent Toolstation store implants in wickes have also been encouraging.
hOw perFOrmance will Be These implants contribute to wickes rental cost, are cOmpareD tO StrategY driving additional footfall and producing solid returns The Groups ambition is to deliver long term, in their own right for the Toolstation business without sustainable value to shareholders.
There are a series increasing the Groups lease commitments.
of financial and non-financial measures which the The wickes plan is graphically represented below: Group tracks to monitor performance.
The Groups medium term KPIs are set out below: Enhanced customer proposition Key performance indicator Medium term target Convenient in Better value for Network expansion 20-35 net new branches p. a. any channel tradesmen like-for-like sales Outperform industry sales Building the Strong like-forRight stores, in LFL growth from right estate like growth growth outperformance growth by 1-4 % p. a. the right place drive categories Operating Sustain sector leading margins More efficient More efficient margin in General Merchanting.
distribution buying improvement Add 150bps to operating Delivering Great engaged margins in each of Consumer, Smarter support great service people delivering Contracts and Plumbing and heating divisions.
Smarter working stores lease adjusted return Add 200-300 bps to on capital employed lease adjusted ROCE Toolstation is planning to continue to open both wickes implants and standalone stores with an ambition to open approximately 100 shops in the Operationally, success is measured through a medium term.
Toolstations fixed prices, excellent comprehensive set of key performance indicators.
availability, delivery promise and service proposition All of these indicators are aligned to achieving are resonating strongly with jobbing tradesmen the Groups strategic ambition.
The Groups actual and general DIyers who are not able to negotiate performance against these key indicators for 2013 larger volume discounts from trade outlets.
The is shown in the divisional performance section on performance of both standalone Toolstation stores pages 21 to 24 and in the Corporate Responsibility and wickes implants gives the Group confidence to section on pages 42 to 45. extend the rollout of new shops.
The performance targets for the Consumer riSKS division are set out below: The Statement of Principal Risks and uncertainties on pages 39 to 41 sets out the key risk factors that Measure Current Medium term are considered by the Directors to be material to ambition the business.
These include those risks which are Network 227 wickes 5-10 net new p. a. deemed to be material and may impact upon the expansion 108 Tile Giant implants successful delivery of this strategy.
In addition there 143 are a number of risks which are set out in the table Toolstation 20 p. a. below that are not deemed to be material to the like-for-like sales Group as a whole but are relevant when setting out a growth outperformance Flat Above market balanced commentary on a divisional basis.
Operating margin improvement prospects - Good Capital expenditure 18m 30-40m p. a. lease adjusted ROCE - Add 150-250bps year ended 31 December 2013 TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Enablers Sales and profit drivers
