TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATeGIC RePORT 63 BUsiness and finanCial revieW DIReCTORS RePORT FINANCIAl STATemeNTS SHAReHOlDeR INFORmATION Current trading and outlook Winter 2013 14 summer 2014 Performance for Winter 2013 14 is in line with our expectations.
For Summer 2014, we are pleased with early trading, despite facing To date 60% of the overall mainstream Winter programme has been strong comparatives from the prior year, and continue to see strong sold.
As a result of the unrest in egypt we have actively remixed the demand for our unique holidays.
To date, approximately 13% of the programme and reduced our capacity to egypt, which now accounts overall mainstream Summer programme has been sold.
We currently for less than 5% of the total programme.
All markets now have their expect capacity for our Summer 2014 programme to be in line with egypt programmes back on sale, however, demand is lower than last last year, although we have the flexibility in our model to make year.
Overall mainstream bookings excluding egypt are down by 4%, strategic capacity changes on select high-margin opportunities.
Our with average selling prices up 5%.
In Germany, bookings are down 9% restructured Specialist & Activity business has had a good start to the excluding egypt, with the majority of this decline relating to the high year, whilst Accommodation Wholesaler continues to see double-digit volume but lower margin overland programme, whilst our core unique growth, driven by Asia and latin America.
package holiday offering continues to deliver in line with expectations.
Fuel Foreign exchange Trading in Specialist & Activity is in line with expectations, whilst the We have hedged the majority of our fuel and currency requirements Accommodation Wholesaler continues to grow strongly with TTV up for the seasons currently on sale, which gives us certainty of costs by 24%, driven by the latin American and Asian markets.
when planning capacity and pricing.
The following table shows the 1 Current Trading percentage of our forecast requirement that is currently hedged for Winter 2013 14 euros, US Dollars and jet fuel.
Total 2 As at 5 December 2013 Winter 2013 14 Summer 2014 Total Total Total Customers Programme 2 2 2 YoY variation% ASP Sales Customers exc.
egypt sold % Euro 91% 74% Mainstream US Dollars 93% 86% Jet Fuel 89% 78% UK 6 2 -4 1 52 Nordics -1 -3 -2 9 73 Germany 6 -4 -10 -9 58 Outlook France tour operators 15 -27 -37 -33 70 3 Overall, we are pleased with trading at the start of our new financial Other 3 -1 -4 Flat year.
Winter 2013 14 performance is in line with expectations with 60% Total Mainstream 5 -4 -8 -4 60 of the programme sold.
For Summer 2014, we are encouraged by early Total mainstream excl trading despite strong comparatives.
In particular, we continue to see France tour operators 4 -2 -6 -2 strong demand for our unique holidays.
Our Accommodation Wholesaler Accommodation 4 Wholesaler 1 24 23 business is seeing sustained double-digit growth, driven by Asia and latin America, whilst our restructured Specialist & Activity business 1 These statistics are up to 1 December 2013 and are shown on a constant currency basis has had a good start to the year and is on track to deliver growth as 2 These statistics relate to all customers whether risk or non-risk set out in our road-map.
At this stage, we continue to expect to hold 3 Other includes Austria, Belgium, Netherlands, Poland and Switzerland our Winter loss and deliver a H1 result broadly in line with last year, 4 These statistics refer to online accommodation businesses only: Sales refer to total excluding the timing of easter which falls in the second half of the year.
transaction value TTV and customers refers to roomnights TUI Travel is structurally well positioned with a robust business model that gives us a long-term competitive advantage.
The business continues to deliver sustainable growth through our unique holiday experiences, increasingly distributed online, whilst leveraging its scale as one organisation.
This, in turn, will drive further value for both our customers and shareholders.
Building on this years outperformance where we have achieved a 13% underlying operating profit growth on a constant currency basis, we remain confident that we will deliver consistently on our five year annualised growth target of between 7% to 10% underlying operating profit growth at constant currency.
60% 23% Overall Mainstream Growth in Winter programme sold Accommodation up to 1 December 2013 Wholesaler TTV, compared to 2012 9  v42 copy.
indd 63 13 12 2013 17:50 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 64 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Tax Tax governance The Groups approach to tax The Groups approach to tax matters is to comply with all relevant tax The Groups tax strategy is determined by the Board of Directors laws and regulations, wherever we operate in the world, whilst managing as a sub-set of the Groups overall business strategy and is approved our overall tax burden.
We look to pay the right and fair amount of taxes annually by the Audit Committee.
Operational responsibility for the in accordance with the letter and spirit of the laws in the countries in execution of the Groups tax strategy rests with the Chief Financial which we do business.
Officer and the Group Tax Director who report the Groups tax position to the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
We consider the right amount of tax as being in accordance with the letter of the law and the fair amount of tax as being in accordance The Group Risk Management Committee considers tax risks that with the government policy intention for which the law was introduced.
may arise as a result of our business operations, on a quarterly basis, through the Groups risk management framework.
The consideration Context of such tax risks includes actions to mitigate the risks or to prevent their occurrence or recurrence.
The effective tax rate on the Groups underlying profit before tax for 2013 was 27%.
The Group paid cash income taxes of 110m.
We The location of our businesses consider the cash taxes that we pay to governments are an important source of revenue for them in providing a stable infrastructure and TUI Travel operates across 31 key source markets.
These source environment in which we operate our businesses.
markets are home to our tour operators and airlines.
It is from these source markets that our 30 million customers wish to travel.
Our The Groups businesses operate in 180 countries.
This geographical inbound services companies and associates operate in key leisure diversity leads to considerable complexity in our tax affairs, and tax travel destinations.
authorities around the world are subjecting the tax affairs of large As a leisure travel group, we take people on holiday to some countries companies to ever greater scrutiny.
We look to manage our tax affairs in that have low or zero tax rates.
This means that we may have a manner to support our business operations with the aim of ensuring subsidiary companies in such locations, for example, we have a legal that the tax consequences of our business operations match with the entity in the British Virgin Islands which operates a yacht base for our economic and commercial consequences of those business operations.
Moorings business and is one of the islands largest employers.
We also For example, we look to ensure that the same profits are not taxed twice have legal entities in other Caribbean islands for the same purpose and by different countries, and that transactions between subsidiary and for operating hotels that our customers visit.
associate companies are conducted on arms length terms and prices.
Where a tax rule, regulation or incentive exists that may convey a tax advantage to our operations, such as using losses incurred in prior years or tax depreciation from investing in our business, we will use that rule, regulation or incentive to support our businesses.
In many countries, such rules operate automatically by law, for example, using UK losses incurred in prior years to offset current year UK taxable profits.
The Group uses the services of external, expert tax advisors to provide input into the Groups tax affairs, such as the management of compliance in some overseas jurisdictions and the impact of changes in tax legislation on the Group.
indd 64 13 12 2013 17:51 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATeGIC RePORT 65 Business and finanCial review DIReCTORS RePORT FInAnCIAl STATeMenTS ShARehOlDeR InFORMATIOn Payment of taxes relationships with tax authorities In the year ended 30 September 2013, the Group paid corporate We look to develop and maintain good working relationships with tax income taxes of 110m as per the table below: authorities in the countries in which we operate.
We communicate with them in an open, honest and positive manner.
Where it is possible to The amounts shown below represent the corporate income tax, or do so, we seek to discuss our major commercial transactions and their corporation tax and cash tax payments made by the Group and its tax consequences and treatment with tax authorities in advance of subsidiary companies during the year ended 30 September 2013. their execution or seek an advance ruling of the tax consequences and Different countries have different rules as to how companies should treatment of such transactions in order to provide us with certainty make payments of cash taxes with some requiring payments on account of the tax treatment.
We are committed to transparent and prompt to be made during the current year or the immediately following year or full disclosure in all tax matters.
We pay our tax liabilities when they a combination of these methods, whilst others may use the immediately become due.
preceding year as the basis for cash tax payments.
Cash tax payments may be lower than the tax charge for the year due to the utilisation of We recognise that there will be areas of differing legal interpretations brought forward tax losses against current year profits.
between the Group and tax authorities.
Where this occurs, we will engage with tax authorities to try to resolve the matters in a coWith regard to UK cash taxes, 14m is the corporation tax paid in the operative and expedited manner.
Where a conclusion cannot be year ended 30 September 2013.
This is lower than may be expected reached in such a manner, the tax authority or the Group may choose due to the utilisation of losses brought forward from earlier years and to litigate the issue through the relevant legal system.
tax depreciation UK capital allowances resulting from investment in our UK business.
We expect the amount of UK corporation tax to The Group reviews new tax law and regulations that governments increase in future years as these brought forward losses reduce.
around the world introduce from time to time.
Where we believe that new laws would have a disproportionate or detrimental impact on the Groups businesses or require amendment to achieve the intention of the new law, we will lobby the relevant government, either in our own name or as part of a trade association, to explain the potential issues and to suggest alternatives.
PaymenT of Taxes 2013 2012 Territory m m Australia 2 1 Belgium 21 12 Denmark 2 Dominican Republic 1 Finland 3 France 6 Germany 26 32 Greece 2 Mexico 2 3 Morocco 5 netherlands 6 2 norway 4 Portugal 1 Spain 12 17 Sweden 4 5 Turkey 2 United Kingdom 14 2 Others payments less than 1m 5 6 Total 110 82 10 Tax v20 copy.
