TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATeGIC RePORT 57 BUsiness and finanCial revieW DIReCTORS RePORT FINANCIAl STATemeNTS SHAReHOlDeR INFORmATION Our growth levers Creating shareholder value We are very pleased with our performance this year against our clearly One mobility platform defined strategic growth levers.
These drive improved profitability Our unique holiday offering gives us control over the end-to-end and free cash flow, and therefore, superior returns on investment.
customer experience and an opportunity to interact with our This improvement will allow us to invest further in the future of our customers throughout their journey.
We have a clear digital strategy to business which will benefit our customers, colleagues and shareholders.
enhance and deepen the relationship with our customers.
This year we have successfully launched our award-winning digital assistant app in 1.
Delivering Mainstream Growth the UK and German markets.
The apps have received almost 200,000 We are 18 months into running this Sector in a more cohesive way downloads to date and good levels of engagement with almost 100,000 which we are calling One mainstream.
This move is enabling us to shares through social media channels.
fully leverage both the strength of expertise across the Sector and Other markets will launch on the same platform during 2014 giving the scale of the Group.
Our mainstream business reported a record us one common mobility platform across all markets.
The digital performance over the year, with underlying operating profits growing assistant is a key driver in maintaining the ongoing customer by 22% to 514m.
Since the creation of the mainstream Board, a lot relationship and will be used to link our people more effectively with has been achieved: our customers any time, anywhere, any way with an ongoing pipeline Our single purchasing team is responsible for purchasing 4.5bn of features continuing to be added, including mobile boarding passes, of accommodation across all our mainstream businesses: gaining seat selection and upgrade, search and book functionality as well key exclusivities, driving down cost and managing commitments to as an ability to create personalised recommendations and offers.
ensure we leverage our scale as europes largest tour operator.
To connect our people with our customers we are digitally enabling our in-resort teams with tablets to effectively connect our physical We have a unified approach to the development of international presence with the digital world.
The Distribution and Online function is responsible for developing Flight experience and agreeing the direct distribution strategy across all source A key part of our unique holiday offering is also the flight experience markets.
and we continue to reshape the composition of our airline fleet to Within Digital Transformation we are taking a single approach across drive customer satisfaction and simplify the fleet to one short-haul booking systems, platforms, customer engagement tools and digital and one long-haul aircraft type.
We were the first UK operator to content.
take delivery of the Boeing 787-8 Dreamliner earlier this year and In-Resort Services is focused on delivering a modern efficient remain the only integrated tour operator to operate these aircraft.
digitally enabled service to our customers in resort.
The customer experience is very important to us and the feedback we receive from those who fly on these aircraft is exceptional.
The Boeing The Groups five leisure airlines are reducing duplication, driving 787 family provides unmatched fuel efficiency, resulting in exceptional best practice, investing once for the benefit of all five airlines and environmental performance.
The aircraft uses 20 % less fuel than improving flexibility wherever possible.
todays aircraft of a similar size.
We are also enabling a single set of Across the Sector, benchmarking of cost and revenue positions operating procedures for the Boeing 787-8 Dreamliner fleet across has led to clear business efficiency targets to drive down costs engineering, maintenance and crew, creating a more flexible and in the back office and drive ancillary revenue benefits.
One mainstream enables us to further develop our customer proposition and our customer experience function will ensure that Having a modern, cost-efficient and reliable fleet is strategically we consistently touch every part of our customers journey.
One important to the Group.
We are strongly positioned with a young mainstream continues to evolve, delivering greater benefits as one aircraft fleet compared to other leisure airlines.
The average age of business across the strategic drivers of unique holidays, direct our fleet is eight years, however a significant portion of our narrow distribution and operational efficiency.
body fleet consists of Boeing 737-800 aircraft which have an average age of 5.5 years.
Being able to offer our customers the most advanced, 1.1 Unique holidays only available from TUI Travel comfortable aircraft, whether they are travelling with us to short or Unique holidays long-haul destinations, while reducing our environmental impact, will Our unique holidays form the backbone of our mainstream businesses only strengthen our position.
In July 2013 our shareholders approved and are exclusive to us.
Unique holidays provide value added services an order for 60 new Boeing 737-mAX aircraft with deliveries beginning and features which command a margin premium over commodity in 2018, along with an option and right to acquire up to 90 further products.
This in turn leads to higher customer loyalty and an increase aircraft.
This will further reduce the average age of our fleet, resulting in repeat bookings.
Unique holidays also book earlier enabling us to in TUI Travel continuing to operate one of the youngest and most fuel manage our capacity and yield more effectively.
Due to our experience efficient airlines in europe.
in designing and operating new concepts it is very difficult for our 1.2 Distributed directly to the customer growth from online competitors to replicate these holidays.
Direct distribution Sales of higher margin unique holidays during the year increased by Our direct distribution channels are central to the Groups strategy.
By four percentage points to 69% of mainstream holidays.
This includes increasing the direct distribution of our holidays we lower distribution the UK and Germany, which both saw sales of unique holidays increase costs, reduce the reliance on third party distributors and can build on by four percentage points.
The Nordics market saw unique holidays our customer relationships.
Our direct distribution mix improved by increase by one percentage point over the year.
In the UK, 93% of one percentage point over the year to 66% of mainstream sales, with Thomson holidays were unique in Summer 2013.
We achieved a improvements in all key source markets.
The improvement in direct customer satisfaction score of 79% for our three largest mainstream distribution was driven by the online channel which also increased by markets, a two percentage point increase over the prior year, driven two percentage points in 2013 to 35% of mainstream sales.
During the by improved scores in all three source markets.
Demand for unique year, we generated 3.7bn of revenue online within our mainstream holiday experiences continues to see strong growth and our customers business, reflecting 12% growth in online package bookings.
are more delighted than ever with the holiday experiences we have designed for them.
indd 57 13 12 2013 17:50 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 58 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 BUsIness and fInanCIal revIew Our growth levers Creating shareholder value continued One online platform 3.
Leveraging our global leadership position in As an online-driven business, we have a focus on the online customer Accommodation Wholesaler through growth experience.
During the year, we continued to see the benefits of the in existing markets investments we have been making in our online platforms.
We are Our Accommodation Wholesaler business Hotelbeds and Bedsonline moving to one core online platform across mainstream.
The UK and is a market leader operating in the B2B segment with a global Nordic markets have made this transition and are seeing significant distribution presence.
We have a clear strategy of consolidating our improvements in conversion as a result of the redesigned user market-leading position even further by continuing to grow our existing experience and search functionality that makes it easier for the destinations whilst accelerating our expansion into new markets with customer to find their perfect holiday experience with us.
Our other particular focus on Asia, latin America and Africa.
The total Online core markets will begin using the same online platform during the Accommodation market accounts for 87bn of global travel spend, course of 2014.
The websites in our core online markets are now tablet with the Accommodation Wholesaler market accounting for 17bn and mobile optimised as our customers increasingly use their tablets of this spend.
and mobile devices to dream, plan, search and book with us.
Accommodation Wholesaler continues to consolidate its global Next generation retail stores leadership position, delivering TTV growth of 23% to 1,655m during We continue to modernise our retail offering.
In the UK we have the year with a strong performance from Asia and latin America.
launched the first of our next generation stores which combine Roomnights grew by 16% to 19.3 million during 2013, with hotel personal advice and service with a rich digital experience that enables inventory also increasing by 16% to 62,000 hotels.
Accommodation customers to build their perfect holiday.
This will be integrated into Wholesaler delivered a 28% growth in underlying operating profit a holiday planner tool that allows them to take their ideas home with during the year at constant currency rates.
them and book using whatever channel they choose.
Investing in Accommodation OTA 1.3 Leveraging our scale In Accommodation OTA online travel agent our focus is to build on As europes largest tour operator we leverage our scale across all our strong brand positioning of lateRooms.
com in the UK and expand source markets to consolidate our market-leading position and grow in the emerging markets through AsiaRooms.
com across Asia and in the number of customers travelling with us.
Our One mainstream Brazil with malaPronta, Brazils fourth largest accommodation-only structure is in place and yielding tangible benefits.
multiple online and back-end platforms to one core platform is a key driver of efficiencies going forward.
Accommodation OTA TTV declined by 6% to 422m during the year.
This decline was driven by a delay in migration to a new online We have market leading positions and brands across our portfolio.
The new platforms are now in place, The breadth of our brands offers our customers a wealth of holiday delivering an improved user experience.
This leading market position and scale means that our benefit from strong brand recognition and SeO search engine competition cannot easily replicate what we do.
There are significant optimisation visibility.
On the mobile front, we designed and delivered barriers to entry in both our positioning and deep-rooted relationships mobile-optimised websites for lateRooms, AsiaRooms and malapronta with hotel suppliers.
Our scale also enables us to deliver synergy as well as making a number of significant improvements to the benefits through joint contracting and purchasing of accommodation lateRooms and AsiaRooms apps.
During the year, overheads as a percentage of sales fell by 60bp from 5.
F ocus on free cash flow generation, ROIC and 5.2% to 4.6%.
We expect to hold overheads in absolute terms and, operational efficiency as a result, overheads as a percentage of sales will reduce further.
One of our key strategic objectives is to continue to improve the Groups profitability and free cash flow and therefore deliver superior 2.
Organic Specialist & Activity growth returns on investment.
This improvement will allow us to invest The Specialist & Activity Sector offers a wide range of unique activity further in the future of our business which will benefit our customers, and experience based holidays to 1.4m customers from around the colleagues and shareholders.
We have market-leading positions in a number of specialist During the year, we generated record cash flow with free cash segments with a portfolio of experiential and tailor-made holidays, improvement of 122m to 427m.
Underlying ROIC has improved unrivalled product knowledge and superb customer experiences.
again this year by 2.6 percentage points to 14.8%.
This increase was During 2013, the Specialist & Activity Sector underwent a strategic driven by the strong improvement in earnings during the year.
We review which included a change in management, a reduction of generated a cash conversion rate of 90% in 2013, up by 12 percentage central costs from streamlining back-office operations and the exit points.
We continue to target a cash conversion rate of at least 70% of a number of unprofitable lines of business.
As a result, overall sales going forward.
were down on the prior year.
Now that this review is complete we are confident of delivering underlying annualised profit growth of 8-10% We have been successful in implementing our Group-wide business at constant currency in the year ahead.
The total savings made this year equates to 46m, an acceleration of the target outlined at the We are investing in our online platforms to enhance booking and start of year.
These cost savings were primarily driven by back office search functionality and provide our customers with inspirational restructuring and IT platform replacement across a number of content to showcase our products.
Our specialist businesses are markets.
making good progress in consolidating their finance and reservation systems to leverage our scale across multiple brands and continue Our drive to improve efficiency does not stop here.
Our One on their journey of standardisation while balancing the varied mainstream platform is already in place and yielding tangible benefits.
requirements of the different holiday experiences they offer.
The move from multiple platforms to one core platform is a key driver of efficiencies going forward.
