52 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT Health & Safety The Group attaches great importance to the health and safety H&S documenting and communicating to all businesses minimum of its customers and employees at all levels of the business.
Andrew John, Group H&S management system requirements and associated Group Director Secretariat, Health & Safety and Risk formerly Group H&S standards: Legal Director & Company Secretary, continues to be the Group providing training in H&S incident reporting and risk assessments: and Management Board GMB member with responsibility for reporting to the GMB on H&S matters.
providing guidance, advice and support to operating businesses.
Sectors, and the divisions and businesses within them, continue to liaise, While primary responsibility for H&S management remains at the co-operate and share best practice in line with the TUI Travel H&S Policy business unit or operational level within the Sectors, this first line Statement issued and signed by the Chief Executive, Peter Long.
of defence is augmented by the Group H&S Compliance Department through the activities described above.
Further assurance that In the Group airlines, a risk-based safety management system which sound H&S management systems are employed is provided by Group engages the whole airline at all levels in safety management is used.
The operations of the airlines are regulated by the European Aviation Safety Agency EASA and by the applicable national aviation body Employee safety e. g. in the United Kingdom, the Civil Aviation Authority.
Each Group The range of potential hazards faced by our employees is as varied as airline has clearly identified accountable senior managers responsible for the products offered across the Group.
For example, employees working safety in the key areas of flight operations, training, ground operations in our offices and retail outlets have a relatively low-risk workplace, while and engineering.
The National Aviation Authorities regularly inspect and those employed in the Marine or Aviation Engineering Departments audit each airlines safety management system.
In our non-aviation business operations, several significant H&S The hazards faced by our employees and others affected by our related developments have occurred during the year including: activities, are subject to workplace risk assessments which highlight the analysis of the results of the H&S questionnaire sent to all areas of concern and enable the development of measures to control businesses across the Group by the Group Legal & Regulatory or remove the hazards.
Safety management systems continue to be Compliance Department: developed and adapted by the individual businesses and both Sector and divisional H&S professionals assist each business with their specific Group Audit Services conducted a series of audits to assess H&S H&S management needs.
management systems in each Mainstream business and to ensure these are closely co-ordinated across the Sector: and The Group H&S induction programme Safety in your Workplace continues to be used to provide a baseline of H&S knowledge an H&S project team has been created under the Modern for employees.
Since its launch in 2008, over 8,000 employees have Mainstream concept, tasked with looking at H&S standards and completed the programme.
how these are co-ordinated and implemented across the Mainstream Sector.
Within the United Kingdom, any relevant injuries, diseases or dangerous occurrences are reported under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and At Group level, the Board authorised the creation, with effect from Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR.
The incident statistics 1 July 2013, of a small Group H&S Compliance Department tasked with: for the UK for 2012 13 are given below.
monitoring H&S management systems across the Group, collating Within the United Kingdom local and national authorities continue to the relevant data and arranging for regular reporting to the GMB visit various Group premises offering advice and highlighting relevant and the Board against established Key Performance Indicators issues.
No enforcement notices or convictions have occurred within KPIs and Key Risk Indicators KRIs : the 2012 13 financial year.
UK InCIdEnT dATA OCTObER 2012 TO SEPTEmbER 2013 Airline Crawley and 1 UK incident category equivalent UK & Ireland other businesses Total Number of incidents 480 51 50 581 2 Number of over-seven-day incidents 23 1 24 48 Number of RIDDOR major incidents 2 2 Number of RIDDOR fatalities 1 Where an incident occurs outside the United Kingdom it is not reportable under the RIDDOR legislation but the business reports it as an RIDDOR equivalent 2 Where, due to an accident at work, an employee is unable to perform their normal work duties for more than seven consecutive days 8 HealthXandXSafety v21 copy.
indd 52 13 12 2013 17:50 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT 53 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REvIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION In the Accommodation & Destinations Sector A&D, H&S is managed Customer safety by each individual division and business.
These businesses are either Each of the Sectors has responsibility for ensuring that sound customer involved in the supply of traditional destination market services such as H&S practices and robust safety management systems are embedded accommodation, excursions and transportation or in the online supply within their businesses.
of hotel accommodation in many countries.
The Sure2Care in-house In the Mainstream Sector, the UK & Ireland business has outsourced safety system tool is used to verify the safety of the products and certain aspects of its H&S activities to specialist external third-party services being marketed.
providers who supply services related to general customer safety.
This includes audits of overseas accommodation, transport and excursion suppliers utilising a mix of physical visits and self-assessments, new builds and major refurbishments as well as targeted hygiene, water and food safety consultancy when high-risk areas are identified.
These third-party providers are instructed and monitored by our UK-based team, which sets the H&S strategy, agrees the audit schedule and takes responsibility for the development and implementation of the UK & Ireland Mainstream safety management system.
In our German businesses, there is a dedicated H&S team which is responsible for all H&S matters, together with the development and implementation of standards to ensure the wellbeing of all customers.
Regular checks are undertaken and all relevant areas are monitored and reviewed on a continuous basis to identify any potential risks.
In the Nordics, H&S activities across the Mainstream businesses Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Finland are co-ordinated through the Crisis Management & Sustainability Business Development team.
This team is responsible for setting H&S strategy, undertaking audits and for the operation and development of the TUI Nordic safety management system.
The Specialist & Activity Sector SAS operates a Sector-specific H&S function.
The Sectors H&S team consists of 12 professionals based in the UK and overseas, servicing all six SAS divisions.
Audits of suppliers The Strategic report was approved by a duly authorised Committee are undertaken utilising a mix of physical inspections and supplier selfof the Board of Directors on 9 December 2013 and signed on its assessments by means of Sure2Care the in-house web-based due behalf by: diligence system.
During the year, an enhanced system of risk profiling was introduced against which all SAS businesses are measured.
Appropriate safety Peter Long management systems are devised and implemented according to the Chief Executive risks identified within each business.
