06 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt GROUP OvERvIEW Our featured brands TUI Travel operates over 220 brands which are available to view on our website www.
A selection of our featured brands includes: In Germany TUI is one of the best known consumer Thomson has been selling holidays from the UK for over brands and the favourite holiday brand for consumers 50 years.
It is one of the UKs most well known holiday and travel agencies alike.
brands, delivering unique and modern holiday experiences.
In 2013, 90% of hotels in its brochures will be exclusive to Thomson.
co. uk airtours is a luxury holiday brand which, for more than LateRooms.
com is the UKs leading online 40 years, has offered the most comprehensive, individual accommodation specialist providing a whole world and exclusive holidays in the German speaking market.
of hotel possibilities for customers, from boutique to chain hotels, cosy B&Bs to luxury spas.
com The Moorings is the worlds leading yacht charter company For over 20 years, Quark Expeditions has been the leading with over 500 yachts in 27 cruising destinations worldwide.
provider of polar adventure travel.
With its diverse fleet The Moorings offers a collection of memorable getaways of specially equipped vessels and seasoned expedition from hands-on sailing or power yacht vacations to leaders, it offers travellers unparalleled access to the most all-inclusive private luxury crewed yachts.
indd 6 13 12 2013 17:33 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt 07 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REvIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 180 the number of countries the group operates in Fritidsresor is the leading tour operator and retail business Jetair is TUI Belgiums master brand.
It is a tour in the Swedish source market, offering package tours operator which offers a range of air and car holidays to destinations worldwide, including the Mediterranean, and city trips.
be Hotelbeds is the global accommodation wholesaler with Intercruises Shoreside & Port Services is an experienced an online database supplying over 60,000 hotels in 180 global business offering first class ground handling and countries to travel agents, airlines and tour operators.
port agency services to the ocean and river cruise industry.
com TUI Netherlands operates Arke, the leading B2C travel With over 30 years experience, Crystal is the UKs brand in the Dutch source market and a household name.
number one ski operator, taking customers to more of Besides tour operating, it operates 120 travel shops, the worlds best snow resorts than anyone else.
From a call centre and the website Arke.
Arke is an important self-catering apartments to cosy, friendly ski chalets.
supplier of passengers to the airline ArkeFly, also operated by TUI Netherlands.
