Corporate Governance 3 that Jeremy Wilson be appointed as a non-executive Director with effect from 21 October 2013.
He was 2013 NOMINATIONS selected from a shortlist of candidates and his COMMITTEE HIGHLIGHTS appointment was recommended following an interview selection process and feedback from all Board The Board was refreshed in 2013 following the members.
Jeremy Wilsons biography is set out appointment of Jeremy Wilson.
A search to on page 47: identify a suitable replacement for David As announced on 11 December 2013, David Bamford will Bamford, who retires from the Board on 30 be retiring from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on April 2014, was initiated and a shortlist of 30 April 2014, having served on the Board for more than candidates agreed: nine years.
A search is currently underway for a new Good progress has been made in regard to non-executive Director with an oil exploration background succession planning in 2013 and the Committee to replace David Bamford.
Curzon Partners who do not worked closely with the Executive Directors have any other connection with the Company are assisting to review the Senior Management talent pool with the search to identify suitable external candidates.
and ensure appropriate development plans An appointment is expected to be confirmed in the coming are in place: and months.
The Board has approved the Committees At the request of the Committee, the Human recommendations that, as from 30 April 2014, Ann Grant Resources Department organised an event for should assume the role currently held by David Bamford senior female managers in the Company, of Senior Independent Director and that Jeremy Wilson including Board members, to identify and should be appointed as Chairman of the propose measures to address potential Remuneration Committee: obstacles to achieving greater gender diversity Board diversity The Board currently consists of five in Senior Management.
Executive Directors and seven non-executive Directors.
Two of the seven non-executive Directors are women, Nominations Committee membership but all of the Executive Directors are male, reflecting Meetings attended the relatively low level of gender diversity amongst the Committee member out of a total possible senior management of the Group in line with the oil and Simon Thompson Chair 2 2 gas industry generally.
In order to meet the aspiration Tutu Agyare 2 2 set out in the 2011 Davies Report Women on Boards David Bamford 2 2 that women should make up 25% of board positions Ann Grant 2 2 by 2015, we would have to restrict future Board appointments to women only or significantly restructure 1.
In addition to the scheduled meetings, two ad hoc the size and composition of the Board.
We do not regard meetings were held during the year in connection with either of these actions as being in the best interests of the appointment of Jeremy Wilson.
A further ad hoc meeting was held at which the Committee recommended the Company.
Accordingly, we continue to seek to to the Board that the term of office of Tutu Agyare address the problem of lack of diversity in senior be extended for a further three-year term until 24 August management positions, as described in the Organisation 2016 and that the term of office for David Bamford be and Culture section on page 48, but recognise that we extended until 30 April 2014. are unlikely to achieve our aspiration of 25% female 2.
Following Tutu Agyares appointment to the Committee representation by 2015.
Currently, 12% of our Senior on 1 January 2013, there have been no other changes in Management team are women: the composition of the Committee during the year.
Senior Management succession planning The Committee and the Board have been closely involved with Executive Directors in reviewing the senior management talent pool within Tullow.
The aim is to Committee evaluation The performance of the ensure that all candidates, and particularly those who Committee was evaluated as part of the annual would increase the diversity of the senior management Board evaluation exercise.
It was found to be pool, have personal development plans designed to operating effectively.
provide them with the knowledge and skills required to progress within the Group: Membership of Board Committees The Nominations Committee is responsible for nominating appropriate individuals for membership of Board Committees to ensure that they comprise individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge and experience.
During the year, on the Committees recommendation, the Board approved the appointment of Jeremy Wilson as a member of the Audit Committee and of the Remuneration Committee on his appointment to the Board: and www.
com 95 Corpor Corporate Go ate Gov vernanc ernance e EHS COMMITTEE REPORT Committees role The Committee has an objective of enhancing the Boards engagement with EHS by provoking appropriate in-depth reviews of strategically important EHS issues for the Group.
The Committee should be forward looking to enable it to provide appropriate advice in line with Tullows growing presence in different operating environments.
The Committee reviews a wide range of EHS indicators to provide insight into front line delivery of EHS policies and practices, e. g. EHS elements of Tullows confidential whistle blowing line Safe Call, high potential incidents, especially where a high frequency is in one area, audit outcomes and investigation outcomes.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER Effectively managing risks is one of the Committees main responsibilities Boards enduring objectives, and EHS risk The main duties are: deserves a particular focus.
In response to the expanded scope and scale of Tullows Reviewing and providing advice regarding the operations, the Board EHS Committee was environmental, health, and safety policies of established in 2013 to achieve this focus by the Company: monitoring personal and process safety, Monitoring the performance of the Company in the security, health and the environment.
progressive implementation of its environmental, health, security and safety policies, including process In addition to reviewing the Companys EHS safety management: policies and systems, during its first year the Committee fulfilled its mandate by Receiving and providing feedback on reports covering considering a range of leading and lagging matters relating to material environmental, health and indicators, and reviewing incidents with high safety risks: and potential or with a high frequency.
The Considering material regulatory and technical Committee also placed a focus on ensuring developments in the fields of environmental, Tullow is a learning organisation.
Objectives for 2014 will include continuing The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually the progress made on process safety and and can be accessed on the corporate website.
assuring that improvements made in the EHS arena are sustainable across The Committee currently comprises three non-executive Tullows operations.
Directors and one Executive Director Paul McDade, who has executive responsibility for EHS across the Group.
Anne Drinkwater is Chairman of the Committee and chaired all meetings throughout the year.
Collectively, the Committee members have considerable operational EHS experience Anne Drinkwater from diverse operating environments across the oil and Chairman of the EHS Committee gas and extractive industries.
11 February 2014 In addition to the core Committee members, functional heads and Senior Managers from across the Group were invited to meetings to provide additional details and insights on specific agenda items, provide guidance on EHS issues or discuss how EHS can be embedded across their parts of the business.
Visiting attendees included Stuart Wheaton, Head of Development and Operations, Stephen Rees, Group Compliance Manager and Mike Williams, Group Well Engineering Manager.
Committee activities during 2013 In the first meeting, the newly formed Committee started with a comprehensive review of how EHS and Security is managed, evaluated and implemented from its vision through to its policies, standards and procedures at the Group and local level.
The review showed there is a good structure in place which is being evolved in response to changing operations and internal and industry learning: 96 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts
