Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Financially secure Macro issues, in my view, are where the real challenges Tullows prospectors, playmakers, geologists and to our business lie.
These include access to world-class geophysicists focus on finding big oil and as a Group exploration acreage on reasonable terms: social issues and we spend roughly $1 billion on exploration & appraisal the management of expectations in host countries where campaigns each year.
We spend approximately another knowledge of our industry is very limited: unclear fiscal and $1 billion on development and production.
We have a clear regulatory regimes that have the potential to undermine the financial strategy to fund this level of business activity.
validity of contracts: safe operations in difficult but very This includes building a high-margin production engine of sensitive environments: long-lasting and productive new fields to underpin our cash flow.
In 2013, the business relationships with governments: and creating shared generated almost $2 billion operating cash flow, more than prosperity through a sustainable contribution to social double our cash flow five years ago.
We also need a strong and economic development where we operate.
balance sheet to maintain a conservative financial profile.
Day-to-day we face different issues.
These include running In total, Tullow has $4.3 billion of debt facilities and had production in a dynamic reservoir like Jubilee: achieving $1.9 billion of net debt at the year end.
PoD approval after some delays, as is the case with TEN, We outlined last year the increasing role that portfolio delivering projects on time and on budget in areas with management has to play in our business model.
As the negligible infrastructure: and managing our expenditure in Chairman has discussed in his statement, the industry an industry where we have limited influence over external is currently experiencing a tough market and financial factors like cost inflation.
In fact, I would go as far as to say the toughest The macro perspective is what shapes and makes Tullow in all my experience.
We have a number of assets to divest over the long term.
Day-to-day activity is what ensures we in our portfolio management pipeline but it is currently deliver our three-year business plan.
Inevitably, with the very much a buyers market, which has recalibrated the short-term perspective there will be disappointments, delays timeframe for monetising assets.
Our financial strength and frustrations.
These short-term disappointments are has allowed us to avoid any distress selling of assets as usually reflected by capital markets but the role of the part of our portfolio management strategy and enabled Executive and the Board is to be clear and consistent about us to take a longer-term approach to monetisation, the long-term strategic direction of Tullow.
That means ensuring we realise their full potential value.
weighing up our direction as a business against what we The dream of the drill bit believe will be the likely macro issues and possibilities, and Our focus on frontier exploration creates the opportunity asking first, whether we are well-positioned as a business to for big rewards and higher returns on investment.
Our deliver on our strategy and second, whether we can handle experience this year also demonstrates that it comes with the day-to-day challenges of running our portfolio.
big risks and justifies our prudent approach to exploration Promising outlook for 2014 drilling within a balanced portfolio of prospects.
Our limited I continue to regard Tullow as the leading independent offshore exploration success, outside of Norway, was exploration and production company, particularly in Africa.
particularly evident in non-operated French Guiana, with I believe that our track record for finding and developing a lack of success after our initial significant Zaedyus-1 oil over the past seven years and our prospects for doing discovery in 2011.
As I look forward to our extensive 2014 the same over the coming years show we have positioned campaigns we have better control over our exploration the business correctly.
2013 was a significant year for programme, including timing and expenditure through the Group in many respects, I personally would like to strategic positions in key basins.
This gives us greater thank every one of our employees and contractors for their flexibility and enables us to apply Tullows entrepreneurial contribution again this year, in the face of both successes and pioneering approach.
The dream of the drill bit is to and some challenges.
Looking ahead, 2014 promises find light oil in commercial quantities that can be readily to be another year of strong progress for Tullow.
We quantify this as the addition of, on average, 200 mmboe contingent resources per annum.
This is what underpins Tullows  world-class exploration expertise.
Two perspectives on Tullow Aidan Heavey As an entrepreneur and particularly as someone who has Chief Executive Officer been around the oil and gas industry for almost 30 years, I view the management of Tullow from two perspectives.
On the one hand, my Board colleagues and I consider the macro challenges we face as a business.
On the other, we consider the issues we encounter on a day-to-day basis as we run our operations.
14 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts H O W E U W L E A V R U E T N A O E Strategic Report BUSINESS MODEL & STRATEGY 1 BUILDING A BUSINESS WITH AN UN RIV ALLED COMPETITIVE POSITION Our vision is to be the leading global independent exploration and production company and our strategy to achieve this is exploration-led growth.
We want to build a business with an unrivalled competitive Success will be sustainable value growth for Tullow, position that is differentiated from our peers.
We believe we substantial long-term returns to shareholders and can achieve this through high-impact exploration, selective shared prosperity for our stakeholders.
Our exploration-led developments and high-value material production.
We will growth strategy, the scale of our business and the dynamic fund the development of our business with operating cash environments within which we operate require disciplined flow, monetisation of assets and access to debt and risk management and ongoing strategic attention to continue equity markets.
to deliver growth and a robust, well-funded business.
How we create value We create value in two ways.
We find oil through our high-impact exploration programme, strategic acquisitions and New Ventures.
2 We sell oil by monetising assets across DEVELOPMENT the oil life cycle or by developing & OPERATIONS exploration discoveries through to production.
This generates cash flow for investment in the business and 1 3 supports a strong balance sheet EXPLORATION FINANCE & and financial flexibility.
& APPRAISAL PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABLE LONG-TERM VALUE GROWTH How we run our business 7 4 Our approach to running our SHARED RISK business reflects the most PROSPERITY MANAGEMENT material issues for our continued success and delivery of our business plans.
These include strong and 6 5 effective risk management, high ORGANISATION GOVERNANCE standards of governance, transparency & CULTURE & VALUES and anti-corruption, developing a multi-disciplined and diverse team and making a positive and lasting contribution where we operate.
com 15 U R R C B E U W S I W N O E S H S Strategic Report BUSINESS MODEL & STRATEGY CONTINUED OUR INTEGRATED GOVERNANCE & RISK FRAMEWORK Strong and effective risk management is central to how we run our business and supports the delivery of our strategic objectives.
It also ensures we remain focused on developing long-term relationships with host governments and safeguarding the communities and the environments we work within, ultimately protecting our business, people and reputation.
Our integrated governance and risk framework demonstrates the key risks associated with each of our strategic priorities and how they could impact our performance.
The framework also identifies the Executive Directors that have overall responsibility for each risk and the internal committees that are responsible for the ongoing management and monitoring of our risk exposure.
Strategic priorities Performance indicator Long-term Total Shareholder Return Sustainable long-term value growth Resource growth 1.
Exploration & Appraisal Execute selective high-impact E&A programmes.
Exploration success ratio Portfolio replenishment Finding costs per boe Yearly operations targets 2.
Development & Operations Deliver all major projects and production operations EHS scorecard increasing cash flow and commercial reserves, Timely delivery of projects HOW WE while ensuring safe people, procedures and CREATE operations and minimising environmental impacts.
Finance & Portfolio Management Operating cash flow Manage financial and business assets to enhance our Debt profile and capacity portfolio, replenish upside and support funding needs.
Gearing and cash operating costs Capital expenditure and cost management targets Realised commodity prices Funding of projects 4.
Risk Management Long-term Total Shareholder Return TSR Deliver substantial returns to shareholders.
EHS scorecard Code of Conduct training and certification 5.
Governance & Values Achieve strong governance across all Tullow activities and Compliance issues and whistle blowing continue to build trust and reputation with all stakeholders.
calls and investigations HOW WE Staff turnover 6.
Organisation & Culture RUN OUR BUSINESS Build a strong unified team with excellent commercial, Recruitment for key roles technical and financial skills and entrepreneurial flair.
Shared Prosperity Local content Create sustainable, transparent and tangible benefits Social performance from the presence of oil in host countries.
16 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report 1 RISK MANAGEMENT The Board is collectively responsible for risk management responsible for managing day-to-day operations and the and each Executive Director is responsible for designated safe delivery of the Groups business plan.
In early 2014, a new Executive Committee functions are responsible for managing designated was formed that assists the Executive Directors in running Group-wide corporate risks and assurance of Business the business.
It comprises the Executive Directors and Unit activities and operational and financial performance.
10 senior regional and functional business leaders.
The Risk Management 42 Vice Presidents and Business Unit leadership teams are Long-term risks 72 BOARD OF DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGIONAL & BUSINESS UNITS 12 members Includes the Executive Directors and 10 regional business and Five Executive Directors corporate function leaders Seven non-executive Directors CORPORATE FUNCTIONS Four Board Committees Key risks to our performance Risk owner Risk assurance More info Strategy focus to meet Aidan Heavey Board and the 35 shareholder expectations Chief Executive Officer Executive Directors Sustained exploration failure Angus McCoss Executive Committee 36 Exploration Director Global Exploration Leadership Team Key operational or Paul McDade Executive Committee 38 development failure Chief Operating Officer Board EHS Committee EHS failure or security incident Development & Operations Leadership Team EHS Strategy Group Insufficient liquidity, Ian Springett Executive Committee 40 inappropriate financial strategy Chief Financial Officer Financial Risk Committee Cost and capital discipline Oil and gas price volatility Strategy fails to meet Executive Directors Board 42 shareholder expectations Executive Committee Angus McCoss Information and cyber security Information Systems Leadership Exploration Director Bribery and corruption Graham Martin Board 44 Executive Director Governance and legal risk Compliance Committee & Company Secretary Executive Committee Loss of key staff and Graham Martin Executive Committee 48 succession planning Executive Director & Company Secretary Failure to manage social and Paul McDade Executive Committee 51 socio-economic impacts Chief Operating Officer Political risk Graham Martin Supply chain failure Executive Director & Company Secretary www.
com 17 SPECIAL FEATURE KENYA We acquired our first operated interests in the Rift Basins of Kenya in 2010.
Just 18 months later we drilled the first wildcat exploration well.
Since then we have discovered an estimated 600 million barrels of oil resources.
This is the story of our journey in Kenya to date.
18 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts OUR OIL JOURNEY THIS IS A VERY EXCITING TIME FOR KENYA & ITS NATURAL RESOURCES HOLD SIGNIFICANT POTENTIAL FOR THE COUNTRY.
The discoveries made by Tullow over the last two years have put Kenya at the heart of East Africas emerging oil province.
Despite this success, we do not underestimate the challenges that lie ahead in bringing first oil to market.
Development and production of these resources is a long-term proposition, and so we must work together with stakeholders to build understanding and knowledge about what activities need to take place at each stage of the journey.
Securing an appropriate and economically viable plan for development will be critical to project success, however having the right infrastructure in place to support oil production will be equally important.
Significant infrastructure upgrades will be required in order to transport the oil from an area largely inaccessible today by roads and rail to the sea, over 850 kilometres away.
Furthermore, Tullow will require access to a wide range of skills as well as competitive, high quality goods and services.
We also recognise the fragility of our operating environment.
The environmental, social and cultural sensitivities will require careful management and extensive consultation.
Our ability to develop the Nations resources will be a collective effort and we are fully committed to working with the National and County Governments, the communities in which we operate, and other stakeholders to realise the full potential of Kenyas resources.
Kenyas natural resources hold significant potential for the countrys people and we are committed to ensuring this is delivered in a responsible manner.
Martin Mbogo Tullow Business Manager, Kenya www.
com 19 Strategic Report KENYA TIMELINE 2010 Tullow acquired 50% interest in licences 10BA, 10BB, 10A, 12A and 13T after signing agreements with Africa Oil and Centric Energy.
Agreements duly approved by authorised Government entity in Kenya 2011 Full Tensor Gradiometry FTG Gravity survey commenced and drilling starts at Ngamia-1 2012 First discovery at Ngamia-1, followed by Twiga South-1 well in Block 13T 2013 Three more discoveries at Etuko-1, Ekales-1 and Agete-1.
Area of Interest AOI agreed with the Government of Kenya to allow a multiple field approach to development 2014 Discoveries at the Amosing-1 and Ewoi-1 exploration wells.
Estimate of discovered resources indicates overall South Lokichar basin potential of over one billion barrels of oil 2014 Accelerating parallel exploration, appraisal and development programmes TULLOW IN Ethiopia EAST AFRICA South Omo Tullow has had significant exploration success South in the rift basins of East Africa, opening basins in the Sudan Lake Albert Rift Basin in Uganda in 2006 and more recently in the South Lockichar Kenya Rift Basin.
Accelerated exploration, appraisal and early development campaigns are now under way in Block 10BA parallel in Kenya and Ethiopia, across the 11 basins EA 1A where we have over 85,000 sq km of acreage.
Block 13T EA 1 Block 10BB EA 2 Uganda EA 2 Block 12A WE HAVE WORKED IN AFRICA PL 1 12 FOR ALMOST 30 YEARS & RECOGNISE THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE REGIONS WORLD-RENOWNED ENVIRONMENTAL Kenya Lake Victoria & CULTURAL HERITAGE Block 12B Aidan Heavey 150km Chief Executive Officer WORLD-CLASS PETROLEUM PROVINCE POTENTIAL KENYA ACREAGE In Kenya, Tullow operates in one of the worlds most environmentally sensitive regions which includes national parks, World Heritage Sites and areas of global archaeological and paleontological importance.
From the outset, Tullow recognised the need to protect areas of cultural significance and partnered with the National Museums of Kenya NMK and Turkana Basin Institute TBI to help manage operations in these areas.
The scale of Tullows licence areas in Kenya is comparable to the size of England.
There is a wide variety of topography including very rough volcanic terrains in the southernmost and easternmost reaches, to vast savannahs and far-reaching deserts.
65,000 SQ KM ACREAGE IN KENYA www.
com 21 Lake Albert RIFT BASINS Rift basins are a core part of Tullows East African exploration strategy and the plays targeted in Kenya are relatively young, at a few million years old.
Geological rifts occurred when the Earths plates were pulled apart by forces deep within the Earths interior.
As separation occurred, the ground collapsed to create lakes which deepened and linked to the sea.
Over time the lakes became isolated and filled with sediment deposits.
The organic remains of micro-organisms that accumulated on the lake floor were then heated, compacted and converted to oil as they became buried in the collapsing rifts.
The early stages of rifting are present in Kenya as the chain of lakes were rapidly filled with sediment eroded from the surrounding mountains.
The combination of shales and sands that are deposited contain the oil source and reservoir rocks that Tullow is now exploring.
AC HIEVING E XPL ORA TIO SURVEYING EXCELLENCE IS DRIVING EXPLORATION Rift basins in Kenya share many similar geological qualities with the Lake Albert Rift Basin in Uganda where we have discovered estimated gross recoverable resources of over 1.7 billion barrels of oil since the first exploration well in 2006.
This experience in the East Africa region gave us valuable and advantageous technical insights, which we combined with the early adoption of key technologies in developing our exploration campaign in Kenya.
We conducted the worlds largest airborne Full Tensor Gradiometry FTG gravity survey, at that time, as well as more conventional 2D surveys across Kenyas Tertiary Rift Basins.
FTG is efficient in terms of time and provides high-resolution information about variations in the density of subsurface materials, which is highly valuable to our exploration teams in identifying possible hydrocarbon deposits.
22 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts A MULTI-BASIN EXPLORATION CAMPAIGN This diagram shows the basins that Tullow has acreage in onshore Kenya.
Success in South Lokichar, significantly fide-risked the remaining areas.
Tullow plans to explore in the Kerio and Turkana Basins in 2014.
Discovery Well 2014 Drilling Location EASTERN FLANK NORTH NORTH SOUTH OF SOUTH SOUTH NORTH TURKANA TURKANA TURKWEL LOKICHAR LOKICHAR LOKICHAR KERIO KERIO BASIN BASIN BASIN BASIN BASIN BASIN BASIN BASIN Aze Dyepa Kiboko Tausi Lokone Lokone Sst Shale Lokone Sst Basement Basement Lokone Sst N SUCCESS, 7 7 c. 60000SQ KM OIL DISCOVERIES TO DATE FTG SURVEY IN SOUTH LOKICHAR BASIN ACROSS KENYA & ETHIOPIA WE USED INNOVATIVE EXPLORATION TECHNOLOGIES & VALUABLE TECHNICAL INSIGHT IN PLANNING OUR CAMPAIGN IN KENYA.
Robin Sutherland Exploration Manager Sub Saharan Africa www.
com 23 Etuko Ewoi Agete Twiga S. Ekales Ngamia Amosing Payments to major stakeholder groups $ million Social investment Payments to 1.0 $7 1 MILLION governments 21.7 At Tullow, we are committed to being transparent about our payments to government as we believe this enables communities, citizens and governments to have a constructive debate on the Local content sustainable management of oil revenues.
Our total payments expenditure to all Kenyan stakeholder groups, including taxes to the national 47.9 Government, expenditure with local suppliers and discretionary investment in community projects amounted to $71 million in 2013.
$22 MILLION Over the last 12 months we paid $22 million in taxes to the national Government of Kenya, which includes VAT, withholding tax on imported services and PAYE on our employee salaries.
We have just over 100 permanent staff in Kenya and over 70% of these are local nationals.
Tullow Kenya has also engaged 2,155 personnel from its contractors in our operations, 83% of whom were local nationals as of 31 December 2013.
FOCUSED ON TRANSPARENCY COMMITTED TO LOCAL CONTENT Spend with Kenyan suppliers has been growing in line with our increased operational activity.
In addition to the $48 million Tullow spent with local suppliers in 2013 2012: $29 million, our international contractors spent $47 million with Kenyan businesses in 2013, $3 million of which was with Turkana businesses.
com 25 WATER SCARCITY SUPPORTING LOCAL The amount of water needed for development and production will JOB CREATION increase substantially from the We are committed to bridging the existing skills gap to exploration phase and typically ensure that Kenyas emerging oil and gas industry brings approximately 50 gallons of water is used real, lasting benefits to the countrys people.
At the end for every barrel of oil produced.
Tullow is of 2013, there were approximately 100 permanent aware that its operations in Kenya are in employees in Kenya, over 70% of whom are Kenyan a very arid region and is already working nationals.
To date, we have achieved 100% localisation of to understand the water sources needed our HR, External Affairs, Finance, Legal, IT and general by Tullow and the local communities.
We are actively looking at development Tullow is mapping local subsurface water opportunities for graduates and experienced personnel sources through a hydro-geological to drive the localisation programme both nationally and survey, which will establish a baseline with respect to the area of operation.
of water sources in the region.
CREATING SHARED PR OSPERIT ESTABLISHING THE COMMUNITY RESOURCE OFFICES NOT ONLY REINFORCES OUR COMMITMENT TO WORKING IN PARTNERSHIP WITH OUR HOST COMMUNITIES, BUT THEY ALSO PROVIDE A POINT OF CONTACT FOR STAKEHOLDERS WHO ARE INTERESTED IN & IMPACTED BY OUR OPERATIONS.
Martin Mbogo, Tullow Business Manager, Kenya ADDRESSING STAKEHOLDER CONCERNS In 2013, we faced stakeholder concerns as our operations ramped up.
In late October, we temporarily shut down our drilling operations after a disturbance triggered by community concerns over local employment and business opportunities.
We worked with local and national governments and the local community on a Memorandum of Understanding that set out a way forward to improve our engagement with local Turkana community.
26 26 T Tull ullow Oil pl ow Oil plc 2013 Annual R c 2013 Annual Report and Ac eport and Acc counts ounts Y IN KENYA SCHOLARSHIPS & SUPPORT ENGAGING WITH OUR We seek to leverage the benefits which our business can HOST COMMUNITY bring to local communities by investing in social initiatives A robust community engagement strategy that across health, education, environment, enterprise encourages participatory engagement is a priority development and livelihoods.
In 2013, Tullow and its partners for Tullow and we utilise a range of methods to invested over $2.73 million in social investment initiatives engage our neighbouring communities, amongst and this will increase as our business develops.
We engage on a range of issues including our core operations and future Through the Tullow Group Scholarship Scheme we have work programme, grievance management, social invested over $890,000 in 2013 14 in sponsoring 15 Kenyan impact and also the social investment programmes scholars, in postgraduate studies at top universities, in highly which we execute in our areas of operation.
specialised fields related to the upstream oil industry.
In 2014 15 another 30 awards will be made available for Kenya.
In December we opened community resource offices in the Lodwar, Lokori and Lokichar areas.
While we aim to invest in long-term initiatives, we also These offices are staffed by dedicated teams recognise that our operating environment is fragile and host who work closely with our mobile field based communities suffer from prolonged periods of drought.
Together these Recently and in response to the worsening drought situation teams facilitate a dialogue between Tullow and our in the Turkana County, Tullow contributed $230,000 through stakeholders so that we are able to more effectively the Kenya Red Cross Society and the County Government manage our impacts and bring greater benefits of Turkana to implement a school feeding programme to local communities.
36 MEMBERS IN SOCIAL PERFORMANCE FIELD SUPPORT TEAM www www.
com om 27 27 FUTURE D EVELOPMENT POTENTIAL WORLD-CLASS OPERATED ONSHORE OIL PROJECT Given the significant volumes discovered and the extensive exploration, appraisal and seismic 1 BILLION programme planned to fully assess the upside POTENTIAL BARRELS OF potential of the South Lokichar Basin, Tullow and its partner have agreed with the Government of Kenya RECOVERABLE OIL to commence development studies.
In addition, the partnership is involved in a comprehensive preFEED study for an export pipeline.
The current ambition of the Government of Kenya and the joint venture partnership is to reach project sanction for development, including an export pipeline, in the period 2015 2016.
If further exploration success 600 MILLION opens additional basins there will be scope for the ESTIMATED BARRELS OF DISCOVERED development to be expanded.
RECOVERABLE RESOURCES GROSS 28 28 T Tull ullow Oil pl ow Oil plc 2013 Annual R c 2013 Annual Report and Ac eport and Acc counts ounts MAJOR ONGOING PROGRAMME PROPOSED In 2013, we successfully flow tested the initial two oil discoveries of the Ngamia-1 well followed by the Twiga EXPORT PIPELINE South-1 well.
Both wells flowed at constrained rates of around 3,000 bopd of 25 to 35 degree API sweet waxy oil The proposed export pipeline route will run mostly with no indication of pressure depletion.
Unconstrained underground over 850km from the Lokichar Basin to a rates of over 5,000 bopd per well are considered possible.
As the waxy crude oil found in Kenya A significant programme of some 40 exploration and solidifies at ambient temperature, the pipeline will appraisal wells in the coming two years will assess not contain a specialised heating system to keep the crude only the South Lokichar Basin but up to a further six oil flowing.
Once built, the pipeline will be the longest separate Tertiary Rift Basins across Tullows Kenyan heated pipeline in the world.
Tullow is currently operating four rigs, including one test rig, in Kenya.
South Omo Ethiopia Block 10BA Block 10BB Lokichar Basin Discoveries Kenya Block 13T Block12A Nairobi Lamu Legend Oil Discovery Proposed Pipeline 100km MILESTONES TO REACH PRODUCTION Achieving first oil is dependent on many technological, legal, social and financial factors which have to be considered and agreed by a large group of stakeholders.
In Kenya, the following key milestones need to be reached in order to progress development.
Confirmation of commercial Agreement and funding for Approval of pipeline route, threshold oil volumes via regional infrastructure major terminal location and all fiscal field appraisal: roads, rail and terminals : and legislative frameworks: Approval of Kenyas Agreement of basin-wide Land acquisition for export Petroleum Legislation: environment and social plans: pipeline: and Commitment from all stakeholders Regional government alignment Securing investors for to a Basin-wide Field Development and support of export pipeline: pipeline construction.
Plan and subsequent Field Development Plans: www www.
com om 29 29 Strategic Report MARKET REVIEW OPERATING IN A COMPETITIVE INDUSTRY 2013 has been a challenging year for many in the Oil & Gas sector, despite improving economic recovery and gains in equity markets overall.
The sector has underperformed for a second consecutive year, as investors remain uncertain about the outlook of the oil price and the value of exploration success.
on recognising the potential value of companies exploration Economic and political overview 2013 was characterised by an improving economic recovery and appraisal activities, further impacting share prices.
Economic growth in the In this context, Tullows share price ended the year at 855p, US strengthened throughout the year, triggering a debate down 32% compared with the year-end share price of 2012, regarding when the Federal Reserve would taper its asset notwithstanding the Groups progress in Kenya in particular.
This asset purchase programme, Oil price also known as quantitative easing, has been widely viewed Brent crude started the year at $111.1 bbl, reaching a as the key support for both the US economy and its equity $119.0 bbl high in February and a $96.8 bbl low in April.
This debate about the timing of the tapering The oil price dropped below the $100 bbl level in the first half persisted throughout the second half of the year and of 2013 as the market was concerned over strong US supply variations in sentiment towards the outlook for tapering growth through shale, sluggish demand and the potential became dominant drivers of global equity and bond markets.
However, sentiment improved moderately Other key themes in 2013 included a large fiscal and through the second half of 2013 as heightened geopolitical monetary stimulus package in Japan: uncertainty over risks across the Middle East and North Africa emphasised the outlook for Chinese economic growth that gave way that spare production capacity was limited.
A modest to increased confidence at the end of the year following recovery saw Brent crude trade above $105 bbl throughout a re-acceleration of growth and fresh economic reforms: a most of the second half of 2013.
Oil prices are currently shutdown of the US Government and brinkmanship around forecast to remain broadly unchanged at around $105 bbl a further extension of the US debt ceiling: continued sluggish in 2014. growth in the Eurozone, and ongoing conflict in Syria which at times threatened wider international involvement.
Competitive landscape East Africa remained the main area of focus for exploration Equity markets within the oil industry, with Tullows successes in Northern Equity markets achieved strong gains in 2013 as investors Kenya being of particular note.
Elsewhere, bidding rounds in gained confidence in the outlook for the global economy Brazil were oversubscribed but the industry, and Tullow, and increasingly allocated funds towards equities and began to look for business-to-business deals, with Tullows away from bonds, whilst significant quantitative easing farm-in to Pancontinentals acreage in Namibia being a programmes globally also continued to provide support.
Following a very busy year in 2012, business However, the FTSE Oil & Gas sector was one of the worst development within Tullow was less active but new acreage performing sectors in the market for the second consecutive positions were acquired in Namibia, Norway, Gabon, Guyana year, reflecting concerns about the outlook for the oil price: and Suriname.
We also agreed farm-ins to Tullow acreage in mixed operational performance amongst the Majors: Uruguay, Suriname, Cte dIvoire and limited major global exploration Guinea: and completed the sale of advances: lack of M&A: changes in Tullow Bangladesh.
the equity ownership composition IN 2013 THE TOTAL in the sector: and difficult financing UPSTREAM SPEND In recent years the exploration industry, conditions for smaller E&P companies.
ACROSS THE SECTOR with the exception of Tullow and a few Additionally, the market increasingly INCREASED PAST other peers, has shifted away from focused on valuing companies in the 1 TRILLION FOR THE high-value conventional oil and instead sector on the basis of their core net pursued resource plays e. g. shale oil, FIRST TIME.
asset value, placing less emphasis tar sands and hydraulic fracturing for 30 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report 1 gas and conventional gas plays.
More recently, as the costs of resource plays increase and the social and environmental issues associated with this type of hydrocarbon extraction Equity markets remain high on the political agenda, companies are This graph shows the FTSE 100 throughout 2013 starting to rebalance their exploration portfolios to include and how Tullow and the oil and gas sector performed compared to the overall FTSE 100. conventional oil plays once again.
This returning competition has resulted in some inflation of licence fees, higher service 120 sector costs and a toughening of licensing terms.
This has the effect of discouraging risk taking with exploration, which 110 helps to keep oil prices up in the long term, alongside the 100 strong global demand for oil and liquid hydrocarbon fuels because of ongoing population growth and global 90 economic progress.
80 Increased investment and costs 70 Global upstream spending in 2013 continued to increase 60 but at a slower rate than in recent years.
Development Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec expenditure in 2013 increased by around 5% to $620 billion, and the total upstream spend across the sector increased Tullow FTSE 100 FTSE 350 Oil & Gas past 1 trillion for the first time.
However, spending trends in 2013 suggest that upstream investment over the next three years will remain flat or increase slightly as the spending boom, which began in 2009, subsides.
Nevertheless, some Oil and gas prices countries may see increases in spending, notably Australia, This graph shows the market oil price Norway and Brazil.
Deepwater drilling and development over five years, as well as Tullows realised oil and gas price for the same period.
may also continue to see increased spending.
Oil Gas Many of Tullows core areas remain highly competitive $ bbl pence therm and prone to inflation.
In particular, deepwater activity in 120 120 West Africa, Latin America and the North Sea all recorded cost inflation of over 10% in 2013 while onshore activities in 100 100 remote areas continued to incur higher costs.
80 80 Regulation 60 60 Regulation of the oil and gas industry globally continues 40 40 with transparency and local content being of particular focus in 2013.
On 12 June 2013, the European Parliament voted in 20 20 favour of new EU Transparency and Accounting Directives 0 0 which created a legally binding requirement for EU-listed 09 10 11 12 13 companies working in oil, gas, mining and logging to publish, in every country in which they operate, all payments of over Realised oil Realised gas Market oil price 100,000.
Tullows 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report published all our tax and royalty payments to governments and was welcomed by campaigning NGOs.
Tullow has fully complied with the new requirements and our transparency Demand for oil This graph shoes the global demand disclosure can be found on pages 52 and 175. for oil over the past five years.
In November 2013, the Ghanaian Parliament passed the mmboed Petroleum Local Content and Local Participation 92 Regulation Bill, which was passed to place Ghanaians at the forefront of oil and gas activities in Ghana.
It is Tullows 91 expectation that other African countries are likely to follow 90 Ghanas lead and make local content requirements for extractive companies legally binding.
Tullow was consulted 89 during the legislative process and made submissions 88 through an industry body, the Exploration and Production Forum.
Oil laws were also passed in Uganda aimed at 87 regulating the entire sector ahead of planned production.
com 31 Strategic Report KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS MONITORING THE PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESS Tullow measures the Key Performance Indicators it believes are useful in assessing the Groups performance against our strategic objectives.
This year we have included additional KPIs to better align our performance to our strategy.
Tullow tracks both financial and non-financial metrics across Executive Director remuneration the Group to help us manage our long-term performance Executive Director remuneration is directly linked to the and achieve our business plans.
The performance targets set for Executive Directors were updated for 2013, in line with an New performance measures for 2013 overhaul of the Groups remuneration policy.
Executive In 2013, the Executive Directors reviewed Tullows existing Directors performance related pay is decided by a balanced KPIs alongside the components of its business model to scorecard of financial and non-financial objectives that is ensure appropriate measures were in place that reflect the linked to TSR, the EHS scorecard, working interest production, Groups strategic priorities and business plans.
As a result, operating costs per barrel of oil equivalent boe, finding two additional corporate KPIs have been included: Contingent costs per boe and a set of strategic targets relevant for the resources additions and revisions and finding costs which year.
Each objective has a percentage weighting and financial relate to our goal of adding an average of 200 mmboe of indicators have a baseline and a stretch performance target.
The Executive Directors considered that all its existing KPIs were still relevant in In 2013, the Committee awarded Executive Directors and assessing the overall health and performance of the employees 30% of the corporate element of their annual business.
The corporate KPIs have now also been brought bonus potential.
Further information is in the table below more in line with the remuneration performance targets.
and within the Directors remuneration report on pages 108 and 109.
More information Directors remuneration report 98 Executive Directors performance against remuneration targets % of Award Performance metric Performance target % of salary maximum Actual Operational 20% payable at threshold, increasing to 40% payable at target, 10% 60% Production increasing to 100% payable at stretch Exploration 20% payable at threshold, increasing to 40% payable at target, 10% 10% Finding Costs increasing to 100% payable at stretch 60% 60% EHS Leading and lagging quantitative and qualitative measures 10% 6% 60% 36% Strategic Targets Six specific strategic targets 20% 14% see page 109 120% 84% Relative TSR 20% payable at median, increasing to 100% payable at upper 50% quintile against a bespoke group of listed exploration and 300% production companies measured over 2013 Total 100% 30% 600% 180% 32 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report 1 Resources growth is an important aspect of high-grading the Groups portfolio.
Reserves and resources replacement This can include acquisitions, new ventures, new licences and farm-downs.
Reserves and resources replacement is a key indicator of exploration success and field performance and measures the percentage of production that has 763% been replaced during the year.
In addition, Tullow undertakes active portfolio 1,339 management as part of driving resources growth.
Measurement Risk management 2013 performance 959 A Group reserves report is The Group manages The Group achieved over 763 produced by an independent replacement risk by 750% organic reserves and expert who conducts a exploring for high-value resources replacement in review of each field at least light oil in conventional 2013 and total reserves and 437 358 every two years or when plays in chosen core areas.
resources are 1,409 mmboe there is significant new We also focus on at the year end.
Group data that indicates a maximising reservoir resources increased due to 09 10 11 12 13 material change to performance in producing discoveries in Kenya Agete commercial reserves fields through technical and and Norway Wisting and or contingent resources.
further appraisal in Kenya and Uganda.
Contingent resource Tullows exploration-led strategy targets resource additions of 200 mmboe per additions and revisions annum with an exploration and appraisal investment of $1 billion per annum.
Measurement Risk management 2013 performance 222 MMBOE Contingent resources are Tullow takes a campaign Tullows 2013 exploration based on a Group reserves approach to exploration programme delivered its 268 264 report produced by an which reduces the overall target of adding 200 mmboe 222 independent engineer.
risk as activity is spread to contingent resources.
In Resource estimates are across numerous prospects.
2013, 222 mmboe was reviewed by the independent We further reduce the risk added to contingent engineer based on with technical excellence resources of which 98% significant new data and an experienced team.
97 88 received following exploration or appraisal drilling.
09 10 11 12 13 Finding costs are an indicator of exploration success, financial discipline and Finding costs per BOE operational delivery.
1 PER BOE Finding costs are calculated The Tullow Board approves Finding costs for 2013 were by dividing exploration and the annual Exploration and $5.1 bbl, achieving our 8.0 appraisal capital investment Appraisal programme and stretch target, after 7.1 by additions and revisions to the portfolio is continually delivering 222 mmboe of contingent resources.
In this 5.1 capital investment is based expenditure budgets are calculation, Norway on intangible exploration approved by the Board exploration costs are 4.0 and evaluation assets annually and senior included net of the 78% additions.
Additions and management approval is rebate, which reflects the 1.9 revisions to contingent required for major substantial tax benefits and resources is based on categories of expenditure.
consequent net cash costs 09 10 11 12 13 the Group reserves incurred for Norway report produced by an exploration activities.
com 33 Strategic Report KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CONTINUED Tullow sets working interest production targets as part of the Groups annual Working interest production budget to provide a source of funding for the Group in the form of high-margin significant annual cash flow.
84,200 BOEPD Measurement Risk management 2013 performance Daily and weekly production We can mitigate unplanned The Groups working 84,200 is monitored for all key interruptions through strong interest production in 2013 79,200 78,200 producing assets and production planning and was 84,200 boepd, which reported weekly to senior monitoring, developing was below the baseline 58,300 58,100 management and on a efficient and cost-effective production target of 91,200 monthly basis to the solutions to any production boepd.
Regular production issues, to protect the principally due to the forecasts are prepared reserves and resources of Jubilee field which had during the year to measure the assets in the long term.
operational difficulties on progress against We are also transitioning the FPSO.
The stretch target 09 10 11 12 13 annual targets.
our production from for 2013 was 100,320 boepd.
lower-value gas in mature fields to high-value light oil production in new areas.
Cash operating Operating expense per barrel of oil equivalent boe is a function of industry costs, costs per BOE inflation, Tullows fixed cost base and production output.
5 PER BOE Operating expenses are A comprehensive Operating expense for monitored closely to annual budgeting process 2013 achieved the Groups 16.5 ensure that they are covering all expenditure is baseline target of $16.1 per maintained within preset undertaken and approved boe, after taking account of 14.6 13.5 annual targets and are by the Board.
Monthly the uncontrollable effect of 12.5 12.4 reported each month on reporting highlights any royalty on reported figures an asset-by-asset basis.
variances and corrective in relation to oil price.
This action is taken to mitigate was achieved due to strong the potential effects of cost management and cost increases.
Operating cashflow Our goal is to ensure that operating cash flow funds a significant proportion of the before working capital Groups annual capital expenditure.
In 2013, capital expenditure was $1.8 billion and capital expenditure is forecast to be $2.2 billion in 2014.
$1, 901 MILLION Measurement Risk management 2013 performance Operating cash flow Strong financial and Tullow generated strong 1,901 1,832 before working capital operating management operating cash flow of 1,777 and divestment proceeds with disciplined monitoring $1.9 billion in 2013.
This was is reported monthly, with and reporting.
The Group a 7% increase on 2012, due regular forecasting for manages liquidity through to higher sales volumes.
longer periods to support long-range cash flow Production sales volumes long-range planning and forecasting and strong averaged 74,400 boepd in 789 investment decisions.
banking and equity 2013 and realised oil prices 605 relationships.
Annual were in line with 2012 and project budgets average levels.
09 10 11 12 13 34 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report 1 EHS scorecard Tullow used an EHS balanced scorecard for a second year in 2013 which provides a more complete view of Tullows EHS performance and focuses on proactive interventions and learning from incidents, rather than concentrating on 19 30 statistics of past events.
Measurement Risk management 2013 performance Points The scorecard consists of 10 In 2013, we achieved Early identification of achieved leading and lagging 19 points out of a total potential risks can mitigate 19 30 indicators that could have a maximum of 30.
While EHS events for all of our 30 significant impact on we performed well in operations and activities.
Each the majority of leading EHS is the responsibility of indicator is scored on the indicators, we missed our all personnel in Tullow and basis of full delivery three lagging target of reducing is overseen by the Groups points, partial delivery two the number of uncontrolled Chief Operating Officer, points, in progress one releases loss of containment supported by an EHS point and failure to deliver incidents.
We had partial strategy group and over zero.
On this basis, delivery delivery of the closeout of 100 EHS professionals of all 10 targets would result investigations of level 4 embedded in the business.
Further and 5 incidents and lost details of the EHS scorecard time incidents, and can be found on page 54 of partially met our target in this report.
Staff turnover Our workforce grew 14% to 2,034 people in 2013.
Tullow has made further progress with succession planning and talent management to ensure we have appropriate people to deliver our future growth plans and major projects.
Our 4.5% goal is to build and retain a strong, unified team and be the employer of choice amongst our peers.
4.5 Measurement Risk management 2013 performance Staff turnover rates are We can avoid unexpected Staff turnover in 2013 was 3.2 2.9 measured on an ongoing leavers and a skills 4.5%.
Leavers go through shortage by appropriately drivers for the increase in 2.0 a debriefing process to managing, recognising turnover is the growth in our collect feedback and to and rewarding our staff.
1.3 help to improve the We must continue to There is no specific stretch Groups people policies develop our people and or baseline target set for and practices.
A global provide suitable training staff turnover.
Over the past 09 10 11 12 13 employee and contractor opportunities in a strong five years the Group has survey is conducted every and positive working achieved a staff turnover two years which results in environment.
clear action plans to resolve issues raised.
Total shareholder return Tullows exploration-led strategy is focused on building long-term sustainable value growth.
Our primary strategic objective is to deliver substantial returns to shareholders.
-32% Measurement Risk management 2013 performance 250 TSR share price movement Tullow has a consistent The Group experienced a and dividend performance and clear strategy.
The negative 32% TSR in 2013 200 is reported monthly and at Group undertakes a based on the year-end year-end to the Board.
TSR three-year business share price, compared with 150 is measured against an planning process each year, negative 9% in 2012.
The industry peer group, which which is reviewed and baseline target is median 100 is regularly reviewed, and approved by the Board.
TSR performance in relation the FTSE 100.
For the Executive Directors are to the peer group and the 50 purpose of remuneration, responsible for the safe stretch target is upper TSR is calculated from the delivery of the business quartile performance.
0 fourth-quarter average plan objectives, which are Based on the average share relative share price.
set out in summary on price in the fourth quarter of 09 10 12 13 11 page 13 of this report.
The 2013 relative to the fourth business plan is aligned quarter of 2012, Tullow was Tullow FTSE 100 with the Groups strategy, ranked 15th out of 18 peers strategic priorities and for TSR performance.
com 35 08 Strategic Report EXPLORATION & APPRAISAL OUR UNIQUE APPROACH TO EXPLORATION Tullow focuses on finding commercial light oil in conventional geological plays where we have proven expertise.
With technical excellence, this long-term strategy is driven by a team with unparalleled experience.
Tullows 2013 exploration and appraisal Strategic positioning for exploration programme has delivered its target of Our selection of areas to explore for oil begins with some fundamental finding an average of 200 mmboe of tests against the Groups strategy.
This achievement Principally, we ask if the opportunity means we have discovered an average targets material commercial oil in of 200 mmboe per year over the conventional plays in Africa or the last seven years.
Over this period, Atlantic Margins.
If so, we then 60% has been discovered onshore measure how much its addition and 40% offshore.
would improve our portfolio in terms In 2013, our onshore East Africa Rift of realisable potential value, and what Basins campaign continued to be very other assets or opportunities it may supersede or outrank.
We also reflect successful in Northern Kenya, with a on what it will take to manage our further three oil discoveries.
With early consequent social, environmental, successes in 2014 on top of the original safety, security, regulatory and other discoveries in 2012, seven out of seven operational obligations.
successful wells have been drilled, in the first amongst a chain of similar Tullow also prefers to explore in Tertiary Rift Basins.
Our onshore areas which are not overly competitive, acreage in northern Kenya as we believe this results in better, and southern Ethiopia has the more material licence areas and potential to become a significant more favourable terms from host new hydrocarbon province.
ANGUS MCCOSS EXPLORATION DIRECTOR governments.
We target acreage where material neighbouring positions can be In Norway, our significant basinbuilt up, allowing us to expand on initial opening Wisting Main oil well and successes and economic synergies, upward revisions through Jubilee WHILE SOME without accumulating excessive appraisal added new oil volumes from CAMPAIGNS MAY expenditure commitments.
FLOURISH ONE YEAR, This achievement is balanced against OTHERS MAY NOT, SO Continued focus on Africa and the notable dry holes in French Guiana Atlantic Margins CAPABILITY & CAPITAL and Mozambique, an inevitable While larger exploration and production CAN BE SHIFTED TO consequence of high-impact but highcompanies may tackle the whole world, WINNING CAMPAIGNS risk offshore exploration and appraisal we focus on one continent and one & REDUCED FROM campaigns.
As we learn from these ocean basin.
We calculate that this THE TRAILING wells, successes and failures alike, footprint strikes the right balance PROGRAMMES.
we home in on the highest value, for Tullow in terms of spreading risk biggest volume and lowest cost across our portfolio, whilst developing conventional oil plays, which become and leveraging knowledge and the focus for our future campaigns.
relationships in these core territories.
36 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report 1 Exploring in Africa has brought experience of the Atlantic Through campaigns Tullow therefore hedges the intrinsically Margins so it makes geological sense to pursue those high risks in frontier exploration through a balanced portfolio related oil plays.
In doing so, we can hedge our business and of six parallel E&A campaigns in the East African Rift Basins, technical risks through exploring in Northern Europe and the East African Transform Margin, West African Transform Americas, whilst retaining Africa as our core continent.
Margin, the South American Transform Margin, the North Atlantic Margins and high-impact exploration campaigns in Explaining exploration campaigns the Central Atlantic Margins.
An exploration campaign is an integrated and focused set of geological, commercial, engineering and operational East African Rift Basins: new petroleum province potential activities which aims to test and unlock the petroleum Tullows exploration programmes, geophysical surveying and potential of a basin or play.
This approach differs from drilling in the onshore Tertiary Rift Basins of Uganda, Kenya ventures which aim to achieve the same result with a and Ethiopia are being carried out simultaneously.
At the single wildcat well.
Tullow takes a campaign approach to regional scale we are establishing which of the 12 Tertiary exploration for a number of reasons, which include: Rift Basins within our portfolio are oil bearing.
So far we have drilled in three Tertiary Rift Basins and found two to be Reduced overall risk activity is spread across material oil regions Lake Albert in Uganda and the South numerous prospects: Lokichar basin in Kenya.
Further wildcats during the next three years will determine how many of the remaining basins Dynamic approach while some campaigns may in our portfolio are also oil bearing and if several are flourish one year, others may not, so capability and successful, then Tullow and its partners hope to declare the capital can be shifted to winning campaigns and rare opening of a new petroleum province.
For more details reduced from the trailing programmes: on East Africa, with specific focus on Kenya, see our special Regional approach acquired data can be more feature on page 18. holistically combined and analysed for better scientifically-based technical decision making: Commitment campaigns demonstrate our commitment to countries that contract Tullow to explore for oil in their licences: and More information Economies of scale achieved in campaigns through bulk purchasing, local content, shared infrastructure Kenya special feature 18 and capacity building.
Operations review 58 SUSTAINED EXPLORATION SUCCESS This diagram shows the upward trend of contingent resource additions and also highlights key wells over the past seven years.
mmboe 1,000 Ekales-1 & Agete-1 Twiga-1 & Etuko-1 Ngamia-1 800 Jobi East-1, Jobi-3 4 5 Gunya-A 600 Wisting-1 Nigiri-2 400 Jobi-1, Rii-1 Enyenra-2A, 3A Mahogany-1, 200 Tweneboa-1, 2 Hyedua-1 Owo-1 Mahogany-2 & 3 0 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 Onshore Offshore www.
com 37 Strategic Report DEVELOPMENT & OPERATIONS HIGH-QUALITY PRODUCTION Strong, high-margin production fuels Tullows exploration-led strategy.
Carefully managing our technical and non-technical risks is critical to maximising the value from our portfolio of assets and sets us apart in terms of our ability to operate in challenging environments.
Success in Ghana In 2013 we have continued to grow our In Ghana, we have already delivered high-margin West Africa production, material development and production which has allowed us to initiate the success at Jubilee and we continue divestment of our non-core production to concentrate on ensuring the safe in Asia and the Southern North Sea.
and efficient operation of this major The West African production comprises deepwater field.
There is also our operated Jubilee field production in significant potential for incremental Ghana and a portfolio of non-operated investments in Jubilee to continue interests predominantly in Gabon, to enhance the recoverable reserves Equatorial Guinea and Cte dIvoire.
and extend the production plateau As we look to the second half of this for Jubilee to the end of the current decade, Tullow has a portfolio of decade.
There are also opportunities development opportunities that to tie back nearby non-operated will continue to grow the Groups discoveries which would maximise production and cash flow.
In West the use of the existing infrastructure.
Africa, the TEN development will add materially to production from 2016.
We also operate the TEN development, In East Africa, we are focused on our offshore Ghana, which is the countrys discoveries in both Uganda and Kenya, second major deepwater development.
which should lead to very material It will have its own FPSO, which is production starting from around currently being constructed in 2018 onwards.
Singapore, and subsea infrastructure PAUL MCDADE CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER was sanctioned and contracts placed in Selective developments 2013.
The TEN development will be on We continue to be selective with stream around the middle of 2016 and which assets we take through the when it reaches plateau production OPERATING CAPABILITY development phase to deliver strong in 2017 we expect to be operating IS CRITICAL TO ENSURE long-term production and cash flow.
WE CAN PROGRESS Our current focus is on our operated Production revenue from Jubilee, DEVELOPMENTS developments in Ghana and East local employment and supply contracts AT A PACE THAT Africa.
We have built up our operating are already making a very significant MEETS THE capability over a number of years such contribution to the Ghanaian economy, that we have the skills to manage this REQUIREMENTS and we will ensure this is continued.
diversity: deepwater developments OF OUR HOST offshore West Africa and major Developments in East Africa GOVERNMENTS.
onshore developments in East Africa.
In East Africa, following major This operating capability is critical exploration success, we now have to ensure we can progress these material discoveries in both Uganda developments at a pace that meets the and Kenya.
In Uganda, our exploration requirements of our host governments.
success has delivered around 1.7 billion 38 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report 1 gross barrels of oil.
Following the divestment of 67% of these resources at the beginning of 2012, we are now working to develop these fields to deliver substantial long-term Group working interest production production and cash flow.
84,200 BOEPD Although progress in Uganda has been slower than anticipated, this has allowed us to make material progress in our exploration activities in Kenya.
Our 100% exploration Gas success in South Lokichar in Kenya has delivered material 18,900 discoveries which can now progress towards development.
Oil Our focus is now on progressing both the Kenyan and the 65,300 Ugandan developments to a common timeline.
This is significant as it will allow material regional infrastructure synergies, especially in the export pipeline which will be designed to commingle both Kenyan and Ugandan crude and export it to the Indian Ocean.
These oil resources will have a major impact on the economy in East Africa and we Europe & South America are working closely with the Governments of Kenya and 19,200 West & Uganda, local communities and other stakeholders to ensure North Africa these resources are developed in a manner that delivers 65,000 maximum benefit to all stakeholders.
This is an important responsibility and is not one that we take lightly.
Strong focus on safety and sustainability Environment, Health and Safety EHS is core to all of our operated activity and is an essential component of our license to operate.
Similarly, our commitment to shared Working interest production prosperity is a core commitment for Tullow.
To ensure above-ground risks are being managed in an 84,200 BOEPD integrated manner, we have restructured our organisation boepd to create a new functional area of Safety, Sustainability and 85,000 External Affairs SSEA.
This change will ensure that our focus on and performance in these areas of above-ground 68,000 risks will continue to improve as our operations, especially onshore East Africa, grow in scale and complexity.
51,000 The ongoing importance of this was highlighted in 2013 when 34,000 community unrest occurred at our operations in northern Kenya.
The unrest led to a suspension in operations but 17,000 Tullow acted quickly and within a week of the disturbances, we had negotiated a Memorandum of Understanding with 09 10 11 12 13 0 the Minister of Energy in Kenya, setting out a clear roadmap Ghana Equatorial Guinea Gabon for the national and county governments, local communities Cote D'Ivoire Congo Mauritania and Tullow to work together to ensure that operations could resume.
This does not mean that the overall problem Europe Asia is solved in Kenya or elsewhere, and the management of both local communities and overall expectations is an ongoing and critical challenge that Tullow has to rise to.
Also in 2013, we focused on the material risks associated with our well engineering and production operations.
I am pleased to say that we performed well over the last year against the specific safety performance targets adopted in these areas, but we must not be complacent.
Other key safety risks that we focused on over the last year were road transport, contractor management and the quality of the investigations performed on safety incidents which occurred in our operations.
Over the year we continued to strengthen and test our emergency response and oil spill response capabilities in all of our areas of operations.
When we More information evacuated staff and contractors from our operations in Shared Prosperity 51 Northern Kenya, we were able to demonstrate that our Operations review 58 procedures were robust when tested in a live situation.
com 39 Strategic Report FINANCE & PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT DIVERSIFIED FUNDING & STRONG FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE Our 2013 financial results delivered solid revenue, gross profit and cash flow growth, principally due to increased production from the Jubilee field in Ghana and robust oil and gas prices.
During the year we strengthened our balance sheet by diversifying our sources of funding with the issue of a $650 million corporate bond.
2012: $450 million reflecting lower Strong cash flow is a key factor in profit before tax and the benefit of funding Tullows exploration-led growth Norwegian deferred tax credits in strategy.
In 2013, operating cash flow relation to exploration write offs.
before working capital movements increased by 7% to $1.9 billion 2012: Disciplined capital management $1.8 billion.
During the year we have Over the past four years we have continued to grow the foundation of this invested $6.3 billion in the business, cash flow our high-margin West including $1.8 billion capital expenditure Africa production.
In 2014, based on our operated Jubilee field and a portfolio current work programmes, our of non-operated interests predominantly capital expenditure for the year is in Gabon, Equatorial Guinea and forecast to be $2.2 billion.
Significant incremental the period we have created a robust investment opportunities also remain financial framework by managing across our current production portfolio our capital expenditure exposure which should allow us to maintain and successfully through growth in our grow cash flow from these assets, cash flow to close to $2 billion, providing a solid financial foundation monetisation of assets in Uganda and for funding the business.
diversifying our sources of funding.
Despite strong cash flow, profit from Strong balance sheet continuing activities after tax decreased Our financing initiatives are part of a 68% to $216 million 2012: $666 million clear funding strategy that underpins IAN SPRINGETT CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER and basic earnings per share were our business strategy.
This gives us similarly impacted, due to a combination both financial strength and balance of reasons.
These included a decrease sheet flexibility.
We combine in profit on disposal of $670 million OUR FINANCING commercial bank facilities, debt capital compared with 2012, which included INITIATIVES ARE PART markets, multilateral project financing, the gain on the $2.9 billion Uganda OF A CLEAR FUNDING operating cash flow and portfolio farm-down: an increase in exploration STRATEGY THAT management to fund the business.
costs written off of $200 million to Growth in production has allowed us to UNDERPINS OUR $871 million 2012: $671 million, initiate the divestment of our non-core BUSINESS STRATEGY.
details of which are on page 68: production in Asia and the Southern THIS GIVES US BOTH partially offset by a $100 million, 7% North Sea, while sustaining our cash FINANCIAL STRENGTH increase in gross profit to $1.4 billion flow from operations.
This is part of our & BALANCE SHEET 2012: $1.3 billion principally due to drive to upgrade our portfolio and move FLEXIBILITY.
a 9% increase in sales volumes and production growth to higher-value oil a 13% increase in sales revenue to in new fields.
We also have an ongoing $2.6 billion in 2013 2012: $2.3 billion : process to reduce our equity in the and a reduction in the income tax TEN development in Ghana, where charge of $353 million to $97 million first oil is expected in 2016.
40 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report 1 FUNDING OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY ADDITIONAL CASH FLOW FROM NEW PRODUCTION $4bn debt facilities MONETISING HIGH MARGIN EXPLORATION & OPTIONS & SELECTIVE PRODUCTION APPRAISAL $1BN PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT CASH FLOW P. A.
FULLY FUNDED MANAGEMENT CASH DISTRIBUTION COSTS & DIVIDENDS SURPLUS CASH TO SHAREHOLDERS Tullow has $4.3 billion debt facilities and, as at the end Uganda tax and legal issues of December 2013, we had net debt of $1.9 billion and a In 2012, we included $142 million in the Groups tax charge unutilised debt capacity of $2.4 billion.
We also maintain in relation to disputed capital gains tax on the Uganda a conservative financial profile and an appropriate farm-down to Total and CNOOC.
This is currently going gearing level of 35% at the end of the year.
through a legal process and on the advice of senior counsel, both in international and Ugandan law, we believe we have Revenue transparency a strong case and expect the most probable outcome to be The taxes we pay to governments are the most significant that any liability will be similar to the amount already paid economic contribution we make to our countries of on account.
Also in relation to the Uganda farm-down, we operation.
We are committed to the transparent disclosure continue to have a receivable on our balance sheet at of payments to all our major stakeholder groups and 31 December 2013 of $358 million contingent consideration published this information for the first time in our 2012 from Total and CNOOC which relates to a historical working Corporate Responsibility Report: acting ahead of any capital adjustment.
The actual amount recoverable is regulatory requirements.
In June 2013, an EU Accounting dependent on the timing of the receipt of certain project Directive was finalised which requires companies in the approvals and is expected to be settled in full.
These extractive industries to disclose payments made to matters are explained more fully on pages 135 and 136. governments by project or Company level as appropriate in each country of operation.
EU member states must 2014 outlook enact relevant legislation by 2015, and the UK is expected Tullow has a large asset base diversified across high-value to do so in 2014. production, selective developments and high-impact exploration.
The business generates strong operating cash This year we have decided to make three significant flow through high-margin production and ongoing portfolio changes to the way we report this information to align management.
We fund our activities through disciplined with the requirements of the Directive.
We have updated the capital management and maintaining a strong financial payment categories specified, we have reported on a project profile.
The principal short-to-medium term risks to our or Company level as appropriate for our operations and we performance are outlined on page 43 and these reflect the have changed to a cash basis, compared with an accounting opportunities and strategic performance objectives we have basis in 2012.
We have also provided a range of voluntary set ourselves this year as part of the 2014 to 2016 business disclosures in relation to other payments to governments plan.
Overall, we expect 2014 to be another year of progress such as VAT and withholding tax and are publishing earlier for Tullow with further growth in the business, continued in our Annual Report.
For clarity and comparison we have exploration success and headway being made with major restated our 2012 disclosures.
In 2013, Tullows total payments to governments 1.
For illustrative purposes, we have calculated a notional $ value 1 including payments in kind, amounted to $870 million for royalties paid as barrels of oil using Tullows realised oil price after hedging for 2013 of $105.7 per barrel.
Payments to all major stakeholders including employees, shareholders, suppliers and communities brought our total socio-economic contribution More information to $1.6 billion for the year 2012: $1.3 billion.
Full details are Shared Prosperity 52 on page 52 in this report.
Financial review 68 Group Financial Statements 126 www.
com 41 Strategic Report RISK MANAGEMENT PROTECTING OUR BUSINESS & OUR STAKEHOLDERS Tullow operates in the oil and gas industry, which is intrinsically higher risk than many other sectors.
This requires a dynamic and proactive culture across the business, to ensure that we consistently identify, evaluate and mitigate the financial, technical and non-technical risks that we encounter as we manage our diverse portfolio of exploration and production assets.
While the GELT remains a technical decision-making We recognise the importance of having an effective system body, the evaluation of social and political risks enables of internal controls and risk management.
Our Board and the team to consider what mitigation plans may be Committees work together with the Executive Directors required prior to any decision to proceed, including and Senior Management to ensure we achieve strong risk whether a seismic campaign or well location could management in how we run our business.
This helps us to be reconfigured to avoid unnecessary social or protect our employees, contractors and Company: to environmental impacts: safeguard the communities and the environments where we operate: and to develop productive relationships with our In key countries of operations, we have worked to map host governments.
Given the potential magnitude of some of political stakeholders, establish the potential risks the risks we face, either in terms of their impact or the and opportunities and plan accordingly.
We have also opportunity cost, it is clear that the management of risk developed a practical political and social risk guide is central to achieving our long-term strategic objectives for business units, to assist them in implementing best and our short-to-medium-term business plans.
practice processes, tools and governance models for political policy risk identification and mitigation.
This Throughout 2013, the Group focused on developing risk includes an issues management framework, risk management capability in several key areas: identification processes and strategic external engagement planning: A new Board-level EHS committee, chaired by non-executive Director Anne Drinkwater, was formed A new Emergency Preparedness, Incident Management in early 2013 in response to the expanded scope and and Business Continuity Standard was introduced in scale of Tullows operations.
It undertook four meetings 2013 accompanied by a related KPI, which is part of during the year.
There is a detailed EHS Committee the Group EHS scorecard.
The Standard and KPI are report on pages 96 and 97 of this report: designed to ensure appropriate focus is given to the level of emergency preparedness and incident The Compliance Committee, chaired by Graham Martin, management training being undertaken across all Executive Director and Company Secretary, provided Tullow operations, reinforced through a single Group valuable support to help embed the Code of Business framework and standard that is aligned with the Conduct compliance programme across the Group.
The scale of operation activities associated risks: and Committee mandated that the annual Code certification process be extended to all employees and contract In early 2014, a new Executive Committee was formed, staff in 2013, an initiative successfully achieved.
The to assist the Executive Directors in running the Committee also approved recommendations to enhance business.
This Committee comprises the Executive Tullows bribery and corruption risk assessment Directors and ten regional and functional leaders.
process and update our Code of A number of new positions were Business Conduct in 2014: created as an integral part of the Executive Committee, including a Tullows Global Exploration THE MANAGEMENT OF Vice President of Safety, Sustainability Leadership Team GELT formalised RISK IS CENTRAL TO and External Affairs, to enhance our a review of social and political risks ACHIEVING OUR approach to the management of associated with prospects in new LONG-TERM STRATEGIC above-ground risks.
42 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report 1 2013 SHORT-TO-MEDIUM TERM RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES 2013 key risks and uncertainties Performance during the year 2014 TO 2016 SHORTReceive appropriate A Memorandum of Understanding MoU TO-MEDIUM TERM approvals from Ugandan defining the commercial framework for PERFORMANCE RISKS authorities, followed Ugandas oil industry was signed in early 2014 by commencement of between the Government of Uganda, Tullow, Each year Tullow identifies a the PoD CNOOC and Total.
The MoU lays out a market number of key risks and framework for Uganda as a future oil producer, uncertainties with regard to the consisting of a crude export pipeline from the successful delivery of the Groups Lake Albert Basin to the Kenyan coast, to be business plan.
These short-todeveloped in parallel with a right-sized medium term risks are petroleum refinery and the use of petroleum set out below, and indicate for power generation.
The Ugandan and Kenyan the principal risks associated Governments have in principle agreed joint with the 2014 to 2016 business initiatives for a crude oil pipeline.
Avoid sustained exploration failure and consistently Receive TEN PoD The TEN development project, Tullows second deliver 200 mmboe approval from the operated deepwater development in Ghana, Contingent Resources Ghanaian Government is making significant progress after the PoD each year: and commence was approved in May 2013 and all key contracts development have now been awarded.
In October 2013, the Deliver major projects on Centennial Jewel trading tanker arrived in the time whilst ensuring Jurong Shipyard in Singapore, where it will safe operations: begin its conversion into the TEN FPSO.
The Resolve key commercial and process for reducing Tullows stake and capital tax issues in Uganda to allow commitments in the TEN Project is ongoing, progress to PoD approval: with proposals being evaluated.
First oil is targeted in mid-2016.
Ensure sufficient liquidity by reference to sustained operating cashflow, future capex plans and the delivery Successful management To ensure our above-ground risks are being of portfolio activity: and and mitigation of managed in an integrated manner we have above-ground risks given restructured our organisation to create a new Successful management and local elections and functional area of Safety, Sustainability and mitigation of above-ground political uncertainty in External Affairs SSEA.
risk given local elections and key African countries political uncertainty in key of operations African countries of operations.
Successful delivery Tullows exploration programme added over of exploration 200 mmboe to contingent resources in 2013 More information programme and asset through important wells in Kenya and Norway To get a more complete view of Tullows risk monetisation options from an exploration expenditure of $1 billion.
In profile and mitigation processes, please read the section on the Groups long-term or line with Tullows strategy, the exploration evergreen risks on pages 72 to 77 campaigns have now added an average of 200 of this report.
mmboe per year to the Groups contingent resources over the past seven years.
However, not all wells were successful and Tullows exploration write-offs for 2013 were $871 million.
Tullow has completed the sale of its Bangladesh assets and is awaiting Government consent to complete the sale of its Pakistan assets.
As previously announced, the sale of our UK and Dutch assets is being restructured.
The process for reducing Tullows stake and capital commitments in the TEN Project is ongoing, with proposals being evaluated.
com 43 Strategic Report GOVERNANCE COMMITTED TO GOOD GOVERNANCE Your Board remains focused on building organisational capacity and improving risk management and corporate governance, without compromising Tullows entrepreneurial culture.
The MOU negotiated and signed in the wake DEAR SHAREHOLDER of the disturbances clarifies the responsibilities of all parties During the course of the year, the Government and to contribute to the successful development of the project.
various regulatory bodies have introduced a number of new disclosure and reporting requirements, while the Financial Also during the year, all Directors completed their personal Reporting Council continues to urge companies to cut the development plans and the Board received presentations clutter in Annual Report and Accounts.
In this introduction from a range of external experts drawn from academia, I will briefly outline your Boards activities during 2013 and civil society and the City.
how we have sought to address these two objectives.
Board evaluation in 2013 Board performance in 2013 An independent evaluation of Board performance was The core purpose of the Board is to set the Groups strategy conducted by Lintstock at the end of 2013.
The process to deliver long-term, sustainable value for the benefit of all consisted of a questionnaire, one-to-one interviews stakeholders.
To achieve this, the Board seeks to ensure conducted by Lintstock with each Director, and a Board that we have the right people, processes and organisational discussion of the conclusions and recommendations.
capabilities to help manage current and future opportunities Overall, the conclusions of the report were very positive but and challenges across the Group.
In 2013, the Board set some areas for improvement were identified.
These include specific objectives in six areas see page 84.
Execution of improving the annual planning cycle: ensuring that each strategy achieved mixed results, with success in exploration, of the Executive Directors makes a fuller contribution to resource allocation, financing and cost management, but debates: and a more systematic approach to reviewing some delays in portfolio management.
outcomes from past decisions and progress against strategic objectives.
There was strong alignment on the main Risk management processes continued to improve.
The challenges and opportunities facing the Group, which are newly formed EHS Committee has provided a valuable forum reflected in the 2014 Board Objectives set out on page 85. for more detailed discussion, notably of process safety, while the development of new country-specific non-technical risk Corporate governance strategies has resulted in improved action and resourcing The revised UK Corporate Governance Code the Code plans.
Internal controls and reporting continue to be requires that the Board should state that they consider that strengthened and 88% of staff have now received training the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, on the Tullow Code of Business Conduct COBC.
During the balanced and understandable.
Whilst clearly a judgemental year internal investigations uncovered two cases of fraud.
issue, it has always been the intention of your Board to Whilst these breaches are clearly disappointing, we are present an Annual Report and Accounts that is fair, balanced and understandable and to ensure that, so far as is possible, encouraged by the increased awareness of the COBC and it presents a comprehensive and impartial view of the the willingness of staff to use whistle-blowing facilities.
The Code also requires the Board The Westgate terrorist attack in Nairobi took place to state that the Annual Report and Accounts provides the immediately prior to the planned Board visit to Kenya.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the We therefore deferred the visit to early 2014 as many Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Government officials were understandably not available.
We believe that the disclosure on strategy and business Community unrest at our operations in northern Kenya model set out on page 15, and the key performance underlined the importance of continuing to strengthen our indicators that we use to measure both financial and engagement with communities, and with local and central non-financial performance and to set performance-related remuneration for senior executives, meet this requirement.
44 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report 1 This year, there are additional reporting requirements for industry consultation on the introduction of legislation the Audit Committee, which include an expanded Auditors requiring extractive companies to report their payments Report: a description of the significant issues considered to governments.
by the Audit Committee during the year: and an assessment Over the next decade or so many of the African countries of the effectiveness of the external audit process.
These in which Tullow operates have the potential to become requirements have been reviewed and discussed by the substantial exporters of oil and gas.
While revenue Audit Committee with the outcomes addressed in the transparency is a vital first step towards sustainable Audit Committee Report on pages 89 to 93. economic growth, the governments of these countries New regulations from the Department of Business, still face significant capacity challenges related to Innovation and Skills BIS governing carbon reporting implementing effective legal and institutional frameworks and remuneration also came into effect in 2013 and for the management of resource wealth.
In 2013 we carbon reporting is set out on pages 54 and 55. undertook a focused programme of engagement with governments, civil society and development agencies to We implemented a major overhaul of the remuneration raise awareness of these issues and to identify solutions structure for our Executive Directors and senior management for capacity building in this area.
This included discussions last year with the objective of providing a simpler package, with the World Bank, the IFC, the DfID and an NGO strongly linked to strategy and performance, and more Roundtable discussion in Washington DC.
closely aligned to long-term shareholder objectives.
No significant changes are proposed to our remuneration policy As a committed long-term investor in Africa, we regard this year, which is subject to a binding vote for the first time transparency, good governance, effective and predictable under the new BIS regulations at the AGM on 30 April 2014 regulation, and the use of resource revenues to provide see pages 98 to 115. tangible benefits to the citizens of the countries where we operate, as key enablers of our strategy.
Stakeholder engagement Tullow seeks to ensure that local people and businesses benefit from our presence.
In 2013 we have continued to engage with a full range of external stakeholders, not only to inform them about our operations, but also to gain vital Simon R Thompson input to the way we run our business.
Throughout the year Chairman we continued to engage on transparency of payments, 11 February 2014 including input to the UK Governments G8 agenda on Transparency, Tax and Trade and participation in BOARD COMMITTEES Audit Nominations EHS Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee STEVE LUCAS SIMON THOMPSON ANNE DRINKWATER DAVID BAMFORD CHAIRMAN OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE EHS COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Responsible for Ensures the balance Responsible for Responsible for assuring our financial of skills and expertise monitoring and determining and statements give a of the Board remains advising on the agreeing the true and fair view appropriate to meet the Groups EHS policies Executive Directors of the business.
More information 89 More information 94 More information 96 More information 98 www.
com 45 Corporate Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 3 5 2 4 6 1 3 5 SIMON THOMPSON IAN SPRINGETT PAUL McDADE CHAIRMAN CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER Simon Thompson age 54, British was Ian Springett age 56, British, a Chartered Paul McDade age 50, British was appointed as a non-executive Director Accountant, was appointed to the Board of appointed to the Board of Directors in in 2011 and non-executive Chairman in Directors in 2008.
Prior to joining Tullow 2006 after joining Tullow in 2001.
Simon brings extensive Ian worked at BP for 23 years where he appointed Chief Operating Officer following international investment banking and gained extensive international oil and gas the Energy Africa acquisition in 2004, natural resources experience, especially experience.
Ian held a number of senior having previously managed Tullows UK gas in Africa.
Simon held investment banking positions at BP, including vice president business.
An engineer with over 25 years roles before he joined the Anglo American of BP finance and US CFO: and served experience, Paul has worked in various Group in 1995, where he held a number as a business unit leader in Alaska.
operational, commercial and management of senior positions and was an executive roles with Conoco, Lasmo and ERC.
He director of Anglo American plc from 4 has broad international experience having GRAHAM MARTIN 2005-2007. worked in the UK North Sea, Latin America, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR & Africa and South East Asia and holds Committee membership: Nominations COMPANY SECRETARY degrees in Civil Engineering and Chairman, Remuneration and Graham Martin age 59, British, is a UK Petroleum Engineering.
solicitor and joined Tullow as Legal and Commercial Director in 1997.
Graham Committee membership: EHS Committee.
Other directorships and offices: Simon is a served as Tullows General Counsel non-executive director of Newmont Mining from 2004 to 2013 and has over 30 years 6 Corporation USA, Sandvik AB Sweden ANGUS McCOSS experience in international corporate and and AMEC UK.
He was appointed Angus McCoss age 52, British was Company Secretary in 2008. appointed to the Board of Directors 2 AIDAN HEAVEY in 2006 following 21 years of wide-ranging CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER exploration experience, working primarily Aidan Heavey age 60, Irish is the founder with Shell in Africa, Europe, China, South of Tullow Oil and has been Chief Executive America and the Middle East.
He has played a key a number of senior positions within Shell, role in Tullows development as a leading including Americas regional vice president independent oil and gas exploration of exploration and general manager of and production group.
He holds a PhD in Other directorships and offices: Aidan Structural Geology.
is a director of Traidlinks, an Irish-based Other directorships and offices: Angus charity established to develop and promote is a non-executive director of Ikon Science enterprise and diminish poverty in the Limited and a member of the Advisory developing world, particularly in Africa.
Board of the industry-backed Energy and He is a member of the UCD Michael Geoscience Institute of the University Smurfit Graduate Business School, Dublin.
46 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report 1 7 9 11 8 10 12 7 9 11 DAVID BAMFORD TUTU AGYARE ANNE DRINKWATER SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR David Bamford age 67, British was Tutu Agyare age 51, Ghanaian was Anne Drinkwater age 58, British was appointed as a non-executive Director in appointed as a non-executive Director in appointed as a non-executive Director in 2004.
David worked for BP for 23 years August 2010.
He is currently a managing July 2012 after a long career at BP where where he was chief geophysicist from partner at Nubuke Investments, an asset she held a number of senior business and 1990 to 1995 and general manager for management firm focused solely on Africa, operations positions including president West Africa from 1995 to 1998.
In addition which he founded in 2007.
Previously, he and chief executive officer of BP Canada he acted as vice president for exploration, had a 21-year career with UBS Investment Energy Company, president of BP Indonesia directing BPs global exploration Bank, holding a number of senior positions, and managing director of BP Norway.
David will most recently as the head of European Committee membership: EHS Committee retire from the Board at the conclusion of emerging markets, and served on the Chair, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Tullows Annual General Meeting AGM board of directors.
Other directorships and offices: Anne is on 30 April 2014.
Committee membership: Audit, a non-executive director of Aker Solutions Committee membership: Remuneration Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Committee Chairman, EHS and Other directorships and offices: Tutu is Nominations Committees.
12 a director of the Nubuke Foundation, JEREMY WILSON Other directorships and offices: David is a Ghanaian-based cultural and NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR a director or adviser to several companies educational foundation.
Jeremy Wilson age 49, British was and writes regularly for industry journals.
appointed as a non-executive director in 10 He co-founded Finding Petroleum STEVE LUCAS October 2013 following a 26-year career and OilEdge as vehicles for online NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR at J. P. Morgan where he held a number communication in the oil and gas industry.
Steve Lucas age 59, British was appointed of senior positions, most recently vice as a non-executive Director in March 2012. chairman of the Energy Group.
Jeremy 8 ANN GRANT A Chartered Accountant, Steve was finance continues to serve as a senior adviser NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR director at National Grid plc from 2002 to to the firm.
Ann Grant age 65, British was appointed 2010 and previously worked for 11 years at Committee membership: Audit and as a non-executive Director in May 2008.
Royal Dutch Shell and for six years at BG Remuneration Committees.
Jeremy will Ann joined the United Kingdom Diplomatic Group, latterly as group treasurer.
take over as Chairman of the Remuneration Service in 1971: from 1998 she worked at Committee membership: Audit Chairman Committee following Tullows AGM on the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in and Remuneration Committees.
London as director for Africa and the Other directorships and offices: Steve Other directorships and offices: Jeremy Commonwealth, and from 2000 to 2005 is a non-executive director of African is a non-executive director of John Wood was British High Commissioner to South Barrick Gold plc UK, Essar Energy plc Group PLC UK.
Ann will take over as the Senior UK and Transocean Ltd USA.
Independent Director following Tullows AGM on 30 April 2014.
Committee membership: Audit and Nominations Committees.
Other directorships and offices: In 2005, Ann joined Standard Chartered Bank where she is now vice-chairman, Africa.
She is a More information board member of the Overseas Development Corporate Governance 80 Institute and a council member of the Board objectives and performance 84 London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and the Rift Valley Institute.
com 47 Strategic Report ORGANISATION & CULTURE MULTI-DISCIPLINARY TEAMS FOCUSED ON SUCCESS Our strategic priority in Organisation & Culture remains to build a strong, unified team with excellent commercial, technical and financial skills and entrepreneurial flair.
We are proud of our entrepreneurial culture, and we work hard to ensure this remains core to the DNA of Tullow.
While this is a good engagement score, We believe our culture gives us its fall has been against a backdrop a competitive advantage when of a 22% 2012: 1,553, 2011: 1,207 rise governments select a partner to work in employee numbers in the two-year with, and helps us succeed where period since the last survey was others have not, such as our ability to conducted.
The survey also found the take on highly challenging and complex overwhelming majority of people are exploration programmes, as we have proud to work for Tullow and would done in Kenya.
It is this culture that recommend Tullow as a good place also enables us to attract and retain to work.
In addition, the vast majority highly skilled people from diverse of people also recognise that Tullow cultural backgrounds.
manages safety well, and has a Embedding our values responsible attitude towards the & employee engagement environment.
Areas for improvement Our employees engagement with our include operational efficiency, values, strategy and culture is vital to collaboration across the Group, the success of the business.
As well change management and fair as demonstrating entrepreneurial treatment.
Going forwards, the survey spirit and initiative, our values are: will be conducted on an annual basis.
focusing on results: working with integrity and respect: and commitment The newly formed Executive to Tullow and each other.
During Committee is addressing key areas 2013, the Executive Directors sought for improvement in a series of work GRAHAM MARTIN EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR to better understand employee programmes in 2014.
In 2013, we & COMPANY SECRETARY engagement within the Group and continued to reinforce and embed how we can better demonstrate our our values across the Group through Company values, through a staff initiatives that included assessing engagement survey as well as a series interview candidates on their alignment WE TAKE PRIDE IN THE of Executive-led workshops, which with our values: integrating values TALENT & DIVERSITY OF were held in seven countries across workshops to our induction process OUR TEAMS THAT FORM our operations.
Eighty one per cent of for new starters: and evaluating how THE FOUNDATION OF employees responded to the survey, people have demonstrated living our OUR SUCCESSFUL and 320 people participated in the values in their annual appraisals.
round-table discussions with the Executive Directors.
Key findings from our survey results included a staff engagement score of 77% 2011: 81%.
48 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report 1 NURTURING TALENT In 2013, we spent over $8 million on the training and development of our own employees.
86% Of employees are proud to work for Tullow and 79% would recommend Tullow as a good place to work.
HUMAN RIGHTS We are committed to respecting internationally recognised human rights, as set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organisations Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
Our Values, Code of Conduct and policies support our corporate responsibility to respect human rights.
In 2013, we became a member of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights VPSHR.
As active participants, we ensure our security protocols and procedures operate within a framework that respects human rights.
DIVERSITY An essential part of our culture is our diversity and we are proud to employ 60 different nationalities across the business.
Women made up 29% 582 2,034 of our total workforce in 2013.
In addition, 12% 6 49 of our senior management and 17% 2 12 of our Board Directors are female.
This year, senior women at Tullow, including our non-executive Directors, met to debate the issue of gender diversity within Tullow.
The key conclusions from the session were that the organisation is supportive of women and their career progression.
Participants agreed that they wanted to achieve career progression on their own merit, and not as a result of specific gender programmes.
However, there was recognition that our people management capability is key to improving our representation of women in the work force and ultimately growing the potential pipeline of women for senior management positions.
com 49 Strategic Report ORGANISATION & CULTURE CONTINUED NATIONAL LEADERSHIP The appointment of Charles Darku as General Manager for our Ghana Business Unit in August 2013 marked the milestone of all BUs within Tullows African portfolio being led by nationals of our host countries.
An electrical engineer by profession, Charles is an accomplished businessman and professional engineer who has over 30 years of experience in Ghanas energy sector.
Formerly Chief Executive of GRIDCo, Charles also previously held several senior positions with the Volta River Authority and is a graduate of Harvard University.
Ethics and Code of Business Conduct candidates are competitive reward and development We continue to demonstrate our strong commitment to opportunities.
At the 2013 AGM, two new long-term incentive programmes were approved, replacing the business ethics with our Code of Business Conduct and existing arrangements: one for Executive Directors and our zero tolerance of corruption.
In 2013, we continued Senior Managers, as well as an improved share scheme our Code of Business Conduct awareness programmes for the majority of our permanent employees.
These across the Group and have to date held over 100 workshops changes, together with greater differentiation in the providing face-to-face training, covering over 88% of our staff bonus scheme, will align higher reward with employees and contract staff, up from 60% in 2012, higher individual performance.
We encourage our employees and contractors Localisation to raise issues or concerns internally or via the independent, Employment of nationals within our host countries external speaking up line and promote awareness of these remains the most material issue for our in-country channels.
In 2013, we received 24 speaking up cases, which stakeholders.
We have a robust and proactive approach led to 22 investigations, 12 individuals leaving the Group to localisation, and our Group Localisation policy, introduced and two supplier contracts terminated as a result.
in 2012, ensures our teams are largely made up by the Talent retention nationality of our host countries.
There remain challenges In 2013, our staff turnover increased to 4.5% [2012: 2.9%].
both in achieving high levels of localisation across all There is no specific stretch or baseline target for Group functions in a short time period, as well as managing staff turnover, however, over the past five years this has expectations as to how many job opportunities exist.
We see one of the drivers Nevertheless, we strive to continuously build capacity for the increase in turnover is the growth in our total within our host countries, to ensure nationals can directly workforce.
One of the long-term performance risks to the participate in and benefit from their oil and gas industry.
business is loss of key staff and the industry overall remains In 2013, 52% of our employees are based in Africa and in highly competitive with regard to the retention of top talent.
total, over 85% of our staff in Africa are local nationals, Two key areas we focus on to attract and retain strong a decrease of 1% on 2012.
More information Nationals employed % Kenya special feature 18 100 92 92 Shared Prosperity 51 88 87 86 86 85 84 80 77 60 40 20 0 11 12 13 11 12 13 11 12 13 Uganda Kenya Ghana 50 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts E C S O S N U U O S P E M I T P L C R A L P D I Y U E O V N O C E E A L H P O B A P I L M N E E N T T S T N A E K T M E E N N E G E O C H G I M O T O E N A U G L V G A B A L D E I G N R E A N M R E T E I R Strategic Report SHARED PROSPERITY 1 CREATING SHARED PROSPERITY Our strategic priority related to Shared Prosperity is to nurture long-term relationships with local governments, communities and key stakeholders, with the ultimate aim of creating a positive and lasting contribution to economic and social development in the communities and countries where we operate.
Creating Shared Prosperity is a strategic priority and In 2013, we undertook a systematic review of the issues represents Tullows commitment to ensuring that the that are most material to Tullows ability to execute our success of the oil and gas industry brings long-term business strategy and those that have the greatest social, social and economic benefits to the communities and environmental and economic impact on our stakeholders.
countries where we operate, whilst protecting their This review has helped refine and give further focus to rich biodiverse environments.
the key areas that make up our vision to create shared prosperity.
Our most material issues are aligned to the Our approach focuses on eight components.
Our financial eight components of shared prosperity, as detailed below.
performance underpins our ability to meet our commitments This section summarises some of the key developments in to our employees, suppliers and providers of capital.
More detailed disclosure can be found in our approach to governance, the environment, health & safety Corporate Responsibility Report, published in May 2013.
EHS, people, supply chain, local content and social performance directly affect our ability to run our business Stakeholder engagement successfully.
Finally, stakeholder engagement is a critical We engage regularly with a broad range of stakeholders, tool across all aspects of our business, ensuring we operate formally and informally across our business.
Our effectively and responsibly, and provide our stakeholders stakeholders include anyone working with or on behalf with the channels to raise issues of concern or interest.
of Tullow, who is impacted by our activities or who We measure our progress in each of the eight focus can influence our business plans and the successful areas against KPIs, which we report on in our annual execution of our exploration-led growth strategy.
Financial People Deliver returns to Create a rewarding, shareholders and challenging and great providers of capital place to work Governance Sustainable Manage our business supply chain ethically and with Build long-term integrity sustainable supplier relationships Stakeholder FINANCIAL & OPERATIONAL engagement Local content PERFORMANCE Engage with and Create real opportunities respond to all our for local people and local stakeholders enterprise development Environment, Social performance Manage our business Health & Safety in a way that respects Keep people safe local communities and minimise our and the impact our environmental footprint business has on them www.
com 51 N C R R R N E O E O E O D C A N L D S L F G O N L A H A R I O E C C G K E H O A E E S E T P M S K E A E N T N S T V I H E R E O N N A T V M L I E N T R L N H E T A O A T C & L N N O S S M T L O E A E W C F A N E R T T D, Y S H I P Strategic Report SHARED PROSPERITY CONTINUED Ghana OUR SOCIAL & ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION In 2013 we paid our first income tax to the Government of Tullow makes a significant contribution to the public finances Ghana of $107 million.
Withholding tax almost doubled from of African governments through the taxes we pay.
In 2013, $38 million to $61 million between 2012 and 2013 as the we paid $881 million to African governments, an amount that TEN Project moved into the development phase.
Spend with is larger than our total Group tax bill, due to the $100 million local suppliers similarly increased by 85% to $128 million.
tax rebate we receive from the Norwegian Government on Total payments to the Government of Ghana, including exploration costs.
production entitlements in bbls, was $300 million.
Our tax payments represent the largest economic Local business opportunities contribution we make to any of our external stakeholders, The business opportunities we create for local suppliers including shareholders.
As well as demonstrating our also represent a significant component of our economic corporate commitment to good corporate governance, contribution and in 2013, we spent $217 million with local we publish this information because we believe revenue businesses, representing a 49% increase on the previous transparency encourages healthy debate among year 2012: $145 million.
This increase is largely as a result Civil Society Organisations CSOs, Non-governmental of reporting local content spend in two additional countries organisations NGOs and the government, enabling for 2013: Mauritania and Ethiopia, as well as the higher interested parties to participate in meaningful discussions levels of operational activity in all reporting countries, on the equitable sharing of wealth from oil resources.
with the exception of Uganda.
During 2013, we engaged with CSOs and NGOs at a national Local job creation and international level to discuss the potential capacity The number of local jobs we create is a key way in which needs of interested parties to engage meaningfully on we generate a positive social and economic impact in the resource revenue management, in terms of understanding countries in which we operate.
Nationals now make up 85% the stage in the oil life cycle at which a project generates of our African-based teams and all of our African business revenues, as well as effective interpretation of financial data.
units are led by nationals.
We take a strategic and long-term ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION Production entitlements $870 M Includes $352 million $363.2 MILLION representing payments in kind 3,768,000 barrels of oil Income taxes $241.8 MILLION $304 M Other taxes as per the EU directive $66.4 MILLION $217 M Voluntary disclosures $199.0 MILLION $167 M Our total contribution to major stakeholder groups amounted to $1.6 billion, including $217 million in spend with local suppliers, $304 million in payroll $17 M globally and $17 million discretionary investment in TO GOVERNMENTS social projects.
In 2013, we paid $881 million to African governments, an amount that is larger than EMPLOYEE SALARIES our total Group tax bill, due to the $100 million tax SPEND WITH LOCAL SUPPLIERS rebate we receive from the Norwegian Government on exploration costs.
SHAREHOLDER DIVIDENDS LOCAL COMMUNITY INVESTMENT 52 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report 1 approach to localisation, through internal training and development programmes and investing in capacity building projects externally.
We equip our people with the skills and experience they require to gain managerial, technical and commercial roles within an international organisation.
Building capacity We also continue to invest in the capacity of our employees, contractors, local suppliers and future generations of the workforce, increasing their ability to participate and progress in the oil and gas industry.
In Ghana, as part of our social investment programme, Tullow and the Jubilee Partners invested $6 million in an Enterprise Centre, which provides business training and advisory services to small-to-medium sized enterprises SMEs, as well as a polytechnic, the Jubilee Technical Training Centre JTTC, which is the first vocational training centre in West Africa to offer National Vocational Qualification NVQ level accredited courses for technical courses.
These investments aim to enable more Ghanaian businesses and individuals to gain access to opportunities in the oil and gas sector.
Social Investment SI The overall discretionary investment we made in social projects in 2013 totalled $17.4 million.
This represented a decrease in spend on the previous year 2012: $20 million as a result of our investment in infrastructure projects in Uganda in 2012, which last year were handed over to local organisations for ongoing management.
Our SI investments focus on creating an immediate impact Above: Local supplier carrying out loading operations in Takoradi port, Ghana at community level, such as access to water, local as well as longer-term, strategic initiatives such as national capacity building and enterprise development projects.
Examples of this are the Tullow Group Scholarship scheme, which awarded 96 scholarships to students from eight countries in 2013.
More information Kenya special feature 18 Transparency data 175 Social investment spend Group historical $million Local content Group historical $million Our new mandatory criteria, launched in 2013, ensures our Local content expenditure has increased over 2013, social investments are aligned with both the immediate and in line with increased operational activities in Ghana, long-term needs of the communities where we operate which Kenya and Mauritania.
have been identified through Environmental Social Impact Assessments ESIAs.
com 53 Strategic Report SHARED PROSPERITY Health & Safety A RESPONSIBLE OPERATOR We completed 100% investigations for High Potential One of Tullows values is to work with integrity and respect incidents and Lost Time Injuries LTIs and this increased and this is core to our ability to act as a responsible operator.
focus has led to greater management scrutiny and We work to protect the natural and cultural environments opportunity for learning.
Notwithstanding this achievement, we operate in and maintain the health and safety of our our Lost Time Injury Frequency LTIF increased from 0.70 in employees, contractors and communities.
2012 to 0.81 in 2013 against a 13% increase in working hours between 2012 and 2013.
For 2014, we plan to achieve a 20% Our EHS scorecard is part of our Group KPIs and accounts reduction in our LTIF as part of a five-year plan to achieve for 10% of Tullows Incentive Plan TIP for Executive First Quartile performance as per the International Remuneration.
It comprises six leading and four lagging Association of Oil & Gas Producers OGP rankings, a indicators, which were actively monitored throughout the target which is built into Executive compensation KPIs.
year at operational and the Board level.
Each indicator is given a potential value of three points, depending on Carbon emissions whether it is fully, partially or not achieved.
In 2013, In line with the revised Companys Act 2006, we are we achieved 19 points out of a total maximum of 30, 1 disclosing our carbon emissions in this Strategic Report, which reflects the 6% award out of a potential 10% in including new disclosure on our scope 2 emissions.
The the overall TIP awards for the year.
reported data has been sourced from Tullow production and exploration operations, where Tullow is the operator of the This section summarises some of the most noteworthy facility or asset during the year.
Emissions are calculated developments in our progress and challenges encountered using conversion factors sourced from the 2012 DEFRA in achieving our stated objectives.
The full detail on our DECC GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, performance against our 10 KPIs will be included in our EEMS 2008 and API 2004.
Our total scope 1 emissions, CR Report to be published in May 2014. which in 2013 included gas, diesel and gas refrigerants EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS We made significant progress against our leading KPI to address the risk of ensuring a high standard of emergency preparedness and incident management capability is in place across all operations.
We improved the competencies of our emergency response teams and crisis management arrangements.
We also established and rolled out the Tullow Emergency Preparedness and Incident Management Standard among our Business Units.
WE THINK PROACTIVELY ABOUT OUR EHS PERFORMANCE & WORK TO EMBED A STRONGER CULTURE OF LEARNING FROM OUR INCIDENTS.
54 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report 1 from our offices as well as emissions from our operations, were 776,629 tonnes COe and 111.80 tonnes COe per 1,000 tonnes of hydrocarbon produced.
Our scope 2 emissions, made up of electricity used by our key offices, are relatively immaterial to our overall emissions profile and therefore we only began reporting this for the first time, in line with new legislation.
Office electricity data was collected from our five biggest offices, where 80% of our employees work.
Total scope 2 emissions were 6,174 tonnes of COe and 0.89 tonnes of COe per 1,000 tonnes of hydrocarbon produced.
Our total scope 1 and 2 emissions were 782,803 tonnes COe and on an intensity basis 112.69 tonnes COe per 1,000 tonnes of hydrocarbon produced.
Road safety Land transport represents one of the most significant safety risks to our onshore operations.
In 2013, we introduced new Above: Safety certificates being awarded to seismic crew, in Ethiopia KPIs and a Group-wide Land Transport Policy and Standard, which have succeeded in increasing road safety awareness, improving driving behaviours and overall have led to a reduced number of driving incidents.
However, we regret to TULLOWS 2013 CORPORATE report the tragic death of a member of the public as a result RESPONSIBILITY REPORT of a road traffic accident involving a turned-over vehicle in Kenya.
To further improve our approach to Land Transport Full disclosure on our performance in Safety in 2014, we will be targeting all BUs to conduct Land each of the eight focus areas of Creating Transport gap analysis and ensure all BUs have audited Shared Prosperity is reported in our Land Transport management plans.
annual Corporate Responsibility CR Report, which is published in May.
Spills and uncontrolled releases We missed our target to reduce the number of uncontrolled releases loss of containment incidents to below three TULLOWS CORPORATE incidents involving less than 50 litres of water, diesel, oil or RESPONSIBILITY ONLINE chemicals, with 10 spills involving 23.29 tonnes of material.
Eight of the spills took place in Kenya and involved waste Our annual CR Report and other water treatment plants.
For 2014, robust, high capacity, publications, including country and containerised treatment units are being procured from the regional reports, are available online.
international market to replace the existing solution.
There Visit our website to read the was also an additional spill from the TEN FPSO involving an following publications: unknown amount, where waste water dosed with dispersant Uganda country report: was released to sea rather than going through proper separation process.
We will target improvements to our Central & West Africa regional report: performance in this area in the 2014 executive KPIs.
All carbon intensity ratios are based on total production rather Case studies and videos.
com cr This Strategic Report and the information referred to herein has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Graham Martin Executive Director and Company Secretary www.
com 55 DEVELOPMENT IN GHANA Exploration in the Deepwater Tano block offshore Ghana resulted in the  TEN discovery, where Tullow has a 47.15% interest.
In May 2013, the Government of Ghana approved the TEN Plan of Development, a significant milestone for the project and the Partners.
The project is scheduled to deliver first oil in mid-2016 and a major step to achieving this is the construction of the TEN FPSO.
The Centennial Jewel trading tanker is currently undergoing conversion at Jurong Shipyard in Singapore.
