Corporate Governance 3 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS Details of share options granted to Executive Directors for nil consideration under the ESOS: Date from Granted Exercised which Last date Director Grant date As at 01.01.13 during year during year As at 31.12.13 Exercise price exercisable exercisable Graham Martin 06.10.03 400,000 400,000 85p 06.10.06 05.10.13 20.09.04 190,000 190,000 131p 20.09.07 19.09.14 590,000 400,000 190,000 The performance condition attached to the above options granted under the 2000 Scheme required Tullows TSR to have exceeded that of the median company of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts over three years from the date of grant.
It has been satisfied for all the options, which are therefore fully exercisable.
The gain made by Graham Martin on the exercise of share options under the ESOS during the year was 3.92 million.
On 1 August 2013, being the date that Graham Martin exercised the options listed in the table, the market price of a Tullow share was 1066p.
Share Price Range During 2013, the highest mid-market price of the Companys shares was 1289p and the lowest was 836p.
Further details of the Shareholding Guidelines are set out on page 102.
There have been no changes in the interests of any Director between 1 January 2014 and the date of this report other than: a as a consequence of PSP awards made in 2011 lapsing as mentioned in the notes to the table Directors remuneration on page 107: and b as detailed in the table UK SIP shares awarded in 2013 on page 111. www.
com 115 Corporate Governance OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Results and dividends than out of profits available for distribution.
Subject The profit on ordinary activities after taxation of the to shareholder approval, payment or satisfaction of a Group for the year ended 31 December 2013 amounted dividend may be made wholly or partly by distribution to $216.1 million 2012: $666.2 million.
of specific assets: Voting rights voting at any general meeting is by a An interim dividend of Stg 4p 2012: Stg 4p per ordinary show of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On a share was paid on 3 October 2013.
The Directors recommend show of hands every shareholder who is present in a final dividend of Stg 8p 2012: Stg 8p per ordinary share person at a general meeting and every proxy or which, if approved at the 2014 AGM, will be paid on 9 May corporate representative appointed by a shareholder 2014 to shareholders whose names are on the Register and present at a general meeting has one vote of Members on 4 April 2014. regardless of the number of shares held by the shareholder or represented by the proxy or corporate Subsequent events representative.
If a proxy has been appointed by more Since the balance sheet date Tullow has continued to than one shareholder and has been instructed by one or progress its exploration, development and business more of those shareholders to vote for the resolution growth strategies.
and by one or more of those shareholders to vote In January 2014, Tullow announced oil discoveries at the against a particular resolution, the proxy shall have Amosing-1 and Ewoi-1 exploration wells in Block 10BB one vote for and one vote against that resolution.
As a result of these latest a poll, every shareholder who is present in person has successes, Tullow updated its estimate of discovered one vote for every share held by that shareholder and resources in this basin to over 600 mmbo.
a proxy has one vote for every share in respect of which he has been appointed as proxy the deadline for On 5 February 2014 a Memorandum of Understanding was exercising voting rights by proxy is set out in the form signed between the Government of Uganda and Tullow, Total of proxy.
On a poll, a corporate representative may and CNOOC agreeing a basin wide commercialisation plan exercise all the powers of the company that has for the Lake Albert Basin.
A poll may be demanded by any of the following: a the Chairman of the meeting: b at Share capital least five shareholders entitled to vote and present in As at 11 February 2014, the Company had an allotted and person or by proxy or represented by a duly authorised fully paid up share capital of 909,973,957 ordinary shares corporate representative at the meeting: c any of 10 pence each with an aggregate nominal value of shareholder or shareholders present in person or by 90,997,395.70. proxy or represented by a duly authorised corporate representative and holding shares or being a Substantial shareholdings representative in respect of a holder of shares As at 11 February 2014, the Company had been notified in representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth accordance with the requirements of provision 5.1.
2 of the of the total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Rules and attend and vote at the meeting: or d any shareholder Transparency Rules of the following significant holdings or shareholders present in person or by proxy or in the Companys ordinary share capital: represented by a duly authorised corporate Shareholder Number of shares % of issued capital representative and holding shares or being a BlackRock Inc 90,154,669 9.91% representative in respect of a holder of shares conferring a right to attend and vote at the meeting on Genesis Asset which there have been paid up sums in the aggregate Managers, LLP 72,871,524 8.01% equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sums paid IFG International Trust up on all the shares conferring that right: Company Limited 38,960,366 4.28% Return of capital in the event of the liquidation of the Following requests under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company, after payment of all liabilities and deductions Company understands that the percentage of its issued share capital taking priority, the balance of assets available for held by BlackRock Inc has reduced to 7.34% and that held by Genesis distribution will be distributed among the holders of Asset Managers, LLP is broadly unchanged at 8.02%.
ordinary shares according to the amounts paid up on the shares held by them.
A liquidator may, with the Shareholders rights authority of a special resolution, divide among the The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shareholders the whole or any part of the Companys shares are as follows: assets: or vest the Companys assets in whole or in Dividend rights holders of the Companys shares part in trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends but shareholders, but no shareholder is compelled to accept may not declare dividends in excess of the amount any property in respect of which there is a liability: recommended by the Directors.
The Directors may also pay interim dividends.
No dividend may be paid other 116 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance 3 Control rights under employee share schemes US$165 million finance contract in respect of a senior the Company operates a number of employee share secured revolving credit facility agreement between, schemes.
Under some of these arrangements, shares among others, the Company and certain subsidiaries are held by trustees on behalf of employees.
The of the Company and International Finance Corporation employees are not entitled to exercise directly any pursuant to which International Finance Corporation voting or other control rights.
The trustees will may cancel its commitments immediately and demand generally vote in accordance with employees repayment of all outstanding amounts owed by the instructions and abstain where no instructions are Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company to received.
Unallocated shares are generally voted at it under the agreement and any connected finance the discretion of the trustees: and document, which amount will become due and payable within 15 business days: and Restrictions on holding securities there are no restrictions under the Companys Articles of Association US$500 million secured revolving credit facility or under UK law that either restrict the rights of UK agreement between, among others, the Company resident shareholders to hold shares or limit the rights and certain subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, of non-resident or foreign shareholders to hold or vote Crdit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank and the Companys ordinary shares.
Standard Chartered Bank and the lenders specified therein pursuant to which each lender thereunder There are no UK foreign exchange control restrictions on may cancel its commitments immediately and demand the payment of dividends to US persons on the Companys repayment of all outstanding amounts owed by the ordinary shares.
Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company to it under the agreement and any connected finance Material agreements containing document, which amount will become due and change of control provisions payable within 15 business days.
The following significant agreements will, in the event of a change of control of the Company, be affected as follows: Under the terms of each of the above agreements, a change of control occurs if any person, or group of persons acting US$3.235 billion or up to US$3.735 billion in the event in concert as defined in the City Code on Takeovers and that the Company exercises its option to increase the Mergers gains control of the Company.
commitments by up to an additional US$500 million and the lenders provide such additional commitments An Indenture relating to US$650 million of 6% Senior senior secured revolving credit facility agreement Notes due 2020 between, among others, the Company, between, among others, the Company and certain certain subsidiaries of the Company and Deutsche subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, HSBC Bank Trustee Company Limited as the Trustee.
Pursuant to plc, Standard Chartered Bank, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and this Indenture the Company must make an offer to Crdit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank and the noteholders to repurchase all the notes at 101% of the lenders specified therein pursuant to which each lender aggregate principal amount of the notes, plus accrued thereunder may cancel its commitments immediately and unpaid interest in the event that a change of and demand repayment of all outstanding amounts control of the Company occurs.
The repurchase offer owed by the Company and certain subsidiaries of the must be made by the Company to all noteholders within Company to it under the agreement and any connected 30 days following the change of control and the finance document, which amount will become due and repurchase must take place no earlier than 10 days payable within 15 business days and, in respect of each and no later than 60 days from the date the repurchase letter of credit issued under the agreement, full cash offer is made.
Each noteholder may take up the offer cover will be required within 15 business days: in respect of all or part of its notes.
US$100 million secured revolving credit facility Under the terms of the Indenture a change of control agreement between, among others, the Company and occurs, in general terms, when i a disposal is made of all or certain subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, substantially all the properties or assets of the Company and HSBC Bank plc, Standard Chartered Bank, Lloyds TSB all its restricted subsidiaries other than through a merger or Bank plc and Crdit Agricole Corporate and Investment consolidation in one or a series of related transactions: ii Bank and the lenders specified therein pursuant to a plan is adopted relating to the liquidation or dissolution of which each lender thereunder may cancel its the Company: or iii a person becomes the beneficial owner, commitments immediately and demand repayment directly or indirectly, of shares of the Company which grant of all outstanding amounts owed by the Company and that person more than 50% of the voting rights of certain subsidiaries of the Company to it under the the Company.
agreement and any connected finance document, which amount will become due and payable within 15 business days: www.
com 117 Corporate Governance OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED Directors Please note the following specific provisions relevant The biographical details of the Directors of the Company to the exercise of power by the Directors: at the date of this Report are given on pages 46 to 47.
Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares the Details of Directors service agreements and letters of holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights appointment are set out on page 104 and 105.
Details of the under the Articles of Association of the Company.
Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company However, the ability of the Directors to cause the and in the Groups long-term incentive and other share Company to issue shares, securities convertible into option schemes are set out on pages 111 and pages 113 shares or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant to 115 in the Directors remuneration report.
to an employee share scheme, is restricted under the Companies Act 2006 which provides that the directors of Directors indemnities and insurance cover a company are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot As at the date of this Report, indemnities are in force under any equity securities without express authorisation, which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, which may be contained in a companys articles of to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006, against association or given by its shareholders in general claims from third parties in respect of certain liabilities meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their than five years.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the powers, duties and responsibilities as Directors of the Company may also not allot shares for cash otherwise Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The Directors are also than pursuant to an employee share scheme without indemnified against the cost of defending a criminal first making an offer on a pre-emptive basis to existing prosecution or a claim by the Company, its subsidiaries or a shareholders, unless this requirement is waived by a regulator provided that where the defence is unsuccessful special resolution of the shareholders.
The Company the Director must repay those defence costs.
The Company received authority at the last Annual General Meeting to also maintains Directors and Officers Liability insurance allot shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to a cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
The authority lasts until the earlier of the Annual General Meeting of Conflicts of interest the Company in 2014 or 30 June 2014: A Director has a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she Repurchase of shares subject to authorisation by has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, shareholder resolution, the Company may purchase its or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Group.
own shares in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Board has satisfied itself that there is no compromise to Any shares that have been bought back may be held as the independence of those Directors who have appointments treasury shares or must be cancelled immediately upon on the boards of, or relationships with, companies outside completion of the purchase.
The Company does not the Group.
The Board requires Directors to declare all currently have shareholder authority to buy back shares appointments and other situations that could result in a although is seeking such an authority at this years possible conflict of interest and has adopted appropriate Annual General Meeting : and procedures to manage and, if appropriate, approve any such conflicts.
Borrowing powers the net external borrowings of the Group outstanding at any time shall not exceed an Powers of Directors amount equal to four times the aggregate of the Groups The general powers of the Directors are set out in Article 104 adjusted capital and reserves calculated in the manner of the Articles of Association of the Company.
It provides that prescribed in Article 105 of the Companys Articles of the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board Association, unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution which may exercise all the powers of the Company whether of the Companys shareholders.
relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
This power is subject to any limitations imposed on Appointment and replacement of Directors the Company by applicable legislation.
It is also limited by The Company shall appoint disregarding Alternate the provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company Directors no fewer than two and no more than 15 Directors.
and any directions given by special resolution of the The appointment and replacement of Directors may be made shareholders of the Company which are applicable on as follows: the date that any power is exercised.
The shareholders may by ordinary resolution elect any person who is willing to act to be a Director: The Board may elect any person who is willing to act to be a Director.
Any Director so appointed shall hold office only until the next Annual General Meeting and shall then be eligible for election: 118 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance 3 Each Director is required in terms of the Articles of Political donations Association to retire from office at the third Annual In line with Group policy, no donations were made for General Meeting after the Annual General Meeting at political purposes.
which he or she was last elected or re-elected although Corporate responsibility he or she may be re-elected by ordinary resolution if The Group is fully committed to high standards of eligible and willing.
However, to comply with the environmental, health and safety management.
A review, principles of best corporate governance, the Board together with an outline of the Groups involvement in social intends that each Director will submit him or herself investment projects, is set out in the Creating Shared for re-election on an annual basis: Prosperity section on pages 51 to 55 of this Report.
The Company may by special resolution remove any In addition, Tullow publishes annually a separate Corporate Director before the expiration of his or her period of Responsibility Report which is available on the Group office or may, by ordinary resolution, remove a Director website: www.
where special notice has been given and the necessary statutory procedures are complied with: and Auditors and disclosure of relevant audit information Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors There are a number of other grounds on which are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined a Directors office may cease, namely voluntary by section 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the resignation, where all the other Directors being at least Companys auditors are unaware and each Director has three in number request his or her resignation, where taken all steps that ought to have been taken to make him he or she suffers physical or mental incapacity, where or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to he or she is absent from meetings of the Board without establish that the Companys auditors are aware of permission of the Board for six consecutive months, that information.
becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors or is prohibited by law from being a Director.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
Employees with disabilities Tullow is committed to eliminating discrimination and Annual General Meeting encouraging diversity amongst its workforce.
Tullows aim is Your attention is drawn to the Notice of Annual General that its workforce will be truly representative of all sections Meeting accompanying this Annual Report which sets out of society and each employee feels respected and able to the resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Decisions related to recruitment selection, The meeting will be held at Haberdashers Hall, 18 West development or promotion are based upon merit and ability Smithfield, London EC1A 9HQ on Wednesday 30 April 2014 at to adequately meet the requirements of the job, and are not 12 noon.
This Corporate Governance Report which includes influenced by factors such as gender, marital status, race, the Directors remuneration report and the information ethnic origin, colour, nationality, religion, sexual orientation, referred to herein has been approved by the Board and age, or disability.
Tullow is committed to providing equal signed on its behalf by: opportunities for all.
Tullows Code of Business Conduct and Equal Opportunities Policy provide guidelines on fair employment practices and fair treatment.
All employees are helped and encouraged to develop their Graham Martin full potential.
Tullow aims to provide an optimal working Executive Director and Company Secretary environment to suit the needs of all employees, including the needs of employees with disabilities.
For employees who 11 February 2014 become disabled during their time with the Group, Tullow will provide support to best accommodate continuous Registered office: employment.
Tullows EHS Function actively seeks to 9 Chiswick Park keep people safe, whatever their needs.
566 Chiswick High Road London Employee involvement and engagement W4 5XT Employees are informed about significant business issues and Tullows performance using webcasts, the Groups Company registered in England and Wales No.
3919249 intranet, town hall meetings with the Executive Directors which are videoed, as well as our in-house employee magazine, Tullow World.
Tullow also consults with employees on matters that affect them through the appropriate channels.
All permanent employees participate in employee share plans operated by Tullow providing them with the opportunity to share in the success of the business.
com 119 LOCAL CONTENT IN MAURITANIA Tullow commenced an exploration drilling campaign in August 2013, targeting new, deeper plays in the offshore Mauritanian basin.
The Banda gas-to-power development is progressing following approval of a Field Development Plan.
Our Mauritanian operations have 23 permanent employees, 79% of which are nationals.
In 2013, Tullow spent just under $7 million with local suppliers and we are investing in capacity building and health care initiatives.
