3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Compliance 80 Audit Committee report 89 Nominations Committee report 94 EHS Committee report 96 Directors remuneration report 98 Other statutory information 116 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE APPLYING THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The UK Corporate Governance Code Board meetings and visits As a UK company with a premium listing on the London The core activities of the Board are carried out in scheduled Stock Exchange, Tullow Oil plc is required, under the UK meetings of the Board and its Committees.
Additional ad hoc Listing Rules, to comply with the UK Corporate Governance meetings and conference calls are arranged to consider Code published in September 2012 the Code in respect of matters which require decisions outside the scheduled the year ended 31 December 2013. meetings.
During 2013, the Board met on eight occasions.
Separately, a programme of strategy presentations on a wide A copy of the Code is publicly available on the website number of operational and other issues is given to the Board of the Financial Reporting Council at www.
During the year, each of the four Regional Business Managers presented a strategic overview of their The Code provides the standards for good corporate respective region to the Board for endorsement.
governance in the UK for the period under review.
This corporate governance report describes the manner in which To ensure that the Board sees the Companys operations the Company has applied the principles set out in the Code overseas, the Board normally holds at least one Board during the year.
The main principles of the Code focus on meeting each year at one of the principal overseas offices Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration of the Group.
This provides Senior Management from across and Relations with Shareholders and this report follows the Group with the opportunity to present to the Board and the same format.
to meet the Board members informally.
It also provides the Board with an opportunity to meet a broad cross-section of The Company is also required to disclose whether it has staff, to assess senior managers at first hand and to review complied with the more detailed provisions of the Code operational and especially non-technical risk matters in during the year and, to the extent it has not done so, to depth.
Although a visit to Kenya had been arranged for explain any deviations from them.
It is the Boards view that October 2013, this had to be postponed because of the the Company has fully complied with all of the provisions terrorist attack on the Westgate Shopping Mall in Nairobi.
of the Code during the year ended 31 December 2013.
The visit will now take place in March 2014.
Separately, during 2013, Simon Thompson made several visits to Leadership overseas offices accompanied by Executive Directors.
The The Company is headed by an effective Board which is offices he visited included Cape Town, Dublin, and Nairobi.
collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
Outside the scheduled meetings of the Board, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer maintain frequent The role of the Board contact with the other Directors to discuss any issues of The Board sets the Groups strategy and ensures that the concern they may have relating to the Group or their areas necessary resources are in place to achieve the agreed of responsibility, and to keep them fully briefed on the strategic aims and objectives.
It determines the Companys Groups operations.
key policies and reviews management and financial performance.
It is accountable to shareholders for the Matters reserved creation and delivery of strong, sustainable financial The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved that performance and long-term shareholder value.
To achieve can only be decided by the Board.
This schedule is reviewed this, the Board directs and monitors the Groups affairs by the Board each year.
The key matters reserved are the within a framework of controls which enable risk to be consideration and approval of: assessed and managed effectively.
This is done through clear procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authorities.
The Groups overall strategy: The Board also sets the Groups core values and standards Financial statements and dividend policy: of business conduct and ensures that these, together with the Groups obligations to its stakeholders, are widely Borrowings and treasury policy: understood throughout the Group.
Material acquisitions and disposals, material contracts, major capital expenditure projects and budgets: Entry into new countries: Risk management and internal controls supported by the Audit Committee : 80 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance 3 Succession planning and appointments The Chairman supported by the Nominations Committee : The Chairman sets the Board agenda and ensures adequate time for discussion.
At the time of his appointment as The Groups corporate governance and compliance Chairman on 1 January 2012, Simon Thompson met the arrangements: and independence criteria set out in the Code.
Non-executive Directors Summary of the Boards work in the year The non-executive Directors bring a broad range of business During 2013, the Board considered all relevant matters and commercial experience to the Company and have a within its remit, but focused in particular on the following particular responsibility to challenge independently and key issues: constructively the performance of the Executive management and to monitor the performance of the Strategy and resource allocation: management team in the delivery of the agreed objectives External affairs: and targets.
At the end of every scheduled Board meeting, the Chairman holds a discussion with the non-executive Portfolio management: Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
Finance and treasury: Separately, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer hold informal meetings with the non-executive Directors to Governance and compliance: and discuss current issues affecting the Group.
Organisational design, capacity and succession planning.
Efforts are made to ensure that the non-executive Directors are briefed on the more technical and operational aspects Attendance at meetings of the Groups activities, such as major offshore development The attendance of Directors at the eight scheduled projects e. g TEN, and our extensive exploration meetings of the Board held during 2013 was as follows: programme.
Those non-executive Directors with particular expertise in these areas meet regularly with the Chief Meetings attended Operating Officer and the Exploration Director when they No.
of meetings attended are able to contribute more fully at in-depth discussions.
Director out of a total possible Simon Thompson 8 8 Non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a term of Aidan Heavey 8 8 three years, which may, subject to satisfactory performance Tutu Agyare 8 8 and re-election by shareholders, be extended by David Bamford 8 8 mutual agreement.
Anne Drinkwater 8 8 Senior Independent Director Ann Grant 8 8 In his capacity as Senior Independent Director, David Steve Lucas 7 8 Bamford is available to meet shareholders if they have Graham Martin 7 8 concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with Angus McCoss 8 8 the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer or for which such contact is inappropriate.
During Paul McDade 8 8 the year, he met with the other non-executive Directors Ian Springett 7 8 without the Chairman being present to discuss the Jeremy Wilson 1 2 Chairmans performance.
Jeremy Wilson was appointed as a Director on 21 October 2013.
Due to prior commitments, Jeremy Wilson and Steve Lucas were Board Committees unable to attend one Board meeting.
Jeremy Wilson had previously The Board has delegated matters to four Committees, advised the Board that he would be unable to attend this meeting.
namely the Audit, Nominations, Remuneration and EHS Ian Springett was unable to attend one Board meeting because of illness.
Graham Martin was unable to attend one Board meeting as Committees.
The memberships, roles and activities of he was appearing as a witness in Tullows High Court action in these are detailed in separate reports: the Audit Committee London against Heritage.
on page 89, the Nominations Committee on page 94, the 3.
In addition to the Board members, a number of senior managers Remuneration Committee on page 98 and the EHS attend relevant sections of Board meetings by invitation.
Each Committee reports to, and has its terms of reference reviewed and approved annually Division of responsibilities by, the Board.
Reports of the issues considered at meetings There is a defined separation of the responsibilities between of the Committees are provided to the Board by the Simon Thompson, the non-executive Chairman, and Aidan respective Committee chairmen at the next Board meeting.
Heavey, the Chief Executive Officer, which has been set out in The Board is satisfied that the Committees have sufficient writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is primarily resources to carry out their duties effectively.
responsible for the effective working of the Board, whilst the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the operational management of the business, for developing strategy in consultation with the Board and for implementation of the strategy.
com 81 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE CONTINUED Executive Directors and Executive Committee Appointments to the Board In January 2014 a new Executive Committee has been The Nominations Committee is responsible for reviewing formed comprising the Executive Directors and 10 senior the structure, size and composition of the Board and making regional and corporate function leaders.
It meets weekly and recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes has been established to assist the Executive Directors in required.
As part of this process, candidates disclose their running the Group in various ways including managing the other significant time commitments and are made aware delivery of the approved budget and business plan, ensuring of the need to inform the Board of any subsequent changes.
effective integration and driving cost and organisational Commitment efficiency throughout the business.
All Directors have disclosed to the Board any other Individual delegations significant commitments and confirmed that they have In addition to delegating certain matters to Board sufficient time to effectively discharge their duties.
Committees, the Board has also delegated certain Training and development needs operational and management matters to the Executive Induction Directors.
In line with ICSA guidance, the Board approved All new Directors participate in an induction programme formal terms of reference for the committee of Executive on joining the Board.
This is tailored to their previous Directors in December 2013. background, experience and knowledge especially in relation Effectiveness to the upstream oil industry generally, and Tullow in Composition of the Board particular.
This includes one-to-one meetings with Senior The Board currently comprises a Chairman, Chief Executive Management, functional and business unit heads and, Officer, four other Executive Directors and six independent where appropriate, visits to the Groups principal offices non-executive Directors.
Biographical details of the Board and operations.
The Company Secretary also provides members are set out on pages 46 to 47. new Directors with an overview of their duties as Directors, corporate governance policies and Board processes as The Directors are of the view that the Board and its part of the induction programme.
Committees consist of Directors with an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and diversity Familiarisation and development of background to enable them to discharge their duties All members of the Board have access to appropriate and responsibilities effectively.
professional development courses in respect of their obligations and duties as Directors and Committee The composition of the Board did not change during the members.
During the year, Directors attended external course of 2013, except for the appointment of Jeremy Wilson seminars on relevant topics relating to the business.
In as a non-executive Director with effect from 21 October 2013. addition to business updates, the Board and Committees receive ongoing briefings, including updates on governance Independence and regulatory issues to ensure Board members remain up The Board considers each of the non-executive Directors to to date with current regulations and developments.
be independent in character and judgement.
The Board is fully satisfied that David Bamford demonstrates complete Information and support independence and robustness of character and judgement Independent advice in his capacities as Senior Independent Director and Directors have access to independent professional advice Remuneration Committee Chair.
This is notwithstanding at the Companys expense on any matter relating to that he has served on the Board for more than nine years.
Mr Bamford will be retiring as a Director at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
Further details of the process being followed The Company Secretary to secure a replacement for Mr Bamford and of the The Company Secretary is Graham Martin, who is also an individuals who will be assuming the roles of Senior Executive Director.
He is available to Directors to provide Independent Director and Remuneration Committee advice and is responsible for ensuring that all Board Chairman are set out in the Nominations Committee Report procedures are complied with.
This combined role is on page 94.
The Board is of the view that no individual or regularly reviewed.
The Company Secretary is supported group of individuals dominates decision making.
by a Deputy Company Secretary in the provision of company secretarial services to the Board and the Group.
The Deputy Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit, Board time Nominations and Remuneration Committees and has direct Stakeholder management 5% access to the Chairmen of these Committees.
Board and HR 5% Strategy Board Committee papers are circulated to all Directors on EHS 5% 30% iPads ensuring fast, timely and secure provision of information to Board members.
E&A 7.5% D&O 10% Financial management 25% Corporate governance 12.5% 82 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance 3 BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION BOARD DIRECTORS ISSUES THE SENIOR PERFORMANCE IDENTIFIED INDEPENDENT REPORTS ACTION PLAN DIRECTOR FEEDBACK AGREED BY BOARD COMMITTEE CHAIRMEN Board evaluation The structure of the Company at senior levels, and the The Board engaged Lintstock Ltd to undertake an external succession planning for the Executive Directors and for evaluation of the performance of the Board.
The first stage management beneath the Board, were assessed: and of the review involved Lintstock engaging with the Chairman The composition and performance of the Committees and the Company Secretary to set the context for the of the Board were considered in the review, as was the evaluation and to tailor questionnaires to the specific performance of the Chairman and individual Directors.
All respondents were then requested to complete an online questionnaire addressing The conclusions of the report are summarised in the Board, Board Committees, Chairman and Individual Corporate Governance Summary on page 44.
Interviews were then conducted with members objectives for 2014, set out on page 84, reflect the action of the Board by two partners from Lintstock to expand upon plan and priorities agreed by all the Directors as part of the issues raised in the questionnaires.
The anonymity of all the evaluation.
respondents was ensured throughout the process in order to Lintstock have no other connection to the Company.
promote the open and frank exchange of views.
Lintstock subsequently produced a report which addressed the Board objectives following areas: Our leadership team, with its experience and proven track record, provides a strong platform to deliver long-term The composition and diversity of the Board was growth.
The Board brings a broad range of industry, reviewed, and the dynamics between the Board business, commercial and other relevant experience, which members and between the Board and Senior we believe is vital to managing an expanding international Management were evaluated, as was the atmosphere company.
in the Boardroom: The management of time at the Board and the Boards As detailed in the Governance summary on page 44, the annual cycle of work were considered, and the support Board works to a set of agreed objectives each year which afforded to the Board was assessed: address the major opportunities and challenges facing the Company.
The objectives reflect the priorities agreed The Boards oversight of strategy was reviewed, and the following the end-of-year Board evaluation.
The progress Board members views of the top strategic issues facing of each objective is kept on track by Executive Director and the Company were identified: Company Secretary, Graham Martin, who is the nominated The risk appetite of the Board was evaluated, as was Director for Board matters, and a mid-year review is the Boards management of risk, and Board members undertaken with the Chairman.
views as to the key risks facing the Company were identified: The table on the next page shows how the Board performed against the 2013 objectives and also details the priorities and rolling agenda items the Board will focus on in 2014.
Board tenure Greater than 11 years Less than one year 2 1 Six to 10 years Two to five years 4 5 www.
com 83 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE CONTINUED Board objectives 2013 Board objectives 2013 Performance Regularly update strategy to maximise value creation, The strategy was articulated in the various Strategy and taking into account external views on political and presentations of the 2012 annual results and execution economic developments in host countries.
Ensure 2013 half-yearly results to the market adequate time is allocated for Board discussions of: and shareholders.
The exploration opportunity set: It was debated and re-affirmed at a mid-year Board strategy review.
Resource allocation to exploration, appraisal and development projects: Finance and portfolio management options: and Maintaining operating cost and capital discipline.
Continue to ensure that appropriate systems and The systems and processes for monitoring Risk processes exist to identify, monitor and manage various risks continued to evolve and improve management evolving risks, with a particular focus on: throughout the year, culminating in a decision to merge the EHS and External Affairs Departments Social impacts and external stakeholder to ensure the proper resources and attention relations: could be devoted to the most critical areas.
Country risk: Mandatory criteria were agreed for Social EHS: Investment projects.
Security and human rights: and Treasury and financing options.
Maintain and enhance Tullows culture and The Compliance Department continued to run Governance values: sessions on Tullows Code of Business Conduct, and values reaching around 88% of our staff.
These Reinforce compliance with Tullows Code of interactive sessions focused as much on culture Business Conduct: and values as on governance issues and drew Continue to strengthen internal controls and upon some examples of less than satisfactory reporting: behaviours which came to light in the course of Seek shareholder approval for new remuneration the year, learning lessons appropriately.
policy: and Form a new EHS Board sub-committee.
Continue to build organisational capacity through We continued to fill some key roles in 2013 and Organisational recruitment, induction, development, recognition were able to attract high-calibre candidates from capacity and reward: other companies, demonstrating the appropriateness and flexibility of the reward Ensure organisational design is fit for purpose packages we are able to offer.
and evolves to reflect the growth in size and complexity of the business: The organisational design of the business remained much the same as in 2012, except for Continue to monitor senior executive the merger of the EHS and External Affairs development plans to provide succession for all Departments and the integration of the Spring key positions: and Energy Team in Norway.
Continue to increase the diversity of the management team.
Continue to enhance Board-level interaction with Board-level interaction with employees continued Stakeholder shareholders, employees, politicians, key in 2013 at various functions.
While the visit to engagement decision-makers, NGOs and other stakeholders: Kenya had to be postponed because of the and Westgate Centre episode, it has been added to the Board calendar in March 2014.
Arrange Board visit to Kenya.
Board Undertake agreed personal development plans: The Chairman continued to engage with all and Directors on their training and development development needs, resulting in most Directors attending Arrange external presentations on agreed topics suitable general or bespoke courses or events.
84 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance 3 2014 Board objectives At each Board meeting there have been regular Regularly review strategy in the light of social, economic and political standing items on the exploration opportunity set, developments.
Ensure adequate time is allocated to monitoring: resource allocation, treasury, finance and Execution of the strategy portfolio management options and cost and Effectiveness of resource allocation to exploration and appraisal capital discipline, and Board time activities allocated accordingly.
Portfolio management Major capital projects Although there was greater focus and attention Continue to ensure that appropriate systems and processes exist to identify, during the year on social impacts and external monitor and manage evolving risks, with a particular focus on: relations in our key areas of operation, the Political risk evaluation two-week suspension of operations in Kenya, due Community relations and social performance to local unrest in Turkana, showed that there was Security and human rights much room for improvement by both Tullow and all levels of Government in managing EHS, particularly process safety stakeholder expectations.
The newly formed Board EHS Committee met four times during the year and focused on process safety, incident management, EHS culture and the measurement of EHS performance.
While internal controls and reporting continued to Maintain and enhance Tullows culture and values be strengthened, some low level examples of Reinforce compliance with Tullows Code of Business Conduct failures in our systems were observed and were Continue to strengthen internal controls and enhance whistledealt with appropriately.
blowing facilities Shareholder support for the new remuneration policy was obtained at the AGM, and the EHS Board Committee was formed at the start of the year.
Senior executive development and succession Continue to build organisational capacity without compromising plans are regularly kept under review, particularly Tullows culture.
at times when vacancies arise in key roles.
Build awareness of non-technical risk management within line The diversity of the senior corporate and local management and the technical functions management teams continued to increase in 2013 Further strengthen the Human Resources function with some key roles being filled in Ghana, Kenya Strengthen the Sustainability and External Affairs function and in the corporate centre by local nationals Strengthen the Commercial function and women.
Continue to monitor senior executive development to provide succession for all key functions Increase the diversity of the management team The Chairman represented the Company at Enhance Board-level engagement with shareholders, politicians, various events and the Senior Independent CSOs and other stakeholders Director met a number of shareholders and Arrange Board visit to Kenya shareholder bodies while explaining the proposals for the new remuneration policy.
The Board continued to invite various external speakers to present at Board meetings on topics such as political risk in our key areas of operation in Africa and stakeholder engagement.
com 85 Corpor Corporate Go ate Gov vernanc ernance e CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE CONTINUED also took place in November to visit The Group issues its results and other RELATIONS WITH institutional investors in Kuala Lumpa, news releases via the London Stock SHAREHOLDERS Singapore, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Exchanges Regulatory News Service.
Communication and dialogue Sydney with a high level of interest In addition, these news releases are 2013 has been a challenging year for seen in all five cities.
An Executive published on the Media and Investor exploration and production management roadshow is now Relations sections of the Groups companies.
Throughout the year, planned to the region in the second website: www.
The Tullow has continued to maintain open half of 2014.
Group also provides updates and the and transparent communication with status of exploration and development shareholders and potential investors.
Following Tullows successful listing programmes on the website and via Regular dialogue is maintained with on the Ghana Stock Exchange in July social media service Twitter: our shareholders through meetings, 2011, the second Ghana Investor www.
presentations, conferences and ad Forum took place in May 2013.
Shareholders and other interested hoc events with institutional investors Tullows CEO and Company Secretary parties can subscribe to receive these and sell-side analysts.
Over the year, attended alongside Senior Managers news updates by email through the Investor Relations team and from the Ghana Business Unit all of registering online on the website.
The Senior Management met over 350 whom presented and took questions Group continually seeks to enhance institutions and the Group participated and answers from key institutional its online communications with its in 13 investor conferences globally.
With over 9,000 stakeholders and improved Executive Directors and Senior Ghanaian shareholders, the Group functionality is regularly implemented Management travelled to meet recognises the importance of across the corporate site.
A new institutional investors in the UK, continued shareholder engagement website is planned to be launched by Ireland, Germany, France, and Tullows Head of Investor the end of 2014.
The number of Switzerland, Scandinavia, Benelux, Relations also gave a Facts Behind visitors to the corporate website Ghana, South Africa and North the Figures presentation to investors remained stable in 2013, with over America.
An inaugural Investor and brokers at the Ghana Stock 425,000 unique website visits and over Relations roadshow to Asia Pacific Exchange in October.
425,000 UNIQUE VISITS IN 2013 IR APP Financial results, events, corporate reports, webcasts and fact books are In 2013, Tullow launched an all stored in the Investor Relations section of our website Investor Relations and Media app www.
com investors for tablets and smart phones to enable easy access to a suite of 2013 Annual Report and Accounts www.
com reports Scan the QR code below to find out more and download the app.
86 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Corpor Corporate Go ate Gov vernanc ernance e 3 3 KEY SHAREHOLDER Tullow offered meetings to Socially The Group gained a considerable ENGAGEMENTS 2014 Responsible Investors SRI in number of followers on its corporate London, Edinburgh, Paris and Twitter c. 10,000, Facebook c. 6,000, JANUARY Switzerland in the fourth quarter of YouTube c. 40,000 views and 2013.
Roadshow dates have already Full-year trading statement LinkedIn accounts c. 34,000.
Early in been scheduled for the first half of 2013, the Group launched an Investor 2014 to discuss topics including Relations and Media App that can be health and safety, the environment, downloaded to tablet and corporate governance, bribery and smartphone devices to enable a corruption issues, country and wider audience to view results political risk and operational announcements, presentations, FEBRUARY matters.
The 2012 Corporate videos, webcasts and images on the Full-year results Responsibility Report was issued move.
The App received recognition in June 2013 and was also made in 2013 when it won Best Innovation available in full HTML format on the for mobile at the Corporate & corporate website.
The report had Financial Awards.
enhanced our disclosure with new Tullow began planning for a Capital content, including transparency on Markets Day during 2013 and a date payments to governments.
Tullow MARCH in June 2014 has been set to host also published its first country Annual Report and Accounts the event in London.
Analysts and report in Uganda to demonstrate the investors will be invited to the event, commitment the Group has made with those unable to attend in during the decade that it has been person being given access to all the present in the country.
materials via the website and App.
APRIL In October 2013, Tullow issued its The Chairman met a number of first Corporate Bond.
After Annual General Meeting shareholders during the year and is roadshowing in the UK and the US, Interim Management Statement available to meet institutional the Group priced its offering of $650 shareholders to discuss any issues million of 6% senior notes due in and concerns in relation to the 2020.
Tullow will continue to engage Groups governance and strategy.
with its new bond investors through Non-executive Directors also have a number of High Yield conferences the opportunity to attend meetings throughout the year.
MAY with major shareholders and are Shareholder meetings available to attend if requested to do in Dublin and Ghana so.
The Investor Relations team provides regular market summaries to the Board following major operational announcements and via the monthly Board Report which includes shareholder analysis, JUNE shareholder feedback and Capital Markets day performance versus peers.
JULY O VER THE YEAR, THE INVESTOR RELATIONS Half-year trading statement TEAM & SENIOR MANAGEMENT MET OVER Half-year results 350 INSTITUTIONS & THE GROUP PARTICIPATED IN 13 INVESTOR CONFERENCES GLOBALLY.
NOVEMBER Interim Management Statement www www.
