Strategic Report How we manage the business It is important to have the appropriate processes in place to measure and control performance within the business they underpin the other three strategic priorities see page 10.
Structure and control Risks around the recruitment and retention of Our policies, which are available to all We control the business through a short key staff, while not specific to UBM, may be employees via the Hub, cover issues such as chain of command and a relatively flat increased during periods of transition.
anti-bribery and corruption, business conduct, organisational structure.
During 2012 use of social media, labour standards and The CEO and CFO conduct monthly meetings we created an Executive Committee human rights.
video calls with their direct reports, including Exco to act as an advisory sounding divisional CEOs.
We have a thorough quarterly Risk management board for the CEO and CFO.
The Exco review process in which divisional CEOs and Sound risk management is essential in order to which comprises David Levin, Robert CFOs provide updates on performance and run the business efficiently, pursue our strategy Gray, Ninan Chacko, Jime Essink, Simon expectations against budget.
successfully and ensure the sustainability Foster, Paul Miller, Jane Risby-Rose and of UBM.
The graphic below illustrates our Sally Shankland met on a quarterly basis Remuneration approach to identifying and managing risk.
This year we updated our executive remuneration policy to enhance the links The exercise looks at the probability of each We have invested significantly in a between performance and reward.
For more specific risk happening and, if applicable, UBM-wide finance and reporting system, details see page 44.
Below executive level, identifies the financial implications.
The CORE, which will go live during 2014. bonus rewards are also aligned with the business unit heads manage and monitor We expect that the system will, in time, strategy through incentives to achieve budget these risks, with the executive team providing improve access to timely, consistent and personal objectives which specifically guidance, the internal audit team providing some information from across the business address strategic initiatives.
assurance and the Board providing oversight.
which will help us manage more effectively and support the benchmarking Governance and best practice initiatives showcased in Effective governance is the cornerstone of GEM.
We also expect that the system will a well-managed organisation and UBM has lead to greater efficiency and reduced well-established processes and policies in costs in finance and administration place to support our operations worldwide.
processes in the medium term.
Risk management Top down For three years, we have carriedout Scenario Planning to examine Monitoring and new trends which could affect UBM and its Scenario refreshing businesses.
This involves senior managers Planning from across UBMs business units exploring extreme versions of emerging trends and Adjusting adjusting UBMs direction, products and strategic Strategic and services accordingly.
The scenarios are direction operational regularly presented to the Board and are consideration annually refreshed.
Given the Groups exposure to China this Board Risk analysis year, we undertook a specific China Scenario review and evaluation Planning exercise which was presented and discussed with the Board.
Bottom up In the Business Unit Risk Identification and Assessment exercise, Risk treatment the internal audit team engages with Business Unit each business unit annually to compile a Risk Identification comprehensive list of risks which could have andAssessment an impact on the operational performance of Monitoring and exercise the business.
refreshing 24 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements UBM has well-established processes and policies in place tosupport our operations worldwide.
UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25 Strategic Report How we manage the business continued Of the risks identified through our annual risk review, the following are the key risks from a group perspective: Change in potential impact of risk vs Risk Impact Mitigation prior year Macro-economic A slowdown in the macro environment could Our strategy is to have a diversified offering across slowdown and adversely impact revenue, as advertising, attendee, different markets and geographies.
Market and credit or exchange rate sponsorship and other discretionary revenue tends collection trends are closely monitored and regularly fluctuations.
A downturn may also result in slower reported at a divisional level.
Credit policies are debt collections, thereby affecting cash flow.
Foreign exchange rate fluctuations could adversely Exchange rate risk is partially hedged by issuing debt affect our reported earnings and the strength of our in currencies to which we have significant exposure.
Specific country Our business operates in many geographies, We integrate key owners and managers of our joint risk and emerging particularly Emerging Markets, which may present venture partners into our development programmes.
logistical and management challenges due to We send experienced employees into new regions different business cultures, languages, anti-bribery to work with local management teams, in order to laws, health and safety standards or unfavourable show them how UBM does business.
changes in applicable law or compliance requirements.
We adopt rigorous global controls and strong financial systems and compliance requirements Expansion through joint ventures reduces logistical new markets are subject to the same standards and and management issues but can create governance policies as all other business regions.
challenges or affect our ability to extract rewards from our investment.
Compliance and governance risks are managed through legal and operational reviews.
UBM adopts global ethical and operational standards which meet or go beyond local requirements.
New market entry is subject to close Board monitoring and internal audit review.
Inability to stage an A disaster or natural catastrophe, terrorism, Our contractual terms and conditions generally event or inability of political instability or disease could affect peoples protect us from the risks of late cancellations, and customers to travel willingness to attend our events, which could have we carry business interruption insurance to reduce to an event.
an adverse effect on our revenues.
Similarly the business model relies on the availability We foster strong relationships with venue operators of venues for hosting events.
and plan for alternative locations.
Sometimes we will postpone and or move an event if necessary.
Our strategy focuses on diversification and, where possible, reducing dependence on particular sectors or countries.
Changes in We cannot predict all the changes which may Our Scenario Planning process identifies emerging our business affect the competitiveness of the business, such behavioural trends which require action.
as changes in customer behaviour or technological differentiate our proposition from the competition innovations which would increase competition or and ensure our offering satisfies customers needs make some products or services less relevant.
Given increased media platforms, search engines and other online pace of technologies could all pose a competitive threat to We invest in innovative digital products through technological our businesses.
internal and external development and through advancement acquisition, and seek to reduce exposure to products and behavioural Similarly, additional venue capacity could introduce which are at risk, such as print advertising.
Each change competition as well as enhance opportunities division closely monitors trends and provides regular forgrowth.
26 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Change in potential impact of risk vs Risk Impact Mitigation prior year Technological System failure could have a significant impact on our Our IT function operates under clearly defined risk: security or business.
Unauthorised access to our systems by policies, procedures and maintenance programmes.
external parties could lead to reputational damage Disaster Recovery Plans are in place for key systems and legal action.
The collapse of the Cloud on which and these are subject to regular testing.
Our internal various products and systems are hosted could have audit and information security departments regularly negative consequences for our reputation.
review IT systems and security, and we conduct periodic penetration tests of primary systems.
UBM may need to carry out new projects or deliver new services which involve significant capital We mitigate project-related risks through robust investment.
Failure to deliver these efficiently could project management, close monitoring by internal lead to increased costs, delays or erosion of UBMs audit and the Board, and by assigning responsibility competitive position.
Reduced access to Changes in the availability or cost of financing, the We have conservative levels of cash, credit facilities capital and ability availability of suitable acquisitions, the ability to and an attractive maturity profile.
We use a range to pursue portfolio obtain regulatory approval, integration issues or the of borrowing facilities to fund requirements at short management failure to realise operating benefits or synergies may notice and at competitive rates.
We seek to reduce acquisition risk by applying strict strategic and financial criteria, and have welldocumented acquisition and integration processes.
Our acquisition strategy focuses on markets adjacent to areas in which we already operate.
Internal audit and the Board monitor the process closely.
UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27
