Products Geographies Communities Financial calendar 2014 Focused offering International reach Key sectors We have a high quality portfolio of products and services designed to meet our customers We are an international business with good exposure to mature growth markets and a We have strong brands serving professional and commercial communities in a marketing and communications needs.
strongpresence in faster-growth Emerging Markets, particularly Mainland China and wide range of fast-growing sectors.
This means we have a diversified customer HongKong.
base our largest customer accounts for just 1.4% of continuing revenues and Record date for 2013 final dividend 2 May we are not overly exposed to the fortunes of any one sector.
2013 Adjusted operating profit Annual General Meeting 20 May 2013 Revenue split by segment splitbysegment 2013 Revenue by geography Revenue by sector Final dividend payment date 27 May Announcement of interim results 1 August 1.
Fashion 9% Events Other Marketing Services Events Other Marketing Services Interim dividend for 2014 payment date October 1 2.
Advanced Manufacturing 7% PR Newswire PR Newswire 3.
Fashion 72.2m PRNs business falls into the News Top 20 events: Hong Kong Jewellery Distribution sector.
& Gem September, Hong Kong 5% Jewellery & Gem June and Asian Pacific Leather Fair APLF.
Technology 150.2m Top 20 events: Game Developer Pre corporate costs Conference, Black Hat USA and Interop.
Advanced Manufacturing 53.4m Cautionary statement Top 20 events: Medical Device & Events 61% 39% Manufacturing West MD&M.
We organise tradeshows and other live in UBM is the worlds second largest events 1.
UK 83.6m person events which help businesses to do organiser: we ran more than 400 events 3.
Lifestyle 91.8m 66% 34% The majority of our revenues are Our UK events principally serve business, transact, learn and network as part of in2013.
Top 20 events: Furniture China, generated by PR Newswires American ourevents in the Built Environment a professional or commercial community.
This Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for, the Cosmoprof Asia, Children-Babyand Canadian operations.
The balance sector with three of the UK shows Our portfolio is distinctive due to its bias 7.
Built Environment 51.1m membersof UBM plc the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
Maternity Products Expo CBME, is generated from Events and Other featuring in the top 20.
We also have towards large tradeshows and our growing The Company, its Directors, employees, agents or advisers do not Sign China, Interiors Birmingham and Top 20 events: Ecobuild and Marketing Services mainly serving operations within the lifestyle and presence in Emerging Markets.
accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this Hotelex Shanghai.
International Fire and Security various technology and advanced technology sectors.
document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such Exhibition and Conference IFSEC.
4% responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
By their nature, the 59% 32% 9% 96% statements concerning the risks and uncertainties facing the Group 32% 23% 45% 62% 38% inthis Annual Report involve uncertainty since future events and Other Marketing Services circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially 4.
We offer a range of high quality, sector-specific These products are closely related to Events 1 8.
Emerging Markets 80.7m digital and print products such as community and support the same sectors.
Top 20 events: CPhI Worldwide, Top 20 events: World Routes and 237.2m The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information websites, online publications, controlled International Contract Services Expo The majority of our activities in Cruise Shipping Miami.
available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the circulation publications and virtual events, which ICSE and CPhI China.
We make almost all our revenue from Continental Europe are Events: this Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking enable our clients to reach their target audiences Events.
Within the Emerging Markets proportion is particularly high in odd 2% 3% statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a or enhance their professional knowledge.
our two main markets are China 44% years like 2013 with a very large 98% 97% profit forecast.
and Hong Kong 30% where we operate biennial show serving the Food some of UBMs largest events serving Ingredients sector.
the jewellery, beauty, furniture and 4% pharmaceutical ingredient sectors.
UBM 83% 13% also has a notable presence in Brazil, PR Newswire India, Thailand, Singapore and Turkey, and a growing presence in Indonesia, PR Newswire: our core products enable PR Newswire is also one of the worlds 5.
RoW 15.6m Malaysia, the Philippines, and UAE.
organisations to communicate and reach largestpress release distributors and a leading The Rest of World relates to 3% targeted audiences principally by distributing distributor of premium releases in the US and ouractivities in Japan.
91% their releases and content across a range of Canadian markets.
PRN has sent more than 6% digital and traditional media channels and then 350,000 releases worldwide.
monitor how effectively those audiences 77% 23% engage with their communications.
1 Emerging Markets constituents are the non-G10 countries notably for UBM: Mainland China, Hong Kong, Brazil, India, Thailand, Singapore, Turkey, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Mexico and Saudi Arabia.
See pages 1619 for information about the performance of each segment
