Products Geographies Focused offering International reach We have a high quality portfolio of products and services designed to meet our customers We are an international business with good exposure to mature growth markets and a marketing and communications needs.
strongpresence in faster-growth Emerging Markets, particularly Mainland China and HongKong.
2013 Adjusted operating profit 2013 Revenue split by segment splitbysegment 2013 Revenue by geography 1.
North America 48% Events Other Marketing Services Events Other Marketing Services 1 2.
Emerging Markets 30% PR Newswire PR Newswire 3.
RoW 2% 22% 25% 5% 59% 16% 73% Pre corporate costs Events We organise tradeshows and other live in UBM is the worlds second largest events 1.
North America 376.9m person events which help businesses to do organiser: we ran more than 400 events The majority of our revenues are business, transact, learn and network as part of in2013.
generated by PR Newswires American a professional or commercial community.
The balance Our portfolio is distinctive due to its bias is generated from Events and Other towards large tradeshows and our growing Marketing Services mainly serving presence in Emerging Markets.
various technology and advanced manufacturing sectors.
32% 23% 45% Other Marketing Services We offer a range of high quality, sector-specific These products are closely related to Events 1 2.
Emerging Markets digital and print products such as community and support the same sectors.
237.2m websites, online publications, controlled circulation publications and virtual events, which We make almost all our revenue from enable our clients to reach their target audiences Events.
Within the Emerging Markets or enhance their professional knowledge.
our two main markets are China 44% and Hong Kong 30% where we operate some of UBMs largest events serving the jewellery, beauty, furniture and pharmaceutical ingredient sectors.
UBM also has a notable presence in Brazil, PR Newswire India, Thailand, Singapore and Turkey, and a growing presence in Indonesia, PR Newswire: our core products enable PR Newswire is also one of the worlds Malaysia, the Philippines, and UAE.
organisations to communicate and reach largestpress release distributors and a leading 3% targeted audiences principally by distributing distributor of premium releases in the US and 91% their releases and content across a range of Canadian markets.
PRN has sent more than 6% digital and traditional media channels and then 350,000 releases worldwide.
monitor how effectively those audiences engage with their communications.
1 Emerging Markets constituents are the non-G10 countries notably for UBM: Mainland China, Hong Kong, Brazil, India, Thailand, Singapore, Turkey, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Mexico and Saudi Arabia.
See pages 1619 for information about the performance of each segment
