Strategic Report UBMs strategy how we create value Our strategy Our aim To help businesses make connections, communicate Communities theirproposition and do UBM businesseffectively.
Products Geographies Our vision Products To be the leading B2B events-led marketing and communication Ensuring a high quality product range focusing services provider.
on Events Our main focus is on Events, particularly large tradeshows.
We aim to have events of the highest quality which continue to satisfy the needs of the sectors we serve.
Our strategy We recognise that marketing services, particularly online, complement our live events and, importantly, provide us with data Our strategy is founded on and analytics which enable us to understand our sectors better.
reinforcing three key strategic We aim to maximise PR Newswires performance by enhancing priorities to maintain our the services it offers and capitalising on adjacent opportunities.
Geographies Reporting linkages Developing our global presence particularly in growth markets Market overview Our strategy takes account of the long-term We focus on large, mature growth markets and on faster-growth drivers of our markets which can be seen on Emerging Markets alike.
We are keenly aware of our customers desire to globalise and Strategic progress we take advantage of our global infrastructure to help existing The progress we have made against our customers enter new countries.
strategy can be reviewed on pages 12 to 13 and in the Chief Executives Statement.
See As well as strengthening our existing business, we also explore pages 15 to 19. opportunities to make acquisitions in new countries and expand our business organically.
Key Performance Indicators Our Key Performance Indicators KPIs measure ourfinancial performance.
Changes in thesemeasures reflect how well we are Communities implementing our strategy over the long term.
Deepening our relationships with our customers See page 14. and exploring new opportunities Risks We always build on our relationships with the sectors we serve We look to understand and mitigate the risks and ensure we understand their needs so we can serve them to achieving our strategic priorities.
26 to 27 for our Principal Risks.
We explore opportunities to enter markets which are Remuneration complementary to our existing markets, particularly our events.
Executive remuneration is measured against We also seek out new markets which have high levels of buyer Key Performance Indicators ensuring a strong seller fragmentation and strong long-term growth characteristics.
link between Company performance and reward.
10 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Three strategic priorities Organic Portfolio Sustainable growth management performance Acquire events People and culture Events businesses We aim to attract, develop in growth and retain talented people Increase exposure Strengthen events by markets and or at all levels whilst allowing to faster growing enhancing customer complementary diversity to flourish.
We markets notably experience using sectors.
foster a positive, innovative, new Emerging customer insight.
We listen to our Geo-adapt events into toimprove events.
employees to ensure new geographies or we have an engaged, create new launches committed workforce.
Divest or Other Marketing Services Responsible discontinue business activities which no Use content and Focus on products longer complement We work to minimise any digital insight to which in aggregate the business, negative environmental improve events.
can achieve a target provide longand social impacts from Create digital margin of10% term profitability our operations and environments in2014.
or enhance our encourage our suppliers to with high levels growth prospects.
PR Newswire How we manage the business Enhance the core Develop and sell We implement strong distribution network complementary governance to manage to attract more services.
risk, enhance our internal customers.
Grow in non-US reporting structure and Advise customers markets.
systems to improve to distribute higher Improve client loyalty transparency of engagement multithrough longer-term performance and align media content.
See page 12 See page 13 See page 13 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11
