Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements employee share plans.
These authorities will expire at the conclusion of for the year ended 31 December 2013. the AGM to be held on 20 May 2014.
Resolutions to renew them will be put to shareholders at that meeting.
Strategic Report The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 33 contains information relating to The holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys the performance of the Companys business during the financial year, Report and Accounts, to attend and speak at Company general the position of the Company at the end of the year, and likely future meetings, including the AGM, to appoint proxies and to exercise developments, as detailed in the table at the bottom of page 61. votingrights.
Results for the year and dividends E-communications The results for the year are set out in the Group consolidated income Shareholders have previously passed a resolution to enable the statement on page 65.
The balance to be transferred to reserves is Company to make documents or information available to members 117.0m.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 20.5p per share onthe website or by electronic means.
If any shareholder who has for the year ended 31 December 2013 to be paid on 27 May 2014 to received a printed copy of this Annual Report would prefer to receive those shareholders on the register on 2 May 2014.
An interim dividend future communications electronically, they can do so by contacting the of 6.7p per share was paid on 10 October 2013, making a total for the Companys registrars, Equiniti Jersey Limited contact details can be year of 27.2p 2012: 26.7p.
found in the shareholder information section at the back of this report or by registering at www.
Directors and their interests The following Directors held office during the year: Employee share plans The Company operates a number of all-employee share plans and Dame Helen Alexander, David Levin, Robert Gray, Alan Gillespie, discretionary share plans, including a sharesave scheme under which Pradeep Kar, Greg Lock, Terry Neill, Jonathan Newcomb and Karen all eligible employees around the Group may use the proceeds of a Thomson.
John McConnell was appointed as a Director on 27 January related SAYE contract to acquire options over Ordinary shares of the 2014.
Biographical details of the Directors in office as at 28 February Company at a discount of up to 20% on their market price.
Details of 2014 are set out on pages 34 to 35. discretionary share plans can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 58.
David Levin will cease to be a Director on 1 March 2014 and Karen Thomson will cease to be a Director on 31 March 2014.
Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code all financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Directors who are in office when the notice of meeting is made The Companies Jersey Law 1991 the Law requires Directors to available to shareholders will submit themselves for re-election at the prepare financial statements for each financial period in accordance with Annual General Meeting.
Robert Gray has a service contract which is generally accepted accounting principles prescribed for the purposes of subject to 12 months notice on either side.
Dame Helen Alexander the Law for market traded companies.
The financial statements of the has a contract for services which is subject to six months notice from Company are required by law to give a true and fair view of, or be either party.
None of the Non-Executive Directors have a service presented fairly in all material respects so as to show, the state of affairs contract and all are considered by the Company to be independent.
of the Company at the end of the period covered by the accounts and of Jonathan Newcomb has served on the Board since September 2001 the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these but the Board considers him to be independent.
For further details, financial statements, the directors should: please refer to the Corporate Governance Statement on page 36.
Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently.
Tim Cobbold, whose appointment as CEO was announced on 25 Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
February 2014, will join the Board on 6 May and will be proposed for Specify which generally accepted accounting principles have been re-election at the AGM.
Further information relevant to the proposal to followed in their preparation.
re-elect him can be found in the Notice of AGM.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unlessit is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue The interests of the Directors in office at 28 February 2014 in the in business.
shares of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 53.
The Directors are responsible for keeping accounting records which are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and are No Director had a material interest in any contract other than a service such as to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial contract with the Company or any subsidiary at any time during the year.
position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements prepared by the Company comply with the requirements Share capital of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They are also responsible for Details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital are set safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for out in Note 12 on page 129. taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
As at 31 December 2013, the Company held a valid authority from shareholders to make market purchases of up to 24,547,259 Ordinary The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the shares, representing 10% of the issued Ordinary share capital as at the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
date of the 2013 Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Company did Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of not repurchase any Ordinary shares during the year.
As at 31 December financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
2013 the Company also held valid authorities from shareholders to allot Ordinary shares up to a nominal value of 8,182,419, representing one-third of the issued Ordinary share capital as at the date of the 2013 AGM Notice.
During the year shares with a nominal value of 293,458 were allotted on the exercise of share options under the Companys UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59 Governance Directors report continued Directors responsibility statement pursuant to DTR4 shareholders.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, at each Each of the Directors at the date of this report, whose names and AGM any Director then in office who has been appointed by the Board functions are listed on pages 34 to 35, confirm that to the best of since the previous AGM and any Director who at the date of the notice theirknowledge: convening the meeting had held office for more than 30 months since they were last appointed or reappointed by the Company in general The Group financial statements in this report, which have been meeting shall retire from office but are eligible for reappointment.
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Notwithstanding the provisions of the Companys Articles of Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Association, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Standards Board IASB and IFRIC interpretations, and the Company Directors will submit themselves annually for re-election at the AGM.
financial statements in this report, which have been prepared in Non-Executive Directors appointments are reviewed every three years.
accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting principles, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the position and result of the Company and the undertakings included in Company other than: the consolidation taken as a whole.
Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and The strategic report on pages 1 to 33 includes a fair review of the regulations for example, insider trading laws and market development and performance of the business and the position of the requirements relating to close periods.
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as Restrictions in the FSAs Listing Rules whereby certain employees awhole, together with a description of the principal risks and of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the uncertainties that they face.
Disclosure of information to the auditor None of the Companys shares carries any special rights with respect The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the voting Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware: there is no relevant rights attaching to the ordinary shares.
There are no arrangements of audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and which the Directors are aware under which financial rights are held by each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a a person other than the holder of the shares and no known Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and agreements or restrictions on share transfers or voting rights.
to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank pari Substantial shareholdings passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
The As at 31 December 2013 the Company had been notified of the Company operates an employee benefit trust ESOP Trust, with an following significant interests in voting rights in its ordinary share independent trustee, to hold shares pending employees becoming capital in accordance with Chapter 5 of the FSAs Disclosure Rules and entitled to them under the Companys share schemes and plans.
On Transparency Rules: 31 December 2013 the trust held 390,281 Ordinary shares in the Ordinary % of share Company.
The ESOP Trust waives its dividend entitlement and Shareholder name and date of notification shares capital abstains from voting at general meetings.
M&G Investment Management Limited Change of control 15August2013 15,833,058 6.44% The Company is party to change of control provisions in its principal Hengistbury Investment Partners, financing agreements as follows: LLP 26 November 2013 12,808,262 5.21% Standard Life 02 October 2013 12,263,759 4.992% The 250 million 6.50% bonds due in November 2016 contain Massachusetts Financial Services provisions which are triggered on a change of control of the Company.
Company 19 July 2012 12,030,457 4.91% The holders of such bonds have the right to repayment at par if the Ignis Investment Services 06 March 2013 7,773,782 3.17% Company is non-investment grade at the time of the change of controlor becomes non-investment grade within 120 days of the There were no additional notifications subsequent to the end of the announcement of the change of control, provided the change in financial year up to 28 February 2014. ratingis related to the change in control.
Political donations The $350 million 5.75% bonds due in November 2020 contain UBM made no political donations during 2013 2012: nil.
provisions which are triggered on a change of control of the Company.
The holders of such bonds have the right to repayment at 101% of par Annual General Meeting if the Company is non-investment grade on any day during the period The AGM of the Company will be held on 20 May 2014.
The notice commencing 60 days prior to the first public announcement by the ofmeeting and a description of the business to be transacted is being Issuer of any change of control or pending change of control and sent tothose shareholders who wish to receive a hard copy of the ending 60 days following the consummation of such change of control, Annual Report and Accounts.
It is also available on the Companys provided the change in rating is related to the change in control.
In addition, the Group has a Revolving Credit Facility of 300 million Auditors due May 2016 which contains provisions which are triggered on a Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in change of control of the Company, giving each bank the right to office and a resolution for their reappointment and remuneration will repayment of borrowings and reduction in commitment to zero.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or Takeover directive employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Directors are occurs because of a takeover bid.
reappointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of the 60 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Greenhouse gas emissions Base year We have reported on all the emission sources required under the 2010 was set as the base year, as this was the first time carbon Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports emissions were reported globally with reliable data and it was typical in Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated respect of our operations.
We have recalculated our base year and all financialstatement.
previous years in accordance with guidance from DEFRA, to ensure we are using the most up-to-date carbon conversion factors provided We do not have responsibility for any emission sources that are not by both DEFRA DECC and E-Grid, and to reflect our recent disposal.
included in our consolidated statement.
Base year recalculation policy Methodology The baseline recalculation policy is reviewed annually and takes into We have followed the 2013 UK Government environmental reporting account any significant business change above a 5% threshold and or guidance and used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and developments in climate change or carbon management regulation.
Reporting Standard revised edition published by WBCSD & WRI the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Other information Resources Institute.
Emission factors were US eGRID 2012 and the The Directors Report of UBM plc for the year ended 31 December UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2013 comprises pages 59 to 61 of this Annual Report and the other 2013.
The reported emissions also form part of our submission for the sections listed below, which are incorporated into the Directors CDP Carbon Disclosure Project.
Information Location in Annual Report External assurance statement Our carbon disclosure has been assured against CDP approved Strategic Report verification standard AA1000, by Trucost plc for the last three years.
To UBMs strategy Pages 10 to 13 see the most recent assurance statement, please refer to our website.
Segmental performance Pages 16 to 19 Appropriate processes risks Pages 24 to 27 Materiality Responsible business Pages 22 to 23 UBM reports on all environmental impacts that are believed as material Governance for a company in its sectors.
These indicators were chosen according Corporate governance statement Pages 34 to 40 to their contribution to the overall carbon footprint and the availability Events since 31 December 2013 ofdata.
Note 8.3 to the Financial Statements Pages 121 Treasury Policy Organisational boundary Chief Financial Officers Review Pages 28 to 33 The organisational boundary is determined by the operational control Section 5 of the Financial Statements Pages 93 to 103 approach.
UBM has operational control over all office buildings owned Going Concern Pages 33 and leased by UBM but does not have control over sub-let space and non-UBM tenant emissions.
By order of the Board Operational scopes We have measured our scope 1, scope 2 and certain scope 3 emissions.
These carbon emissions are calculated for all Global UBM offices, where data is available.
Anne Siddell Unavailable data was estimated by up-scaling.
Please see the table Company Secretary below.
28 February 2014 Assumptions and estimations Registered office: Ogier House, The Esplanade, Assumptions are kept to a minimum.
The percentage of data against St. Helier, Jersey JE4 9WG headcount was recorded for each source of emissions and up-scaled Registered Number: 100460 to 100% to estimate the total carbon footprint.
The proportion of actual data versus estimates for each emission source is shown in the table.
Business flight emissions are not up-scaled however, as this data may not apply to all employees, and was obtained via global survey.
Table to show the percentage of data, and that which is estimated in 2013 Tonnes of carbon % of data emissions Utility in 2013 estimated Company cars 100% 0 Electricity 95% 265 Gas 94% 0 Offsite datacentres 90% 96 Commuter travel 49% 3,556 Waste 43% 6 Water 41% 8 Fugitive emissions 25% 0 Business travel n a 0 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61
