Governance 2013 Directors remuneration report continued Other corporate events SECTION 2 DIRECTORS ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT If other corporate events occur such as a winding-up of the Company, The Remuneration Committee demerger, delisting, special dividend or any other event which, in the The following Directors were members of the Committee during 2013: opinion of the Committee, may affect the current or future value of the awards, the Committee may determine whether, and to what extent, Greg Lock Chairman awards held under the 2014 PSP and or 2014 Deferred Share Bonus Dame Helen Alexander Plan will vest.
In the case of the 2014 PSP, the Committee will take Karen Thomson joined the Committee in February 2013 into account the extent to which applicable performance conditions Pradeep Kar have been satisfied and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed since grant.
The Committee was advised by the Company Secretary, who is secretary to the Committee, the Group Reward and HR Director and Awards held under all-employee plans would normally be expected the Group People and Culture Director.
No individual is allowed to tovest on a change of control.
Those which have to meet specific participate in matters directly concerning their own remuneration.
The requirements to benefit from permitted tax benefits would vest in Committees terms of reference provide further details of its role and accordance with those requirements.
responsibilities and are available on the Companys website.
Greg Lock is also a member of the Audit Committee.
For each of the above events, the treatment of unvested awards granted under the former long-term incentive plans the 2005 Activities of the Committee Performance Share Plan 2005 PSP, Bonus Investment Plan BIP and The Committee met six times during the year, and its main activities Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS will be in line with the rules were as follows: of each plan.
carried out a strategic review of executive remuneration: External appointments engaged with major shareholders on the strategic review and the The Company considers that permitting Executive Directors to hold proposed outcomes: office as a Non-Executive Director of another company will benefit approved a new executive remuneration policy and principles UBM by increasing their knowledge and experience.
The policy allows from2014: Executive Directors to accept not more than one outside corporate approved a new LTIP plan and a new Deferred Bonus Plan for use directorship, subject to Board approval.
Directors are entitled to retain from 2014 onwards: the fees earned.
reviewed Executive Directors performance during 2012 and approved bonuses: Robert Gray is an advisory Board member of Codere S. A. and received approved 2013 bonus objectives for Executive Directors: fees of 43,064 during 2013 2012: 31,803. approved LTIP awards for 2013: measured performance for the BIP awards and 2005 PSP awards, Non-Executive Directors vesting in March2013: Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board on the reviewed the new reporting regulations and prepared a revised style recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The appointment of Remuneration Report: and Non-Executive Directors is for a term of three years, during which reviewed and approved the arrangements for David Levin following period the appointment may be terminated by either party on notice, his resignation.
ranging from three to six months.
There are no provisions on payment for early termination in their letters of appointment.
Committee advisers Following a review of its advisers in February 2013, the Remuneration Each Non-Executive Directors appointment including that of the Committee appointed Deloitte, an independent firm of remuneration Chairman is reviewed every three years.
In accordance with the UK consultants, as advisors with effect from 1 March 2013.
Prior to this, Corporate Governance Code, all Directors are required to stand  acted as advisers to the Committee.
the year, Deloitte advised the Committee in relation to a strategic review of our executive remuneration framework: developments in The contracts and letters of appointment of Non-Executive Directors market practice: corporate governance: and institutional investor views.
and service contracts of Executive Directors are available for inspection Deloitte is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group at UBMs registered office during normal business hours and will be and adheres to its Code in relation to executive remuneration available at the Annual General Meeting.
During the year Deloitte has also provided advice and implementation support in relation to UBMs technology and Details of the remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors is set management reporting systems, CORE.
out in the policy table on page 48.
Kepler Associates conducted valuations of the 2005 PSP TSR-based The Board as a whole considers and approves the fees of Nonand assisted in analysis of the TSR peer group for use in 2014 under Executive Directors, with the exception of the Chairman whose fees are the new 2014 PSP.
The Chairman is absent for this discussion.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it has received has been objective and independent.
Total fees for advice provided to the Committee during the year amount to 207,120.
50 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
