Strategic Report Industry trends and UBMs competitive position continued Marketing services the marketplace 67% of UBMs marketing services activities are in North America, so the analysis below provides a perspective on the wider market context.
2013 US total B2B digital 2013 US total B2B print advertising advertising 11% $66bn 1.5% $39bn Source: Outsell.
As these statistics show, the market continues its long-term trend As well as enabling marketers to quantify the return on their investment, away from print towards digital media.
Ever more detailed digital data data analytics also provide excellent insight into which content online is collected online and subject to increasingly powerful analytics.
This is important because advertisers recognise As a result, the online environment continues to attract a growing that users are more likely to share high engagement content, and proportion of marketing investment as the data enables companies therefore access to earned media third party promotion becomes tobe more sophisticated about generating and nurturing leads.
UBMs position By aligning our digital Marketing Services with our Events portfolio, we can also use data collected online to enhance our customer insight.
In 2013 print activities accounted for 4.3% of Group revenues This improves our understanding of the communities we serve and compared to 58% in 2004.
This percentage will reduce further in 2014 equips us with information we can use to improve our live events based on disposals and discontinuations made during 2013.
Revenues through learning, networking or transacting.
generated from online activities now account for 12.0% of Group revenues.
We have aligned our Marketing Services more closely with As with our live events, the key to the strength of the UBM portfolio our Events portfolio.
is the audience engagement generated by each digital or print brand within its specific community and geography.
As the graphs below This development is supported by the trend for marketers to adopt show, UBM has a bias towards the Technology, Health and Built integrated marketing approaches.
The Outsell 2013 Advertising Environment sectors, particularly in the US and UK.
and Marketing study highlighted that advertisers rate cross-media campaigns much more highly for effectiveness in generating leads than campaigns that rely on a single medium.
Community split of Other Marketing Services % Geographic split % 1.
Other 5 Within these sectors we have strong relationships with communities in a wide range of niche sub-sectors.
While there are competing propositions in each community we serve, there are no close competitors for our Marketing Services business overall.
08 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
