Governance 2013 Directors remuneration report Greg Lock Chairman, Remuneration Committee Annual statement Increased clarity and greater simplicity of disclosure.
The clarity and simplicity of the Remuneration Report has been Dear Shareholder, improved.
We also believe that the changes to our reward framework, detailed below, have made it more straightforward I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for and transparent.
Other key changes to remuneration arrangements In 2012 I highlighted three key areas of focus for the Remuneration Reduction in CEO bonus opportunity and a new approach Committee for 2013.
Here are some of the ways in which the to determining LTIP awards.
The policy for the CEOs bonus Committee has done its work: has been reduced from 170% of base salary to 150% of salary.
So that LTIP awards are appropriate, award levels will be subject Better links between performance and reward.
During 2013 to the judgement and discretion of the Committee, and will the Committee carried out a review of executive remuneration reflect the overall performance of both the Company and the arrangements.
As a result, several changes have been made to individual.
The range for LTIP awards for the CEO will be between the executive remuneration policy to enhance the link between 100% and 200% of base salary, to be determined annually, with performance and reward: awards at the top end of the range appropriate in only the most We have simplified the Long-Term Incentive LTIP exceptional circumstances.
The Committee will ensure that structure with the introduction, from 2014, of one Group LTIP whenever any judgement and discretion are exercised these are so that executives are focused on achieving one key set of thoroughly explained and justified.
Introduction of a new Deferred Bonus Plan with no Shareholders will be asked to approve a new LTIP which will matching.
This new plan will be effective from 2014, and also have three financial measures: Earnings per Share EPS, contains a malus provision.
For 2013 there was no matching of relative Total Shareholder Return TSR and Return on the bonus deferred into shares under the old Bonus Investment Average Capital Employed ROACE.
The introduction of Plan BIP.
ROACE is designed to enhance the link between long-term CEO changes.
David Levin will step down as CEO effective reward and the achievement of UBMs strategy of growing from 1 March 2014.
David will receive a bonus in respect of our events, particularly in Emerging Markets, both through 2013 as set out on page 52, with 25% of the bonus lapsing in acquisitions and organic growth geo-adaptations.
By effective lieu of deferral.
He will not be eligible to receive a salary management of our existing capital base we can support increase, a bonus or any LTIP awards in respect of 2014. organic revenue growth.
By ensuring that any new Unvested awards, for the various share plans operated by UBM, investments generate returns in excess of the acquisition will lapse in accordance with their rules.
business case we can support our acquisition strategy.
ROACE and EPS are both Group KPIs see page 14, and we Dame Helen Alexander, Chairman of UBM plc, will act as Executive believe that relative TSR remains an appropriate metric for Chairman until Tim Cobbold takes up his position on 6 May 2014. assessing relative long-term performance in terms of the Remuneration for Dame Helen will be decided by the Committee shareholder experience.
For 2014 these three financial after she has relinquished the role.
The Committee will consider the measures will have equal weight.
time and effort expended in deciding appropriate remuneration, We have also introduced a financial underpin into the which will not exceed the base salary of David Levin on a pro-rata annual bonus plan and a malus provision into the new LTIP basis.
There will be no incentive element.
and deferred bonus plans to ensure that reward is only provided for robust and sustainable performance.
The new CEO package is in line with the proposed new policy.
Improved engagement and relationships with Allmembers of the Committee are also members of the shareholders.
During the year the Committee consulted with Nomination Committee, which ensured early engagement on multiple shareholders in two separate periods.
Initially we asked remuneration matters within the succession process.
Full details for their views on current arrangements and, later in the year, of the new package appear on page 57. we presented the findings of the review and our proposed changes to the executive remuneration framework.
We value the feedback we receive and look forward to ongoing dialogue with shareholders.
44 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
