Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Industry trends and UBMs competitive position continued Events the marketplace Global exhibitions market geographic split % Global Exhibition Industry 2013 Industry Growth 1.
Emerging Markets 17 Source: AMR International 2013 5.
RoW 18 AMR, the events industry analyst, valued the global exhibition industry 2. at $27bn in 2013.
AMRs Globex report suggests that in 2013 the revenues of the global Top five global exhibition organisers % exhibition industry grew by 4.1% and forecasts that the compound annual growth rate between 2012 and 2017 will be 4.7%.
5. rate is faster than global GDP and is attributed to: 4.
UBM 2.6 growing recognition of events as effective media for B2B leadgeneration: and 1 3.
Messe Frankfurt 1.5 the relative underdevelopment of the exhibitions industry in countries such as China 0.02% of GDP versus global average 4.
Messe Basel 1.1 2 As you can see from the chart above right North America has 6.
Other 88.4 6. the mostdeveloped exhibitions industry whilst Emerging Markets 1 Shows exhibition organising revenue only.
arerelatively underrepresented compared to their contribution to 2 Other includes revenues from venues.
Source: AMR International 2013 Globex Report.
Competition is most intense at the new event launch stage.
In order to improve its profile and market position, UBM aims to As the graph above shows, UBM is the second largest events develop deep relationships with both local events businesses and the organiser in the world.
Our position in the global events market is industry sectors its events can serve.
strengthened by our portfolios bias towards large tradeshows which provide one of the most effective environments for creating B2B UBMs events portfolio is well distributed geographically.
We balance business opportunities for our customers.
our exposure to the large US market with faster-growing Emerging Markets.
As shown in the pie chart below, relative to the industry, UBMs events portfolio features diverse sectors.
We aim to develop UBMs portfolio is weighted towards these Emerging Markets.
Within our events business in markets where both buyer and seller groups Emerging Markets 44% of our revenues are from Mainland China and are fragmented and, therefore, where we can offer the most value in 31% from Hong Kong.
Other Emerging Markets include Brazil, India, creating business connections.
As the global events market is so fragmented, it is rare for UBM to Although economic performance of individual countries may be face direct competition from other large event industry players.
It is volatilein the short term, with faster GDP growth for Emerging often commercially very challenging to launch a directly competitive Markets, coupled with the relative immaturity of their exhibitions event against an incumbent must attend event.
The bias in our events industry, UBM is well positioned for long-term future growth.
portfolio towards large tradeshows means that UBMs events are more likely to be the must attend events for the particular community Community split of Events % Geographic split of Events % 1.
UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 07
