David Levin, CEO Committee membership Nomination Chair : Remuneration Appointed April 2005 Appointed May 2012 Experience David has been involved in the information, technology and media sectors since 1994.
Over that period he has held senior Experience Dame Helen Alexander was appointed as Chairman of the positions at the international business publishing group Euromoney UBM Board in 2012.
She began her media career in book publishing, Institutional Investor plc, Group COO, Group CFO, President of moving to The Economist in 1985.
She became Managing Director of Institutional Investor, the technology company Psion plc CEO and The Economist Intelligence Unit in 1993 and in 1997 became Chief the mobile phone software company Symbian Ltd CEO.
Executive of The Economist Group.
Dame Helen also has extensive global Board experience across a range of sectors.
Robert Gray, CFO Non-Executive Director at Northern Foods plc, BT plc, Centrica plc, and was President of the Confederation of British Industry CBI from Appointed September 2009 2009 to 2011.
She is a Non-Executive Director at Rolls-Royce Holdings Experience Robert joined UBMs Board as Chief Financial Officer plc and at esure plc.
She also chairs Incisive Media and the Port of inSeptember 2009 from Codere S. A. in Spain where he was Chief London Authority.
He began his career at J. P. Morgan and subsequently worked at Deutsche Bank where he served in a number of senior positions, including Managing Director, Latin American Investment Banking.
Robert has extensive experience in mergers and acquisitions, capital-raising across a broad range of markets, industries and UBM Board members deliver geographies, building businesses in international markets, notably in Latin America, and in transforming corporate financial functions to foresight and oversight, based support growth and access to capital markets.
on a wealth of experience in global business environments.
34 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 4.
Alan Gillespie, Senior Independent Director 7.
John McConnell, NonExecutive Director Committee membership Audit: Nomination Committee membership Audit: Nomination Appointed April 2008 Appointed January 2014 Experience Alan has extensive experience in both the private and the Experience John McConnell is Group Finance Director of Inchcape public sector, with a background in investment banking and financial plc, the leading premium automotive group which operates in 26 services.
He spent ten years at Citibank, followed by 13 years at developed and Emerging Markets around the world.
An Australian Goldman Sachs as a partner, with responsibility for corporate finance national, he joined Inchcape in 1999 as CFO of their Australian and and mergers and acquisitions in the UK and Ireland.
He jointly led the New Zealand businesses and was subsequently promoted to CEO of firms financial services practice in Continental Europe and in 1996 that region before being appointed to his current role in October 2009. established Goldman Sachs presence in South Africa.
Alan has Prior to joining Inchcape John worked with Reckitt and Colman now worked in the UK, USA, Continental Europe and South Africa.
From Reckitt Benckiser for 13 years in a variety of senior financial roles in 2001 to 2008 he was Chairman of The Ulster Bank Group.
He is the UK, Germany and Australia.
He will succeed Jonathan Newcomb currently the Senior Independent Director at Old Mutual plc.
as Chairman of UBMs Audit Committee on 1 March 2014.
Within the public sector, Alan is Chairman of the Economic and Social 8.
Terry Neill, Non-Executive Director Research Council ESRC.
He has been Chief Executive of the Committee membership Audit: Nomination Commonwealth Development Corporation, the Chair of The Northern Appointed September 2009 Ireland Industrial Development Board and Chairman of the International Experience Terry spent over 30 years with Accenture.
He has wide Finance Facility for Immunisation IFFIm.
experience of large-scale design and delivery projects, and managing change in global businesses.
Based in Dublin, Chicago and London, 5.
Pradeep Kar, Non-Executive Director hewas the worldwide managing partner of Accentures Change Committee membership Nomination: Remuneration Management Practice and a member of the global executive.
He was Appointed August 2006 part of the team that successfully developed and executed the strategy Experience Pradeep has extensive experience in building global for transforming Accenture into a public company.
He was also a four Information Technology businesses based out of India.
He is the term Chairman of Andersen Worldwide.
founder, Chairman and Managing Director of Microland, Indias leading global provider of outsourced IT infrastructure management and cloud More recently, Terry was a Non-Executive Director of both Bank of services.
A serial entrepreneur, Pradeep founded and sold four Ireland Group and CRH plc.
com Indias first internet professional services company, Indya.
com Indias leading portal, sold He served as a Governor of London Business School for 12 years.
to News Corporation, Net Brahma a telecom software company and Media2India Indias largest internet media company.
Jonathan Newcomb, Non-Executive Director Committee membership Audit Chair : Nomination Pradeeps deep understanding of the technology and Asian markets Appointed September 2001 are crucial to the Boards strategy in Emerging Markets.
Experience Jonathan has wide ranging experience of the publishing 6.
Greg Lock, Non-Executive Director and data industries.
He was Chairman of Simon & Schuster, one of the worlds largest book publishers and providers of education and training Committee membership Audit: Nomination: Remuneration Chair materials, from 1994 until 2002, having been President and COO from Appointed February 2010 1991.
Prior to that he was President of Standard & Poors.
He is Experience Greg has more than 40 years experience in the currently a Managing Director at the New York investment firm technology, software and computer services industry.
In a 30-year Berenson & Company and is the Chairman of Swets, a leading career at IBM Greg held a wide range of senior roles in the UK, information services company for academic, corporate, government Continental Europe and the USA, including a member of IBMs and medical institutions.
Worldwide Management Council and Governor of the IBM Academy of Technology.
As Global General Manager, Industrial sector, he had 10.
Karen Thomson, Non-Executive Director worldwide responsibility for IBMs business with companies in the Committee membership Nomination: Remuneration Automotive, Aerospace, Electronics, Chemical, Petroleum and other Appointed August 2006 manufacturing industries.
Experience Karen brings to the Board a wealth of experience of the online world.
She launched AOL in the UK in 1995 and served as Greg is Chairman of Computacenter plc, the IT services business, and CEOof AOL UK from 1999 to 2006 and President of AOL Continental Chairman of Kofax Plc, provider of market leading capture, process Europe in 2006, developing both the telecoms and advertising lines of management, mobile and analytics software.
He has served as business.
As Online Business Director of Vodafone UK, between April Chairman of three other UK software companies.
2007 and June 2008, Karen was responsible for developing Vodafone UKs Internet operations and fixed line telecoms business.
She has a particular interest in developing female talent in organisations and the building of strong organisational cultures.
She currently chairs Outplay Entertainment a social media games company based in Scotland delivering games across multiple mobile platforms in multiple international markets.
UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35
