GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REPORTS Audit committee Key responsibilities Our key responsibilities include oversight of !financial reporting and internal controls over !financial reporting, overseeing the Groups relationship with its external auditors and ABGs internal audit function, overseeing the external and internal audit processes generally and reviewing the effectiveness of the ABG Groups systems of internal control and !financial reporting risk management.
Activities in 2013 and plans for 2014 Our activities during the year were wide ranging, comprising in particular the following: Reviewing committee composition based on succession planning, skill set and quali!cation requirements Andre Falzon, Reviewing our terms of reference and our remit of Committee chairman responsibilities in light of changes introduced by the most recent edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code Reviewing the external auditors terms of engagement, plans, scope of work, compensation, and the !findings Membership arising from all external audit work Percentage of Meetings meetings Reviewing ABGs periodic !financial reporting attended attended Reviewing key accounting policies and developments in the Andre Falzon Chair 5 100% !financial reporting and regulatory environment Peter Tomsett 3 60% Reviewing the internal audit plan together with internal audit Rachel English 1 20% reports, !findings and monitoring related action plans Reviewing and recommending the appointment of Introduction Andrew Wray as Chief Financial Of!cer I am the chair of the committee and have over 25 years of Review succession planning for direct reports to the !financial and management experience within the mining Chief Financial Of!cer and the Head of Internal Audit industry.
I am a CGA Canada and CPA, CA Canada, which Reviewing enterprise risk registers, tax disputes and together provides me with the relevant !financial experience other litigation required for my position under applicable corporate governance Reviewing whistleblowing arrangements to support reporting standards.
As part of overall committee reviews during the year, requirements under ABGs Code of Conduct and Anti-Fraud Michael Kenyon and Derek Pannell retired from the committee and Anti-Corruption policies and were replaced by Rachel English and Peter Tomsett.
In 2014, the committee will continue to focus on all of the Details of members experience and quali!cations are provided above matters, these being core to its remit of responsibilities.
on pages 40 and 41 of the Governance report.
Our terms of reference require us to meet at least four times a year, and in 2013 we met !five times.
The Chief Executive Of!cer, Chief Financial Of!cer, the Head of Risk and Internal Audit, members of the Companys !finance and treasury function and the external auditors also attend committee meetings on a regular basis.
We also hold individual meetings with ABGs external auditors and the Head of Risk and Internal Audit without management present to discuss matters within our remit of responsibilities.
"Ms English was appointed at the end of the year and Mr Tomsett was appointed mid-year: therefore, their respective attendance re""ects their time of appointment."
Further details regarding the committee and its terms of reference are available for inspection on ABGs website.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49 COMMITTEE REPORTS CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED significant issues considered by the committee in 2013 Deferred tax: a number of tax assessments have been raised by the In addition to carrying out the activities referred to above, we reviewed TRA in prior years which have been challenged by members of the and considered the following in the context of signi!cant issues relating ABG Group.
We have reviewed the basis of these assessments and to ABGs !financial statements: discussed with management their views as to why the assessments are incorrect, along with the status of appeals and recent Impairment calculations and assessments: as a result of the correspondence with the TRA.
We also discussed these matters with signi!cant movements in the gold price across the year and the the external auditors.
Based on this review the committee concluded related sensitivities of the carrying value of ABGs Cash Generating that the Company had suf!ciently provided for any uncertain tax Units CGUs to gold price movements, particularly in the context of positions and that any material contingent liabilities had been Buzwagi and North Mara, management has been required to consider adequately disclosed.
In addition, the committee reviewed the amount impairment testing of all Company assets throughout the year, of deferred tax recognised with respect to losses incurred in previous particularly at the time of the Companys 2013 half-year report, and for periods and was comfortable with the amounts recognised.
purposes of the annual impairment review conducted at year end.
On a Inventory level assessments: as part of ongoing cost control and gross basis, and before taking into account the impact of deferred tax, inventory management reviews, the committee has reviewed and the total impairment charge for 2013 amounted to US$690.5 million scrutinised managements inventory level maintenance processes, at Buzwagi, US$307.3 million at North Mara, US$46.6 million relating existing inventory carrying values and the approach taken to ascertain to Nyanzaga and US$16.7 million at Tulawaka.
The committee has write-downs, particularly as regards inventory at Tulawaka and reviewed and examined key assumptions used by management for Buzwagi.
Management reported to the committee on the procedures impairment testing, in particular the long-term average gold price used, undertaken to determine and monitor inventory levels across the and the factors relevant to this selection, such as the Companys Group and overall supply chain procedures required to achieve optimal operating cash cost levels, the basis on which these assumptions inventory levels.
In addition, management reported to the committee were made, and related factors underpinning relevant mine planning, on all adjustments required to be made to inventory calculations, budgets and forecasts.
Views and contributions of the external something which was further expanded through discussions with the auditors as regards the impairment testing procedures and key external auditors as regards their analysis and treatment of these assumptions used formed part of the committees review of all issues.
Based on this process the committee is satis!ed that impairment test calculations.
The committee also relied on reviews managements position and presentation of the Companys inventory undertaken by the Technical committee as regards matters falling and related costs are suitable in the circumstances.
within its remit of responsibilities.
Following these reviews, the committee satis!ed itself that key assumptions used to ascertain Going concern review: in addition to the matters stated above, all the carrying value of the Companys CGUs had been appropriately of which are relevant to the Boards assessment of ABGs position reviewed and challenged and were therefore suf!ciently robust for as a going concern the statement relating to which is provided at use.
The committee also reviewed the disclosure contained in this page 33 the committee also reviewed other matters relevant to Annual Report and, in particular, the disclosure contained in the ABGs liquidity, namely the ongoing availability of net cash balances, notes to the consolidated !financial statements as regards impairment ABGs hedging strategy and policy, and the availability of funds under in order to satisfy itself of the accuracy and suitability of the existing credit facilities.
Management reported to the committee on disclosures so made.
each of these matters and was questioned accordingly.
In this regard, Indirect tax recoverability: as part of ongoing monitoring and review the committee has also taken into account the views of the external of taxation matters, we have reviewed the status, recoverability and auditors in order to satisfy itself of the position taken by the Board as classi!cation of the Companys indirect tax receivables relating to VAT regards to the appropriateness of the going concern assumption charged on imports and the domestic supply of goods and services.
contained in this Annual Report.
In this regard, we have received reports from management on the Fair, balanced and understandable review: at the request of the status of discussions and negotiations of such matters between Board, the committee has also reviewed the narrative content of the management and the Tanzanian Revenue Authority TRA : we have Annual Report in order to make a recommendation that the report reviewed managements ongoing calculations of amounts so satis!es revised narrative reporting requirements in that the Annual outstanding: the procedure established to recover refunds and Report, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable amounts due under the escrow account established to fund refunds and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess due in respect of portions of the receivable: the audit process the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
In this followed to con!rm such refunds, and the overall time frame for the regard the committee has taken advice from the company secretariat receipt of such refunds against amounts outstanding under the and the Companys legal function to satisfy itself of the relevant legal receivable from time to time.
The committee has also taken into and regulatory framework underpinning this disclosure standard.
account the views and contributions of the external auditors as regards recoverability and classi!cation of relevant indirect tax receivables.
Based on the foregoing, the committee has satis!ed itself that the Companys indirect tax receivables are recoverable and appropriately classi!ed in the circumstances and is satis!ed with the suitability of the related disclosures contained in this Annual Report.
com GOVERNANCE Internal and external audit reviews can be conducted without adversely affecting auditor independence.
As regards internal audit, throughout the year the committee received Generally, any such non-audit work is limited to matters relating to regular reports on matters under review by the internal audit function, taxation, this being directly relevant to the !financial assessment and and has reviewed such matters and raised questions with the Head of external audit of the Company.
Non-audit services will not be approved Risk and Internal Audit accordingly.
We also reviewed the internal audit in instances where the related fee would have a material bearing on the charter, mandate and performance in order to assess ongoing level of work required to be undertaken for the external audit itself, effectiveness, following which the committee concluded that the internal in order to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is audit function remains effective and performs in accordance with safeguarded.
In addition to this, senior members of the external audit requirements of the business.
team and the lead audit partner rotate periodically and at least every !five years in line with PwCs internal policies on independence.
As a As regards external audit, we have assessed the effectiveness of the company we also maintain a strict discipline on the recruitment of any external audit process via responses to surveys received from the former employees of the external auditors to ensure independence is Chief Financial Of!cer, members of the !finance and treasury function, not undermined in this regard.
and in particular members of the Companys !financial reporting team and the company secretariat.
The survey comprised a range of factors including the following: Progress achieved against the agreed external audit plan Competence with which the external auditors handled key accounting and audit judgements and communication of the same between management, the committee and the external audit team Compliance with relevant regulatory, ethical and professional guidance on rotation of lead audit partners Quali!cations, expertise, resources and the external auditors own assessment of their quality control procedures The stability and continuity provided to the business as a result of the continued appointment of  LLP PwC as external auditors Based on this assessment, the committee concluded that the external auditors remain effective and we will be recommending the reappointment of the external auditors at the forthcoming AGM in light of this assessment.
As regards external audit tender considerations, PwC have acted as external auditors for the ABG Group since its listing on the London Stock Exchange in March 2010.
We continue to monitor developments and best practice in this area and are mindful of guidance published during the year by the Financial Reporting Council, the !findings contained in the Competition Commissions !final report on its market investigation into the supply of statutory audit services to large companies in the UK, and ongoing developments in a wider European context as regards audit tendering requirements.
Going forward, the committee intends to put the audit services out to tender at least once every 10 years, to enable the committee to compare the quality of effectiveness of the services provided by the incumbent auditor with those of other audit !rms.
In respect of such tender, the committee will oversee the selection process and ensure that all tendering !rms have such access to information and individuals as is necessary for the duration of the tendering process.
As regards non-audit services provided by the external auditors, the committee reviews the status of all non-audit services on a quarterly basis and is required to consider, and where appropriate provide prior approval for, the provision of all non-audit work by the external auditors to ensure that any such work Annual Report and Accounts 2013 51 COMMITTEE REPORTS CONTINUED EHS&S committee Key responsibilities Our key responsibilities focus on the oversight and review of ABG activities that are of core importance to ABGs social licence to operate, and responsible mining practices.
These include ABGs strategy and policy on environmental, occupational health and safety, CSR and security matters: reviewing the effectiveness of Group EHS&S systems and controls and generally overseeing managements monitoring and evaluation of emerging CSR issues to assess the potential impact on ABGs business and operations.
Activities in 2013 and plans for 2014 Our activities during the year were wide ranging, and comprised the following in particular: Ambassador Mwapachu, Reviewing committee composition, based on succession Committee chairman planning, skill set and quali!cation requirements Reviewing our terms of reference and our remit of responsibilities in light of ongoing developments within the Companys business and operating environment Membership Reviewing ABGs EHS&S and CSR strategies and priorities, Percentage of performance, metrics, trends and incident reports Meetings meetings attended attended Reviewing key risks in ABGs operating environment as Ambassador Mwapachu Chair 4 100% regards EHS&S and CSR David Hodgson 4 100% Reviewing ABG management systems and processes as regards EHS&S and CSR Graham Clow 2 50% Reviewing key regulatory and other developments relevant to Rachel English 0 0% the EHS&S and CSR operating environment Introduction Reviewing and monitoring the status of occupational, health and safety targets and systems I assumed the role of chairman of the committee this year following the Boards review of the composition of all of its Identifying and reviewing speci!c focus areas in the context of performance and strategic reviews, including: ABGs committees, in light of my wide-ranging experience within community relations and community investment strategy Africa generally and David Hodgsons assumption of the role and approach, ABGs environmental and permit management of chairman of the Technical committee.
David Hodgson, approach, ABGs security strategy and management systems Graham Clow and Rachel English act as the other members and controls, ABGs strategy as regards artisanal and of the committee following the retirement of Kelvin Dushnisky, small-scale miners and the development of alternative Rick McCreary and Derek Pannell from the committee during livelihoods, ABGs government relations and public relations approach, and stakeholder engagement strategies the year.
Details of members experience and quali!cations are provided on pages 40 and 41 of the Governance report.
We also received regular updates and reports on progress Our terms of reference require us to meet at least twice a made as regards ABG Maendeleo Fund initiatives and we year, and in 2013 we met four times.
The Chief Executive reviewed managements plans to address certain operational Of!cer and those involved in the Companys environmental, requirements having a CSR nexus, such as land acquisition health, safety and security EHS&S and corporate social and resettlement and the Tulawaka closure.
In 2014, the committee will continue to focus on the majority of the above responsibility CSR functions also attend committee matters, these being core to its remit of responsibilities.
meetings on a regular basis to discuss matters within our remit of responsibilities.
"Ms English was appointed at the end of the year and Mr Clow was appointed mid-year: therefore, their respective attendance re""ects their time of appointment."
In this regard, no meetings of the committee were held following Ms Englishs appointment.
com GOVERNANCE Nomination and Governance committee Key responsibilities We play a leading role in reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and in reviewing prospective new Board appointments and succession planning requirements.
We also have primary responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the composition of Board committees and we manage recommendations for the retirement and replacement of Directors.
As mentioned in my introduction to the Governance report, the Board has recently taken the decision to expand our remit of responsibilities to include the delegation of authority for the oversight and determination of ABGs corporate governance policies and procedures.
"This requires not only a review of ABGs compliance with applicable corporate governance standards but also includes delegated authority to monitor and review Kelvin Dushnisky, independence requirements and the Companys practices and Committee chairman procedures as regards the management of actual and or potential con""icts of interest."
Membership Activities in 2013 and plans for 2014 Our activities during the year were wide ranging, and comprised Percentage of Meetings Meetings the following in particular: attended attended Reviewing committee composition based on succession Kelvin Dushnisky Chair 3 100% planning, skill set and quali!cation requirements Ambassador Mwapachu 3 100% Reviewing our terms of reference and our remit of responsibilities in light of ongoing developments within the Peter Tomsett 1 33% Companys business and operating environment and developments within a corporate governance context Introduction I assumed the role of chairman of the committee this year, Reviewing the Boards structure, size and composition in the context of the Companys strategic and business objectives following the departure of Derek Pannell.
Ambassador and identifying candidates and making recommendations as Mwapachu and Peter Tomsett act as the other members of the regards new independent Non-Executive Director appointments committee.
Details of members experience and quali!cations Assisting in the recruitment process for the Companys are provided on pages 40 and 41 of the Governance report.
new CEO Our terms of reference require us to meet at least twice a year, Monitoring and reviewing the Companys procedures for and in 2013 we met three times.
The Chief Executive Of!cer Board appointments and the reappointment of Directors in and external advisers also attend committee meetings to accordance with the Board assessment and skills matrix discuss matters within our remit of responsibilities.
"Reviewing key regulatory and other developments relevant to Mr Tomsett was appointed mid-year, therefore his attendance re""ects the committees role and responsibilities his time of appointment."
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53 COMMITTEE REPORTS CONTINUED NOMINATION AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE CONTINUED The committee also provided oversight and review of the Board and Board committees annual performance and effectiveness evaluations, an overview of which is provided on page 48.
In 2014, the committee will continue to focus on the majority of the above matters, these being core to its remit of responsibilities.
In addition to this, the committee will monitor the execution of action items from all performance and effectiveness evaluations, and we will also conduct appropriate corporate governance policy and procedure reviews throughout the year.
Generally, we assess all Board appointments on merit and against objective criteria.
As regards diversity, whilst the Company has not adopted a formal policy, we base all recruitment on the premise that we strive to attract a broad mix of individuals from both the traditional and non-traditional mining labour markets in order to create a diverse workgroup and maintain a unique company culture.
Above all, we aim to hire all individuals on the basis of the best candidate for all positions, at all levels, including Board and senior management positions, irrespective of gender.
Save for appointments made by Barrick under nomination rights contained in the Relationship Agreement, Board appointments are made on the basis of pre-determined job descriptions which include, as regards independent Non-Executive Directors, estimates of time commitment requirements.
From a recruitment and candidate search perspective, our existing Directors provide access to a wide network of potential Board appointment candidates, particularly within the extractive industry, as a result of their collective experience and standing within the extractive sector.
In addition to this, we look to retain external search consultants to assist us in identifying potential candidates for Board positions, when appropriate to do so.
This year we retained Egon Zehnder to provide assistance as regards the recruitment process used for Brad Gordon, and Russell Reynolds Associates to provide assistance in the identi!cation and recruitment of new independent Non-Executive Directors.
Neither !rm has any other connection with the Company.
As previously explained in earlier sections of the Governance report, in light of my existing knowledge and experience with the Company and its operations, the Board did not feel it appropriate to use an external search agency in connection with my appointment as Chairman.
com GOVERNANCE Technical committee Key responsibilities The Board took the decision to form the committee during the latter half of 2012 in order to provide further assistance and oversight for the review of the Companys planning and capital allocation procedures, reserves and resources estimates and matters relating to ABGs exploration programmes.
Activities in 2013 and plans for 2014 Our activities during the year comprised the following in particular: Reviewing the Groups mine planning processes Reviewing life of mine plans, in particular the new life of mine plans adopted for Buzwagi and North Mara Reviewing existing capital applications for the Groups David Hodgson, ongoing capital projects Committee chairman Reviewing the Groups reserves and resources estimates and, in particular, the annual reserves and resources estimate published as part of this Annual Report Membership In collaboration with the Audit committee and the Board Percentage of as a whole, reviewing relevant assumptions and technical Meetings Meetings considerations for Group impairment tests and attended attended impairment calculations David Hodgson Chair 2 100% Reviewing ABGs exploration programme and making Rick McCreary 2 100% recommendations as regards the priority of projects Michael Kenyon 2 100% and programmes Graham Clow 2 100% Conducting a site review of all of ABGs operations Where relevant and appropriate the committee has made Introduction recommendations to the Board in respect of the above.
As I act as the chairman of the committee, with Rick McCreary, noted above, all members of the committee participated in a Michael Kenyon and Graham Clow acting as the other site visit of ABGs operations during the year as part of the members.
Details of members experience and quali!cations committees activities.
In 2014, the committee will continue are provided on pages 40 and 41 of the Governance report.
to focus on the above matters, these being core to its remit Our terms of reference require us to meet at least twice a of responsibilities, under the guidance of Graham Clow who year, and in 2013 we met twice.
The Chief Executive Of!cer will act as chairman of the committee following my departure from the Board at the forthcoming AGM.
and individuals involved in the Companys technical, operational and geology functions also attend committee meetings on a regular basis to discuss matters within our remit of responsibilities.
