EXPLORATION REVIEW Focusing on core projects Overall, 2013 was a successful year of execution and delivery across our green!eld and brown!eld exploration projects current land holding on completion of the current regional Overview of 2013 activities soil sampling programmes.
We believe that through this During the year, US$16.9 million of process we will continue to focus on the best projects exploration activities were expensed, with a within our portfolio, while at the same time freeing up further US$4.0 million relating to exploration exploration funds to diversify our portfolio outside our and evaluation activities being capitalised.
Key highlights include the successful drilling COMMUNITY RELATIONS IN KENYA results from brown!eld exploration projects at Bulyanhulu from both surface and underground drilling and from green!eld exploration programmes at our joint venture properties in western Kenya.
At the Bulyanhulu mine, we commenced surface and underground brown!eld exploration drilling programmes during the year.
Surface drilling is targeting resource extensions of the Bulyanhulu system between 400 metres and 1,200 metres west of the mine, while underground drilling is targeting resource expansion of the East Zone on the Reef 2 system.
By year end the drilling programmes on the targets at Bulyanhulu had already delivered positive results from both surface and underground drill holes.
ABG has partnered with Little Sports Organisation The focus for 2014 will be to complete the surface and LSO, a sport for development NGO, whose underground drill programmes according to plan and budget programmes aim to promote social and life-skills by Q3 2014 and assess the success of the programmes development in primary school children through sport.
and any requirement for further drilling.
As well as promoting positive behavioural change in In Kenya, throughout the year we have continued extensive children and thus enriching the child, the family and the regional mapping, soil sampling and reconnaissance Aircore community, the programmes also result in employment geochemical drilling across our two joint venture projects, of local youths as sports coaches.
the Advance Gold JV Properties and the West Kenya JV Through the ABG Maendeleo Fund, ABG committed Properties.
These programmes will continue into 2014 US$75,000 to LSO in 2013.
The programme has been and seek to identify and advance the best targets within rolled out across six primary schools in the Kakamega our large land package, so as to be positioned to area, and is attended by over 4,000 children weekly.
commence drill testing of the best generated targets in 20 local youths are currently employed as 2015.
Soil sampling to date has delineated and expanded community coaches.
more than 50 existing and new kilometre-scale gold-in-soil anomalies.
On the Advance Gold JV Properties we have By partnering with LSO, ABG has been able to achieve completed drilling of Aircore holes with over 20% of the continuous engagement on a weekly basis, reaching all holes assayed to date returning anomalous gold intercepts levels of the community.
It provides ABG with a direct of greater than 0.1g t gold.
two-way communication platform into the community, Additionally, in recognition of the increasing maturity of establishing the foundations for a strong long-term some of our exploration properties, reduced exploration relationship.
The programme has resulted in an budgets, and regulatory requirements, we have embarked increased awareness and positive attitude toward ABG on a process of rationalising our exploration portfolio in in the community, and a greater understanding that ABG both Tanzania and Kenya.
During the year, we reduced the is currently in the exploration stage of the mining cycle.
2 land holdings we manage in Tanzania from 2,534km to Furthermore, the project enhanced school attendance 2 1,808km, and handed over management of several joint rates for pupils.
In Kenya, we expect to reduce our 22 www.
com STRATEGIC REPORT Browneld exploration Greeneld exploration Near-mine brown!eld exploration programmes conducted Throughout the year, we have continued our focus on during the year successfully identi!ed extensions to known identifying new green!eld exploration opportunities to resources.
These programmes were entirely focused on the complement our existing exploration portfolio.
Collectively, Bulyanhulu ore body, where initial surface and underground the green!eld exploration programmes we have undertaken diamond core drilling has returned encouraging results from have further strengthened our portfolio of exploration step-out resource drilling on both the Reef 1 and Reef 2 projects, with the potential for new discoveries in the short mineralised systems.
At the same time, we continue to look throughout Africa for opportunities to further enhance and In the last quarter we commenced drilling on two of three diversify our exploration portfolio through low-cost joint planned deep diamond core holes west of the Bulyanhulu ventures or option agreements.
mine, targeting the extension of Reef 1 gold mineralisation.
The ongoing programme is comprised of approximately In Tanzania, during the year, we continued to intersect wide 18,000 metres of diamond core from three parent holes zones of low grade gold mineralisation, including several with up to 18 daughter holes utilising directional wedging zones of higher grade mineralisation 2g t Au at the and navigational drilling.
The holes are predominantly Ochuna prospect formerly the Dett prospect approximately testing the extensions of the Reef 1 structure from 45 kilometres west of the North Mara mine.
Scout drilling 400 metres to 1,200 metres west of the current at the Tagota prospect approximately 30 kilometres Bulyanhulu resource where historic drilling has shown northwest of the North Mara mine also intersected indications of further gold mineralisation.
The drilling is signi!cant gold anomalism.
targeting a potential new economic zone and plunge We have made good progress on our Kenyan joint venture extensions of the Main Zone of Reef 1 at depths of projects Advance Gold JV and West Kenya JV throughout the between 1,000 metres and 2,500 metres vertical.
year, with more than 50 gold-in-soil anomalies generated from The East Deeps diamond core drilling programme is an extensive soil sampling programme.
In addition, initial targeting down dip mineralisation of the Bulyanhulu Reef 2 Aircore drilling across several gold-in-soil anomalies on the system which is outside the current resource model.
The Advance Gold JV properties has returned signi!cant gold programme is being drilled from several underground drill mineralisation, requiring in!ll and follow-up drilling.
Advanced platforms and is aimed at adding high grade gold resources drilling on several historic prospects intersected mineralisation on the East Zone.
Drilling commenced in the third quarter but determined they were not of the economic size and grade with positive results returned from two intersections from targeted by ABG.
In 2014, we will continue our focus on the initial step out holes.
advancing the best early stage prospects and targets on the Kenyan joint venture properties ready for drill testing.
"Visit our website to ""nd more detail on all our exploration projects www."
com OUR EXPLORATION PORTFOLIO Kampala Producing operations West Kenya JV Exploration assets Kisumu KENYA UGANDA Lake Victoria Tagota Ochuna Nairobi North Mara Mwanza Nyanzaga TANZANIA Bulyanhulu Golden Ridge Arusha Buzwagi Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23 EXPLORATION REVIEW CONTINUED CORE GROWTH PROJECTS NEAR-MINE BROWNFIELD Bulyanhulu Deep West Extensions Bulyanhulu Deep East Extensions Drilling of three deep surface holes between 400 metres and High-grade Reef 2 mineralisation remains open below the currently 1,200 metres west of the Bulyanhulu Reef 1 resource to target delineated resource.
Underground drilling is targeting depth extensions to the Reef 1 system outside the current resource.
extensions and has been successful to date in identifying high-grade The drilling is targeting a potential new economic zone and plunge gold mineralisation and widths consistent with Reef 2.
We intend to extensions of the Main Zone of Reef 1 at depths of between progress additional drilling to add resources on Reef 2 to the west of 1,000 metres and 2,500 metres vertical.
Progress in 2013 Drilling commenced on two of the parent holes and several Commenced underground drilling to test extensions of East Zone daughter holes by year end Reef 2 mineralisation Results to date from holes that have intersected Reef 1 show Intersected high-grade gold and typical Reef 2 widths in grades and widths consistent with Reef 1 mineralisation in the step-out holes completed by year end current resource area Priorities for 2014 Complete the initial phase of deep diamond core drilling Complete initial step-out programme in Q1 2014 testing extensions to Reef 1 Update geological and resource models Identify economic grades and widths amenable to Plan additional underground resource expansion drilling in key underground mining areas for life of mine Update the geological and resource models GREENFIELD West Kenya Joint Ventures Nyanzaga Tagota The project is an early stage exploration play The Nyanzaga deposit is a large undeveloped At the Tagota project, initial scout drilling in western Kenya.
Key highlights during the gold resource located approximately 35km returned positive drill results from drill holes year include the identi!cation of more than northeast of Bulyanhulu gold mine.
Regional that targeted gold mineralisation in basement 50 gold-in-soil anomalies and the work during 2013, within 15km of the Nyanzaga rocks beneath a varying thickness of younger con!rmation of signi!cant gold anomalism deposit, was focused on exploring for satellite volcanic cover rocks phonolite.
Given the in Aircore drill holes which were testing gold deposits that could improve the overall blind nature of this target beneath up to a number of the gold-in-soil anomalies.
Several new gold and 40 metres of cover rocks, this outcome plan to continue !first pass testing of the soil multi-element soil anomalies were identi!ed is encouraging and warrants additional anomalies in 2014. during the latter part of the year and have been drill testing.
prioritised for initial drilling during 2014.
Progress in 2013 15,656 soil samples collected for gold Commenced a review of the Nyanzaga Successfully negotiated land access and multi-element analysis resource with the aim of re-modelling more agreements to drill throughout the Tagota selective higher-grade domains in the deposit and Kenyamanori areas 325 Aircore holes were drilled to test gold-in-soil anomalies across the Identi!ed several new gold and multi-element Ten reverse circulation and diamond core Kakamega Dome area soil anomalies in satellite areas within 15km holes were completed across structural of the Nyanzaga deposit targets as interpreted from Extensive mapping and prospecting regional geophysics across the joint venture properties to validate targets Gold mineralisation was intersected in four of ten drill holes in the Tagota Syenite beneath young cover rocks Priorities for 2014 Complete mapping, soil sampling and Update the resource model for Nyanzaga Re-interpretation of regional geophysics Aircore drilling programmes throughout the and review development options and structural targets utilising new joint venture properties, then rank targets drill information Follow up gold and multi-element soil for reverse circulation and diamond core anomalies with drill testing Completion of a phased step-out drill drill testing programme to locate broad zones of Continue desktop study to review potential high-grade gold mineralisation amenable options to develop the resource in the to open pit or underground mining current gold price environment 24 www.
