OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Save for David Hodgson, who has recently decided to step down from The information contained in this section of the Annual the Board, all remaining Directors above will put themselves forward Report is required to be produced by law, the Listing Rules for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of Director re-election and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
In addition, requirements are provided on page 44.
As noted as part of the Strategic disclosures elsewhere in this Annual Report, notably in the and the Governance reports, Derek Pannell appointed 15 February Strategic report, the Governance report and the Directors 2010 and Kevin Jennings appointed 12 January 2010, retired from their position as Directors at the Companys 2013 AGM held on Report are cross-referenced and incorporated by reference, 18 April 2013.
Greg Hawkins appointed 15 February 2010 stepped where appropriate.
Together, they ful!l the combined down from his position as a Director effective 21 August 2013. requirements of applicable company law and regulation.
Directors indemnity insurance Legal form of the Company In accordance with ABGs Articles of Association and to the extent ABG is a public listed company incorporated in England and Wales with permitted by the Companies Act 2006, ABG may indemnify its Directors the registered number 7123187.
It conducts limited business activities out of its own funds to cover liabilities incurred as a result of their of!ce.
itself and trades principally through its subsidiaries and subsidiary The relevant provision contained in the Articles can be categorised as a undertakings in various jurisdictions.
Further information as regards qualifying third-party indemnity provision under the Companies Act ABGs subsidiaries is provided on page 103 in Note 1 to the 2006.
ABG has adopted Directors and Of!cers liability insurance, consolidated !financial statements.
which provides insurance cover for any claim brought against Directors or of!cers for wrongful acts in connection with their positions.
The Strategic report insurance provided does not extend to claims arising from fraud or The requirements of sections 414A to E of the Companies Act 2006 as dishonesty and it does not provide cover for civil or criminal !fines or regards the production of a strategic report are satis!ed in the Strategic penalties imposed by law.
report contained at pages 1 to 37 which is incorporated by reference in this section.
The Strategic report provides an overview of the Global GHG emissions data for period 1 January 2013 development and performance of ABGs business for the !financial year to 31 December 2013 ending 31 December 2013 and also provides information relevant to According to the GHG Protocol developed by the World Business Council future developments in the business.
for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute, GHG emissions are classi!ed as either direct or indirect, and from there In addition, for purposes of compliance with the Disclosure and are divided further into Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions.
Direct Transparency Rules, the required content for the Management report GHG emissions are emissions from sources that are owned or controlled can be found in the Strategic report and the Directors report.
Indirect GHG emissions are emissions that are a consequence of the activities of the reporting entity but that occur at Directors sources owned or controlled by another entity.
Each scope is classi!ed The names and biographies of the Directors serving as at as follows: 31 December 2013 are provided on pages 40 and 41.
Scope 1 emissions: direct emissions from sources owned or operated An overview of Directors appointments for the duration of the year under by our Company.
review is provided below: Scope 2 emissions: indirect emissions attributable to our Company due to its consumption of purchased electricity, notably our Date of appointment Date of termination consumption of electricity from TANESCO.
Kelvin Dushnisky 6 June 2012 N A Scope 3 emissions: all other indirect emissions associated with Brad Gordon 21 August 2013 N A activities that support or supply our Companys operations.
Peter Tomsett 26 April 2013 N A For 2013, we have calculated ABGs Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu 14 July 2011 N A footprint on the basis of carbon dioxide emissions only and will look to Andre Falzon 15 February 2010 N A measure and report on other greenhouse gases in future reporting David Hodgson 19 October 2011 N A years.
Going forward, we will also look at opportunities to monitor and calculate Scope 3 emissions.
Michael Kenyon 15 February 2010 N A Graham Clow 26 April 2013 N A Total tonnes Percentage of of CO total emissions 2 Steve Lucas 24 October 2013 N A Scope 1 emissions 258,096 70% Rachel English 24 October 2013 N A Scope 2 emissions 111,223 30% Rick McCreary 19 July 2012 N A Total 369,319 100% Stephen Galbraith 19 January 2010 N A 84 www.
com DIRECTORS REPORT Directors interests ABGs Articles of Association provide the authority for ABG to purchase Details of the interests of Directors and their connected persons in its own shares including any redeemable preference shares, provided ABGs Ordinary Shares or in related derivatives or !financial instruments that it complies with any applicable requirements contained in the are outlined in the Directors Remuneration report.
Companies Act 2006, the CREST regulations or any other applicable law.
As part of resolutions passed at the 2013 AGM, ABG obtained Employee share schemes shareholder approval to make market purchases of up to 41,008,550 Details of ABGs employee share plans and long-term incentive plans are of its Ordinary Shares, equivalent to 10%, of the issued share capital at provided in the Directors Remuneration report.
The authority was granted subject to stated upper and lower limits in accordance with Listing Rule requirements and expires Employees at the forthcoming AGM.
The authority was not exercised during the year Information relating to employees is contained on page 121 in Note 9 to under review.
An equivalent shareholder resolution will be sought as a the consolidated !financial statements and the Corporate responsibility matter of ordinary business at the forthcoming AGM.
ABG abides by anti-discrimination legislation in all jurisdictions in Details of ABGs issued share capital and any movements during the which it operates.
These principles are also set out in ABGs Business year are included on page 131 in Note 25 to the consolidated Management Framework and Code of Conduct, which set out the !financial statements.
framework in which ABG expects all staff to operate.
This is supported by anti-discrimination standards and training in of!ces and mine sites Major shareholdings which identify the required standards and provide mechanisms to raise The following persons as at 11 March 2014 are interested in the any concerns with management.
following percentages of ABGs issued ordinary share capital: Dividends Percentage of Number of issued share An interim dividend of US1.0 cent per share was paid to shareholders Name shares capital on23 September 2013.
The Directors recommend the payment of a Barrick International Barbados Corp. 179,609,530 43.80 !final dividend of US2.0 cents per Ordinary Share.
This represents a total dividend of US3.0 cents for 2013.
Subject to the shareholders approving PDG Sona Cayman Ltd. 45,258,970 11.04 this recommendation at the AGM, the !final dividend will be paid on PDG Bank Limited 37,378,450 9.11 23 May 2014 to shareholders on the register at 2 May 2014.
The M&G Investment Management 22,847,043 5.57 ex-dividend date is 30 April 2014.
ABG will declare the !final dividend in US dollars.
Unless a shareholder has elected or elects to receive Total 285,093,993 69.52 dividends in US dollars, dividends will be paid in pounds sterling with Members of the Barrick Group.
the US dollar amount being converted into pounds sterling at exchange rates prevailing on or around 9 May 2014.
Currency elections must be Relationship with major shareholder made by return of currency election forms.
The deadline for the return An overview of ABGs relationship with Barrick and the Relationship of currency election forms is 6 May 2014.
Agreement that has been executed in respect of their ongoing relationship is provided on page 46.
Annual General Meeting ABGs AGM will be held on 24 April 2014 at 2.00 pm UK time.
The notice Political and charitable donations of AGM and all accompanying details of business to be conducted there ABG does not make political donations.
Information as regards ABGs are included in a separate document accompanying this Annual Report: social and community contributions for the year is provided as part of they are also available on ABGs website: www.
our Corporate responsibility and Financial reviews.
The right of a shareholder to participate in the business of the AGM shall Suppliers include, without limitation, the right to speak, vote on a show of hands, It is ABGs policy that, subject to compliance with trading terms by the voteon a poll and be represented by a proxy.
Access to all documents supplier, payments are made in accordance with terms and conditions which are required to be made available by the Companies Act 2006 or agreed in advance with the supplier.
the Articles of Association will be made available to the meeting.
As at 31 December 2013 the ABG Group had an average of 54 creditor Share capital days compared to 59 creditor days in 2012.
As at 31 December 2013, ABGs issued share capital comprised 410,085,499 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each.
The voting rights of Policy on derivatives, financial instruments and financial all ABG Ordinary Shares are identical, with each share carrying the right risk management to one vote.
ABG holds no Ordinary Shares in Treasury and does not ABGs policies on !financial risk management, derivatives, !financial have any class of share other than its Ordinary Shares.
Further details instruments and information on its exposures to foreign currency, on voting rights and rights relating to the transfer of shares are commodity prices, credit, equity, liquidity and interest rates can be found provided below.
in Notes 2, 31 and 33 to the consolidated !financial statements contained on pages 94 to 144 of this Annual Report.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 85 OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED Material agreements containing change of control provisions Tulawaka Agreement: although the Tulawaka mine was 100% owned The Directors consider the following as material agreements and and operated by Pangea Minerals Limited, the economic interest in arrangements for ABGs business and operations, which contain the mine was divided between Pangea Gold!elds Inc, an ABG Group provisions which alter or terminate on a change of control of ABG: company, PGI and MDN Inc MDN under a joint venture agreement on a 70:30 basis.
In addition, the agreement required PGI Services Agreement: ABG entered into a Services Agreement with to pay MDN an amount equal to 30% of the net cash generated by the Barrick in February 2010, under which Barrick provides certain Tulawaka mine, less any applicable withholding.
The obligations under services to ABG and the other members of the ABG Group for the this agreement remain outstanding pending completion of certain ongoing operation of the business.
These services include support post-completion matters relating to the sale of Tulawaka.
for information technology, technical services, security and other administrative and corporate functions.
The Services Agreement Mineral Development Agreements: each ABG Group operating mine provides that the services were to be provided to the ABG Group has a Mineral Development Agreement MDA with the Tanzanian for an initial period of 12 months and will continue in force unless Government.
The material terms and conditions of each MDA are terminated.
The agreements termination events include a basis for substantially similar and include provisions governing royalty either party to terminate the agreement with immediate effect in the payments, taxes and other charges, banking arrangements, local event of speci!ed breaches of the agreement, insolvency, analogous procurement obligations, and import rights.
The MDAs also provide events or a change of control.
for no expropriation or nationalisation rights.
Broadly these rights provide that the Tanzanian Government will not nationalise or Relationship Agreement: see page 46 of this report for an overview compulsorily acquire the whole or any part of ABGs interest in of the Relationship Agreement.
theapplicable special mining licences or any of its property or its Credit Agreement: an overview of the Credit Agreement between, contractors or subcontractors property used for the purpose of among others, ABG and Citibank International plc as administrative mining operations or in relation to the applicable special mining agent, is provided on pages 33 and 136 and Note 31 to the licences, without adequate compensation.
Each MDA is governed consolidated !financial statements.
A change of control of ABG is a by Tanzanian law.
Adherence to the terms and conditions of the mandatory prepayment event under the Credit Agreement and, subject MDAs isof signi!cant importance to ABGs business, given the to certain exceptions, a termination event.
agreements overall importance to our operations.
TANESCO relationship: the North Mara, Buzwagi and Bulyanhulu ABGs mining concessions are held by its operating companies in mines rely upon electrical power generated by the state power utility Tanzania.
Under applicable law, a change of control of the operating company, TANESCO.
ABG has entered into a number of agreements companies requires the consent of the Minister of Energy and Minerals and arrangements with TANESCO in respect of power supply and inTanzania.
These agreements are reviewed on a regular basis.
Asnational electricity generation and transmission systems in Certain employment contracts for members of the Companys Senior Tanzania are limited, ABGs ongoing relationship with TANESCO Leadership Team, excluding the current CEO, contain change of control isofsigni!cant importance to its operations and business.
Any provisions, which provide entitlements to severance payments in the adversechange or development in this relationship could produce event of being dismissed without cause or resigning for good reason in amaterial adverse effect on ABGs operations, performance and the 12 months following a change of control.
Any payment made under !nancialcondition.
these arrangements would replace the entitlement to receive payment under applicable contractual notice periods in each case.
Special Tulawaka sale and purchase agreement: the terms of the sale of provisions also allow the early exercise of awards made under ABGs Tulawaka to STAMICO are provided for under a sale and purchase Stock Option Plan SOP and early vesting of awards made under agreement between certain ABG subsidiaries and STAMICO.
The ABGs Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, in the event of atakeover, agreement provides for the disposal of Tulawaka for consideration reconstruction or winding up.
In such circumstances, the Compensation of US$4.5 million and the grant of a 2% net smelter royalty on future committee determines whether and to what extent options or awards production in excess of 500,000 ounces, capped at US$500,000.
become exercisable, by taking into account all relevant facts and As part of the agreement, STAMICO has taken ownership and circumstances including, but not limited to, satisfaction of any management of the rehabilitation fund established as part of the applicable performance condition.
closure plan for the mine, in return for the assumption of all remaining past and future closure and rehabilitation liabilities for When determining the vesting of LTIP awards or options, the Tulawaka, and has indemni!ed the other parties to the agreement Compensation committee may proportionately reduce the award in relation to these liabilities.
This has resulted in a one-off cash depending on the time which has elapsed between the !first day of the payment by ABG to STAMICO of the balance of the rehabilitation performance period and the date of change of control.
Alternatively, fund, less the transaction consideration on completion, equal to awards may be exchanged for new equivalent awards where appropriate.
The agreement also contains customary provisions as regards seller representations and warranties and tax indemnities.
significant relationships Given the materiality of the Tulawaka disposal to the Group, the ABGs relationship with Barrick as its majority shareholder is Directors view this agreement as material to ABGs business.
summarised on page 46 of this report.
In addition to this relationship, the Directors consider the following contractual relationships and All other material contracts and arrangements are summarised above, arrangements as essential for the conduct of ABGs business: under Material agreements containing change of control provisions.
com DIRECTORS REPORT Going concern accordingly.
No amount paid up on a share in advance of the date on which The Directors statement on going concern is contained on page 33 of a call is payable shall be treated as paid up on the share.
Payment of any dividend declared may be satis!ed wholly or partly by thedistribution of speci!c assets, and in particular of paid up shares or Corporate governance compliance debentures of ABG, with shareholder approval.
The statement on compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code for the reporting period is contained on page 47 of this Annual Report.
The Directors may retain any dividend or other money payable on or inrespect of a share on which ABG has a lien and may apply the same Articles of Association towards satisfaction of the monies payable to ABG in respect of that share.
The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Unless the Directors otherwise determine, the payment of any dividend or other money that would otherwise be payable in respect of shares will be Shareholder rights withheld, and ABG shall have no obligation to pay interest on it, if such The rights and obligations attaching to the Ordinary Shares contained in shares represent at least 0.25% of the nominal value of the issued ABGs Articles of Association are as follows: share capital of their class and the holder, or any other person appearing to be interested in those shares, has been issued with a Section 793 Voting rights notice and has failed to supply the information required by such notice Subject to any special rights or voting restrictions contained in the Articles within 14 days.
Furthermore, such a holder shall not be entitled to elect of Association for any class of share, at any general meeting every to receive shares instead of a dividend.
member who is present in person or by proxy shall, on a show of hands, have one vote and every member present in person or by proxy shall, on The payment by the Board of any unclaimed dividend or other monies on a poll, have one vote for each share of which he or she is the holder.
or in respect of a share into a separate account shall not constitute ABG a trustee in respect thereof.
All dividends unclaimed for a period of A resolution put to a vote of the meeting shall be decided on a show of twelve years after having been declared or become due for payment hands, unless a poll is duly demanded.
Subject to the provisions of the shall be forfeited and shall revert to ABG.
Companies Act 2006, a poll may be demanded by the Chairman: by at least !five members who have the right to vote at the meeting: by a Transfer of shares member or members representing not less than one-tenth of the total Subject to any applicable restrictions, each member may transfer all or voting rights of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting: anyof his or her shares, which are in certi!cated form, by instrument of or by a member or members holding shares conferring a right to vote at transfer in writing in any usual form or in any other form acceptable to the meeting, being shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up the Board and may be under hand only.
Such instrument shall be equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the executed by or on behalf of the transferor and in the case of a transfer shares conferring that right.
of a share which is not fully paid up by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall be deemed to remain the holder of such share until Unless the Directors otherwise determine, a shareholder is not entitled the name of the transferee is entered in the register in respect of it.
to vote at a shareholders meeting, either in person or by proxy, or to exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to a All transfers of shares which are in uncerti!cated form shall, unless the shareholders meeting, unless and until all calls or other sums CREST regulations otherwise provide, be effected on a relevant system.
presently payable by him or her in respect of that share with interest and expenses if any have been paid to ABG or if s he or any other The Directors may, in their absolute discretion and without giving any person appearing to be interested in shares has been issued with a reason, refuse to register any transfer of a share in certi!cated form notice pursuant to Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 requiring or renunciation of a renounceable letter of allotment unless: disclosure of interest in shares and has failed to provide the required i it is in respect of a share which is fully paid up: information within 14 days from the service of thenotice.
ii it is in respect of only one class of shares: Dividend rights iii it is in favour of not more than four joint transferees: The Board may declare and pay dividends on any class of shares carrying a!xed dividend expressed to be payable on !xed dates and may iv it is lodged duly stamped if so required at the transfer of!ce: from time to time pay interim dividends as it thinks !t.
Final dividends v it is accompanied by the relevant certi!cate for the shares to which shall be declared by ordinary shareholder resolution, in accordance with itrelates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably Board recommendations.
No dividend declared by shareholders shall require to prove the title of the transferor and the due execution of exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
the transfer or, if the transfer is executed by some other person on his behalf, the authority of that person to do so: and Provided that the Board acts in good faith, it shall not incur any liability to shareholders for any loss that they may suffer by the lawful payment vi in the case of partly paid shares listed on the London Stock of any !xed or interim dividend on any shares ranking after or pari passu Exchange, such refusal would prevent dealings in such shares from with those shares.
taking place on an open and proper basis.
Except as otherwise provided by the rights attached to shares, all dividends Unless the Board otherwise determines, a transfer of shares will not be shall be apportioned and paid proportionately to the amounts paid up on registered if the transferor or any other person appearing to be the shares during any portion or portions of the period in respect of which interested in the transferors shares has been issued with Section 793 the dividend is paid, but if any share is issued on terms providing that it shares in respectof shares representing at least 0.25% of their class shall rank for dividend as from a particular date, it shall rank for dividend and the relevant information has not been supplied within 14 days.
This Annual Report and Accounts 2013 87 OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED restriction on transfer will not automatically apply if the member is not ABGs shareholders passed the following resolutions relating to the personally in default as regards supplying the information required and allotment and pre-emption right disapplications at the 2013 AGM: the proposed transfer is only part of the members holding, provided that i The Directors were granted authority to allot new shares or grant certain requirements are satis!ed at the time of presenting the transfer rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares up to a forregistration.
nominal value of 13,532,821, equivalent to approximately 33% of the total issued ordinary share capital of ABG, exclusive of treasury Division of ABG assets on a winding up shares, at the time of passing the resolution.
In addition to this, the If ABG is wound up the liquidator may, with the sanction of a shareholder Directors were also granted authority to allot additional new shares special resolution, divide the whole or any part of ABGs assets between or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares shareholders.
In such circumstances the liquidator may value any assets up to a further nominal amount of 13,532,821, but only in and determine how the division shall be carried out as between the connection with a rights issue.
shareholders or different classes of shareholder.
Subject to certain ii Pre-emption rights were disapplied over new shares allotted for cash requirements, the liquidator may also vest any part of the assets in trustees pursuant to the authority granted at i above, but only: a in on such trusts for the bene!t of the shareholders, but no shareholder shall connection with a pre-emptive offer or rights issue: or b otherwise becompelled to accept any assets on which there is a liability.
up to a nominal value of 2,050,427 equivalent to approximately 5% of the total issued ordinary share capital of ABG at the time of Variation of rights passing the resolution.
If at any time the share capital of ABG is divided into shares of different classes, rights attached to a class may only be varied in such manner if These authorities have not been exercised during the reporting period and any as may be provided by prescribed rights or, in the absence of any will expire on the date of the forthcoming AGM.
Equivalent resolutions such provision, either with the consent in writing of the holders of not less for a renewal of these authorities will be put to the shareholders at the than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or forthcoming AGM.
with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of shares of the class duly convened and held.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Shareholders may appoint any person who is willing to act as a Director Powers of Directors by ordinary resolution and may remove any Director by ordinary resolution.
Managing the business The Board may appoint any person to !ll any vacancy or as an additional ABGs business is managed by the Board, and the Articles of Association Director, provided that they are submitted for re-election by the permit the Board to exercise all of ABGs powers in this regard.
These shareholders at the AGM following their appointment.
powers may be exercised by any meeting of the Board at which a quorum of two Directors is present.
The power of the Board to manage Speci!c conditions apply to the vacation of of!ce, including cases where the business is subject to any limitations imposed by the Companies aDirector becomes prohibited by law or regulation from holding of!ce, Act, the Articles of Association or any directions given by special oris persistently absent from Directors meetings, or if three-quarters resolution of the shareholders applicable at a relevant time.
of appointed Directors request his or her resignation or in the case of mental incapacity or bankruptcy.
The Articles contain an express authority for the appointment of Executive Directors and provide the Directors with the authority to Barricks rights to appoint Directors are summarised on page 46. delegate or confer upon such Directors any of the powers exercisable by them upon such terms and conditions and with such restrictions as they Related party transactions see !t.
The Articles contain additional authorities to delegate powers Details of related party transactions undertaken during the year are and discretions to Board committees and subcommittees.
contained in Note 36 on page 143 of the consolidated !financial statements.
Borrowing powers Post-balance sheet events Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the CREST Particulars of any important events affecting the Company or the ABG regulations and any other applicable law, the Directors may exercise all Group since the year end are contained in Note 38 on page 144 of the thepowers of ABG to borrow money, guarantee, indemnify, mortgage or consolidated !financial statements.
charge its undertaking, property present and future and uncalled capital or any part or parts thereof and issue debentures and other securities, Audit information whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors are aware of ABG or of any third party up to a maximum amount of two times the thereis no relevant audit information as fide!ned by Section 418 3 of aggregate of the ABG Groups adjusted total equity, calculated in the Companies Act 2006 of which the auditors are unaware and each accordance with the procedure contained in the Articles of Association.
Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Borrowings in excess of this amount require prior shareholder approval.
Director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
New issues of shares Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the CREST Auditors regulations and every other enactment for the time being in force ABGs auditors are  LLP PwC.
A resolution to relating to the Directors authority to allot shares and or the reappoint PwC as auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
disapplication of pre-emption rights and to any resolution of the Refer to page 95 as part of the consolidated !financial statements for Company in general meeting regarding the same, the Directors may allot the Independent Auditors report.
with or without conferring a right of renunciation, grant options over or otherwise dispose of them to such persons, at such times and on such terms as they think proper.
