CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REPORT YEAR IN REVIEW I joined ABG in August 2013 on the basis of the signi!cant opportunity that the Company has within the African gold mining industry Brad Gordon, CEO at the Buzwagi open pit with Rachel English, independent Non-Executive Director Exciting opportunity Tanzanians in our workforce to over 93%.
We have also Looking at ABG from the outside, I believed that the enhanced the leadership group with additional operational Company had great assets, talented people and that expertise to drive continued operational ef!ciencies while Tanzania was a stable place to operate.
Since joining, increasing our production base.
I have immersed myself in the business and now believe I have operated in a number of jurisdictions across the I underestimated how big an opportunity we have within world and believe that Tanzania compares well to many of the Company.
In this regard, I have enjoyed fruitful initial dialogues with the Government, something which I will continue to We have a portfolio of exceptional assets, with Bulyanhulu progress throughout 2014, as I seek to ensure that ABG being a truly world class deposit.
North Mara continues receives the recognition and support it requires given our to provide positive results and is a high-grade open pit position as the largest investor and private sector employer mine with excellent potential to go underground.
"which historically has had a number of challenges, has been rescheduled and will generate cash ""ow for us going forward."
"""rough focused initiatives I have also been impressed by the knowledge and experience we have within the organisation and the pool of we will realise the true skilled labour available in Tanzania."
As a result, during the year we have been able to further increase the proportion of potential of our assets 8 www.
com STRATEGIC REPORT Year in review Operational Review 2013 was a year of signi!cant change within ABG as We achieved total Operational Review cost savings of we undertook a major Operational Review to ensure US$129 million against a target of over US$100 million the business was set up to thrive in a lower gold price by the end of 2013.
The delivery on the cost savings is environment.
"Under the leadership of our now Chief highlighted by the consistent reduction in our AISC over the Financial Of!cer Andrew Wray, we identi!ed over year and improved cash ""ow generation from our sustaining US$185 million of cost savings across the business, operations quarter on quarter supported by delivering a ranging from reductions in capital spend, exploration, strong production pro!le throughout the year."
We remain corporate overheads and organisational structures.
"The committed and on track to deliver against the US$185 million Operational Review has been a great success and we had target set out earlier in 2013 as our guidance re""ects."
We removed US$129 million of cost from the business by the are simultaneously intensifying the ongoing review in our end of 2013.
This enabled us to deliver a year on year core mining areas, which were largely outside the scope of reduction in all-in sustaining costs AISC of 14%, with the Operational Review, and we are con!dent that this will fourth quarter AISC representing a 30% reduction on the deliver further ef!ciencies and cost savings throughout same period 12 months ago.
Our traditional measure of 2014 and beyond.
cash costs per ounce sold reduced by 12% to US$827 per ounce for the full year, and our exit rate was 19% lower BUILDING OUR FUTURE LEADERS than the previous year at US$774 per ounce.
On the production front, 2013 marked a turning point as we saw production increase year on year by 3% to 641,931 ounces, 7% ahead of the top of our initial guidance range.
If we exclude Tulawaka, which stopped operating early in the year, our three core mines increased production by 7%, when compared to 2012.
This was driven by strong performances at North Mara and Buzwagi, up 33% and 10% respectively year on year, as a result of improved grade at North Mara and increased throughput at Buzwagi.
This more than offset the weaker !first half performance from Bulyanhulu as a result of both labour shortages and equipment availabilities.
ABG operates an Intermediate Management Development Programme IMDP, which aims to equip junior management The dramatic drop in the gold price over the year meant that employees with management and leadership skills to help the stronger production and cost performance against 2012 them further their careers.
Margareth Omary Learning and did not fully translate into improved !financial performance, Development Superintendent at our North Mara Mine is one of with our average realised gold price of US$1,379 per ounce the bene!ciaries of the programme.
She graduated in December 2013 with a postgraduate diploma in management.
being 17% lower than the 2012 average of US$1,668 per ounce.
As a result, revenue for the year dropped by 8% to The IMDP programme focuses on providing challenging US$929 million, with EBITDA amounting to US$240 million.
leadership and management development for individuals we Earnings for the year were further impacted by total believe have the potential to become future leaders within non-cash impairment charges of US$1,061 million as a our business.
The programme is run in partnership with the result of the impact of a lower gold price assumption and University of Cape Town, Graduate School of Business in signi!cant changes to life of mine plans, the details of South Africa.
The programme builds a strong learning culture which are described below, which led to a loss of that encourages collaborative learning whilst maintaining the stimulus of competition.
The programme is run over 14 months US190.4 cents per share.
On an adjusted basis, and provides a practical and challenging educational earnings for the year were US25.9 cents per share.
environment where students are evaluated on their ability to integrate theoretical learning into practical work activities.
This programme has helped ABG to identify a number of talented individuals within our business: Margareth is just one of a number of success stories from the programme.
We have a range of For further information on our employee initiatives talented people see the Corporate responsibility section of this report.
