14 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic objectives Ultras four strategies for growth Ultra must add long-term shareholder value, as measured by market capitalisation and the Groups ranking in the FTSE index, more rapidly than other companies to outperform the market.
This is facilitated by an above-average rate of revenue growth.
Ultra constantly strives to increase its share of the high-growth sectors of the markets in which it has positioned itself.
The four main strategic objectives which support this target growth are: 12 3 4 12 3 4 Increase the Groups portfolio Increase the number of long-term of specialist capability areas platforms and programmes on which Ultra concentrates on providing its customers with capabilities and Ultras specialist capabilities are specified systems, using the Groups electronic and software solutions for Ultra positions these specialist capabilities on a long list of niche markets in defence & aerospace, security & cyber, transport international platforms and programmes.
This breadth of platform and energy.
Within these market sectors, Ultra focuses on and programme coverage creates a ywheel effect which drives developing specialist capabilities which provide differentiated Ultras performance year after year, despite market uctuations.
solutions to customers requirements, often in demanding and Ultra is positioned on very many such platforms and programmes.
In 2013 In 2013 Ultra added 12 new specialist capability the Groups specialist capabilities were specified areas to its portfolio.
on 9 new platforms and programmes.
Strategies in action Strategies in action The acquisition of Wood & Douglas Limited W&D brings Ultras CIS business secured a contract extension to its End to Ultras portfolio of specialist capabilities: Cryptographic Unit Replacement Programme ECU RP for the integration & installation phase of the programme.
This will see Bespoke wireless products Ultra manage the roll-out and deployment of this critical Radio networks capability across a multitude of airborne and maritime platforms.
Video monitoring Wireless data platforms W&Ds capabilities are provided to defence, homeland security, transportation, emergency services, exploration, healthcare and utilities sectors in the UK and to over 30 countries worldwide.
W&D has been integrated into Ultras CIS business, to form a centre of excellence for communication products and services.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ultras strategic framework 12 34 Increase the number of long-term Increase the Groups platforms and Broaden the Groups Widen Ultras portfolio of specialist programmes on customer base geographic footprint capabilities which Ultras specialist capabilities are specified 12 3 4 12 3 4 Broaden the Groups customer base Widen Ultras geographic footprint Ultras independence allows it to sell its wide portfolio of specialist Ultra has pursued a strategy of gaining access to the two largest capabilities to a broad range of customers around the world.
Ultra addressable defence budgets in the world.
Despite the recent supplies to a wide range of different project ofces, integrated budget reductions, the US still spends more on defence each year project teams and platform teams within its customers, the largest than the rest of the nations combined.
The majority of Ultras of which include: US DoD, UK MoD, MOTC Oman, Rolls-Royce, acquisitions have been in North America and the point has now BAE Systems, Lockheed Martin, Raytheon and Boeing.
been reached where the Group has a transatlantic capability and derives more of its revenue from the US and Canada than it does from the UK.
Ultras revenue from the Middle East and Asia Pacic regions is capable of expansion.
The Groups growing presence in Australia and the Middle East regions indicates Ultras intent in this regard.
In 2013 In 2013 Ultra won significant business with the Group was successful in 62 countries 7 new customers.
outside of the Groups core markets.
Strategies in action Strategies in action Ultras CCS business was awarded a contract with the Ultras Airport Systems business was awarded a contract to Republic of Indonesia Ministry of Defence for the mid-life provide a comprehensive suite of Airport Operations and modernisation of the first of the Fatahillah Class corvettes, Information Systems at Viracopos International Airport in including the development, installation and integration of Campinas, Brazil.
This airport is undergoing significant expansion in preparation for the 2014 FIFA World Cup and the 2016 Summer Olympic games and will soon become the largest airport in South America.
Ultras work commences immediately under a subcontract with Johnson Controls to deploy, integrate and commission a full suite of Airport Operational Systems.
The new systems will improve customer service and accommodate the rapid growth in air transport services being experienced throughout Brazil.
Equivalent to 1% or greater of revenue Core markets are defined as Australia, Canada, Oman, UK and USA 6.
