C M R D i u a g l o n t h a u m t g r i e a n p i g e L n i o E t s e p A l p x P e e t p o n e p e l r e m t i e s t e a t s m e H l b C o N r p U s A r L t e n C e e m t o m c n o n t e t n t s i s e n e m v u u n d c o e i u s 06 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business model Ultras business model is centred around the Groups three core strengths: customer reach, people and capabilities n Ultras customer Value generation reach Value for the customer Npage 7 Innovative solutions Through-life support Sustaining value Balancing risk Ultras Ultras people capabilities Npage 11 Npage 10 Npages 8-9 The Group will continue to differentiate itself from its competitors by: technical innovation across its broad portfolio of capabilities the endeavours of its exceptional employees the ability to develop long-term value-adding relationships with customers e g s u h a e i o n t u g p v n g e n i e t s n e t n d i m o d r n C e n e i n a t m s t s o r a t e r s d t u l n U C U F C B l e r o x o r i p b a l o e d r p a p t a e o r t r n a t e f g r i o s l i l h t i i y o p s o c f o l s l a p b e c o i r a a l i t s i t v e c a a p u a t b o i l n i t o i e m s y Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ultras strategic framework Ultras customer reach Ultra strives to get to the heart of a customers requirements it is this that helps Ultra build lasting customer relationships Ultra focuses on developing innovative, Strategic supplier  solutions which are All Ultra businesses are expected to delivered in close collaboration with maximise their relationships with customers customers, partners and suppliers.
for the long-term, through: developing a close understanding of Ultra is continually evolving its approach to customer needs match the markets in which the Group operates.
This evolution is in response to: sustained on-time delivery of high-quality products and services changing customer demands encouraging a long-term strategic anticipating the direction of travel of relationship the markets LAUNCH case study the Group striving to be the first to bring As a result, Ultras businesses can become new solutions to market part of the customers extended enterprises One of Ultras businesses began the to mutual benefit.
process to encourage an existing In its specialist capability areas, Ultras customer to replace the competitor for understanding of: Ultras independence the hand controllers for a helicopter Ultras independence, together with its the customers domains weapon system.
Using LAUNCH, it autonomous businesses and its position in the demanding operational environments succeeded in winning the business by the supply chain see page 9 mean that it solving several problems experienced the projected capability gaps which is able to work with all prime contractors.
As a result, the customers would like addressed This allows the Group to sell its wide business was able to move from portfolio of specialist capabilities to a broad Is a key differentiator for the Group.
In supplying just the high-end electronic range of customers around the world.
short, Ultras understanding of the components, to supplying the entire customers problem statement allows it to Engaging with customers fire control system and the helicopter get to the heart of the customers Ultras LAUNCH is a behaviour which the flight control handles.
requirements and develop effective and Group has developed to facilitate customer innovative solutions.
Putting the customer first L Listen to customers Ultras businesses constantly innovate to A Ask the right questions create solutions to customer requirements U Understand what their pain is which are different from, and better than, N identify the customers Needs: those of the Groups competitors in a way and get their agreement which the customer values.
In identifying differentiated solutions, prime consideration C Create a relationship, opportunity is given to what the customer needs, not to and solution what Ultra would like to sell.
Examine the bigger picture: covers the technical attributes of the how can Ultra maximise the scope product or system and the commercial and value of the opportunity?
package, including the training and support LAUNCH is a way for Ultras businesses to in which the customer is interested.
generate long-term customer relationships See Partnering on pages 9. which leads to a better pipeline of opportunities and so ultimately, enable growth.
LAUNCH is aligned with the Groups approach to systems engineering and project management.
This approach ensures Ultra understands the real needs of its customers.
Introduction 08 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ultras capabilities Ultra has a broad portfolio of specialist capabilities which can be combined exibly to generate  solutions for the customer Capabilities Product and business development Ultras core management processes address The Group has a broad portfolio of spend as a percentage of 2013 revenue four main areas.
These are: specialist capabilities which deliver highlyCompliance differentiated solutions to the following ensuring that the businesses comply market sectors: fully with all laws and regulations of the countries in which they operate Defence & Aerospace maintaining high standards of integrity Security & Cyber and ethical behaviour Transport and Energy Strategy agreeing and delivering five-year plans, Revenue by capability focused on positioning for growth in target markets Group-funded 5.8% development of innovative and  11.7% differentiated solutions to meet customer needs Ultra invests consistently over 5% of its Financial performance revenue in new product and business managing the key financial and business development.
In addition, over 10% of processes, so that the businesses meet Group revenue is customer-funded or exceed the agreed financial budgets product development.
In total therefore, Developing people over 15% of revenue spend is focused on Defence & Aerospace 57% for each business, developing the team augmenting the portfolio of capabilities Security & Cyber 23% and its individuals so that they grow and programme positions which underpin with the business and do not limit the Transport and Energy 20% further growth.
development of the Group Corporate agility The Group is constantly seeking to A key differentiator for Ultra is the agility increase the number of specialist which businesses in the Group exhibit in BOARD capabilities in its market niches and to their dealings with customers.
increase the number of long-term RESPONSIBLE FOR: The Board provides effective leadership platforms and programmes on which LEADERSHIP doing the right thing and direction in delivering the key Ultras specialist capabilities are specified.
GROWTH IN SHAREHOLDER VALUE corporate objective of reliable and REVIEWING GROUP STRATEGY The expansive spread of specialist consistent growth in shareholder value.
At RISK MANAGEMENT capability areas mapped onto so many STANDARDS OF ETHICS the operational level, the Executive Team AND BEHAVIOURS platforms and programmes: has responsibility for running the Group provide resilience to Ultras financial and for delivery of strategy, financial EXEC TEAM performance performance and team development.
RESPONSIBLE FOR: reduce the Groups risk profile: and Ultras individual businesses have a high MANAGEMENT doing things right degree of operational autonomy, so that drive the Groups growth DEVELOPING GROUP STRATEGY they provide the exceptionally agile and FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Investment responsive support to customers and TEAM DEVELOPMENT The Group has a strategy to invest partners, normally associated with a smaller continuously to strengthen its capabilities business.
These benefits of customer focus 28 across its specialist niche markets.
Ultras and agility are augmented by the access to AUTONOMOUS deep understanding of the users domain, BUSINESSES wider and complementary technologies and its enduring customer relationships and its expertise which lie elsewhere in the Group outward-facing nature encapsulated in RESPONSIBLE FOR: collaborative autonomy or with partners MANAGING THE INDIVIDUAL BUSINESS LAUNCH and LEAP behaviours inform and by Ultras strong financial position.
DEVELOPING AND IMPLEMENTING the Groups investment decisions.
COMPETITIVE STRATEGIES WINNING AND EXECUTING BUSINESS DEVELOPING PEOPLE WORKING IN PARTNERSHIP Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ultras strategic framework Ultra focuses on developing innovative solutions which are delivered in close collaboration with partners, suppliers and customers Partnerships Collaborative autonomy Ultra has an established ability to externally One of Ultras eight strategic tenets is partner and team to offer the proven teaming.
Working technology which best meets customers collaboratively increases business Tier 1 requirements.
The Group is agnostic as to opportunities, by allowing Ultra to offer the source of technology which is required to capability from its wide portfolio to best Tier 2 deliver solutions.
Where proven technology meet the customers needs.
It creates Tier 3 that meets customers requirements exists competitive advantage by accessing outside the Group, Ultra is happy to form off-the-shelf technology at lower cost, Tier 4 teaming partnerships to access it.
Ultra sees enabling timely delivery, while avoiding these teaming arrangements as a source of expensive development costs and high Platform provider Tier 1 competitive advantage, allowing Ultra to project risk.
System integrator Tier 2 deliver differentiated solutions which meet customer needs efficiently, with lower Equipment supplier Tier 3 development risk.
It is important that these Component supplier Tier 4 teaming arrangements are of benefit to all parties by working together, the team Typical tier offerings members are able to win opportunities which would not be possible in isolation.
Tier 1 Platform provider Responsible for being the prime contractor of the platform in question, examples being a naval vessel or a terminal at an airport.
Customer problem Tier 2 System integrator statement Responsible for integrating equipment or Collaborative components which will make up a autonomy in action functional element of the platform.
Fighting vehicle systems Examples of system integration which Ultra Ultras In early 2013 Ultras PALS, MSI, AMI and 3rd party has completed include integrated sonar solution technology EMS businesses formed a collaborative systems and wing ice protection systems.
team to address jointly the armoured Tier 3 Equipment supplier fighting vehicle AFV market.
An initial Ultra has a large presence at this level of the review of the market identified a supply chain, supplying equipment such as significant number of large programmes data links, cryptographic equipment and which might benefit from a joint large electrical transformers.
approach, including upgrades to Supply chain Warrior and Challenger in the UK and Tier 4 Component supplier Ultra has no strategic aim to be a tier 1, also new-buy programmes in India and Ultra also provides a broad range of smaller top-level platform provider.
It was clear at an early stage components onto many programmes therefore, non-threatening to the tier 1 that Ultras combined AFV capability is worldwide, including sensors for measuring prime contractors such as BAE Systems or wide-ranging and complementary.
the performance of a nuclear reactor and Rolls-Royce and counts them amongst its joysticks to control UAVs.
They can rely on Ultra to provide the specialist capabilities at which Position in the supply chain the Group is expert.
Concentrating on tiers Ultras specialist capabilities are mainly at 2, 3 and 4, rather than aiming to be a tier 1 tiers 3 and 4, supplying equipment and platform provider, means that, with the components to support tier 1 and 2 exception of the Oman Airport IT systems and programmes.
The Group does programme, no single platform or undertake tier 2 system integration, but programme typically accounts for more than does this mainly when integrating its own 5% of Group revenue for the year.
Ultra therefore, means that the cancellation or curtailment understands the tier 3 detailed interfaces of any single programme is unlikely to have and so is able to manage the risk inherent a significant adverse impact on the Group.
Introduction 10 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ultras people Ultra would not be able to deliver value to customers without the innovative and entrepreneurial spirit of its staff Leadership: Good leadership is extremely Developing people important to Ultra and a number of models Ultra is committed to developing people of leadership are incorporated in the and securing the talent pipeline to ensure development and training programmes the continued growth and success of the which are delivered around the Group.
Each business is responsible for continuously developing the team and its Entrepreneurship: Being entrepreneurial is individuals, so that they grow with the a behaviour which underpins the Groups business and do not become a constraint strategy.
All Ultra businesses seek to provide on the development of the Group.
Great customers with solutions which are different focus is placed on ensuring that the right from, and better than, those of competitors.
people are in the right roles.
More detail Ultras entrepreneurial culture seeks to can be found on pages 40 to 43. maximise the capability to generate excellent The right people ideas and the business skills needed to bring The success which Ultra achieves in them successfully to market.
innovating to meet customer needs is based on the broad range of skills and Audacity: Audacious thinking is the capabilities of the Groups employees.
difference between incremental improvement and business transformation.
The Board understands this and recognises It takes the idea of innovation, one of that the Groups right people are its most Ultras core values, and invites employees to important asset see page 13, Ultras think about issues in ways which are strategic enablers.
Ultra strives for an unconstrained by existing norms, making efficient organisation with engaged and use of creative approaches in every aspect competent people.
More detail on Ultras of the Groups business.
people and their development can be People in action found on pages 40 to 43.
Paranoia: Paranoia, in the business sense, With a renewed focus on innovation, is a concern and fear about competitors Domain expertise Ultras MSI business ran the second and what they may do.
It also relates to Ultras deep understanding of its specialist year of its Innovation Initiative and has concerns and fears about things which can capability areas, combined with knowledge named its first ever Technology go wrong internally.
For Ultra, paranoia is of the users environment, are key factors Achievement winner.
The winner was a important in focusing its staff on in delivering innovative solutions to meet Lead Systems Engineer in MSIs Human maximising their knowledge of the customers needs.
Ultra is continuously Systems Integration business unit.
The competitive landscape, by constantly asking developing its domain expertise to ensure award is for the work he did developing questions of the Groups individual that it has the right people available who the new weapon management systems businesses, customers, teaming partners are best able to support customers in for MSI, in the form of a gun control and suppliers.
understanding and creating solutions which unit and an armament control panel.
How Ultra manages its people Through collaboration with the Ultra focuses on delivering agile and Culture and LEAP customer, diligent collection of responsive support to customers through a Ultra has identified four cultural behaviours requirements and implementation of high degree of operational autonomy.
of its people which are highly valued and innovative design methods, he not only encouraged.
These are leadership, As much authority and responsibility as significantly improved product entrepreneurship, audacity and paranoia.
possible is devolved to the Managing functionality, assembly and reliability, Together they are known as LEAP Directors and Presidents of Ultras individual but he also paved the way for MSI to businesses and their management teams.
enter the weapon systems The Group wants these teams to maintain management market.
As a result of the agility and sharp focus, that are typical these newly-developed capabilities, MSI of owner-managed businesses, on can now extend its solution offering customers requirements.
from the human-machine interface into the wider weapon systems control and management domain.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ultras strategic framework Ultras value generation Ultras three strengths of customer reach, people and capabilities combine to enable Ultra to generate and sustain value Ultra value for the customers Economic The Group remains committed to its strategy Ultra generates value by applying electronic Ultra ensures that all of its businesses are of continued investment in its portfolio of and software technologies in demanding well-managed, control costs and are differentiated specialist capabilities, to and critical environments to provide cash-generative.
This allows the Group to ensure that the business is well-positioned  solutions to meet self-fund acquisitions which deliver to meet future market demand.
positions in new markets or additional Ultra has an increasingly broad customer niche capabilities.
Since the Groups Ultra businesses constantly innovate to base worldwide, with sales outside the UK formation, Ultra has maintained a balance create solutions to customer requirements now representing over 65% of Group between organic and acquisition growth, which are different from, and better than, revenue.
Ultra is constantly repositioning having integrated 51 acquisitions since those of the Groups competitors.
itself in growth sectors within its main 1993.
The Group pursues four parallel defence, security, transport and energy Solutions strategies for growth which are explained markets.
By applying these differentiated solutions more fully on pages 14 and 15. to a wide range of international platforms The above factors, together with Ultras Social and programmes, Ultra has built an market agility and organisational flexibility, Ultra understands that the long-term exceptionally broad portfolio of specialist generate further robustness and resilience success of the Group will be enhanced capability areas.
Where the Group has a in the Groups financial profile and through continuous focus on value number of complementary capabilities, it mitigates risk.
creation for all its stakeholders.
The Group can also combine these to offer broader More detail on Ultras approach to risk encourages its businesses to support their solutions.
In other words, Ultras products, management and specific risks can be local communities and environment, as capabilities and the associated domain found on pages 34 to 37. well as discharging their responsibilities to expertise uniquely position the Group to be contribute to the broader social well-being.
able to meet more complex sub-system and To read how Ultra is making a difference, system requirements.
Support Environmental Ultra offers support to customers of its Ultra recognises that it is important, both products and systems through the design, for its employees and the communities in delivery and support phases of a which it operates, that effective measures programme.
Ultras deep understanding of are in place to minimise the environmental its specialist capability areas and the users impact of its activities, as this will help to environment is a key factor in supplying secure the long-term future of the Group.
innovative solutions to ensure the capabilities Ultra has committed to substantial are delivered and sustained in-service and investments in manufacturing facilities meet the customers through-life needs.
which will, in addition to improving Sustaining value productivity, offer increased efficiencies In order for Ultras business model to and reduce energy consumption.
deliver success over the long-term, it must Reducing risk to maintain value be sustainable and it must manage any Ultras business model supports a stable inherent risk well.
and well-balanced business, with the aim of reducing risk and maintaining the generation of value.
Ultras strategy is to constantly broaden its portfolio of products and services which are positioned on a large number of international platforms and programmes in the defence, security, transport and energy markets.
