32 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial review continued Tactical & Sonar Systems In September 2013, Ultras Maritime Systems business announced the award of funding from Industry Canadas Strategic Aerospace and Defence Initiative SADI.
This long-term funding allowed Maritime Systems to kick off a six-year $27.4m internal R&D project which will enable it to leapfrog its international competitors in the fast-growing military towed low-frequency active-passive sonar market.
The products developed under this project will introduce next-generation acoustic sensing, data transport, and acoustic projector technologies, culminating with an in-eld demonstration capability which Ultra can use to showcase this Canadian technology to its international customers.
Undersea surveillance Ultra provides unique engineering, development, testing, evaluation, and management capabilities to develop and deliver technologically advanced underwater battlespace systems.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Revenue The division supplies advanced cyber 284.7m -4.5% security solutions, high-capacity 2012: 298.0m communication systems, satellite communication equipment and tactical Underlying operating profit surveillance equipment to support networkenabled warfare.
Specialist areas include 48.1m 3.9% data links, encryption for information 2012: 46.3m assurance and electronic warfare.
The Group also supplies world-leading ship, Order book submarine and airborne sonar equipment and systems to meet the challenges of the 285.1m -18.5% underwater battlespace, including antisubmarine warfare and torpedo defence.
2012: 350.0m Ultra has developed a range of highly efficient acoustic hailing devices.
The period saw good sales in the US for ASW, a strong performance on a UK crypto programme and further sales of surveillance systems in both the UK and US, which partially offset the continued lower sales of tactical radios and the impact of US budget cuts and contract delays.
The increase in underlying operating profit was driven by the performance of the UK cryptographic programme with development and production risks being retired as the programme is delivered.
This, together with good contributions from the sales of Litening pods in the UK and ASW sales in the US, resulted in the divisions underlying operating margin increasing to 16.9% 2012: 15.5%.
The order book reduction reected the trading of the End Cryptographic Unit Replacement Programme ECU RP contract and US order intake delays, with the balance largely due to foreign Strategy in action exchange translation.
This division also saw increased use by customers of IDIQs and Ultras Tactical Communications Systems business has won an order to supply a annual call-off contract awards which are number of next generation high-capacity radios, for proof of concept trials with the not reected in the order book.
US Army, as a precursor to additional WIN-T contracts.
This new multi-mission radio MMR is the culmination of Ultras considerable investment and delivers a radio which Highlights of activities in the year combines high-bandwidth throughput, performance and operational flexibility within which will underpin the divisions a small form-factor and provides multi-channel high-capacity connectivity across future performance included: networks.
In addition to trials with the US Army, the radio has also been successfully a 14m contract extension to its End down-selected to compete in trials for a number of major overseas customers.
Cryptographic Unit Replacement Programme ECU RP for the integration & installation phase of the programme a A$15m contract for the upgrade of 12 3 4 the ANZAC Class Electronic Support System for the Royal Australian Navy an increase in ASW spend reecting the US Pivot to the Pacic policy.
The US Navy has recently issued a five-year IDIQ competitive tender, for which Ultra, through its JV, was the only bidder.
Contract award is expected in the first quarter of 2014 Pictured, back row L to R: Jeff Vienneau, Software Middle row left to right: Front row left to right: Curtis Somers, Senior Software Developer: John Caldwell, In-Line Source Program Dr. James Crawford, Senior Transducer Designer: Developer: Mike Morris, Sonar Systems Engineer: Manager: Drew McDade, AUSS Project Director: Andrew Keast, Principal Electrical Engineer: Dr. Jeff Bates, Christian Baribeau, Senior Software Engineer Mike Murphy, Test Engineer: Towed Array Mechanical Designer: see footnote on page 1 6.
