12 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic tenets Ultras enablers Ultras growth momentum has been sustained by successfully pursuing its strategies for growth.
Underpinning these strategies, are eight core strategic tenets.
They have been used consistently by the Group over many years.
They help shape the culture, defined as values and behaviours which drive results, which is encouraged in Ultra.
Focus on defence, security, Through-life product and transport and energy services portfolio The Groups core competencies, domain The Group values any position within the knowledge and market positions give it supply chain which is held by any particular particular credibility in these four sectors niche.
Frequently, more attractive margins worldwide.
Core competencies include: can be generated by providing market positioning through an components, than by supplying entire understanding of customer needs, enabling systems.
Where the Group has a number responses to complex invitations to tender of complementary niches, it does combine or requests for proposals: managing these to offer sub-systems, systems and complex development programmes, where through-life management solutions to risks need careful identication and control: satisfy customer requirements.
Generally, manufacturing and aftermarket support however, Ultra prefers to retain a leading over long timescales and the discipline to niche position, rather than pursue the meet the Groups commitments.
The supply of systems for its own end.
The strategy is to enhance the capability of the scope of Ultras offering is determined Group such that adjacent market sectors, after a rigorous strategic review.
which exhibit growth, can be served.
Ultras analysis of the defence, security, Further information on Ultras place in the transport and energy markets can be found supply chain and its approach to throughon pages 20 to 22. life support can be found on pages 9 to 11.
Niche player Growth Within the Groups businesses, there is a Ultra businesses are expected to contribute broad portfolio of specialist capabilities, to the organic growth of the Group, as well where the aim is to sustain competitive as identifying well-matched acquisition advantage.
To ensure that an appropriate rate enable Ultra to achieve world-leading of organic growth is maintained, positions and result in the potential for businesses produce annual five-year superior financial performance.
This broad strategic plans which target specic spread gives the Group low dependency opportunities.
The focus on cash on any single contract and provides generation is a key driver to the resilience in the face of technological affordability of suitable acquisitions to changes or funding cut-backs.
augment the Groups growth rate.
The Groups acquisition strategy is summarised as being the pursuit of bolt-on and bolt-in acquisitions which enable Ultra to successfully pursue its four main strategies for growth.
The normal size of acquisitions, as measured by annual revenue, is currently about 30m to 150m for bolt-ons and up to 30m for bolt-ins.
Larger acquisitions will be considered where the case is compelling.
Further information on Ultras strategy Further information on Ultras Strategies for for developing specialist capabilities can be Growth can be found on pages 14 and 15. found on page 8 and 9.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ultras strategic framework efficiency and competence Teaming Ultra seeks to maximise efficiency Teaming, internally within the Group or throughout its organisation.
The levels of externally with other companies, broadens commitment and competency of business offerings by combining niche products or management teams is continuously linking domain knowledge.
Teaming assessed through strategic, budget, attains competitive advantage by accessing organisation, succession and regular off-the-shelf technology at lower cost, business performance reviews.
The Group allowing timely delivery, while avoiding places a high degree of trust in, and has expensive development costs and high high expectations of, its senior staff and project risk.
Increasingly, Ultra teams with supports their development and international, world-class partners to improvement activities.
Ultra empowers access best of breed technology and management teams to run their respective undertakes specialist system and businesses to deliver agreed strategies, sub-system design and integration, meet budgets and continuously develop ensuring customers sovereign operational their people.
The Group constantly independence where required.
develops its people and structure through a rigorous annual organisation, succession and development planning process.
Further information on Ultras approach to Further details on Ultras approach to having an efficient and competent partnering and teaming can be found workforce can be found on pages 38 to 41. on page 9.
Strategic supplier Meeting commitments Ultra businesses are expected to maximise Ultra has built a reputation for meeting its their relationships with customers for the commitments.
This reputation is not only long term, through a close understanding based on businesses meeting their of customer needs, leading to sustained obligations, but also by establishing a on-time delivery of high-quality products culture within the Group, which is based and services.
Many of the Groups niche on this principle.
Ultra believes that this offerings involve the design and supply of reputation is one of its dening and complex products and services, which are most valuable characteristics.
Behaving in typically safetyor performance-critical in this way fosters long-term relationships.
This creates a shared dependency from the customers perspectives and encourages a long-term strategic relationship where Ultras businesses become part of the customers extended enterprises, to mutual benefit.
Further details on how Ultra drives longMore information on Ultras commitment term relationships can be found on pages to developing sustainable and long-term 6 to 11. business can be found on page 44.
