38 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Making a difference Ultra recognises that the long-term success of the Group will be enhanced through continuous focus on value creation for ALL its stakeholders: shareholders, customers, employees, local communities, the environment and suppliers.
Engineers from Ultras Sonar Systems Group initiatives for talent development business supported three major Royal and retention are detailed in the section on Navy exercises in the Gulf in 2013.
Sonar Developing Ultras People on pages 40 to Systems received letters of commendation 43.
However, ultimate responsibility for from the Royal Navy for its support of individual talent development resides these exercises, as well as other initiatives within Ultras businesses, a number of during the year which have launched unique initiatives to ensure continuing employee development.
Ultras GigaSat business, a global provider A few examples include: of mobile and y-away satellite stations, has customers in 70 countries.
To support Ultras 3eTI business held an Engineering these customers, GigaSat has instituted a Challenge in 2013 to identify new follow the sun policy, offering global product opportunities.
Structured as a Making a difference customers 24 7 access to technical competitive challenge, the initiative support, with calls being routed to enabled employees to creatively develop to Shareholders: support teams in the US, UK, Australia new technology concepts.
One product Ultra aims to extend its long track record and the Phillippines.
The backstop for the was identied to be taken to market.
The of delivering above-average shareholder system is GigaSats Technical Director, to employee received a commendation for returns.
The Groups primary objective is whom calls are routed to ensure that his efforts.
This same business runs 3eTI to continue to outperform the market by customer questions are answered.
University, which provides consistent delivering above-average increases in GigaSat received the Queens Award for training to its employees on subjects earnings and by communicating Enterprise for creating local employment ranging from project management to effectively with shareholders and the finance and accounting financial community.
Ultras Airport Systems and Ithra businesses, between them, support more Ultras Advanced Tactical Systems ATS than 180 airports around the globe.
business is known throughout the Ultra Airport Systems and Ithras customers Group for its purpose-driven leadership.
include private companies, as well as ATS has the following to say about its governments, which have vested unique operational model: We believe interests in generating local employment.
that employee engagement is driven In 2013, Airport Systems hired local team largely by a sense of purpose.
As such, our members in Brazil, Oman and China, most important value is to Put the facilitating local skills transfer warghter first.
Our employees understand that what we do really matters to our customers.
Along with a sense of purpose, we strive to give the employees as much autonomy as possible.
to Customers: Ultras PMES business periodically Ultra aims to be an excellent strategic presents its Above & Beyond Awards supplier to its customers.
To do so, Ultras to employees who have exceeded businesses are focused on helping expectations.
This employee recognition customers identify their true needs whilst, has served to create a cohesive developing long-term relationships, based community within the business on performance excellence and meeting its commitments.
As evidence of this approach, today, Ultras businesses have built long-term, mutually beneficial to Employees: relationships with their customers and Ultras ability to innovate to meet customer have become part of the customers needs is based on the skills and capabilities extended enterprises.
Examples from 2013 of its employees.
Ultra believes that the highlight Ultras commitments to its broad right people are its most important asset.
customer base: Ultra is committed to developing people and securing the talent pipeline to ensure the Groups continuing growth and success.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Kids, Cancer Research, Marie Curie Ultra has committed to substantial Cancer Care, Help for Heroes, Children investments in manufacturing facilities in Need and The Princes Trust.
Events which will offer increased efficiencies and have included: Climbing Mt Everest, the reduce energy consumption, while Palace to Palace Cycle Ride, the improving productivity across the business.
London Marathon, Keswick to Barrow Walk, as well as various rafes, sales, quizzes and events Ultras AMI business, located in Ann Arbor, Michigan, is well known in that University town for its contributions to the local entrepreneurial community.
AMI in the Community: supports the University of Michigan Ultras businesses are active and engaged Center for Entrepreneurships and corporate stewards in their local participates in AA Spark, an organisation communities.
In 2013, Ultras businesses dedicated to the economic prosperity of collectively raised in excess of 100,000 for the greater Ann Arbor region non-profit organisations around the globe.
Many of the businesses have formed to Suppliers: special relationships with education Ultra considers its suppliers to be part of institutes in their surrounding communities: the extended Ultra enterprise.
Ultras hosting company visits, offering graduate businesses are reliant on their suppliers to training programmes, helping with school help to deliver the complex products and science fairs and taking part in the broader services, many of which are safetyor dialogue on STEM education.
Each performance-critical in their end markets.
operating business has its own locallyUltra is focused on delivering innovative managed charitable budget, which it and differentiated solutions which can only directs to maintain and grow connections be generated through working in with its local community.
The Group partnership with suppliers and customers.
encourages and supports employees who to the environment undertake voluntary work in the local Ultra is cogniscent of its environmental community or at national levels.
Here, life-expired noteworthy examples in 2013 include: sonobuoys are being dismantled for Ultras Maritime Systems business, based recycling and re-use of components.
in Nova Scotia, Canada focuses its charitable efforts on the Feeding Others Of Dartmouth non-profit organisation.
to the Environment: Maritime Systems conducted numerous Ultra recognises that effective measures fund-raising activities throughout the year to support this charity and need to be taken to minimise the environmental impact of its activities.
The business also fund-raises for 2013, Ultra launched a pilot programme with the Carbon Trust, to assess the prostate and breast cancer, Salvation Army Christmas and Military Families environmental impact of its Loudwater, UK operating businesses.
The study identied Fund, which yielded another C$5,000 in charitable donations opportunities for reducing the environmental performance of the Ultras PMES business raised over Loudwater site, while identifying material 17,000 in 2013 for charitable causes.
cost-savings which will benefit Local causes include St Giles Hospice, shareholders.
On the back of this pilot St Josephs & Etheldreda Church in programme, Ultra will survey additional Rugeley and Birmingham Childrens sites in 2014.
National causes include Whizz STEM Science, Technology, Engineering & Maths 6.
