30 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial review continued Information & Power Systems In June 2013, Ultras Nuclear Control Systems business was awarded a 16.1m contract for the supply of specialist instrumentation by EDF Energy.
Under this contract, Ultra will manufacture and support safety-critical nuclear reactor instrumentation for use in EDF Energys current UK nuclear power stations.
This is the first contract to benefit from Ultras recent investment in a new state-of-the-art nuclear instrumentation manufacturing facility.
Ultra is a supplier of nuclear-qualied instrumentation and control systems to key nuclear plant manufacturers and operators around the world.
It currently supplies safety-based equipment to 186 reactors in 16 countries.
Nuclear qualied products Ultra is at the forefront in the development and manufacture of sensors for critical measurements within the nuclear power plant.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Revenue The division supplies advanced command 305.0m -3.4% and control systems for battlespace 2012: 315.8m visualisation, surveillance systems, air defence and naval combat management.
Underlying operating profit The Group provides: perimeter security solutions for critical infrastructure: crisis 41.2m -8.2% response planning and management 2012: 44.9m software and secure networks.
Ultras highintegrity sensors and control systems are Order book used for civil and military nuclear reactors and a range of specialist, solid-state 330.1m -15.7% electrical power systems which are used for naval vessels and mass transit.
Ultra is a 2012: 391.4m world-leading integrator of airport and airline management & information systems.
Revenue in this division was reduced by delays in the federal procurement process, impacting expected orders, milestone approvals and payments and further exacerbated by the unexpected US Government shutdown.
The reduction in the placement of US service contracts particularly impacted ProLogics business.
Sales from the Indonesian Fatahillah corvette upgrade and strong demand for specialist electrical power management equipment for submarine programmes in both the UK and US helped offset revenue reductions in the division.
The underlying operating profit reduction largely reects revenue pressures.
In particular the sharp decline in software services at ProLogic led to an under-recovery of overheads.
The divisional margin reduced to 13.5% 2012: 14.2% with the Oman airport IT contract continuing to trade at a lower margin than the division as a whole.
The order book reduced at the end of the Strategy in action period reecting the trading of the Oman Airport IT contract, US order intake delays Ultras Airport Systems business, following a five-year contract renewal in 2013, and foreign exchange translation.
has upgraded its successful UltraTrak Baggage Management System, hosted in Johannesburg, South Africa.
The renewal until 2018 guarantees enhanced airline Highlights of activities in the year security and improved business performance through UltraTraks powerful which will underpin the divisions reconciliation, tracking and reporting capabilities.
UltraTrak has been used in South future performance included: Africa since 2008, having originally been deployed in Johannesburg, with hosted a 16.1m contract for the supply of operations via WAN at Durban, Cape Town and Port Elizabeth airports.
The operational specialist instrumentation to EDF Energy.
efficiency benefits it delivered drove expansion of the system into 3 further airports: Under this contract Ultra will manufacture Bloemfontein, George and East London.
UltraTrak results in improvement to the and support safety-critical nuclear reactor service offered to customers by the airlines and reduced delays for the airlines.
instrumentation for use in EDF Energys current UK nuclear power stations a contract to supply specialist electrical power management systems and 12 3 4 equipment to the UK Royal Navys submarine programme a contract worth 32m with the Republic of Indonesia Ministry of Defence for the mid-life modernisation of the first of the Fatahillah Class corvettes, including the development, installation and integration of the combat system Pictured, Back row, L to R: Nick Kyprianou, Programmes Middle row, L to R: Rikki Douglas, Sales Manager: Manager: Jefferson Ridgway, Physicist: Robert Heath, Charlotte Massey, Project Physicist: Kevin Steele, Instrumentation Team Leader: Kevin Pilley, Nucleonics Test Mechanical Assembly Operator.
Front: Andy Russell, Engineer: Paul Kent, Nucleonics Team Leader: Jonathan Director, Sensors & Radiation Monitoring.
Hughes, Supply Chain Development Manager.
