18 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Market analysis Ultras place in the market Ultra presents the market with a very wide portfolio of , specialist capabilities and innovative technologies, applicable across the Defence & Aerospace, Security & Cyber, Transport and Energy domains.
In often challenging markets, as government customers wrestle with scal uncertainties, Ultra works across the Group and with partners, to offer cost-effective, mature, proven and comprehensive solutions which can best match customer needs and budgets, rather than presenting a standard product.
Through this approach, the Group is increasing market access and pursuing areas of customers preferential spend.
Ultras customers Ultra focuses on constantly and US DoD Ultras independence allows it to work with continuously positioning itself in UK MoD the worlds major prime contractors in its areas of preferential customer MOTC Oman markets and to sell its wide portfolio of specialist capabilities to a broad range of BAE Systems spend within its main markets customers around the world.
The graphic Rolls-Royce Markets where we operate to the right shows the major customers for Boeing Ultra is always evolving within its main the Groups 2013 revenue.
Within Ultras Defence & Aerospace, Security & Cyber, Lockheed Martin top customers, such as the US Department Transport and Energy markets to sustain THALES of Defense DoD, the UK Ministry of growth.
Through its proven strategic Defence MoD and BAE Systems, the Raytheon review process, the Group has Group actually supplies to a wide range of General Dynamics demonstrated a long track record of different project offices, integrated project identifying future growth sectors within its Indonesian MoD teams and platform teams.
Ultra then invests to create EDF Energy deals with a larger number of different differentiated positions in these sectors.
partners and customers than the graphic Airbus Ultra continues to focus on maximising might, at first, suggest.
PA Consulting revenue from the largest addressable Australian DoD defence budgets in the world.
The Group has a significant transatlantic capability and % 5 10 15 20 25 30 derives around half its revenue from North America, where the Group continues to follow a strategy of identifying and pursuing areas of preferential funding.
The Middle East and Asia Pacific regions are capable of being larger markets for Ultra.
A full analysis of the Groups markets is on the following pages.
Revenue by region United Kingdom 33% Geographic reach Ultra has operations based in the countries A key strategic objective is to broaden the shaded light blue on the map above and North America 44% Groups geographic footprint, see page 15 conducts business in the countries shaded Mainland Europe 8% for more detail.
This is carried out in a in dark blue.
measured and controlled manner as Ultra Rest of the world 15% continues to focus its resources on a limited number of regions and sectors, where it is seeing growth.
Over the last two decades, Ultra has expanded and developed its international footprint and now has significant business in Europe, North America, the Middle East and the Asia Pacific.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ultras view of the market Defence Revenue by capability are leading to more life extension projects, Within the Groups established phased contract awards and greater markets, defence priorities are reliance upon established, proven solutions, shifting from prolonged, tailored to specic needs.
These demands are well matched by the strengths of Ultras land-focused hold and build defence portfolio.
operations back toward the focused intervention and forward USA The US Governments Bipartisan Budget presence capabilities which Act of December 2013 moderated favour maritime, air and special threatened sequester cuts to the total forces.
Defence budgets remain defence budget in FY14 and FY15.
Nevertheless an 8% and 2% reduction in under pressure, yet the demand Defence 57% the defence investment budget over these for military readiness or response Security & Cyber 23% two years will need to be found.
The remains high, in the face of subsequent appropriations bills saw policy Transport and Energy 20% threats from terrorism, piracy, reected in sustained, or even increased budgets for intelligence, surveillance and insurgency and regional tensions.
Defence business by domain reconnaissance ISR, maritime and air Emerging doctrine places a significant programmes and cuts in land forces for emphasis on intelligence and surveillance example, the Virginia class submarine assets, together with the secure, wideband programme saw a 20% increase in connectivity to move data globally and funding, while the US Armys ground within theatre, down to individual units for combat vehicle project was reduced to a improved situational awareness.
ISR capabilities protection of this critical data stream, at all will be prioritised, along with capabilities levels, remains a high priority.
Forward which counter anti-access and area denial operations in high-risk areas continues to systems, designed to counter US maritime place an emphasis on perimeter surveillance, and air presence.
After a year of budget defensive and counter-measure systems in uncertainty, including the impacts of Maritime 66% all war ghting domains.
Budget constraints furloughed staff, threatened staff reductions and even government shutdown, this Air 24% greater clarity is welcome.
Nevertheless, it Land 10% 12 3 4 will take several months for budgets to ow down into contract action and for detailed areas of reduction to become clear.
Ultra remains well positioned in the areas of evident programme spend, including increased investment in anti-submarine warfare, intelligence data analysis and secure, high data rate communications.
The demand for military Strategy in action readiness or response In 2013, Ultras Flightline business received further contracts for its world-leading wideband sonobuoy receivers relating to the US Navy P-8A programme.
Introduction 20 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Defence UK Rest of the world The UK defence budget remains anchored Australia remains an exciting market for upon a core programme with substantial Ultra.
Following the election in Australia, financial contingency, as reiterated in the the government committed to lift defence Defence Equipment Plan, published in spending back to 2% of GDP within a January 2014, a process which has won decade.
A new defence white paper is some much needed headroom.
In 2015 expected in mid-2015, which will provide the MoD will undertake a Strategic much-needed clarity, but Ultra remains well Defence and Security Review SDSR in the positioned in likely areas of spend including aftermath of a General Election.
Fiscal ASW and secure communications.
Indias pressures will undoubtedly remain while comprehensive and ambitious defence other cost pressures, such as the rising modernisation programme provides 12 3 4 cost of manpower, will squeeze the opportunity, but progress is hampered by a equipment programme, making the taut procurement regime and the impact choices made in the 2015 SDSR capability of GDP uctuations on defence funding.
Changes to the Ultra has built strong partnerships with MoD equipment customer roles and in the major Indian primes in areas of technological fide&S structure are still hampering some strength, such as high-capacity radios and programmes.
Ultra has benefited from the ASW, that will facilitate access to this improved stability in procurement, most growing market.
Turkey remains a strong evident in the nuclear submarine market, despite increasing pressures to programme and is well positioned to favour its growing indigenous defence deliver capability in priority areas, such as industry.
Ultra continues to partner with ISTAR, data links, force protection and Turkish industry to develop the next crypto management.
generation of torpedo defence in a Strategy in action programme which demonstrates its longterm commitment to the region and its Ultras GigaSat business won a contract 12 3 4 with the New Zealand MoD for the willingness to transfer technology.
This approach has opened up discussions across supply of Wideband Global SatCom WGS certified fly-away satellite the remainder of Ultras capability portfolio.
The Middle East remains a terminals for use as part of the NZDF Strategic Bearer Network.
valuable market, primarily through US foreign military sales and through primes, yet Ultra is also seeing emerging, direct opportunities in ASW, vehicle electronics and communications.
Strategy in action In 2013, Ultras PMES business won a further contract to supply specialist electrical power management equipment to the UK Royal Navys submarine programme.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Security & Cyber Revenue by capability reference capability which can be applied At 23% of Group revenue, to third parties.
While the Snowden leaks security & cyber is an important have suppressed some opportunities, the and exciting market for Ultra.
demand for intelligence surveillance in sensitive areas e. g. borders, global event Strong investment in the Groups sites, critical infrastructures remains high.
capability portfolio in this area positions Ultra well to access this area of strong budget growth and protected spend.
Budgets for security remain ring-fenced, 12 3 4 or are growing substantially, in the face of Defence 57% terrorism, organised crime, drug Security & Cyber 23% trafcking and cyber threats.
Border security and critical national infrastructure Transport and Energy 20% protection opportunities are increasing.
Solutions need to be tailored to customer need, comprehensive and fully integrated, drawing upon best of breed, established and clearly differentiated technologies.
Ultras portfolio approach and access to well-established partners makes the Group highly attractive in this space, both in established markets and other areas of significant interest, such as the Middle Strategy in action East and Central America.
Opportunities In 2013 Ultra joined the Defence Cyber continue to emerge in this rapidly 12 3 4 Protection Partnership: a partnership developing market.
For example, an between the UK government and a increasing understanding of the group of Britains leading defence and vulnerability of internet protocol security companies, working together controlled industrial systems in critical to bolster the UKs cyber security.
infrastructure is bringing the Groups cyber protection products into new commercial markets, with access through established original equipment manufacturers.
Government, commercial and internet communications and data are increasingly vulnerable to cyber-attack, leading to a developing and diverse marketplace with strong funding.
Ultras investment in this Strategy in action area, strong relationships with national In 2013 Ultras 3eTI business signed a agencies and ability to team with trusted strategic agreement with Johnson partners, positions it well for opportunities Controls for the provision of Ultras in a number of allied countries.
While the cyber security technology for use in commercial market continues to develop, their industrial control systems.
Ultra is investing substantially in its own protection, providing a well-regarded 6.
Introduction 22 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Transport and Energy recovery.
In emerging economies, such Revenue by capability Growing populations, shifts in investment is being used to secure growth, global financial strength, build national capacity and deliver proliferation of low-cost airlines prestigious projects.
With an established master systems integrator capability and and a demand for fuel efficiency regional support hub in the Middle East, are driving investment in civil Ultra is looking for further opportunities in aviation.
Increased global air the region over the next five years.
traffic and shifting financial The nuclear energy market continues with power is driving investment in steady growth, despite the setbacks following the Fukushima disaster.
Rail national programmes are delayed, there are infrastructure, globally, is growing Defence 57% increased opportunities in life extension and even more rapidly as a key safety system improvements.
Meanwhile, Security & Cyber 23% the energy debate is driven by growing commercial and national enabler Transport and Energy 20% capacity demands and low-carbon footprint, in both established and emerging which makes nuclear an important part of economies.
Nuclear energy the mix for many countries.
Ultras remains an important part of a established position in specialist nuclear sensors, qualied for most major platform low-carbon energy mix in the designs and the Groups wide-based safety face of growing energy demand.
justication and system experience, makes Commercial aerospace remains a growing this a growing market for the Group.
Smart market, with predictions of 6% year-onenergy is a potential new market for Ultra, year growth in global air trafc in 2014. applying its secure communications and Growth is very strong in emerging markets database-handling to government and China and the Middle East, but much commercial energy management.
12 3 4 weaker in the mature markets of US and Europe.
Drivers for this sustained demand include air trafc growth and aircraft replacement to introduce improved fuel efficiency, supported by low interest rates.
Both Boeing and Airbus secured unprecedented deliveries in 2013, exceeding 2,000 aircraft for the fifth year and they enjoy record back-logs which, combined, exceed 10,000 large aircraft orders.
Across the sector, demands for innovative technologies to improve efficiency and increase safety, play well to Ultras established strengths in control systems and niche aviation technologies, allowing inclusion in a growing number of positions on long-term aerospace programmes.
Strategy in action Airport systems and rail remain areas of In 2013 Ultras NSPI business was awarded its first contract for nuclear sensors in a strong investment in response to the non-safety-related application at two US plants, providing access to a broader scope of continuing growth in global air trafc.
In applications beyond the reactor island on the global fleet of Westinghouse nuclear established economies, infrastructure power stations.
investment is focused on upgrading existing capabilities and driving economic
