28 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial review continued Aircraft & Vehicle Systems In September 2013, Ultras Precision Air & Land Systems business was awarded a study contract to propose a ammability reduction system for the fuel system of a new passenger aircraft in development.
The study helps the client address the changing FAA regulations to meet the stricter new fleet-wide ammability design requirements, as part of a continual drive to improve ight safety.
Ultras solution addresses regulatory and safety requirements and at the same time, satisfies manufacturers and airlines needs for lighter, fuel-efficient and cost-effective aircraft sub-systems.
Innovative solutions Ultra provides innovative solutions for safety critical and high integrity applications.
Products range from in-cockpit equipment and safety critical control systems to fuel tank inerting systems.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Revenue The division specialises in high integrity, 155.5m 5.8% safety-critical, real-time control systems for 2012: 147.0m aircraft and vehicle applications.
These include airframe and engine ice Underlying operating profit protection, power distribution and control equipment and noise and vibration 32.4m 5.9% cancellation systems.
The Group also 2012: 30.6m supplies advanced human-machine interfaces and systems, including those Order book to control unmanned ground and air vehicles.
Ultra provides innovative small 166.0m 1.5% power sources, including miniature pneumatic systems, propane-powered fuel 2012: 163.6m cells and multi-fuel UAV engines.
Revenue in the period was lifted by increased sales in Ultras specialist ice protection systems business and by a shortterm UOR radio contract for the British Army, as a well as a positive contribution from the Varisys acquisition.
Underlying operating profit reected a good contribution from the UOR, ice protection sales and the Airbus A400M cargo handling system, as well as operational efficiencies from the site move by Ultras Precision Air & Land Systems business.
These factors more than offset the negative impacts of the under-recovery of overheads and labour from the fuel cell business as a result of delayed UAV orders.
These factors, together with lower R&D costs at this point in the divisions development cycle, enabled the operating margin to be sustained at 20.8% 2012: 20.8%.
The increase in the order book reected the receipt of the delayed Lockheed Strategy in action Martin Warrior contract in the second half of the year.
Ultras AMI business is working with partners across the United States to develop innovative power solutions which provide critical power backup to traffic intersections.
Highlights of activities in the year First responders are often trapped in the traffic jams, caused by the power outages, which will underpin the divisions and the signal crews are often left trapped themselves, unable to reach the signal to future performance included: restore power or reset the signal.
In 2013 during trials in Houston, the city a 26.3m contract awarded by Lockheed experienced a major storm, which resulted in power outages across the city.
Those Martin UK under the Warrior Capability traffic intersections fitted with Ultras fuel cell as a backup power source, remained Sustainment Programme for the operational throughout this period, minimising the time first responders were delayed development of a new power in traffic jams and maintaining the safety and integrity of the transportation system.
distribution system for the British Armys Warrior armoured ghting vehicle Ultras teaming partner Raytheon winning the US Joint Miniature 12 3 4 Munitions Bomb Release Unit.
Ultras work share will include the provision of the complete stored energy system.
Contract award is expected in the first quarter of 2014 the award of an exclusive long-term supply agreement with Pratt & Whitney for the electronic control unit which manages the Electrical Ice Protection System on the Joint Strike Fighters F-135 engine.
The agreement is effective for the life of the engine programme Pictured, L to R: Vassilis Moraris, Performance Analysis Keith Scivier, Business Development Manager: Engineer: Brendon Barrett, ILS Manager: Nick Metcalfe, Martin Carpenter, Engineering Director: Andy Chilton, Lead Engineer: Richard Mabbett, Lead Engineer: New Products Manager: Mike Taylor, Chief Engineer.
