50 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate Governance Report Governance Board of Directors For the year ended 31 December 2013 Douglas Caster CBE BSc MIET Rakesh Sharma BSc MBA MInstP CPhys Chairman Chief Executive Time with Ultra: Time with Ultra: 20 years 2 months 20 years 2 months Time in position: Time in position: 2 years 8 months 2 years 8 months Douglas Caster is a highly-experienced engineer and manager of Rakesh Sharma has managed businesses and divisions across the electronics businesses.
He has a long track record of driving growth full range of Ultras wide portfolio, with consistent success in through effective acquisition and superior financial performance in driving growth in the Group.
Combining business and technical the companies he has led.
insight, he ensures Ultra businesses maintain a competitive advantage in the Groups specialist market sectors, while delivering Douglas Caster started his career as an electronics design engineer with the superior financial performance.
Racal Electronics Group in 1975, before moving to Schlumberger in 1986 and then to Dowty as Engineering Director of Sonar & Communication Rakesh Sharma started his career as an electronic design engineer at Systems in 1988.
In 1992, he became Managing Director of that business Marconi in 1983, before moving to Dowty as Chief Engineer of Sonar & and, after participating in the management buy-out which formed Ultra Communication Systems in 1989.
He was appointed Marketing Director of Electronics, joined the Board in October 1993.
In April 2000, he was that business in 1993, when Ultra Electronics was formed.
From 1997 to promoted to the position of Managing Director of Ultras Information 1999, he worked in the US as Ultras Operations Director, North America.
In April 2004, he was appointed Chief Operating After returning to the UK, he was Managing Director of PMES and then of officer and became Chief Executive in April 2005.
He was appointed deputy Sonar & Communication Systems, before taking his first divisional role in Chairman in April 2010 and became Chairman of Ultra in April 2011.
2005 as Managing Director, Tactical & Sonar Systems.
In 2008, he moved to run the Groups Information & Power Systems division, before being appointed Chief Operating officer in January 2010.
He was appointed to the Board in April 2010 and became Chief Executive in April 2011.
Chris Bailey FCA MCT Martin Broadhurst OBE MA C. Dir FIoD FRAeS Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Time in position: Time in position: 8 years 11 months 1 year 5 months Chris Bailey is a highly-experienced, former large plc Finance Director, Martin Broadhurst has a wealth of valuable experience in the who brings valuable specialist and general management expertise to defence and aerospace markets, having run a large engineering Ultras Board.
He has knowledge and expertise in the organisation of organisation within the sector for fifteen years.
He has demonstrable operations in all of Ultras main geographic markets.
expertise and skill in growing international business and in expanding capabilities.
Chris Bailey was appointed to the Board in January 2005.
He was Group Finance Director of Aggregate Industries plc until 2004.
Before this, he was Martin Broadhurst was appointed to the Ultra Board in July 2012.
He the Finance Director of the precursor companies of Aggregate Industries joined Marshall Aerospace as a management trainee in 1975 and, from 1984 until its formation in 1997.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of following a number of roles with the company, including Production Chartered Accountants of England & Wales and is also a Member of the Director and Director of Programmes, was appointed as Chief Executive in Association of Corporate Treasurers.
During his time as Chief Executive, he served on the Group Holdings Board and was Chairman of a number of subsidiary companies.
Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committee member Executive Director NOTE: All details correct as at 31 December 2013 Non-Executive Director Company Secretary & General Counsel Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 51 Corporate Governance Report Ultras strategic framework Mary Waldner MA ACMA Mark Anderson CB BSc Finance Director Group Marketing Director Time with Ultra: Time with Ultra: 6 months 2 years 7 months Time in position: Time in position: 6 months 1 year 8 months Mary has a broad range of experience in a variety of sectors and Mark Anderson brings a broad customer perspective, operational an excellent track record of delivery throughout a number of senior experience from recent conicts and collaboration with close allies.
financial roles with major public limited companies.
His oversight of Ultras strategic process will benefit from this broad After graduating from Oxford University with an MA in Physics, Mary understanding of the customer need.
started her career at Coopers & Lybrand Management Consultancy Mark Anderson joined the Royal Navy in 1974 as a weapon system Services, before working for Vauxhall Motors Ltd. From 1998 to 2008, she engineer, before switching career path to achieve both nuclear submarine held a number of senior roles at British Airways plc, including Financial and ship command.
His MoD staff appointments include policy roles in two Controller Commercial and Manager, Corporate Planning and Reporting.
Strategic Defence Reviews and equipment customer responsibility for all Following this, she then moved to 3i Group plc, where she was Group underwater programmes.
He has worked closely with the US throughout Financial Controller.
In 2011, Mary joined QinetiQ Group plc as Director, his career, including sensitive roles within the US Joint Staff.
She joined Ultra Electronics as Group Finance Director and Rear Admiral, he commanded all Fleet Operations and headed the UK was appointed to the Board in July 2013. submarine service up to the end of his 36 years service in June 2011.
He then joined Ultra in a divisional strategy role, before being selected to join the Board in April 2012.
Sir Robert Walmsley KCB, FREng Sharon Harris LLB Company Secretary & General Counsel Non-Executive Director Time with Ultra: 2 years 1 month Time in position: Time in position: 1 year 8 months 4 years 11 months Sir Robert Walmsley brings to Ultras Board, solid experience in the Sharon Harris brings corporate legal expertise to the Board role, defence, security, energy and transport sectors.
He has a deep together with plc experience in corporate governance, with a knowledge of all of Ultras main geographic markets and a strong knowledge of the management and protection of substantial experience of government procurement.
Sir Robert Walmsley was most recently Chief of Defence Procurement at Sharon Harris graduated from Kings College, London with a Law degree.
the UK Ministry of Defence MoD, a post which he held from 1996 until She started her career at Norton Rose and has international plc experience his retirement from public service in 2003.
Prior to his MoD appointment, gained in the FMCG, pharmaceutical, media and electronics sectors.
She Sir Robert had a distinguished career in the Royal Navy, where he rose to joined Ultra in November 2011 and was appointed Company Secretary in the rank of Vice Admiral in 1994 and served for two years as Controller of April 2012. the Navy.
Sir Robert Walmsley is a Non-Executive Director of Cohort plc and of the General Dynamics Corporation.
He was appointed to the Board in January 2009.
Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committee member Executive Director NOTE: All details correct as at 31 December 2013 Non-Executive Director Company Secretary & General Counsel 6.
