REPORT OF THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE TERMS OF REFERENCE The Corporate Responsibility Committee oversees Unilevers conduct as a responsible multinational business.
The Committee ATTENDANCE is also charged with ensuring that Unilevers reputation is Louise Fresco 4 4 protected and enhanced.
A key element of the Committees role is Chairman of the Corporate the need to identify any external developments which are likely to Responsibility Committee have an influence upon Unilevers standing in society and to bring these to the attention of the Boards.
Sir Malcolm Rifkind 2 2 Hixonia Nyasulu 2 2 The Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors.
In May Laura Cha 2 2 2013 Sir Malcolm Rifkind and Hixonia Nyasulu rotated off the Charles Golden 2 2 Committee.
Louise Fresco succeeded Sir Malcolm as Chair of the Committee and was joined by two further Non-Executive This table shows the attendance of Directors at Committee meetings for Directors: Charles Golden, who transferred to the Committee the year ended 31 December 2013.
If Directors are unable to attend a from his previous role on the Audit Committee: and Laura Cha, meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda who was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Unilever at the items with the Committee Chairman.
Attendance is expressed as the 2013 AGMs.
The Chief Marketing & Communication Officer attends number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
The Committees discussions are informed by the perspectives of HIGHLIGHTS OF 2013 the Groups two sustainability leadership groups, both of which are chaired by the Chief Marketing & Communication Officer.
The first is the Unilever Sustainable Development Group USDG a Scrutiny of Unilevers Code of Business group of experts from outside the Group who advise Unilevers Principles senior leadership on its sustainability strategy.
The second is the Review of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan Unilever Sustainable Living Plan Steering Team the group of Unilevers senior executives who are accountable for driving and its social impacts sustainable growth.
The insights from these groups help to keep the Boards informed of current and emerging trends and any potential risks arising from sustainability issues.
During 2013 the Boards reviewed the terms of reference of the PRIORITIES FOR 2014 Committee with the result that minor changes were incorporated into its terms of reference.
Compliance with Code of Business Principles, The Committees terms of reference and details of the Unilever particularly by third parties Sustainable Development Group are available on our website at The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan: progress www.
com investorrelations corp governance and on delivering the Plan and monitoring the social www.
com sustainable-living ourapproach Governance impacts of the Plan respectively.
Product quality and food safety MEETINGS Increased regulation Meetings are held quarterly and ad hoc as required.
The Committee Chairman reports the conclusions to the Boards.
Four meetings were held in 2013.
In addition, a further information session was arranged to brief the new and existing members of the Corporate Responsibility Committee and the Audit Committee on the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan see below.
The Committees agenda comprises a number of standing items.
These include the Code of Business Principles the Code and litigation as well as occupational safety and product safety and quality.
The Committee reviews priority topics, such as the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP, the corporate risks which fall within its remit and a range of strategic and current issues.
In July, the new Chair of the Committee formulated a new structure for Committee discussions, enabling members to focus in detail on these responsibilities.
CODE OF BUSINESS PRINCIPLES The Committee is responsible for the oversight of the Code and associated Code Policies which set out the standards of conduct we expect of our employees.
The Committee ensures that the Code and Code Policies remain fit for purpose and are appropriately applied.
The Audit Committee also considers the Code as part of its remit to review risk management.
56 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The Committee maintains close scrutiny of the mechanisms for FURTHER ITEMS compliance with the Code and Code Policies as ongoing A number of other priority topics were considered during the year.
compliance is essential to promote and protect Unilevers values These included topics such as obesity, progress on alternatives to and standards, and hence the good reputation of the Group.
animal testing, consumer confidence in the use of chemicals and At each meeting the Committee reviews the completion of responsible minerals procurement, as well as the processes in investigations into non-compliance with the Code and Code place for managing issues such as these.
Policies and progress on training programmes as well as any trends which may emerge from reports of Code non-compliance.
EVALUATION OF THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Following a benchmarking exercise on codes of conduct, the COMMITTEE Committee was pleased to note that while Unilever compares well The Boards evaluated the performance of the Committee and the with others, it seeks continuous improvement and work is Committee carried out a self-assessment of its performance, and ongoing to enhance compliance with Code processes.
each has concluded that the Committee is performing effectively.
In July, suppliers and distributors compliance with Code policies was also studied by the Committee.
The Committee noted that third parties compliance is essential for the protection of the Louise Fresco reputation of Unilever and its brands and has set this as a priority Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee for 2014.
Charles Golden Laura Cha LITIGATION REVIEW The Chief Legal Officer reports to the Committee on litigation and 1 Further details can be found in Unilevers online Sustainable Living Report regulatory matters which may have a reputational impact 2013, published in April 2014. including environmental issues, bribery and corruption 2 See Labour Rights in Unilevers Supply Chain: from Compliance towards compliance and competition law compliance.
For further Good Practice at http: www.
com sustainable-living news news information on legal proceedings please see note 20 on page 131.
aspx SAFETY The Committee receives an analysis of occupational safety and product safety and quality at each meeting.
Occupational safety continues to be a top priority for Unilever, particularly road safety where Unilever is sharing best practices and learning from a number of FTSE 100 companies.
The Committee also discussed Unilevers policies and processes for product safety, including incident management, and noted that Unilever adopts a systematic approach that focuses on prevention.
UNILEVER SUSTAINABLE LIVING PLAN The USLP is at the heart of Unilevers vision to double the size of its business while reducing its environmental footprint and increasing its positive social impact.
By making sustainability integral to how Unilever does business, the USLP provides the differentiator in Unilevers business model.
Given its strategic importance, the Committee monitors progress on the USLP and reviews any potential risks that could affect Unilevers reputation.
During the year the Committee transitioned its responsibility for overseeing the independent assurance work that is performed on a number of our USLP metrics selected on the basis of their materiality to the USLP to the Audit Committee.
This allows the Committee to place more focus on the USLPs wider social, economic and environmental impacts.
In September, the two Committees came together for a detailed briefing on the USLPs targets and metrics as well as the priority issues Unilever was addressing in 2013.
One of the Committees priorities in 2014 is to ensure that delivery of the USLP is maintained through appropriate business strategies.
In the three years since its launch at the end of 2010, much has been learned in driving the implementation of the USLP across the organisation and externally through its value chain from suppliers to consumers.
Unilever is reviewing its strategy and approach to focus its attention on the areas that matter most to the business and where its contribution can achieve the greatest impact in society.
This includes the extension of the Enhancing Livelihoods 1 pillar of the USLP, where Unilever has gained insights into the impacts of its extended value chain from working with NGO partners such as Oxfam.
The Committee reviewed the findings 2 from Oxfams study of Unilever in Vietnam and welcomed the policies and processes being developed by Unilever.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance 57
