OUR BUSINESS SUSTAINABLE LIVING MODEL For us, sustainable, equitable growth Our business model is designed to is the only acceptable business model.
For us, Business needs to be a regenerative sustainability is integral to how we do force in the system that gives it life.
In a world where temperatures For example, by reducing waste we are rising, water is scarce, energy is create efficiencies and reduce costs, expensive, sanitation is poor in many helping to improve margins while areas, and food supplies are uncertain reducing risk.
Meanwhile, looking at and expensive, we have both a duty and more sustainable ways of developing an opportunity to address these issues products, sourcing and manufacturing in the way we do business.
opens up opportunities for innovation while improving the livelihoods of our suppliers.
OUR COMPASS STRATEGY We call our business strategy document Our USLP is the means by which we seek to the Compass, since it sets out a constant achieve sustainable growth.
The USLP has path for Unilever for the long term.
First three big goals: developed in 2009, it was sharpened in 2012 but its core elements remained IMPROVING HEALTH AND WELL-BEING the same.
The Compass sets out our By 2020 we will help more than a billion ambitious Vision and Purpose, and defines people take action to improve their health four non-negotiable commitments within and well-being.
the business that we believe will help us achieve both: winning with brands and REDUCING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT innovation: winning in the market place: By 2020 our goal is to halve the environmental winning through continuous improvement: footprint of the making and use of our and winning with people.
Our Statement products as we grow our business.
of Purpose is also the title of our Annual Report and Accounts.
ENHANCING LIVELIHOODS By 2020 we will enhance the livelihoods of The Compass gives life to our determination hundreds of thousands of people as we grow to build a sustainable business for the long o ur business.
term and to find new ways to operate that See page 22 do not just take from society and the environment.
This is captured in the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP.
Our environmental targets are expressed on a per consumer use basis, using a lifecycle approach.
This means a single use, portion or serving of a product.
OUR PEOPLE Sustainable, profitable growth can only be achieved with the right people working in an organisation that is fit to win, with a culture in which performance is aligned with values.
We are an increasingly agile and diverse business with people motivated by doing good while doing well.
We are building capability and leadership among our people and attracting some of the best talent in the market place.
See page 14 OUR BRANDS OUR OPERATIONS Strong brands and innovation are central toour ambition to double in size.
We are On any given day 2 billion consumers use our investing in brand equity, finding and products and we want to reach many more, strengthening the connections between by developing innovative products that address consumers and the products they buy.
different consumer needs at different price Strong brand equities enable us to create points.
To do this we use our global scale to efficiencies by focusing on fewer, bigger help deliver sustainable, profitable growth by projects that enhance margins.
And we seeking to add value at every step in the value are seeking superior products which chain by enhancing product quality and consumers will prefer, driving profitable customer service, and rolling out innovations growth.
See page 10 See page 18 8 Strategic report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 O U R P E O P L E S D N A R OUR BUSINESS MODEL The inputs to our business model, like those of all major packaged goods manufacturers, are threefold: brands: people: and operations.
These map directly on to our Compass winning with commitments with both continuous improvement and the market place pillars supporting the operations strand of PROFITABLE COST themodel.
VOLUME LEVERAGE GROWTH EFFICIENCY The differentiator in our business model is our USLP and the goal of sustainable living.
SUSTAINABLE The outputs of the model are threefold: LIVING sustained growth: lower environmental impact: and positive social impact.
These align directly with our Vision statement.
The diagram represents our virtuous circle of growth.
It summarises, simply, how we derive profit from our business model.
INNOVATION MARKETING INVESTMENT A VIRTUOUS CIRCLE OF GROWTH PROFITABLE VOLUME COST LEVERAGE INNOVATION GROWTH EFFICIENCY MARKETING INVESTMENT Profitable volume growth is the basis Profitable volume growth allows Lower costs and improved efficiency enable of the virtuous circle of growth.
The us to optimise the utilisation of our us to strengthen our business further.
drivers of our volume growth are infrastructure and spread fixed costs New and improved products are the result innovation and investment behind our over a larger number of units produced, of investment in R&D and, together with brands.
Consistently strong volume reducing the average cost per unit.
It effective marketing, strengthen our brand growth builds brand equity as we reach improves our profitability and allows equity.
This results in profitable volume more consumers, more often.
us to invest in the business.
growth, self-perpetuating the virtuous circle of growth.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report 9 B R U O O U R O P E R A T I O N S S D N A R B R E G G I B E G A R E V E L B U I L D I N G B R A N D E Q U I T I E PRODUCTS THAT DELIVER MORE By combining human insight with technological innovation we find new ways to connect with consumers.
In February 2013, for example, we launched a radical COST new compressed aerosol deodorant for LEVERAGE EFFICIENCY women from Dove, Sure and Vaseline in the UK.
The new cans are half the size and use half the propellant of their predecessors, while lasting just as long and delivering the same excellent protection.
PROFITABLE Not only does this reduction in packaging VOLUME OUR GROWTH and material deliver environmental benefits BRANDS including an overall carbon footprint reduction of an average of 25% per can but the format was an immediate success.
More than 9 million cans have been sold since launch, representing a 9.6% share of INNOVATION the female antiperspirant aerosol market.
MARKETING INVESTMENT Another Personal Care innovation, Vaseline Spray & Go moisturiser, features a continuous-spray system which delivers a targeted application easily and evenly BUILDING BRAND EQUITIES across the body.
In developing a formulation Behind every brand should be a unique which was thin enough to be sprayed but OUR insight into the purpose it will serve in contained the right balance of moisturising the life of the person who buys it.
We build ingredients, we were working on the brand equity by ensuring not only that insight that people wanted moisturisers BRANDS our brands have a purpose, but also that which could be applied rapidly and did not it is clearly understood, and valued, need to be rubbed in.
Since its launch, in by our consumers.
North America alone Vaseline Spray & Go Our brands make a difference.
They has added more than 25 million turnover succeed when we create high-quality BRANDS WITH PURPOSE to the Vaseline brand.
products which make a connection with Whether it is Lifebuoy or Domestos helping peoples lives and needs, bringing a to prevent the spread of diarrhoea and INNOVATING TO FIND NEW CHANNELS promise to the consumer and driving other serious diseases: Becel improving Innovation can also build the equity of sustainable, profitable growth.
A stream heart health: reminding parents that dirt brands by bringing established products to of innovations is helping us create brands is good for their childs development and consumers through novel channels.
We aim to grow our giving them the best laundry detergents example, Lipton introduced new hot and business and improve our margins by like Omo to clean up afterwards: giving iced-tea varieties for the Keurig K-Cup building on our brands strength people the confidence to get more out of brewing system by sales value, the leading especially our 14 1 billion brands, life through our Personal Care brands: or single cup coffee and tea dispenser in the where our impact can be greatest.
providing delicious food and refreshments US.
The innovation, combined with a made with more and more sustainablycampaign that includes reaching 2.5 million sourced ingredients our brands make a consumers through Twitter, has seen Lipton difference.
gain over 10% of the tea capsules market OUR CATEGORIES Turnover 18.1 BILLION 2012: 18.1 billion Underlying sales growth 7.3% 2012: 10.0% Core operating margin 17.8% 2012: 17.0% PERSONAL CARE 10 Strategic report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 S E C N E R E F E R P R E M U S N O C N I W since launch.
The roll-out of Magnum LA MAISON MAILLE BOUTIQUE Pleasure Stores and Walls Happiness Maille opened the doors to its first international Station ice cream parlours in shopping boutique in Londons Piccadilly in October, selling a malls and at events has connected with wide selection of premium French mustards, vinegars, people across the world.
La Maison Maille has made premium mustard and vinegars for 266 years.
BUILDING ON OUR HERITAGE By bringing more than 60 new premium products Our portfolio contains many brands which to the UK in 2013, it is showing how our brands are embedded in peoples lives and with continue to find new ways to stimulate growth which consumers feel a long-standing and set new trends.
We want to reward that loyalty by ensuring that they continue to serve existing consumers while exciting new ones.
In 2013, for instance, we celebrated the 100th anniversary of Hellmanns mayonnaise.
With strong leadership, Hellmanns is number one globally in mayonnaise and continues to inspire consumers through its industry-leading commitment to using cage-free eggs and high-quality ingredients such as sustainably-sourced oils and tomatoes, and by offering new recipes and tips on 14 how mayonnaise, ketchup and other 1 billion brands dressings products can enhance their food.
2012: 14 Hellmanns reaches around 450 million consumers in over 50 countries and in 2013 delivered 4.9% underlying sales growth in comparison with the prior year.
LEVERAGE BIGGER BRANDS Our portfolio of 14 1 billion brands makes up more than 54% of our business and it is where our largest competitive advantage lies.
We aim to meet our ambitions for volume growth and margin improvement by growing the presence of these core brands in new and existing markets, and by focusing on bigger, but fewer, innovations.
Turnover Turnover Turnover 13.4 BILLION 9.4 BILLION 8.9 BILLION 2012: 14.4 billion 2012: 9.7 billion 2012: 9.1 billion Underlying Underlying Underlying sales growth sales growth sales growth 0.3% 1.1% 8.0% 2012: 1.8% 2012: 6.3% 2012: 10.3% Core operating Core operating Core operating margin margin margin 17.7% 9.1% 6.4% 2012: 17.5% 2012: 9.3% 2012: 5.8% FOODS REFRESHMENT HOME CARE Restated: see Financial review starting on page 26.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report 11 OUR BRANDS HARNESSING SCIENCE WINNING MARKET SHARE STRATEGICALLY IN EMERGING MARKETS CONTINUED In 2013 we launched the Strategic Science Emerging markets now account for 57% Group, designed to forecast evolving of our business and have the potential to science trends, identify opportunities, and provide far greater growth in the future.
FEWER, BIGGER INNOVATIONS deliver growth through innovation.
The Brands which identify and respond to the Innovations that give competitive advantage Strategic Science Group is the third pillar local needs of people within those markets to our biggest brands are the most likely to in our New Ways to Innovate strategy, can have a great impact.
This is exemplified have a positive impact on our business as a alongside Open Innovation and the New by our Foods category: inAfrica, for whole.
We have focused our R&D efforts on Business Unit.
Together, they aim to example, our Rama and Blue Band innovations that can be deployed with scale.
harness rapidly-evolving science and margarines are now fortified with seven For example, our Dirt is Good laundry brand leverage the work of external academia, vitamins including vitamin A, strengthening has been improved by a combination of a small and medium sized enterprises, and their proposition in a region which contains new formulation which delivers better start-ups, to develop new science and 33% of the worlds vitamin A-deficient whitening and stain removal technology, breakthrough technologies.
Knorr, which celebrated its 175th and new packaging designed for singleanniversary in 2013, continues to innovate handed opening and containing an ACHIEVING MARKETING CUTthrough relevant products such as the integrated pour spout, freshness seal and THROUGH IN A DIGITAL WORLD Baking Bag.
This has gained share in all dosing ball.
The new concentrated Small Marketing campaigns that are focused ofour key markets in Latin America.
In & Mighty, launched in the UK, Ireland, on global brands have the potential to Brazil, one of the largest markets, Knorrs Portugal, the Netherlands and France, achieve greater impact, by engaging Baking Bag has achieved more than two has gained significant market share, up by people through multiple media achieving percentage points in market share.
Laundry 1.4 percentage points in the UK and by two what we call cut-through.
In January brands like Surf, launched in Morocco, and percentage points in Portugal.
2013, Axe marked the launch of its range Omo, launched in the Philippines, have also of Apollo deodorants, shampoos and gained market share.
Similarly, our patented TESS technology, shower gels with a multichannel which uses the natural essence pressed campaign in more than 60 countries WIN CONSUMER PREFERENCE from freshly picked tea leaves, has thatincluded a competition to win a Brands with real purpose mean more to enabled the global re-launch of Lipton placeon a space flight resulting in consumers but to increase sales and Yellow Label, the worlds best-selling tea morethan a million people registering margins, we also need to ensure that brand.
The re-launch has introduced toparticipate, and more than 10 million this sense of purpose is aligned with a this innovation to 44 countries in two votes on the AxeApollo.
product that delivers superiority in quality years, resulting in an underlying growth of or functionality.
Winning consumer 5.6% in global turnover for Lipton Yellow Similarly, Doves Sketches film, part of preference is essential to our ambition Label.
Doves ongoing Real Beauty campaign, to grow faster than our markets and, became the most watched video by allowing us to grow our premium advertisement of all time following its offerings, helps us increase margins, launch in April 2013 and achieved more making our business more profitable.
These campaigns recognise the importance BRANDS THAT PEOPLE CHOOSE of truly engaging consumers in a digital We want all our brands to be preferred age if they are engaged with our brand, in their markets.
In 2013, our global they are more likely to be talking about product benchmarking programme it to others.
showed that 97.19% of products in scope are considered equal to, or better than, our key competitors products.
UNILEVER ROARS AT LIONS Unilever earned the title of Most Awarded Advertiser at the 60th Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity, the worlds biggest annual awards event for professionals in the creative communications industry, bringing home a total of 44 awards doubling that of the previous year.
Dove alone scooped 23 Lions, including the Titanium Grand Prix, the Festivals highest honour, for Doves Real Beauty Sketches film.
12 Strategic report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 When the promise of one of our brands is as a business, we intend to simplify clearly understood by consumers, and they ouroffering further reducing the total OVERVIEW OF RISKS are persuaded of its benefits, we create the number ofstock-keeping units SKUs that conditions for rapid growth.
For example, we sell, in order to focus on those which will BRAND PREFERENCE in 2013 we launched Cif and Vim sold as best drive our growth and margins.
As a branded goods business, Domestos in other countries in Brazil.
Unilevers success depends on the While the slow-down in the Brazilian PREMIUM PRODUCTS, value and relevance of our brands and economy in particular has made this HIGHER MARGINS products to consumers across the market more challenging for some of our Products which consumers prefer world and on our ability to innovate brands in 2013, the combination of Cifs can command higher prices than their and remain competitive.
and Vims improved formulae with a fast competitors and we are increasingly roll-out and local activation has led to a focusing on the premium segments of PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT market share gain of 7.6 percentage points.
our markets, which offer the potential Unilevers strategic investment for better margins and higher profits.
choices will affect the long-term ALWAYS SEEKING IMPROVEMENT growth and profits of our business.
During the year, all our categories have This segmentation is taking place across been profitable, despite signs that the most of our categories and is fuelled by See Risks on page 34 global economic slow-down is having an innovation, collaboration with partners, effect in emerging markets.
But we are and selective acquisition.
We have, for under no illusions about the need to keep example, acquired T2, a fast-growing improving and strengthening our brands premium tea brand in Australia generating if we are to achieve growth.
In Foods, for sales of around 37 million a year: and example, weare investing in ways to IOMA, a premium skin care brand, strengthen our margarines, through whichuses state-of-the-art diagnostic product renovation our foods taste technology to study an individuals skin good because they are made from simple and tailor a bespoke skin care regime.
recognisable ingredients, a growing IOMA is a strategic acquisition that gives number of which are sustainably sourced us access to the premium skin care as well as launching new, innovative market and channels where we are products such as mlanges, a blend of under-represented.
Innovation is creating butter and margarine.
Supported by better products such as Magnum 5 Kisses, a quality advertising, the mlanges started premium Rainforest Alliance Certified very successfully in Europe.
In Refreshment, icecream inspired by French patisserie, weare looking at ways to improve and which was launched in 13 markets in 2013. premiumise our ice creams which, due Meanwhile our gourmet Maille brand, tofactors including a poor start to the founded in 1747, opened its first store summer particularly in Europe and the US outside France, La Maison Maille in as well as intense competitive activity in key Londons Piccadilly, providing premium markets, did not grow as expected in 2013. mustards, vinegars, gifts and accessories.
Our Personal Care category continued to grow significantly and accounted for 36% of Group turnover in 2013, but could improve its share of the more premium segments of the market.
Our Home Care category sawgood underlying growth, with household care approaching the 2billion mark and fabric conditioners 1billion, but we would like toimprove our profitability and roll out innovations even faster.
Overall, CORNETTO CONQUERS CHINA Cornetto saw strong top and bottom line growth in China in 2013, with sales of over 100 million, making China the biggest Cornetto market for the first time.
The digital campaign of short love stories touched 410 million people worldwide.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report 13 E S R E V I D E N L B O I I X T A E S L I F N E A L G I R G A O C A P A B I L I T Y & L E A D E R S H I goods FMCG employer of choice among students in 26 countries and number five in the Hay Groups Best Companies for Leaders, moving up from tenth in 2011 2012.
We also scored top spot in both Europe and Latin America, and came third in Asia.
And our Made By You campaign, which has sustainable living at its heart, is making us a more attractive employer to graduates.
This external recognition is encouraging and has a clear business benefit in helping us grow our talent.
COST LEVERAGE EFFICIENCY CHAMPIONING TALENT We believe that nurturing talent will be the determining factor in our ability to double the size of our business.
Our leadership and development programmes PROFITABLE VOLUME OUR are helping all our people to be the best GROWTH PEOPLE they can be, irrespective of level or role, from growing functional skills linked to our business strategy and priorities, to leadership skills for now and the future.
For example, more than 600 people from OUR our Personal Care category have been INNOVATION MARKETING trained in five key capabilities essential INVESTMENT to excellence in Personal Care marketing.
PEOPLE In our manufacturing operations we intend to train 90,000 employees in technical capabilities and in different functions so We believe that talent will determine CAPABILITY AND they can work across the factory.
And our our ability to become an 80 billion LEADERSHIP leaders are playing a primary role in business.
Every day, our people are To achieve our Vision, we need to continue championing talent.
working hard to make us more competitive to build a talented workforce.
We believe and to achieve our Vision of doubling the that the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan The Four Acres Learning and Leadership size of our business while reducing our USLP is one of the reasons why our Centre in Singapore opened in 2013 environmental footprint and increasing attractiveness as a potential employer with a global leadership programme.
We are is at an all-time high as well as helping We know that the role and requirements determined that everything we do has to energise our own people.
of leadership must adapt as the world openness, diversity and inclusion at its changes, so we tasked a global steering heart.
It is only by helping all our people In 2013, we were rated the third most board to discuss what attributes a leader to be the best they can be that we can in-demand employer by business social will need in 2020.
Teams of young Unilever reach our own objectives.
network LinkedIn, behind only Google leaders took part and agreed six and Apple.
And on Facebook, our global leadership principles purpose at careers page continues to spiral with over the centre, encircled by authenticity, 500,000 likes, up from 110,000 in 2012. adaptability, resilience, systemic We were named fast-moving consumer thinking and results orientation.
DIVERSITY KPI ENGAGEMENT KPI EMPLOYER OF CHOICE 58% NO.
1 male in 42% 78% 26 female countries The percentage of persons of Overall engagement score among Fast-moving consumer each sex who were Unilever managers who participated in our goods employer of choice managers.
Global People Survey in 2013. among students.
1 in 20 countries 14 Strategic report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 P E R U T L U C E C N A M R O F R E P & S E U L A V Investment in our people stretches beyond careers to their well-being, which is just as important for our success as a business.
For example, our mental health and resilience initiative in the UK and Ireland trains managers to spot symptoms and support employees who are struggling, offers a confidential web and telephone support service, and encourages team workshops to manage workloads and pressure.
SHAPING LEADERS OF THE FUTURE During 2013 in Singapore, we launched the Future Leaders League, our first global employer brand-building competition, to motivate young leaders about our business, brands, the USLP and our views on future leadership.
Finalists representing ten countries across our markets created a holistic campaign for Lifebuoy that was designed to touch millions of people in 2013.
And, at the One Young World summit in Johannesburg in October 2013, our Chief Executive Officer urged 1,200 delegates from 190 countries to become a force for good.
As well as generating a positive buzz around our employer brand, our aim with initiatives like these is to create a generation of advocates for sustainable growth.
AGILE, FLEXIBLE AND DIVERSE ORGANISATION Inclusion is at the heart of being an agile, flexible and diverse organisation.
It means having a representative workforce, empowering our people with policies and infrastructure to help them work quickly and effectively, and creating THE GOOD SISTER flexible ways of working to suit their Every year, our people nominate Unilever heroes for work that circumstances.
The smarter we work, brings our values to life.
Habiba Haroon has helped over 1,400 the more effective and efficient we will women in rural Pakistan to earn a sustainable income through the be at meeting the needs of our consumers Guddi Baji Good Sister programme, training them to become in a rapidly changing world.
saleswomen for beauty products like Sunsilk and Lux.
Now they can earn an average of 58 per month, improving their livelihoods by making meaningful contributions to their familiesincomes.
GLOBAL CAREERS PAGE 500,000 likes of our Facebook global careers page.
2012: 110,000 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report 15 OUR PEOPLE Cultures.
We were included in The Times available in seven languages.
The new Top 50 Employers forWomen in the UK, approach, pioneered by Hindustan CONTINUED The Working Mother 100 Best Companies Unilever in 2012, escalates business in North America and the Corporate problem solving to the highest levels Empowerment for Women Award from of leadership within three weeks.
FROM DIVERSITY TO INCLUSION Cosmetics Executive Women, North Using Sunset in India to deal swiftly with Women are Unilevers core consumers, America.
customer management issues has led controlling nearly two thirds of consumer to better retention of salesmen and spending, so its important that we SIMPLIFYING THE WAY WE WORK lower costs of hiring.
represent them in our workforce.
As at Simplifying working practices and 31 December 2013, 119,139 68% of our cutting out unnecessary bureaucracy Meanwhile, building on the findings from global workforce of 174,381 employees has a twofold benefit: it helps us respond our Winning Balance campaign, more were male and 55,242 32% female.
swiftly to changes in the market place and than 87,000 people viewed our Winning Ofthese, 115 are considered senior allows our people to focus on what inspires Together programme which is helping leadership executives 96 male, 19 female.
them building and growing our brands.
teams make changes to everyday working If you include employees who are statutory practices.
This includes meetings and directors of the corporate entities whose One way of doing this is to bring people email etiquette, so as to spend time financial information is included in the together: we have opened a European more effectively on making the biggest Groups 2013 consolidated accounts in Marketing and Innovation Hub in difference to the business.
For example, thisAnnual Report, the number increases Rotterdam, relocating approximately 270 teams are creating their own manifestos to 681 males and 181 females.
35% five employees from nine different countries, and sharing best practice, with promises out of 14 of the Board are female.
Our which will speed up both decision-making including more video conferencing to ambition is for 50% of our managers to and the sharing of best practice.
Were reduce travel, keeping meetings to time bewomen 2013: 42% were female and also pleased that 58% of people based and an end to cc-ing emails unnecessarily.
there are women and they represent 28 different nationalities.
But there is still much to do.
In 2014, We know there is still much to do and we we intend to focus on helping leaders are working hard to put programmes in We are also looking at working practices promote a culture of inclusivity.
place to improve our representation and across the company.
For example, we retention of women.
Our Winning Balance arerolling out Agile Working and now VALUES AND campaign, for example, encouraged have 30 Agile Workplaces.
This new employees to give their views on gender way of working measures performance PERFORMANCE CULTURE balance.
We used over 1,750 responses on results, not time and attendance, and In a turbulent world, people are looking to make real changes.
These included a reinforces diversity by helping people for meaning at work, and contributing to programme to retain female staff during particularly women balance their making sustainable living commonplace, and after maternity leave, as well as personal and professional lives.
as we do at Unilever, is highly motivating.
training leaders to be more inclusive.
Our values of integrity, responsibility, and And during the year we set ourselves a respect, and our pioneering spirit guide Our efforts are showing signs of challenge: to rework our major processes our people in the judgements, actions and successand were encouraged by and systems those that are the most decisions they make each day.
They are externalrecognition including two golds complex, time consuming and frustrating especially important as we expand into for Winning Balance at the tenth Stevie to halve the time they take to use.
In the new markets, recruit new people and face Awards for Women in Business, as spirit of this ambition, we coined the new challenges.
wellasa Catalyst Award for Creating a initiative Project Half for growth, and Gender-Balanced Workforce in Different identified a radical simplification of ten ENGAGEMENT processes and systems that would reduce Each year, our Global People Survey the time we spend on doing things that measures employee engagement, dont add value and concentrate on things alternating between polling all employees that do.
Each initiative is championed by a and managers only.
In 2013, we surveyed ULE member.
our managers and 89% participated, with the overall engagement score increasing Similarly, Project Sunset, an IT tool that fivepercentage points to 78% compared speeds up decisions, has been rolled with managers results in 2012.
However, out across 103 countries and is already our bias for action scores rose only slightly to 50% we hope to see this change as our programmes to simplify our working practices start to take effect.
SAFETY KPI Total recordable accident frequency rate 1.03 per 1 million hours worked 2012: 1.17 per 1 million hours worked 16 Strategic report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 SUPPLY CHAIN ACADEMY We have created a global infrastructure to develop the technical skills of our managers and senior leaders across our entire supply chain function, building training programmes tailored to the roles of each individual.
Withinmanufacturing, we are building a similarly robust development programme for our teams on the factory floor across the globe to ensure there are common standards of skills in place.
HUMAN RIGHTS mindset, a passion for consumers and an second year, names five employees as In line with the UN Guiding Principles on appetite to drive personal performance.
To global ambassadors for the Unilever Business and Human Rights UNGP, we do this, we are building a winning culture Foundation, which partners with Oxfam, base our human rights commitment and in which every employee is encouraged to Population Services International, Save policy on the International Bill of Human grow to his or her full potential.
Our the Children, UNICEF and the World Food Rights the Universal Declaration of Human performance-based reward structure Programme to improve peoples quality Rights, the International Covenant on Civil recognises those who have delivered oflife.
and Political Rights and the International results and have the right values for our Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural business.
And our Big Moments campaign is driving Rights and the principles concerning greater awareness of our mission to be fundamental rights set out in the While recognition reinforces our values more sustainable by educating our people International Labour Organizations andthe positive behaviours that drive our and encouraging them to talk to their Declaration on Fundamental Principles and business performance, recognition can communities about sustainability.
We seek to uphold these be delivered in many ways.
This year, we 79% of all employees had spoken to rights in our operations, in our relationships honoured five people nominated by their friends and family about our sustainability with our suppliers and other business colleagues as Unilever heroes.
Our 2013 plans, up from 63% in 2012. partners, and by working through external heroes include Habiba Haroon pictured initiatives, such as the United Nations on page 15 who helped more than 1,000 Global Compact.
In 2013 we appointed women in rural Pakistan to earn a a Global Vice President for Social Impact sustainable income, and Hasan Monsoor, to lead the implementation of the UNGP from our Customer Development team OVERVIEW OF RISKS and the development of the Enhancing in Bangladesh, who devised a way of Livelihoods pillar of the USLP, including protecting our teams and delivering our TALENT the advancement of womens rights and products safely during politically-charged A skilled workforce is essential economic inclusion.
We will report in more protests that often escalate into violence.
for the continued success of detail on this next year.
A number of initiatives beyond our brands MOTIVATION enable our people to contribute to social ETHICAL To reach our ambition of sustainable issues as Unilever grows.
For example, the Acting in an ethical manner, consistent growth, we need people with a winning Unilever Foundation Challenge, now in its with the expectations of customers, consumers and other stakeholders, isessential for the protection of the reputation of Unilever and its brands.
See Risks on page 34 SAFETY A NON-NEGOTIABLE COMMITMENT As part of the USLP commitment to safety, we pledged to reduce Through our Vision Zero strategy zero fatalities, zero injuries, our total recordable accident frequency rate TRFR by 50% of the zero motor vehicle accidents, zero process incidents, zero 2008 figure of 2.10 per 1 million hours worked by 2020.
We reached tolerance of unsafe behaviour and practices we aim to reduce that target in 2013, seven years early, with a TRFR of 1.03 per risk not only to our employees but also to the wider community 1 million hours worked.
This figure also represents a reduction in which Unilever operates.
We do this through a number of of 12% compared to the 1.17 per 1 million hours worked in 2012. programmes, one of which is Safe Travel, which helped achieve a considerable reduction in driving-related fatalities in 2013 Safety is integral to everything Unilever does.
It is non-negotiable compared with 2012. and we are relentless in our focus on improving safety through PwC assured.
In 2013 we adjusted our reporting period from 1 January 31 visible leadership, the positive behaviour of our people, the design December to 1 October 30 September.
We have recalculated the prior 12 months of our plants, facilities and products, and by implementing safe to enable a like-for-like comparison this has not been assured by PwC in 2013. systems and procedures throughout Unilever.
For details and the basis of preparation see: www.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report 17 N I A H C E U L A V E R I T N E G N I G A R E V E L F A S T, F L A W L E S S E X E C U T I O REACHING WIDE We aim to be first and fast, not only in new markets, but also in new channels.
So 2013 saw a continued expansion into white spaces, with 32 of our global brands launched in new markets, including eight brands launched throughout Africa, where we continued to see growth opportunities even as other emerging markets showed some dampening effects from the global economic downturn.
We are further COST LEVERAGE expanding programmes such as our Shakti EFFICIENCY rural selling operation in India, which now involves over 65,000 women entrepreneurs covering more than 167,000 villages.
We have also increased our presence in e-commerce, where our sales grew by PROFITABLE VOLUME OUR more than 40% in 2013.
GROWTH OPERATIONS REACHING UP, REACHING DOWN Because the aspirations and budgets of consumers are different, we aim to meet them through asegmented market strategy which requires a segmented product INNOVATION MARKETING portfolio and a segmented supply chain INVESTMENT to deliver it.
By reaching up, we are creating products for consumers who want premium quality: for example, our Dove hair premium portfolio has grown almost two times faster than the premium OUR OPERATIONS hair market: or the faster growth of liquid detergents over powder in brands like Omo The transformation of our global REACHING MORE CONSUMERS and Surf.
Thisprocess of premiumisation supply chain and go-to-market strategy Globally, populations are growing and delivers growth and drives higher margins is enabling us to deliver sustainable, becoming more affluent.
We aim to identify but wehave a continuing commitment profitable growth.
We are reaching more the varying needs of consumers and meet to offer affordable brands, which can also consumers in more markets, using them: through growth in new markets, drivegrowth.
Lifebuoy, for example, which partnerships throughout our value chain through innovating new products, or serves a vital purpose in basic hygiene, has to help us achieve our sustainability and through differentiating our brands to meet had an average underlying sales growth of innovation objectives while improving price expectations.
We call this reaching 18% per annum in the last three years.
margins, and delivering outstanding up, reaching down, and reaching wide: its operational performance the brilliant success depends on us continuously GREAT BRANDS WHERE basics of quality, service, execution and improving our extended supply chain and CONSUMERS CAN FIND THEM cash generation.
And there is potential to marketing and sales operations so that By working with our customers, were create even more value for our business, they are agile and adaptable, ensuring that increasing the on-shelf availability OSA so we arecontinuing to simplify our the products consumers demand are ofour products in other words, ensuring operations, always aiming for greater always available, properly displayed, and that consumers are able to find and buy speed and agility.
93.4% of the time, shoppers can Gross margin OUR GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS 41.3% 2012: 40.2% Perfect Stores 6.9 MILLION across 90 markets Turnover Underlying Core operating 2012: 5.1 million across sales growth margin 75markets 16.2 BILLION 4.6% 14.3% Turnover in 2012: 17.1 billion 2012: 7.9% 2012: 14.2% emerging markets THE AMERICAS 56.7% 2012: 55.2% 18 Strategic report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 N S R E M U S N O C E R O M G N I H C A E R find our products on the shelves, and in 2013 we have reduced empty shelves by a further 12%.
Our Perfect Stores programme aims to getour products into the right part of the store, well displayed and promoted.
It enables us to engage shoppers better and more relevantly through in-store communication, with theaim of driving growth in every storeinthe programme, from small neighbourhood shops to the largest hypermarket.
We enrolled an additional 1.8million Perfect Stores in 2013, reaching a total of 6.9million Perfect Stores across 90 markets.
FAST, FLAWLESS EXECUTION Our ability to innovate, deliver quality products and roll out repeatable working IMPROVING LIVELIHOODS FOR models across countries more quickly is VANILLA FARMERS critical to our success in the market.
Were Vanilla bean farmers in Madagascar are benefiting working hard to achieve high levels of from our collaboration with our supplier partner product quality and consumer satisfaction, Symrise and the development agency GIZ.
The and making substantial investments in three-year public-private partnership includes field new manufacturing capacity to grow our schools to help farmers improve the yield, quality and markets further.
sustainability of vanilla production, and gives better access to education for their children.
STRIVING FOR QUALITY The quality of our products, as perceived by consumers, improved in 2013.
Consumer complaints fell by 10%, meaning that only 0.00038% of our products sold caused a complaint: product incidents fell by 29%.
Turnover Underlying Core operating sales growth margin 13.5 BILLION 1.1 % 14.9% 2012: 13.9 billion 2012: 0.8% 2012: 14.2% EUROPE Turnover Underlying Core operating sales growth margin 20.1 BILLION 7.8% 13.3% 2012: 20.4 billion 2012: 10.6% 2012: 13.1% ASIA AMET RUB Restated: see Financial review starting on page 26.
AMET refers to Africa, Middle East and Turkey: and RUB refers to Russia, Ukraine and Belarus.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report 19 OUR OPERATIONS INVESTING IN MANUFACTURING However, we recognise that we need still To meet our growth targets, we have more speed in our processes, decisionCONTINUED invested in additional manufacturing making, and execution.
In 2013, we invested 1.6 billion, begun Project Half for growth, designed including in six new factories, with five to simplify our processes, increase our We cannot be complacent Unilever additional factories planned in 2014. agility, and create savings half the time, Brazil experienced its first public Thesefactories include eco-efficiency half the spend, half the hassle.
One of product recall in 85 years, when a technologies such as building orientation the ten key areas we will simplify is our malfunction lasting 80 seconds at our and design to minimise energy use, heat number of stock-keeping units SKUs.
AdeS soy juice drink plant contaminated recovery, low-energy lighting, energyWe have started a programme selectively 96 units, resulting in 60 million of lost efficient motors and rainwater harvesting to remove SKUs with low turnover.
But we have learnt from this and re-use for factories in water-stressed experience, improving our quality locations.
We believe that this simplification will processes with revised maintenance and significantly reduce the number of verification procedures, new practices for By the end of 2013, three quarters of formulations, materials and non-strategic manufacturing and maintenance staff, and our factory network had achieved zero suppliers that we use, driving costs down.
improved links with customer care lines.
non-hazardous waste disposal to landfill.
We intend to create space to deliver growth from innovation and enhance our ability to SETTING NEW STANDARDS A new 42 million Home Care factory act quickly.
We will also use the efficiency FOR SERVICE in Tianjin, China, was the first Unilever savings to invest in our brands.
While we have more to do, our efforts so greenfield site to be awarded Gold LEED far are being recognised as leading the certification for sustainable design LEVERAGING ENTIRE industry: in 2013 we were voted the including the use of renewable energy number one fast-moving consumer goods andenergy and water efficiencies VALUE CHAIN FMCG supply chain in the Gartner Top 25 amongst other design criteria.
We have more than 100,000 suppliers and SC ranking, and number one overall for we deliver to more than 8 million stores.
We are also extending our World Class By working with these and other partners Manufacturing WCM programme, which we can reach more consumers, develop sets a global benchmark for the reduction new products, build new capacity, increase of waste and cost.
By 2014, almost half our margins, andnurture sustainability.
total production costs will be from sites in Were also continuously improving our the WCM programme.
own operations to get the benefits of our uniquescale and reach.
SIMPLIFYING FOR SPEED AND AGILITY During 2013 we managed a series of rapid PARTNERING TO WIN product expansions for example, further We have now signed 90 joint business rolling out TRESemm into ten new development plans with our strategic markets making TRESemm available in suppliers.
In June 2013, more than a total of more than 40 countries.
We also 350 representatives from our strategic rolled out our Dove Hair Expert Repair suppliers attended our Partner To Win MANUFACTURING KPIs range to more than 50 countries since its supplier summit in Singapore.
The launch in February 2013 and Axe Apollo summit highlighted the advantages of CO from energy to 60 countries within three months.
partnerships in innovation, sustainability, 2 per tonne of production and capacity building.
98.85KG 2012: 104.23kg Water per tonne of production 3 2.12m 3 2012: 2.27m Total waste sent for disposal per tonne of production 2.72kg 2012: 3.94kg PwC assured.
In 2013 we adjusted our reporting period from 1 January 31 December to 1 October 30 September.
We have recalculated the prior 12 months to enable a like-for-like comparison this has not been assured by PwC in 2013.
20 Strategic report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Partnerships are crucial to meeting The entire value chain from suppliers to ourUnilever Sustainable Living Plan our customers are all important allies in OVERVIEW OF RISKS USLP ambitions to source 100% of our the war on waste.
In our supply chain raw materials sustainably: this year, 48% alone, we have avoided cumulative costs CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS ofouragricultural raw materials were of200 million for raw and packaging Successful customer relationships sustainably sourced, compared to 36% in materials and disposed waste combined, are vital to our business and 2012.
In November 2013 we announced our and more than 150 million in energy continued growth.
commitment to buy all our palm oil from costs since 2008. known traceable sources by the end of SUPPLY CHAIN 2014, an important step towards our HARNESSING THE BENEFITS Our business depends on purchasing commitment to securing 100% sustainably OF SCALE materials, efficient manufacturing from certified, traceable sources by 2020.
Through supply chain efficiencies we and the timely distribution of products created savings of 1.5 billion and released to our customers.
INNOVATING TOGETHER 0.2billion of working capital in 2013.
Partnerships are also essential to SAFE AND HIGH QUALITY PRODUCTS developing outstanding innovations: We manage our factory network globally, The quality and safety of our products many of our great ideas are developed which allows us to export around the world are of paramount importance for our with our suppliers.
We are also finding with consistent quality and competitive brands and our reputation.
new ways of innovating with other costs.
For example, our Knorr factory external partners for example, through in Sanguinetto, Italy, produces 72% SYSTEMS AND INFORMATION innovation eco-systems, which bring of global jelly bouillon and is currently Unilevers operations are increasingly together our R&D experts with academics, the cost benchmark for all our plants.
dependent on IT systems and the small and medium sized enterprises management of information.
We have Hunting for efficiencies also makes our established a science grid of the worlds business more sustainable.
For example, BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION leading academic institutions, and we are despite underlying volume growth of 2.5% Successful execution of business establishing a presence in a select number in 2013, our logistics operation reduced transformation projects is key to of hotspots of science technology and total vehicle kilometres by 47 million, delivering their intended business enterprise where we previously had no compared to 2012.
This was achieved benefits and avoiding disruption to R&D infrastructure.
by implementing smarter distribution other business activities.
networks and driving up vehicle load fill.
GROWING SUSTAINABLY This led to an overall reduction of CO by EXTERNAL ECONOMIC 2 WITH CUSTOMERS more than 70,000 tonnes.
AND POLITICAL RISKS We work closely with our retail customers, AND NATURAL DISASTERS who are long-standing partners in our RESPONDING TO LOCAL CONTEXTS Unilever operates across the globe effort to ensure that consumers get the We combine our global scale with the agility and is exposed to a range of external best choice, quality and service.
This year to respond to local needs.
Our low-cost economic and political risks and we added five locations to our existing business models LCBMs deploy teams to natural disasters that may affect network of collaboration centres, where local markets to identify opportunities to the execution of our strategy or we develop joint integrated strategies for enhance margins.
LCBMs have so far the running of our operations.
merchandising without having to run helped realise more than 200 million in in-store pilots.
We run joint sustainability cost savings from our Refreshment and TREASURY AND PENSIONS programmes with key customers including Home Care categories and we are now Unilever is exposed to a variety Walmart, with whom we run the healthexpanding the LCBM programme to of external financial risks in relation and environment-focused Living Project, Foods and Personal Care.
and Tesco, through A better future begins at home.
In markets where reaching LEGAL AND REGULATORY consumers is still about the local small Compliance with laws and shop, we use analytics to help us pinpoint regulations is an essential part where we will expand our coverage and of Unilevers business operations.
GPS technology to track the stores that we add.
In India, for example, we have See Risks on page 34 added more than 2 million outlets in the last four years.
THE GREEN EXPRESS The Green Express train transports Algida ice creams 700km from the factory at Caivano, near Naples, Italy, tothe logistics hub in Parma, taking 1,411 trucks off the road in 2013.
This equates to an annual saving of 678 tonnes of CO in 2013 without impacting our costs.
2 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report 21
