| 02 aveva Group plc annual report 2013 directors report our performance in 2012 13 2012 13 was a milestone year for AVEVA.
We successfully launched some of our most innovative technology in the 45 year history of the Company and made two strategic technology acquisitions.
our hIghLIghts 01 our latest technology is targeted at both our existing customers and at capturing market share from our competition.
The recent acquisitions also provide crossselling opportunities into our existing customer base, as well as planting longerterm seeds for future technology development and sales growth.
a InnovatIon b acquIsItIons c recognItIon aveva everything3D Bocad acquisition techmaRK company of the Year the launch of aveva everything3d in may 2012, aveva purchased the bocad in recognition of its innovation and business aveva e3d sets a new level of group for its structural steel design software.
success, aveva was presented the coveted performance for major capital engineering the new capability is being integrated techmarK company of the Year award in projects.
aveva e3d drives the adoption into the aveva Plant and aveva marine 2012.
Hosted by the London stock exchange of Lean construction concepts by enabling portfolios for the design of plant and offshore and sponsored by Pwc, the techmarK engineering, Procurement and construction assets by ePcs and fabricators.
the bocad event is the largest annual gathering of contractors ePcs to break down barriers acquisition has also enabled aveva quoted technology companies in the uK.
between design and construction, reducing to establish a new centre of excellence it celebrates the best in the sector and overall project cost, compressing for structural steel design to focus on highlights the achievements of individuals schedules and mitigating risk.
the integration and ongoing development and companies.
of the recently acquired technology.
aveva enterprise Resource management Global majic acquisition cambridge News Business of the Year 2013 a combination of internally developed in december 2012, aveva purchased the chosen from a list of prestigious technology and software from a 2010 advanced visualisation and simulation software cambridgeshire companies, aveva acquisition, the aveva enterprise resource assets of Global majic software, inc. the highly was awarded business of the Year for management aveva erm suite skilled team and the new technology have 2013 by the cambridge news.
the award brings a comprehensive project execution been integrated into avevas simulation recognises a company with outstanding management capability to the material, development programme that creates world growth performance and diversification, planning and production process.
ePcs class 3d interactive virtual environments.
this noting the recent release of new aveva and shipyards benefit from lower material software provides an immersive environment products and the acquisition of strategic and production construction costs through that enables virtual access to plant facilities technology to further fuel the companys improved project efficiency, shortening for the purposes of inspection, training and success in the future.
timescales and increasing project quality maintenance review, minimising travel costs and control.
and the need to expose staff to onsite hazards.
adjusted basic earnings per share is also adjusted for the tax effect of these items.
com | directors report annual report 2013 aveva Group plc 03 more information about tHis can be found at www.
com By terrItory 03 Regionally, avevas business is broadly spread selling into all major territories around the world.
one of avevas core strengths lies in being close to the customer and we now have 48 offices around the globe, offering local support wherever our customers operate.
we are seeing rapid expansion in the worlds fast growing economies, particularly India and china.
europe, middle east & africa Asia Pacific americas 73.3m 39.3m 107.6m x x x regional contribution to Group revenue regional contribution to Group revenue 17.8% 3% regional contribution to Group revenue 33.3% 14% 48.9% 15% Significant opportunity Significant growth in Strong licence growth for growth remains enterprise Solutions sales compared to 2011 12 whilst the overall performance in we saw continued good growth in In Asia Pacific we saw good progress americas was affected by project emea during the year, with strength in china, particularly in the second delays in brazil, the regional growth in our core market selling to our design half of the year, with strong growth opportunity remains substantial.
tools to ePcs and expansion in the compared to a year ago despite we have seen increased activity in owner operator market delivering the continued weakness in marine.
north america, where our canadian significant growth in Enterprise our investment in india during presence is expanding rapidly.
the year has begun to bear fruit, with an acceleration in the volume of deals.
overview business review governAnce finAnciAls
