| 10 aveva Group plc annual report 2013 directors report our strategy For 45 years AVEVA has been a consistent leader in the markets we serve, but we cannot afford to rest on our past success.
our strategIc prIorItIes we have challenging ambitions to build on our core competencies emerging markets z and expand our business in the years ahead.
To achieve this goal, Plant operations z we have six Strategic Growth Themes that we promote throughout Global accounts our organisation.
These themes are tied directly to the goals and z targets of departments and individuals, providing a framework enterprise Solutions z upon which we define strategies and priorities and set out the extending Design Footprint z roadmaps that will ensure our future success.
New Business models z a prIorIty anD oBjectIve b opportunIty High growth markets offer a significant business eMergIng Markets 01 opportunity for AVEVA.
Companies in these areas of the world are looking for a trusted partner to provide we will invest in focused solutions and local a complete portfolio of solutions.
With the right focus presence to become the dominant supplier to and investment on the ground, AVEVA is ideally positioned z the emerging markets to respond to the technology and support requirements of these exciting markets.
By creating a stronger relationship with Owner Operators, 02 pLant operatIons AVEVA taps into a longterm market opportunity.
We have the expertise and technology to bring tremendous value we will grow our Plant operations to these customers through the efficient support of operational business to become as large as processes and execution of inplant engineering projects.
z our design and engineering base Success in this market will allow us to extend our business engagement across the entire lifecycle of an asset.
Global EPCs are extremely influential in determining 03 gLoBaL accounts the software tools deployed on major capital projects.
To embed our solutions within the entire project ecosystem we will continue to strengthen our relationships and be responsive to the changing environment, it is important with Global accounts and support their global for AVEVA to establish strong global relationships with the coordination and standardisation efforts industrys leading EPCs.
com | directors report annual report 2013 aveva Group plc 11 more information about tHis can be found at www.
com INveSToRS Richard Longdon | Chief Executive Officer Accelerating sales of our Enterprise Solutions is key to our objective in positioning AVEVA as a strategic partner to our customers.
We aim to further expand our presence in the Owner Operator market in the near term.
to read more, turn to PaGe 14 a prIorIty anD oBjectIve b opportunIty The design, construction and operation of complex assets enterprIse soLutIons 04 is highly competitive and subject to increasingly strict reporting requirements.
It is driven by a business imperative to constantly we will continue to accelerate the adoption of achieve more with less resource.
AVEVAs Enterprise Solutions our enterprise Solutions to become a strategic is helping our customers effectively manage their businesses z partner to our customers and secure our position and react to changing legislation by providing timely access across the entire project and asset lifecycle to accurate project and asset information.
using our extensive domain knowledge and market leading 05 extenDIng DesIgn FootprInt position, we have the opportunity to develop and integrate advanced new products which complement our existing we will extend our existing Design Footprint portfolios.
This allows us to extend our reach and influence with new products and solutions that bring within the existing customer base while providing a more z enhanced value to our customers compelling offering to new customers, increasing our and shareholders revenue and market penetration.
As technology and markets evolve, opportunities will arise 06 new BusIness MoDeLs for AVEVA to rethink the way we operate different aspects of our business.
By actively exploring alternative business explore new and innovative Business models models we can create dramatic new possibilities for AVEVA to better serve our customers and enhance and our customers.
As an example, we are currently working revenue growth to examine different ways of making our products more easily z accessible to the widest possible audience, improving AVEVAs efficiency and providing a more flexible service to our customers.
overview business review governAnce finAnciAls
