| 06 aveva Group plc annual report 2013 directors report our target markets AVEVAs products are most applicable in industries where scale and complexity are greatest.
As a result, in recent years the principal driver of growth has been the Oil & gas industry.
AVEVA also has a strong market position in the global Power market.
The Marine industry is also traditionally a key area of strength although the industry is currently in a cyclical downturn, offset partially by offshore projects.
AVEVA also sells into related industries, shown below.
oIL & gas 01 oil & Gas is a critical industry, with oil and natural gas meeting more than half of the 01 worlds primary energy supply, and providing the raw materials used to manufacture many of the essential products we use in our everyday lives.
oil powers virtually all of the worlds transportation.
Revenue contribution 02 power Population growth and rising standards of living in the worlds developing economies, as well as increasing energy usage in the developed world require a sustained longterm investment in power projects globally.
Global energy demand is expected to grow at 36% 02 from 20112030 BP Energy Outlook, January 2013.
Revenue contribution 03 MarIne The marine industry creates the arteries of the world economy, providing the most 03 efficient method for the global transportation of commodities, fuel, raw materials and products.
Revenue contribution 04 new growth Markets 04 The features that place avevas technology at the heart of these key industry verticals, also make a compelling value case in other capitalintensive industries.
com | directors report annual report 2013 aveva Group plc 07 AVEVA has had a long association with the global Oil & gas Market drivers industry.
Our technology continues to enable many of the most Growing demand from emerging markets advanced engineering developments, as Oil & gas reserves become increasingly remote and difficult to extract, particularly Tight supply demand balance in challenging offshore environments where AVEVA has Trend towards higher oil prices a dominant presence.
z Increased complexity of production With rising global energy demands and steadily growing levels of investment from oil operating companies to build and maintain multiyear engineering projects backlog the complex infrastructure required to meet these needs, AVEVA is in a good position to benefit from the expected Health and safety, regulatory and compliance continued growth in Exploration & Production E&P activity.
need for consistent information Market drivers Longterm secular growth in world energy It is generally accepted that renewable energy sources consumption, growing 40% 20132035 are unable to meet growing demand, and hence fossil fuels and nuclear energy will continue to be the dominant form Fossil fuels will continue to drive of power generation over the long term.
energy production AVEVA is already a preferred supplier to the worlds nuclear z Further investment in alternative forms industry and expects longterm growth in infrastructure investment, of energy production particularly in China and India.
AVEVA is also wellestablished in a wide range of other power generation markets.
china and India investment in nuclear power Health and safety, regulatory and compliance Market drivers The industry is highly cyclical and following a multiyear expectations are for the marine industry boom in recent years the market is currently depressed.
to remain flat over the medium term Within this there are some buoyant areas, for example in the production of complex specialist FPSO, lNg, FlNg overcapacity in shipping continues and naval vessels, to which AVEVAs products are particularly to stifle new orders suited.
The majority of the worlds largest shipyards use z AVEVAs technology, which provides the greatest productivity Specialist sectors remain buoyant, advantage of any product on the market.
Our Enterprise for example offshore and naval Solutions tools help customers streamline their processes Increasing interest in efficiency of ship and optimise their operations for the greatest efficiency.
design to save costs Among these are Chemicals, Pharmaceuticals, Metals & Mining Processing, Pulp & Paper and other specialist manufacturing Market drivers sectors.
Many of these industries are concentrated in specific Project complexity, processrelated plant geographic regions of the world, for example South America, design and construction South Africa and Australia for Metals and Mining Processing, and Central Europe for Chemicals.
Industry adoption of 3D engineering design z AVEVAs global presence and local industry expertise provides and information management technologies us with the flexibility to respond to these attractive business Health and safety, regulatory and compliance opportunities and extend the reach of our products and services into other related industrial sectors.
overview business review governAnce finAnciAls
