| 50 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2013 Directors report other statutory information PRinCiPal aCtivitieS 2012 179.0 million and no debt.
Therefore, after making enquiries and considering the cash flow forecasts for the Group, the Directors The principal activities of the Group are the marketing and have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources development of computer software and services for engineering to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Company is a holding company.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
ReSultS anD DiviDenDS DiReCtoRS anD theiR inteReStS The Group made a profit for the year after taxation of 45.5 million 2012 40.0 million.
Revenue was 220.2 million 2012 195.9 million and The Directors who served during the year under review are comprised software licences, software maintenance and services.
shown below: The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 19.5 pence B Philip Aiken Chairman per ordinary share 2012 17.00 pence.
If approved at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 26 July 2013 B Nick Prest Chairman until retirement in July 2012 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 21 June 2013.
B Philip Dayer NonExecutive Director and Senior Independent Director In addition, the Board is proposing to return 100 million to shareholders in the form of a special dividend of 146 pence per share.
The Board B Jonathan Brooks NonExecutive Director is recommending that the special dividend is accompanied by a share consolidation in order to maintain, as far as possible, the comparability B Herv Couturier NonExecutive Director of the share price before and after the special dividend.
The special B Richard Longdon Chief Executive dividend and share consolidation will be subject to shareholder approval B James Kidd Chief Financial Officer at the AGM on 9 July 2013.
The interests all of which are beneficial in the shares of the BuSineSS Review anD futuRe DeveloPmentS Company of Directors who held office at 31 March 2013 in respect of transactions notifiable under Disclosure and Transparency A review of the Groups operations during the year and its plans Rule 3.1.
2 that have been disclosed to the Company are as follows: for the future is given in the Chairmans statement, the Chief At At Executives review and the Finance review.
31 March 31 March The Key Performance Indicators KPIs used by AVEVA to measure 2013 2012 ordinary ordinary its own performance at the Group level are total revenue, recurring shares shares revenue, segment profit contribution, adjusted profit before tax, adjusted earnings per share and headcount.
The figures for the year Philip Aiken 1,000 ended 31 March 2013 are set out on pages 24 to 25, together with figures for the previous year and a discussion of the principal risks Philip Dayer 7,000 7,000 and uncertainties facing the Group is included on pages 26 and 27.
Jonathan Brooks Herv Couturier SuPPlieRS Payment PRaCtiCe Richard Longdon 353,159 385,565 It is the Groups policy that payments to suppliers are made James Kidd 6,168 3,555 in accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the Company and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms No changes took place in the interests of Directors in the shares and conditions have been complied with by the other party.
of the Company between 31 March 2013 and 23 May 2013.
The Company has nil trade creditors 2012 nil.
At 31 March 2013, Directors share options are disclosed in the Remuneration the Group had an average of 30 days purchases owed to trade Committee report on page 48. creditors 2012 32 days.
No Director had a material interest in any significant contract, other than a service contract or contract for services, with the ReSeaRCh anD DeveloPment Company or any of its subsidiaries at any time during the year.
The Group continues an active programme of Research Resolutions will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting and Development which covers the updating of and extension for the reelection of all current Directors.
Brief biographical to the Groups range of products.
details of all Directors appear on pages 32 and 33. intelleCtual PRoPeRty ConfliCt of inteReSt The Group owns intellectual property both in its software tools Throughout the year the Company has operated effective and the products derived from them.
The Directors consider procedures to deal with potential or actual conflicts of interest.
such properties to be of significant value to the business and During the year no conflict arose requiring the Board to exercise has a comprehensive programme to protect it.
finanCial inStRumentS ShaRe CaPital The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies Details of the issued share capital can be found in note 30 are discussed in note 26 to the Consolidated financial statements.
to the Consolidated financial statements.
The rights attaching to the Companys shares are set out in its Articles of Association.
going ConCeRn Subject to any restrictions referred to in the next section, members may attend any general meeting of the Company.
The Group has significant financial resources, is profitable and has a strong position in the markets it serves.
At 31 March 2013 There are no restrictions on transfer of the ordinary shares in the the Group had cash and treasury deposit balances of 190.4 million Company other than: certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : WWW.
COM | Directors report Annual report 2013 AVEVA Group plc 51 and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction whereby Directors and certain employees of the Company require of the members by special resolution and any other sanction the approval of the Company to deal in the ordinary shares and required by law, divide among the members all or any part pursuant to the Articles of Association where there is default in of the assets of the Company and he she can value any assets supplying the Company with information concerning interests and determine how the divisions shall be carried out as between in the Companys shares there are no special control rights the members or different classes of members.
The liquidator can in relation to the Companys shares.
also transfer the whole or any part of the assets to trustees upon any trusts for the benefit of the members.
No members can be voting rights compelled to accept any asset which would give them any liability.
Subject to any restrictions below, on a show of hands every There are no agreements between holders of securities that member who is present in person or by proxy at a general are known to the Company which may result in restrictions on meeting has one vote on each resolution and, on a poll, every the transfer of securities or on voting rights, save as described member who is present in person or by proxy has one vote on overleaf in relation to the Employee Benefit Trust.
each resolution for every share of which he she is the registered member.
A proxy will have one vote for and one vote against a Change of ContRol resolution on a show of hands in certain circumstances specified in the Articles of Association.
The Notice of Annual General All of the Companys sharebased plans contain provisions Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising rights.
relating to change of control.
Outstanding awards and options normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, A resolution put to the vote of a general meeting is decided on subject to the satisfaction of any relevant performance conditions a show of hands, unless before or on the declaration of the result at that time.
of the show of hands, a poll is demanded by the Chairman of the meeting.
The Articles of the Company also allow members, in certain There are no other significant agreements to which the Company circumstances, to demand that a resolution is decided by a poll.
is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
A member may vote personally or by proxy at a general meeting.
Any form of proxy must be delivered to the Company not less There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or adjourned meeting at which the person named in the appointment employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
proposes to vote for this purpose, the Directors may specify that no account shall be taken of any part of a day that is not a working SuBStantial ShaReholDingS day.
A corporation which is a member of the Company may authorise such persons as it thinks fit to act as its representatives Interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company are set out at any general meeting of the Company.
No member shall be entitled to attend or vote, either personally or by proxy, at a general meeting in respect of any share if any aRtiCleS of aSSoCiation call or other sum presently payable to the Company in respect Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company of such share remains unpaid or in certain other circumstances may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies specified in the Articles of Association where there is default Act by way of special resolution.
in supplying the Company with information concerning interests in the Companys shares.
PoweRS of the DiReCtoRS Dividends, distributions and liquidation The business of the Company is managed by the Directors, Members can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary who may exercise all powers of the Company, subject to the resolution but the amount of the dividends cannot exceed the Companys Articles of Association, relevant statutory law and amount recommended by the Board.
The Board can pay interim to any direction that may be given by the Company in general dividends provided the distributable profits of the Company meeting by special resolution.
Subject to the Companies Act, justify such payment.
The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary shares may be issued by Board resolution.
At the Companys last resolution of the members, offer any member the right to elect to Annual General Meeting, powers were granted to the Directors receive new shares, which will be credited as fully paid, instead subject to limits set out in the resolutions to issue and to buy of their cash dividend.
Any dividend which has not been claimed back its own shares: similar powers are proposed to be granted for twelve years after it became due for payment will be forfeited at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The buyback and will then revert to the Company.
Members may share in surplus authority was limited to 10% of the Companys issued share assets on a liquidation.
No shares have been bought back under this authority.
SuBStantial ShaReholDingS The Company had been notified, in accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5, of the following interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company: As at 31 March 2013 As at 28 May 2013 Percentage Percentage Name of holder Number held Number held BlackRock 9,160,642 13.4% 9,257,491 13.5% Allianz Global Investors 4,194,691 6.2% 4,376,834 6.4% Capital Research & Management 3,397,500 5.0% 3,397,500 5.0% Standard Life Investments 3,219,450 4.7% 3,224,697 4.7% Legal & General Investment Management 2,569,297 3.8% 2,400,862 3.5% OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS | 52 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2013 Directors report other statutory information Continued aPPointment of DiReCtoRS emPloyee involvement The Articles of Association limit the number of Directors to not The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its less than two and not more than ten save where members decide employees and has continued to keep them informed of matters otherwise.
Members may appoint Directors by ordinary resolution affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting and may remove any Director subject to the giving of special the performance of the Group.
This is achieved through formal notice and, if desired, replace such removed Director by ordinary and informal meetings, employee newsletters, the Group intranet resolution.
New Directors may be appointed by the Board but are and presentations from senior management.
There is an employee subject to election by members at the first annual general meeting representative committee which meets on a regular basis to discuss after their appointment.
A Director may be removed from office a wide range of matters affecting their current and future interests.
if requested by all other Directors.
This year the Group also launched an employee engagement survey.
All employees are entitled to receive an annual discretionary The Companys Articles of Association require that at each AGM award related to the overall profitability of the Group subject they shall retire from office and be subject to reelection by to the performance of the individual and the Group.
The Group members any Director who shall have been a Director at the conducts employee wide surveys from time to time to gauge preceding two annual general meetings and who was not appointed the success or otherwise of its policies and uses this information or reappointed then or subsequently.
however, in accordance with to improve matters as appropriate.
the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Company requires all Directors who held office at 31 March 2013 to stand for reelection.
DiReCtoRS inDemnity ChaRitaBle anD PolitiCal DonationS The Company has granted an indemnity to its Directors against liability in respect of proceedings brought by third parties, subject During the year the Group made charitable donations totalling to the conditions set out in the Companies Act.
Such qualifying 55,245 2012 49,557 of which 13,000 was paid to Macmillan third party indemnity provision remains in force as at the date Cancer Support and 15,000 to The Outward Bound Trust.
of approving the Directors report.
The remainder was donated to local and national charities.
No political donations were made in the year 2012 nil.
auDitoR A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor for the ensuing annual geneRal meeting year will be put to the members at the Annual General Meeting.
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 9 July 2013 at The Trinity Centre, 24 Cambridge Science Park, Milton Road, DiSCloSuRe of infoRmation to auDitoR Cambridge CB4 0FN.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting is being sent to shareholders along with this annual report which The Directors who were members of the Board at the time contains details of the resolutions proposed.
of approving the Directors report are listed on page 50. having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys auditor, each of these Directors confirms that: emPloyee Benefit tRuSt B so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information The AVEVA Group Employee Benefit Trust 2008 was established as defined by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 in 2008 to facilitate satisfying the transfer of shares to employees of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and within the Group on exercise of vested options under the various share option and deferred bonus share plans of the Company.
B he has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director The Trust holds a total of 81,420 ordinary shares in AVEVA Group plc in order to make himself aware of any such relevant audit representing 0.12% 2012 93,763 shares representing 0.14% information and to establish that the Companys auditor of the issued share capital at the date of this report.
Under the is aware of that information.
terms of the Trust deed governing the Trust, the trustees are required unless the Company directs otherwise to waive all ReSPonSiBility Statement PuRSuant to fSaS DiSCloSuRe dividends and abstain from voting in respect of ordinary shares anD tRanSPaRenCy Rule 4 DtR 4 in AVEVA Group plc held by the Trust except where beneficial ownership of any such ordinary shares was passed to a beneficiary Each Director of the Company whose names and functions of the Trust.
In the same way as other employees, the Executive appear on pages 32 and 33 confirms that solely for the purpose Directors of the Company are potential beneficiaries under the Trust.
of DTR 4 to the best of his knowledge: B the financial statements in this document, prepared in accordance DiSaBleD emPloyeeS with the applicable UK law and applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment and result of the Company and of the Group taken as a whole: and from disabled persons where the candidates particular aptitudes and abilities are consistent with adequately meeting the requirements B the Chairmans statement and Business review include a fair of the job.
Opportunities are available to disabled employees for review of the development and performance of the business training, career development and promotion.
and the position of the Company and Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups that they face.
policy to provide continuing employment wherever practicable in the same or an alternative position and to provide appropriate On behalf of the Board training to achieve this aim as well as reasonable adjustments to the workplace and other support mechanisms.
JAMES KIDD RICHARD LONGDON Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive 23 May 2013 WWW.
