The Directors Report Purpose of the Directors Report Namibia, South Africa, Liberia, Ireland and Sri Lanka.
The The Directors are pleased to present their Annual Report major natural resources produced are copper, aluminium, zi nc, lead, s ilv er, ir on o re and o il a n d gas.
T h e Grou p is a lso statements and auditors report, for the year ended 31 developing a commercial power generation business.
The Board considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides all information necessary for statements and a list of the subsidiaries of the Group may shareholders to assess the Companys strategy and performance.
Business Review The purpose of the Directors Report is to provide The Business Review has been prepared in accordance with shareholders with certain statutory information about the the Companies Act 2006 which requires the Company to Company, its Directors and operations.
The Business set out a fair review of the business of the Group during the Review, which forms part of the Directors Report, informs shareholders and helps them assess how the Directors have performed their duty to promote the success of the Company.
In addition, as a company listed on the London performance and position of the business.
The Business Stock Exchange, it is required to provide information which Review is comprised of the Overview, Strategy and includes, amongst other things, details of the Companys Performance sections within this Annual Report on share capital, voting rights, rules on Directors pages 6 to 71. change of control.
of the Business Review, including principal risks and Principal activities uncertainties and key performance indicators, can be found Vedanta Resources plc is the UK-registered parent within the following sections, which are incorporated in this re po rt by re fe rence: Groups principal operations are in India, Zambia, Australia, Information Location in the Annual Report Page Key Performance Indicators Strategy section 24 Description of the principal risks and uncertainties Strategy section 34 facing the Group Strategy Chairmans Statement and Strategy section 6 Market Overview 18 Review of operations Operational Review 50 40 Environmental matters Contained within separate Sustainable Development Report Health and safety matters Contained within separate Sustainable Development Report Community issues Contained within separate Sustainable Development Report The Business Review and other sections of this Annual Report contain forward-looking statements.
By their therefore not guarantees of future performance.
The nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and information contained in the Business Review has been uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on prepared on the basis of information and knowledge circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and available to the Directors at the date of preparation and may be beyond the Companys ability to control or predict.
the Company does not undertake to update or revise the content during the year ahead.
106 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CORPORATE STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate Governance of the Group, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
The insurance policy does not provide cover where the Director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Company disclosures required by DTR7.2.
5 and believes that it is appropriate to provide such cover to DTR7.2.
7 may be found in the Corporate Governance protect Directors from innocent error as the Directors Report on pages 78 to 86.
6 is located in this Directors Report.
under the UK Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure and Transparency Rules, and face a range of penalties.
Important events subsequent to the year end Events since the balance sheet date are summarised in In addition, the Companys Articles contain an indemnity provision in favour of the Directors against proceedings brought by third parties, subject to the Companies Act Dividends 2006, to allow the Company to pay legal defence costs for the Director where the Director is exonerated.
ended 31 March 2013 of 37.0 US cents per ordinary share 2012: 35.0 US cents per ordinary share.
Subject to Employees shareholders approving this recommendation at the Annual Information on the Groups employees and its policies with respect to employees can be found in the Sustainable paid on 8 August 2013 to shareholders on the register of Development Report.
Charitable donations Taken together with the interim dividend of 21.0 US cents During the year, the Group made charitable donations of a per ordinary share paid to shareholders on 19 December total of US$1.85 million 2012: US$3.12 million.
US$1.26 2012, the total dividend for the year is 58.0 US cents per ordinary share 2012: 55.0 US cents per ordinary share.
million and other charitable donations of US$0.59 million 2012: US$0.81 million were made.
Directors of the Companys current Board of Directors are shown on communities during the year can be found in the Sustainable Development Report.
during the year ended 31 March 2013 are shown in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 76 to 86.
Details of Political donations the remuneration of the Directors, their interests in the It is the Boards policy that neither Vedanta nor any of its shares of the Company and service contracts are contained subsidiary companies may, under any circumstances, make in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 95 to 105. donations or contributions to political organisations within the United Kingdom or European Union.
In exceptional Appointment and replacement of Directors circumstances, where such political donations or contributions are to be paid in the United Kingdom and specify that the minimum number of Directors of the European Union, and if deemed necessary for legitimate Company, unless determined by ordinary resolution, shall business reasons, they will not be made without the approval be two.
There is no limit on the maximum number of of the Board and shareholders at a general meeting.
The Company or the Board may appoint any person to be a Director.
Any Director appointed by the However, in accordance with the normal accepted practice in India of making political donations in respect of elections, and is then eligible for election by the shareholders.
The the Group made political donations of US$0.97 million Articles specify that at least one-third of the Directors, or if 2012: US$2.01 million either through a trust or directly in their number is not three or multiple of three, the number respect of the Indian general election.
The Board believes that su p po rti ng the p o lit ical pro ce ss in I ndia w ill e ncou rag e to retire by rotation are those who have been longest in and strengthen the democratic process.
accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Supplier payment policy Governance Code all of the Directors will retire at the The responsibility for determining payment terms is forthcoming Annual General Meeting and being eligible delegated to the individual businesses within the Group, w hic h t a ke i nt o c o ns ideration the commercial circumstances, local market and industry practice.
The Powers of the Directors Groups policy is either to settle terms of payment with Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction or to the Companys Articles and to any directions given by ensure that the supplier is aware of the individual businesss special resolution, the business of the Company is to be usual payment terms.
Payments are made in accordance managed by the Board which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
T ra fide cr ed it or d a ys of th e C o m pa ny a t 3 1 M a rc h 2 01 3 we re The Company purchases and maintains liability insurance 82 days 2012: 30 days.
107 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 vedantaresources.
com The Directors Report continued Value of land Variation of rights Land is carried in the Balance Sheet at historic cost.
It is not Subject to the provisions of the Act, the rights attached to practical to estimate the market value of land at each any class may be varied with the consent of the holders of balance sheet date.
three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution Research and development passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the The Groups business units carry out research and shares of the class.
development activities necessary to further their operations.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights Material shareholdings Votes may be exercised at general meetings in relation to As at 31 March 2013 and 3 June 2013, the Company had the business being transacted either in person, by proxy or, in re la tio n t o corp or ate me m be rs, b y c or po ra te re pr es en ta tiv e. The Ar tic le s p rovide t h at f o rm s of pr oxy shall be submitted not less than 48 hours before the time Number of appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting.
ordinary Percentage of shares of total voting 1 Name of holder US$0.10 each rights Restrictions on voting and the transfer of shares No member shall be entitled to vote at a general meeting or Volcan Investments Ltd 173,042,443 64.94% at a separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares Government of Singapore in the capital of the Company, either in person or by proxy, Investment Corporation Pte Ltd 8,996,515 3.38% in respect of any share held by him unless all monies payable Capital Group Companies, Inc. 7,877,904 2.96% by him in respect of that share have been fully paid.
1 The voting rights at 31 March 2013 were 266,471,199 ordinary shares net of treasury shares and shares held in GDR.
vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or at a separate meeting of the holders of that class of shares or Articles of Association, share capital and voting rights on a poll if he has been served with a notice after failing to The following description summarises certain provisions in provide the Company with information concerning the Companys Articles of Association and applicable interests in his shares that is required to be provided English law concerning companies the Companies Act under the Act.
provisions of the Act or the Articles should be consulted if Issue of shares further information is required.
Copies of the Companys Under the Articles, the Company has authority to allot new current Articles are available for inspection at the shares in the Company.
Such authority would be exercised having regard to the Statement of Principles published by the Pre-emption Group.
Amendments to the Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may be amended only by special resolution passed by the Companys shareholders.
Regulations 2001, the Board may permit the holding of Share capital the transfer of title to shares in that class by means of As at 31 March 2013 the issued share capital of the a relevant system and may determine that any class of Company was comprised of 297,583,010 ordinary shares shares shall cease to be a participating security.
of US$0.10 each and 50,000 deferred shares of 1 each.
Dividends and distributions Rights and obligations attaching to shares Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company may by The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary and ordinary resolution declare dividends in accordance with deferred shares are set out in the Articles.
Details of the the respective rights of the members, but no dividend shall authorised and issued share capital together with exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board movements in the Companys issued share capital during may pay interim dividends if it appears to the Board that for distribution.
The treasury shares directly held by the 6,904,995 ordinary shares of US$0.10 each were issued on Company are not entitled to receive a dividend.
Dividends the conversion of certain convertible bonds issued by one may be declared and paid in any currency or currencies that of the Companys subsidiaries.
These 6,904,995 ordinary the Board shall determine.
The Board may also determine shares are held through a global depository receipt and the exchange rate and the relevant date for determining the carry no voting rights.
Apart from the above, each ordinary value of the dividend in any currency.
share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Holders of deferred shares are not entitled Purchase of the Companys own shares to attend, speak or vote at any general meeting of the At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under a Company, nor are they entitled to the payment of any shareholders resolution dated 28 August 2012, to make dividend or to receive notice of general meetings.
market purchases of up to approximately 10% of the Companys ordinary shares.
shares are set out in the Articles and summarised in 108 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CORPORATE STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT The authority expires at the conclusion of the Companys Reappointment of auditors 2013 Annual General Meeting or on 1 October 2013, whichever A resolution to reappoint the auditor, Deloitte LLP, will be is the earlier.
A resolution to obtain a further authority will proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
be proposed at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
The reappointment of Deloitte LLP has been approved by the Audit Committee, which will also be responsible for During the year the Company did not purchase any shares determining the auditors remuneration on behalf of the under its previously announced share buyback programme.
Board, subject to the approval of shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
As at 31 March 2013, the Company held a total of 24,206,816 ordinary shares in treasury equal to 8.13% of the issued share capital.
objectives and policies together with details of the Groups exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk appears in Note 27 to the terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, and capital market borrowing.
The following are considered to be Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors of the Group as a whole: position are set out in the Business Review on pages 6 to 71.
1 The US$1.25 billion 5.50% guaranteed convertible bonds issued in July 2009 and the US$883 million 4.0% position and borrowing facilities are described in the guaranteed convertible bonds issued in March 2010, where a change of control gives investors the option to require the issuer to redeem their bonds at the principal amount, together with any accrued and unpaid interest, or convert their bonds at an adjusted exchange price for instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to a certain period following the relevant event.
credit risk and liquidity risk.
2 The US$500 million 8.75% bonds due 2014 and US$750 The Group requires funds both for short-term operational million 9.5% bonds due 2018, where a change of control needs as well as for long-term investment programmes, the outstanding bonds at 101% of the principal amount together with any accrued and unpaid interest with a rating decline.
asset investments, provide liquidity both in the short term as undrawn committed facilities of US$3,353 million, together with cash and liquid investments of US$7,982 million as at entered into by the Group where a change of control gives the majority lenders the right to declare the loans ongoing capital investment programme and liquidity immediately payable.
requirements of the Group in the foreseeable future.
All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options headroom to raise further debt should the need arise.
The would normally vest and become exercisable on a change Groups current ratings from Standard & Poors, Moodys of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
and Standard & Poors having put the Company on credit There is no contract between the Company and its leverage and access to debt or equity markets at Directors or employees that provide for compensation competitive terms, taking into consideration current market conditions.
The Group generally maintains a healthy a takeover bid.
to alter the ratio when the need arises.
As a consequence, Disclosure of information to auditors the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: expectation that the Company and the Group have and adequate resources to continue in operational existence he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual information and to establish that the Companys auditor Report and Accounts.
is aware of that information.
109 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 vedantaresources.
com The Directors Report continued Annual General Meeting The 10th Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 1 August 2013 at 3pm.
The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting accompanies this Annual Report and sets out details of the business to be considered thereof.
Signed on behalf of the Board Deepak Kumar Company Secretary 15 May 2013 Vedanta Resources plc 68 Upper Thames Street London EC4V 3BJ Registered in England Number 4740415 110 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
