Senior Management Team Tarun Jain PK Mukherjee The Executive Director of Finance, Sterlite Managing Director, Sesa Goa Limited Industries India Limited Sterlite Iron Ore Business Committee supports Mr Jain joined Sterlite in 1984 and has Mr Mukherjee joined Sesa Goa in April the Board and oversees nearly 30 years of experience in 1987 and held various positions before co m m en cin g his po sition of Di rec to r the implementation of taxation and company secretarial practice.
He is responsible for appointed as Managing Director of the Groups strategic operations at Sterlite including Sesa Goa and the Groups Iron Ore initiatives set by the bu si ne ss i n Ap ri l 2 006.
Mr M uk he rj ee business development and mergers has a Bachelor of Commerce Honours Board.
Mr Jain is a graduate degree from Calcutta University and of the Institute of Cost and Works Committee is chaired by ac counts, c osting, taxa tio n, le ga l and Mr Navin Agarwal and the Institute of Chartered Accountants general management.
of India and the Institute of Company comprises Mr MS Mehta Secretaries of India.
Mr Mukherjee is a fellow member of the Institute of Chartered and the following DD Jalan Accountants of India and an associate mem ber of the Institute of Cost members.
H e wa s r at ed Director of Sterlite.
He is a fellow member of the Institute of Chartered Business Today magazine and in 2009 Accountants of India.
Mr Jalan has over Business World magazine declared Mr M uk herjee as I ndias m os t V alua ble accounts, audit, taxation, secretarial of va rio u s p rofession al an d i ndustry responsibility of independent business.
forums and a sought-after speaker He has worked in leadership positions on issues related to iron ore. within companies in the engineering, mining and non-ferrous sector.
Sushil Kumar Roongta Managing Director, VAL and ViceAkhilesh Joshi Chairman, Bharat Aluminium Com pany L im ited BA LC O Time Director, Hindustan Zinc Mr Roongta is responsible for Limited HZL Vedantas Aluminium and Power Mr Joshi joined the Group in 1976 and business.
Prior to joining the Group, was appointed as Chief Executive Mr Roongta worked with the Steel al mo st fou r decad es, h ol din g k ey 2008, he became Chief Operating positions in the marketing division be fore be in g a pp o int ed a s Dir ector HZL.
Prior to this, he was the Senior Commercial in 2004 and later as Vice President Mines, responsible for Chairman of the SAIL Board in August the overall operations at all mining 2006.
Mr Roongta has a Bachelor of units.
Mr Joshi has a Mining Engineering degree from the Birla Engineering degree from MBM Institute of Technology and Science Engineering College, Jodhpur and a Post Graduate Diploma in Economic his Post Graduate Diploma in Business Evaluation of Mining Projects from Management in International Trade School of Mines, Paris.
He also has a of Competency.
He was the recipient member of the All India Management of the National Mineral Award in 2006 Association.
He serves as an for his outstanding contribution in the independent director on the Boards of Ne y five li L ig nit e Corp or ation Limited, received the Lifetime Achievement The Shipping Corporation of India Award from the Indian Mining Limited, Jubilant Industries Limited, Engineering Journal.
He is also the Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Director of Madanpur South Coal Limited and ACC Limited.
He is also Company Limited.
chairperson of the Board of Governors of the Indian Institute of Technology 74 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CORPORATE STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION SENIOR MANAGEMENT M Siddiqi Prior to joining the Group, Mr Gupta Dilip Golani Group Director, Projects worked in the sales and marketing Director, Management Assurance He joined the Group in 1991 and rising division at Tata Steel in various and Information Technology through several operational roles, he capacities.
He also worked with the Mr Golani currently heads the Groups led the setting up of the Groups large Arcelor Mittal Group and was the Management Assurance function, a Aluminium and Power projects Director of Global Sales of long steel position he had also previously held including BALCO smelters and captive products produced at the Central from April 2000 to July 2004.
Mr power plants, Jharsuguda smelters European Steel operations of the Golani headed the Sales and Marketing gr ou p. He h as a d egr ee i n c h em ic al function at Hindustan Zinc Limited Lanjhigarh and Talwandi Sabo Power engineering from IIT Roorkee and an and the Group Performance plant.
He also played a key role in MBA, specialising in Marketing and Management function from August setting up the Copper smelter at 20 04 t o N o vember 2005.
Prior to his appointment as Group Director Projects he was chief Mr Guptas membership of the Prior to joining the Group in April Exec ut ive Co mm it te e e n ded on 2000, Mr Golani was responsible for Aluminium division.
Prior to joining the 1 April 2013. managing the Operations and Group, Mr Siddiqi held senior positions Marketing functions for one of the in Hindustan Copper Limited.
He has Rajagopal Kishore Kumar export businesses of Unilever India over 35 years of industry experience, Hin du stan Un ile five r Limited.
He including more than 20 years at senior International Business subsequently worked at Unilever, level project management positions Mr Kumar joined the Group in April where he was a member of the within Vedanta.
Mr Siddiqi has a 2003 as Vice President Marketing for Corporate Audit Team, responsible for Mechanical Engineering degree from HZL.
He was Senior Vice President auditing the Unilever group companies the Indian Institute of Technology, Marketing for the Groups copper India in Central Asia, the Middle East and New Delhi.
division from June 2004 to December Africa.
He has over 25 years of 2006 and, thereafter, was appointed experience and has also previously Pramod Suri CEO of Sterlite and Konkola Copper worked with Ranbaxy Laboratories Li mited a nd U nio n Ca rb id e India Gr ou p s a c qu isition o f A nglo Limited.
Time Director, Sterlite Energy Americans Zinc Lead assets, Mr Limited SEL Kumar attained responsibility for the He is a Mechanical Engineering G roups i nt ern a tio na l Z in c asset s. graduate and completed his of VAL and Whole Time Director of He has 28 years of experience and postgraduate degree at NITIE, SEL.
He was the CEO of Aluminium expertise in accountancy, commerce, Mumbai in Industrial Engineering m ark e tin g, s upply c h ain m ana gement, and Management.
He has been responsible mergers and acquisitions and human for Vedantas Aluminium business at capital development.
Prior to joining A Thirunavukkarasu BALCO as President and Whole Time the Group, Mr Kumar was employed President, Group Human Resources Director from December 2006.
Prior by Hindustan Lever Ltd for 12 years.
Mr Thirunavukkarasu joined the Group to this role, he was the Senior Vice He is a member of the Institute of in April 2004 as General Manager HR.
President Operations and Head of Chartered Accountants of India.
He became Senior Vice President HR the Korba Smelter from September for our Copper Division, heading the 2004 to December 2006.
He has held Jeyakumar Janakaraj human resources, total quality various positions, including at Indian man ageme nt, corpo ra te s o cial Aluminium Company, CEAT Ltd, Time Director, Konkola Copper Mines responsibility and public relations Goodyear South Asia Tyres and JK Mr Janakaraj joined the Group in functions, prior to becoming the Head Tyres Pvt Ltd.
He has a Masters September 1995 at Sterlite Copper of Group Human Resources in July 2007. degree in Chemistry from the Indian and moved to HZL in July 2002 to head He previously held senior management Institute of Technology, Delhi.
He positions in English Electric, Hindustan has a Mechanical Engineering degree Lever and TVS Electronics prior to Mr Suris membership of the Executive from PSG College of Technology, joining the Group.
He holds a Bachelors Committee ended on 1 April 2013.
He has expertise in degree in Literature and a Masters operations, maintenance and degree in Social Work, specialising Gunjan Gupta projects.
Prior to joining the Group, Mr in Personnel Management and Jana karaj w or ked at E S SA R S teel from Organisational Behaviour, from Loyola Time Director, BALCO 1992 to 1995.
He was awarded the College, Chennai.
Mr Gupta joined the Group in gold medal by the Indian Institute September 2005 as the Vice President of Metals in 2006 and 2008 for his for Marketing and Sales at BALCO.
He contribution and leadership in the took over as the Head of Smelting at Indian non-ferrous sector.
BALCO Whole Time Director of BALCO in 2008.
75 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 vedantaresources.
