Vesuvius plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report interest rate-related and liquidity risk.
Further Accountability and audit together with the audited accounts of the Group details of the Groups cash balances and A responsibility statement of the Directors and and of the Company, Vesuvius plc, registered in borrowings are included in Notes 15, 16 and 30 a statement by the Auditor about its reporting England and Wales No.
8217766, for the year to the consolidated Financial Statements.
responsibilities can be found on pages 88 ended 31 December 2013. and 89 respectively.
The Directors fulfil the The Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts responsibilities set out in their statement within The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company for the Group for a period in excess of 12 the context of an overall control environment to provide a Directors Report for Vesuvius months from the date of approval of the 2013 of central strategic direction and delegated plc for the year ended 31 December 2013.
These forecasts reflect an operating responsibility.
As at the date of this The information that fulfils this requirement assessment of current and future end-market report, so far as each Director of the Company and which is incorporated by reference into, conditions and their impact on the Groups is aware, there is no relevant audit information and forms part of this report is included in the future trading performance.
The forecasts show of which the Companys Auditor is unaware following sections of the Annual Report: that the Group will be able to operate within and each Director hereby confirms that they the current committed debt facilities and show the Corporate Governance Report have taken all the steps that they ought to have continued compliance with the Companys taken as a Director in order to make themselves Financial Instruments: the information on financial covenants.
On the basis of the exercise aware of any relevant audit information and to financial risk management objectives and described above and the Groups available establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of policies contained in Notes 22 and 30 to the committed debt facilities, the Directors consider that information.
consolidated financial statements that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for Auditor Reappointment details on Greenhouse Gas emissions, set on the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to pages 44 and 45. to adopt a going concern basis in preparing continue in office as Auditor of the Company, This Directors Report and the Strategic Report the Financial Statements of the Group and the and consequently, resolutions for the contained in pages 10 to 47 together represent Company.
reappointment of KPMG as Auditor of the the management report for the purpose of Company and to authorise the Directors to Research and Development compliance with DTR 4.1.
8R of the UK Listing determine its remuneration are to be proposed The Groups investment in research and Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
development R&D during the year under The Company does not have any overseas review amounted to 26.7 million representing Directors branches within the meaning of the Companies 1.8% of Group revenue 2012:1.6%.
Further The Directors of the Company are Ms Connors Act 2006. details of the Groups R&D activities can be who was appointed on 1 March 2013, Ms going concern found in the Innovation section on page 34 and Hinkley, who was appointed on 3 December Information on the business environment in 35 of the Strategic Report.
2012, Messrs Gardell, Hewitt, McDonough, who which the Group operates, including the factors were appointed on 31 October 2012, and Messrs Dividends that are likely to impact the future prospects of OShea and Wanecq whose contracts were An interim dividend of 4.75 pence 2012: the Group, is included in the Chief Executives assigned to the Company on 19 December 2012.
7.5 pence, which was the interim dividend review and the Strategic Report.
The principal John Sussens and Jan Oostervelt were Directors of Cookson Group plc per Vesuvius ordinary risks and uncertainties that the Group faces of the company until 4 June 2013.
Biographical share was paid on 7 October 2013 to Vesuvius throughout its global operations are shown on information for the continuing Directors is given shareholders.
The Board is recommending a final pages 18 to 19.
The financial position of the on pages 50 and 51.
All Directors will retire at dividend in respect of 2013 of 10.25 pence per Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and the AGM and offer themselves for re-election.
ordinary share which, if approved, will be paid debt facilities are also described in the Strategic Further information on the remuneration of, and on 23 May 2014 to shareholders on the register Report.
In addition, Notes 22 and 30 to the contractual arrangements with, the Executive at 25 April 2014. consolidated Financial Statements set out the Directors and Non-executive Directors is given on Groups objectives, policies and processes for pages 67 to 83 in the Directors Remuneration managing its capital: financial risks: financial Report.
The Non-executive Directors do not have instruments and hedging activities: and its service agreements.
exposures to credit, market both currency and www.
com 22904-04 10-02-2014 Proof 3 85 corporate governance regard to race, colour, nationality, culture, ethnic The Companys Articles specify that, subject to Directors Indemnities origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, age, the authorisation of an appropriate resolution The Directors have been granted Qualifying Third disability or any other reason not related to passed by a general meeting of the Company, Party Indemnity Provisions by the Company and job performance or prohibited by applicable Directors can allot relevant securities under the directors of the Groups UK Pension Plan law.
Vesuvius gives full and fair consideration Section 551 of the Companies Act, up to the Trustee Board none of whom are Directors of to applications for employment from disabled aggregate nominal amount specified by that Act.
Vesuvius plc have been granted Qualifying persons.
Should an employee become disabled In addition, the Articles state the Directors can Pension Scheme Indemnity Provisions by during their employment with Vesuvius, every seek the authority of shareholders in general Vesuvius Plans Trustees Ltd.
The indemnities effort is made to enable them to continue their meeting to allot equity securities for cash for Directors of Vesuvius plc have been in force service with the Group.
without first being required to offer such shares since the date of their appointment.
The Pension to existing ordinary shareholders in proportion Trustee indemnities were in force throughout the greenhouse gas Emissions to their existing holdings in connection with a last financial year and remain in force.
Information on our reporting of greenhouse gas rights issue and in other circumstances up to emissions, and the methodology used to record an aggregate nominal amount as specified in Annual general Meeting these, is set out on pages 44 and 45 of the Section 561 of the Companies Act.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company Sustainability section of the Strategic Report.
will be held at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns At the Annual General Meeting on 4 June 2013, Donations Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED on Thursday 15 the Directors were authorised to issue relevant In accordance with Company policy, no political May 2014 at 11.00 am.
securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of donations were made in 2013.
9,282,835, and to be empowered to allot equity Employment Policies Change of Control Provisions securities for cash on a non pre-emptive basis up A fundamental concept embodied in the The terms of the Groups committed bank to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,392,425, Companys Code of Conduct is that Vesuvius facility and US Private Placement Loan Notes at any time up to the earlier of the date of the goals can only be met through the efforts of contain provisions entitling the counterparties 2014 Annual General Meeting or 30 June 2014. its employees.
Vesuvius recognises that job to exercise termination or other rights in the satisfaction requires working environments The Directors propose to renew these authorities event of a change of control on takeover of that motivate employees to be productive at the 2014 Annual General Meeting for afurther the Company.
A number of the arrangements and innovative and provide opportunities year.
In the year ahead, other than in respect to which the Company and its subsidiaries are for employee training and development to of Vesuviuss ability to satisfy rights granted to party, such as other debt arrangements and maximise personal potential and develop careers employees under its various share-based incentive share incentive plans, may alter or terminate on within the Group.
Vesuvius is managed on a arrangements, the Directors have no present a change of control in the event of a takeover.
decentralised basis and it is the responsibility of intention of issuing any share capital of Vesuvius.
In the context of the Group as a whole, these the Vice President Human Resources, together Pensions other arrangements are not considered to be with the relevant operational managers, to adopt In each country in which the Group operates, the significant.
employment policies and practices that best pension arrangements in place are considered suit the size, style and geographical location Share Capital to be consistent with good employment practice of their operations.
This management structure As at the date of this report, the Company had in that particular area.
Independent advisers allows the Groups operations to respond an issued share capital of 278,485,071 ordinary are used to ensure that the plans are operated competitively to changes in the marketplace and shares of 10p each, being the total number in accordance with local legislation and the to develop and retain a strong sense of identity, of Vesuvius plc shares with voting rights.
Group policy prohibits whilst benefiting from being a part of a major Company cancelled its one Deferred Share of direct investment of pension fund assets in international group.
1 and also redeemed its full holding of 50,000 the Companys shares.
Outside the UK, the US, Redeemable Preference Shares on 11 December Germany and Belgium, the majority of pension Vesuvius values the involvement of its employees 2013. plans in the Group are of a defined contribution and keeps them informed on matters affecting nature.
them as employees and factors relevant to Group Further information relating to the Companys performance.
Decisions on recruitment, career issued share capital can be found in Note 7 to The Groups UK defined benefits plan the UK development, training, promotion and other the Company Financial Statements.
Plan and the main US defined benefits plan employment related issues are made solely on are closed to new entrants and have ceased the grounds of individual ability, achievement, providing future benefits accrual, with all eligible expertise and conduct.
These principles are employees instead being provided with benefits operated on a non-discriminatory basis, without through defined contribution arrangements.
com 22904-04 10-02-2014 Proof 3 Vesuvius plc 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Report continued Cookson Group plc was the principal employer to December 2015.
This eliminates inflation, the rules of the relevant plans.
Participants in the of the UK Plan.
Following the demerger, the UK interest rate, investment and longevity risk in Cookson Group Executive Share Option Scheme Plan remained with Vesuvius and all pension respect of around 65% of Vesuvius total UK were notified in February 2013 that, under liabilities of the Alent plc Alent employers pension liabilities.
the rules of this scheme, they had one month who participated in the UK Plan immediately in which to exercise their outstanding options Current active employees in the UK are offered prior to the demerger were discharged in full.
The Cookson shares that membership of a defined contribution plan, Cookson had agreed, with the Trustee of the UK they acquired were compulsorily exchanged for which is operated on a contract basis, with Plan, a mitigation package in light of the loss of Vesuvius shares pursuant to a new article which oversight by a governance committee.
support from the Alent participating employers.
was incorporated into the articles of association All US retirement plan assets are held in trust That mitigation package comprised a 38m of Cookson Group plc as part of the demerger.
for the exclusive benefit of plan participants payment to the UK Plan.
See Note 31 to the The number of Vesuvius shares which they and their beneficiaries.
An independent financial consolidated financial statements for further acquired was increased to reflect the fact that institution acts as the Trustee.
they were not able to acquire any Alent shares.
are protected by law and by Federal Government Consequently, during the year, 45,613 Vesuvius For the Groups closed UK Plan a Trustee Board Regulation and are subject to annual audit by an shares were issued to participants in the exists comprising employees, former employees independent accountant, the Internal Revenue Cookson Group plc share option plans pursuant and an independent trustee.
The Board currently Service and the Department of Labour.
Further to the provisions of those plans and the terms comprises seven trustee directors, of whom details of pension arrangements are given in of the Demerger Agreement, which plans have three are member-nominated.
The administration Note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
now terminated for new awards.
of the plan is outsourced.
The Company is Share Plans mindful of its obligations under the Pensions Authority for Purchase of Own Shares Vesuvius operates a number of share-based Act 2004 and of the need to comply with the Subject to the provisions of Company law and incentive plans which have been carried over guidance issued by the Pensions Regulator.
any other applicable regulations, the Company from Cookson Group plc.
For the majority of Regular dialogue is maintained between the may purchase its own shares.
At the General these plans the Group can satisfy entitlements Company and the Trustee Board of the UK Meeting of the Company held on 4 June either by the acquisition of existing shares or by Plan to ensure that both Company and Trustee 2013 Vesuvius shareholders gave authority to the issue of new shares.
Existing shares are held are apprised of the same financial and other the Company to make market purchases of in an employee share ownership trust ESOT.
information about the Group and the UK Plan.
up to 27,848,507 Vesuvius ordinary shares, The trustee of the ESOT purchases shares in the This is pertinent to each being able to contribute representing 10% of the Companys issued open market as required, to enable the Group to to the effective functioning of the UK Plan.
The ordinary share capital as at the latest practicable meet liabilities for the issue of shares to satisfy latest full valuation of the UK Plan showed a day prior to the publication of the Notice of awards that vest.
The trustee does not register funding surplus, as a result of which Company AGM.
This authority expires on 30 June 2014 votes in respect of these shares and has waived contributions ceased in July 2013.
However, or the date of the AGM to be held in 2014, the right to receive any dividends.
the Company has agreed to make voluntary whichever is the earlier.
The Directors will seek contributions of 2.0m per annum at least renewal of this authority at the forthcoming In 2013 the trustee of the ESOT purchased until the next valuation date in recognition AGM.
851,736 ordinary shares of 10p each in Vesuvius of the potential funding strain resulting from plc with a nominal value of 0.9 million at an During the year under review, the Company the ongoing derisking initiatives likely to be average price, including transaction costs of acquired 7,271,174 ordinary shares, undertaken in the short term.
479.77 pence per share, a cash cost of 4.1 representing a nominal value of 727,117 The Groups worldwide net pension deficit million to satisfy the actual and potential vesting and 2.6% of the entire called up share capital at 31 December 2013 was 48 million 31 of awards under the Groups share-based of the Company prior to the purchase.
The decrease arose payment plans.
Subsequent to the year-end, shares were purchased pursuant to the Boards largely as a result of asset returns and Company the ESOT purchased a further 82,152 shares at commitment to return the majority of the net contributions.
an average price, including transaction costs, proceeds of the disposal of the Precious Metals of 503.52 pence per share.
See Note 26 to the Processing division to shareholders.
These On 19 July 2012, the Trustee of the UK Plan consolidated Financial Statements for further shares are currently held as treasury shares, and Pension Insurance Corporation PIC information.
The Company has not subsequently disposed of announced that they had signed a pension any of the repurchased shares.
During the year, Adjustments were made to outstanding shareinsurance buy-in agreement covering all of the Company did not make any acquisitions based incentives as appropriate following the the pensioner members of the UK Plan.
An by nominee, nor did it dispose of any shares demerger of Cookson Group plc including to the extension to this agreement was signed in previously acquired.
The Company does not have number of shares granted under options and December 2012 which is expected to result a lien over any of its shares.
awards and any relevant performance conditions.
in the transfer to PIC of up to 30 million of Such adjustments were made in accordance with additional pensioner liabilities over the period www.
com 22904-04 10-02-2014 Proof 3 87 corporate governance Restrictions on Transfer of Shares and voting The Companys Articles of Association Articles do not contain any specific restrictions on the size of a holding or on the transfer of shares.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
No person has any special rights with regard to the control of the Companys share capital and all issues shares are fully paid.
As set out above, the Company placed 7,271,174 ordinary shares in treasury during the year under review.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles should be consulted if further information is required.
Amendment of Articles of Association The Company may make amendments to the Articles by way of special resolution in accordance with the Companies Act.
Interests in the Companys Shares The Company has been notified in accordance with DTR 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of interests of 3%, or more, of its issued ordinary shares: 28 February 2014 % Cevian Capital 21.02 Artisan Partners 10.82 Franklin Templeton 8.76 Pelham Capital Management CfD 6.07 LSV Asset Management 4.00 Dimensional Fund Advisors 3.96 Aberforth Partners 3.87 T Rowe Price Global Investments 3.30 Legal & General Investment Management 3.21 BlackRock 3.10 The interests of Directors and their connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Company as disclosed in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority are as set out on page 83 of the Directors Remuneration Report and details of the Directors long-term incentive awards are set out on page 80.
The Directors Report has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by: Henry Knowles Company Secretary 4 March 2014 www.
