Vesuvius plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 lean manufacturing Our Lean Programme focuses us on building an organisation that delivers sustainable and continuous improvement The focus on cost leadership and margin A training programme for shop floor improvement is one of our five strategic managers was designed and piloted objectives.
Additionally, in a business where we Delivering successful workshops that need to manage the challenges presented by provided significant results in terms of cyclicality in our end-markets, a focus on process productivity increase and lead time reduction efficiency and quality is fundamental.
Production control & logistics training was Focusing on the need to excel in our key organised in all regions to accelerate material operational processes, we commenced our Lean and information flows across functions, Programme in 2008.
The goal is to generate giving a framework for substantial inventory short-term operational gains whilst also building reduction an organisation that delivers sustainable and A bespoke Manufacturing Execution System, continuous improvement.
Some of our core to collect all relevant quality control data requirements are that: and ensure end-to-end traceability of our Monterrey Standardisation of tasks and processes is the Viso assembly central area showing 5S coloured marking products was designed cornerstone of safety, quality, productivity, We started the roll-out of a Sales & and continuous improvement Operations Planning application, to collect 5S Employee motivation and customer and distribute forecasts, allowing production 5S is an operational methodology developed satisfaction are critical foundations for the levelling and inventory reduction without in Japan to improve employees workspace long-term success of the Group jeopardising service to our customers.
It is based on five Japanese Improving information flow is instrumental to words: Seiri Sort : Seiton Set in order : In 2014, we will continue the deployment of lean guarantee fast and effective cross-functional Seiso Shine : Seiketsu Standardise : and practices, with a special emphasis on: processes.
The method is based 5S to reinforce work environment around a shop floor team, and includes the The initial focus of the Lean Programme was appropriation by workers and continue to use of standardised colours to identify and on improving Safety management on the shop increase safety.
This will be also the first step store items used, and specific obligations to floor.
We then launched an initiative to improve on the way to improve the maintenance of maintain work areas to perpetuate the 5S Quality in production, which will be followed by key equipment approach.
An example is shadow boards for productivity improvement projects.
tools - where missing tools are immediately Equipment flexibility improvement and We focus on ensuring the long-term success of visible against their outline.
a batch reduction plan in key processes to these initiatives by: support inventory reduction Implementing a robust shop floor Specific project maintenance targets to organisation centred around strong first enhance equipment efficiency and reliability level managers Labour efficiency by the reinforcement of Growing our problem-solving capabilities the standardisation of work and Kaizen through training, coaching and workshops to processes.
learn by doing We aim to incorporate our Lean Programme in a Designing information systems that will global Excellence model to embed a consistent support the improved processes.
Group-wide approach to operational efficiency.
In 2013, we maintained our focusas follows: Several lean and practical problem solving training sessions were carried out www.
