Vesuvius plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Board of Directors JOHn McDOnOUgH CBE FRAnOIS WAnECQ CHRIS OSHEA Chairman Executive Director, Chief Executive Executive Director, Chief Financial Officer John was appointed as a Director and Chairman Franois was appointed as a Director of the Chris was appointed as a Director of the of the Company on 31 October 2012.
John was Company on 31 October 2012.
He previously Company on 31 October 2012, having joined group Chief Executive Officer of Carillion plc, joined the Cookson Group plc board in February Vesuvius earlier in the year.
Prior to joining the support services and construction firm, for 2010.
Franois has been the Chief Executive Vesuvius, Chris held a number of senior finance 11 years until he retired in 2011.
Prior to joining of Cooksons Engineered Ceramics division roles at BG Group, latterly serving as CFO for Carillion plc he spent nine years at Johnson since October 2005.
Prior to joining Cookson the groups businesses in Africa, the Middle East Controls Inc. working for the automotive systems he held a series of senior management roles at and Asia.
From 1998 to 2005 Chris lived and division, initially in the UK, before moving to Arjo Wiggins Group and served as an Executive worked in the UK, the US and Nigeria for Royal become Vice President of the divisions European Director of Arjo Wiggins Appleton plc from 1999 Dutch Shell in a variety of roles, including CFO operations and ultimately to Singapore to develop until it was delisted.
From 1985 to 1995 he was for Shells offshore exploration and production the business in Asia Pacific.
He then returned Managing Director of the technical ceramics business in Nigeria.
Chris is a Chartered to the UK as VP of the integrated facilities division of the Saint-Gobain Group.
Franois Accountant with degrees from the University management division for EMEA.
John served as graduated from the cole Polytechnique and of Glasgow and Duke University, and has also Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of cole des Mines fide Paris and is a French citizen.
Chris is a British Tomkins plc from 2007 to 2010 and as a Noncitizen.
Executive Director of exel plc from 2004 to 2005.
He joined The Vitec Group plc in March 2012, and has served as its Chairman since June 2012.
John was awarded a CBE in 2011 for services to Industry and is a British citizen.
com 22904-04 10-02-2014 Proof 3 51 corporate governance JEFF HEWITT JAnE HInKLEY CHRISTER gARDELL Senior Independent Director & non-executive Director & non-executive Director Audit Committee Chair Remuneration Committee Chair Christer was appointed as a Director of the Jane was appointed as a Director of the Company on 31 October 2012 having previously Jeff was appointed as a Director and Chairman Company on 3 December 2012.
Jane became joined the board of Cookson Group plc in June of the Audit Committee of the Company on Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in 2012.
Christer is Managing Partner of Cevian 31 October 2012 having previously joined the June 2013.
Jane spent a large part of her career Capital which on 28 February 2014 held just Cookson Group plc board in June 2005 where working at Gotaas-Larsen Shipping Corporation, over 21% of the Companys issued share capital.
he was also Chairman of the Audit Committee.
the LNG shipping specialist which was listed on Christer co-founded Cevian Capital in 2002.
Following the June 2013 AGM, Jeff was appointed both the London Stock Exchange and NASDAQ.
From 1996 to 2001, he was the Chief Executive as the Senior Independent Director.
Jeff was She served as CFO from 1988 to 1992, and as Officer of AB Custos, the Swedish investment previously Deputy Chairman and Group Finance Managing Director until 1997.
Prior to joining AB Custos he had Director of Electrocomponents plc.
He is a Nonappointed Managing Director of Navion Shipping been a partner of Nordic Capital and McKinsey executive Director and Chairman of the Audit AS, a company majority owned by Statoil, the oil & Company.
Christer is a Vice Chairman of the Committees of Cenkos Securities plc and Foreign and gas company, a position she held until 2001. global Finnish technology and services company & Colonial Investment Trust plc.
He is also the Jane is currently a Non-executive Director and Metso Corporation.
He served as a NonChairman of Electrocomponents Pension Trustees Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of executive Director of AB Lindex until December Limited.
Jeff is a Chartered Accountant and is a Premier Oil plc, an oil exploration and production 2007 and of Tieto Corporation until March 2012.
She also serves as a Non-executive Christer is a Swedish citizen.
Director of Teekay GP L. L. C, the international nELDA COnnORS provider of marine transportation services for non-executive Director Liquefied Natural Gas, LPG and crude oil, which Nelda was appointed as a Director of the is an NYSE listed partnership.
She previously Company on 1 March 2013.
She served held the position of Non-executive Director of as President and Chief Executive of Tyco Revus Energy ASA, a Norwegian exploration International, Electrical & Metal Products and production company.
Jane is a Chartered division renamed Atkore International in 2010 Accountant and a British citizen.
from 2008 to 2011, prior to which she spent six years at Eaton Corporation, in a number of international management roles which included nearly four years based in Shanghai.
Nelda spent much of her early career in the automotive industry working for Ford, Chrysler and Mogami Denki, a Toyota supplier.
During this period she undertook roles in general management, engineering, quality, customer service and strategic planning and worked in the US, Europe and Asia Pacific.
She is a Non-executive Director of Blount International, Inc. Echo Global Logistics and Boston Scientific Corporation and 7 3 sits on the Board of the Federal Reserve Bank 5 of Chicago.
Nelda is Chairwoman and Founder of Pine Grove Holdings, LLC, a consultancy that 1 4 provides advisory services to private equity and 6 2 investment firms and limited investments to small and mid-sized businesses.
