29 strategIc report Foundry Division Foseco products in the foundry casting process core production melting & metal treatment Solidification mould preparation mould and core pouring assembly Binders TM TM TM TM TM POLITEC, ECOLOTEC, FENOTEC, POLISET, ESHANOL coatings TM TM TM TM TM TM RHEOTEC, SEMCO, TENO, HOLCOTE, DYCOTE, ISOMOL Feeding Systems Fettling and cleaning TM TM TM TM FEEDEX, KALMINEX, KALMIN, KALPUR Filtration TM TM TM TM SEDEX, SIVEX, STELEX, RODEX melt Shop refractories TM TM TM TM TM TM TM KALTEK, VAPEX, CRITERION, INSURAL, KELLUNDITE, SILCOR, DIAMANT metal treatment TM TM TM TM TM TM INOCULIN, MSI & UNIT, NUCLEANT, NODULANT, COVERAL, FDU & MTS UNITS Finished casting www.
com 22904-04 26 March 2014 4:57 PM Proof 2 Vesuvius plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Foundry Division continued Foseco is a world leader in the supply of consumable products to the foundry casting industry 1 Foundry Industry overview in 2013 Foundry Outlook in 2014 Foundry Revenue The light vehicle industry continued to face Global foundry activity is expected to continue in m challenges in most parts of the world.
German 2014 at similar levels witnessed in 2013, though 577 525 light vehicle production reduced 2.5% on 2012, the situation varies by casting end-user market 493 493 with strong exports to China and the US not segment and geography.
No short-term recovery fully compensating for weak domestic demand.
is expected in the North American or Australian 374 By contrast, NAFTA and Brazilian production mining industries, though North American and grew 4% and 7% respectively as domestic German automotive production are expected demand continued to recover.
In Asia, Japanese to remain firm.
Activity in China continues to production reduced 3.5%, Korea remained flat strengthen.
as exports to China compensated for weaker Vesuvius in the Foundry Industry domestic demand and India, continuing to suffer The Foundry division of Vesuvius, trading under from an overall weak economy, rising fuel prices the Foseco brand, generates 33% of total Group and interest rates saw 2013 car production fall 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 revenue and is focused on the global foundry 14% vs 2012.
China light vehicle output grew industry which produces castings used in a wide 1 Foundry Trading Profit 11%.
Some 40% m The global truck industry grew 4% on 2012, of castings and a similar percentage of the 71.0 64.2 driven by a 50% growth in South America as revenue for the Foundry division are produced Brazil recovered from a weak 2012 which had for the vehicle sector, of which approximately 51.3 been down 63% from 2011 due to the wider 25% comprise light vehicle passenger cars 45.4 availability of fuel for the new Euro V engines.
and light trucks and 15% for heavy trucks.
Aside from 10% growth in China, the rest of Other end-markets for foundry castings include the world experienced reduced output Europe machinery for the construction, agriculture and down 4% and NAFTA down 3%.
mining industries, power generation equipment, railroad and general engineering.
Foseco is During the second quarter it became clear that 12.3 a world leader in the supply of consumable the general decline in commodity and precious products and services to the foundry industry.
metal prices was starting to impact the mining These products typically represent less than 5% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 industry.
New projects were delayed resulting in of a foundrys production cost, but contribute reduced activity for those foundries producing 1 significantly to improving both product quality Foundry Return on Sales castings for the mining process and related and manufacturing efficiency whilst reducing the % equipment and vehicles.
The railroad industry 13.0 12.3 environmental impact of the casting process.
also suffered due to reduced mining activity.
These effects were felt most severely by the Customers of the Foundry division include the 10.4 North American and Australian foundry industries worlds major automotive OEMs, truck producers 8.7 and in the former, the growth in shale gas as and manufacturers of construction, railroad and a source of energy further reduced railroad mining equipment.
The foundry market is highly activity as coal movement reduced.
A number of fragmented and Vesuvius 20 largest foundry construction and mining equipment producers customers represented only 11% of the divisions 3.3 have announced rationalisation programmes.
com 22904-04 26 March 2014 4:57 PM Proof 2 31 Strategic report Potential revenue per customer and per tonne As a partner to its customers, Foseco must The Foundry Strategy of castings produced is strongly influenced by bring deep foundry process knowledge to The Foundry strategy, Performance Partnership, the technical sophistication of the casting and the relationship to ensure that the proposed is focused on creating greatest value for the the process used in its production.
These factors solutions align with each customers unique customer, by delivering higher casting quality tend to correlate with the level of industrial needs.
Finally, to maximise the performance of and foundry process improvements.
This is development of the market.
Therefore Vesuvius the product or process, process control capability achieved through a partnership relationship in sees significant growth potential as industrial is necessary.
Foseco achieves this through a which the customers highest priority growth development continues to progress in developing range of engineering equipment and software, and process improvement priorities are shared markets, particularly certain parts of Eastern all of which are designed to control and provide by Foseco.
Foseco can then develop solutions Europe and Asia.
feedback on the performance of the product.
customised to the specific customers needs and opportunities.
Foundry Division performance Revenue of 493 million represented a 7.0% Fosecos capability to develop solutions relies reduction compared with 2012 down 6.0% on upon a Toolkit with four components: an underlying basis.
The impact of the mining Product Technology a wide range of and construction slowdown in the second half of best-in-class products, renewed through the year contributed to the reduction in revenue.
continual innovation As mentioned, the impact was most severe in the Divisions US and Australian businesses.
In both Applications Expertise the applications locations action was taken promptly to align the skills required to ensure that the products cost base with activity.
deliver maximum performance when used by foundries In last years report a key strength of Vesuvius was highlighted, that of having a cadre of Foundry Process Knowledge intimate geographically mobile senior executives whose knowledge of foundry technology, the Pictured: skills are transferable across the Group, thereby customer and its casting processes Foundry feeders facilitating the transfer of best practices and the Process Control Capability a range of Groups value-based culture.
This remains the hardware and software to optimise product China case, and during the year, the leadership team performance and consistency in use.
As set out above, Phase One of our ChangShu for the Foundry division was strengthened by investment is nearing completion.
Phase Two the transfer of the Group Lean Director to the Ensuring that Fosecos Toolkit is always up to the investment has already started, expected position of Foundry Operations Vice President.
job requires that we excel at product innovation for completion in the first half of 2015.
In based upon a deep understanding of the foundry During the year significant progress was made in conjunction with this the Foundry business industry needs, the development of teams of implementing the Foundry division strategic plan.
unit manufacturing capability in China will expert application engineers across the world be at the leading edge, with a technical team Key actions included: and that we maintain a deep knowledge of the that continues to be strengthened through the foundry industry and our customers.
The near-completion of Phase One of the secondment of group experts into the region.
China manufacturing expansion in ChangShu, In respect of product technology, Foseco is a world due for commissioning in the first quarter of leader in the breadth of its product range with 2014.
This first phase will be a  products for all parts of the casting art Feeding Systems plant process.
To ensure that the customer gains the full benefit from the use of Fosecos products, a The Board approved the Phase Two high degree of applications expertise is required.
investment in ChangShu, a Coatings plant Foseco has a comprehensive network of technical with a total investment of 8 million sales staff and application engineers across the The purchase of a building in Enschede, world, thereby ensuring that customers have the Netherlands, for conversion to the access to high levels of locally available technical new Foundry central R&D facility to be support.
This network is being expanded in commissioned in the third quarter of 2014 developing markets.
The development of growth plans for the Chinese, Mexican and Central European markets followed by initial implementation actions.
