37 Strategic report Quality We will operate all work and business activities to ensure the quality of the products and services we deliver to our customers Pictured: To underscore the importance of the Quality Breakthrough initiative, and the Turbo.
Q programme designed to support its rollout, Franois Wanecq, CEO, and Group Executive Committee member Ryan van der Aa, VP HR, participated in the two day training programme in October 2013.
Patrick Bikard, President Operations, led the training.
Our Quality Plan features: Vesuvius Quality Policy Quality Strategy Focusing on Quality is the another important Quality Strategy defines a holistic approach to The application of the Vesuvius 8D step in the implementation of our wider Lean the execution and implementation of our Quality methodology to resolve customer, supplier programme.
We see this as a fundamental part Policy throughout the organisation.
We have and internal issues.
This methodology is built of our progress towards operational excellence.
aligned our Quality Strategy to the corporate upon the 8 Disciplines to follow in order to Already, the renewed focus on Quality has strategy.
The Quality Strategy seeks to support eliminate problems permanently.
It is focused improved customer relationships and added to the five aspects of corporate strategy: on determining the root cause, implementing operating efficiency.
effective corrective actions and preventing Maintain technology leadership by repeat issues Our Quality Policy clearly defines the allowing Marketing & Technology, and commitments and responsibilities which apply to R&D to keep their focus on technology A commitment to become a true Learning all aspects of the business, with implementation and improving the industrialisation of new Organisation.
Every problem is welcomed driven throughout the organisation by senior products than quality fire-fighting as an opportunity for improvement where management.
lessons learned are created and shared in Increase penetration of valueorder to leverage the benefits across the creating solutions by satisfying customers The Vesuvius 8D Methodology Group through improved consistency, leading to improved cross-selling and reduced D1 CLARIFY THE PROBLEM The application of Lean Principles to business loss improve shop floor quality, responsiveness, D2 GRASP THE CURRENT SITUATION and flexibility.
Lean manufacturing methods, Capture growth in developing markets such as those successfully utilised in the by differentiating ourselves from our D3 CONTAIN AND SET TARGET automotive industry, have been adopted competition on the basis of our quality and throughout the Group.
These principles drive our service offering D4 ANALYSE CAUSES implementation of: Support the goal of cost leadership by strong control plans to detect any defects improving the reliability of our products, by D5 DEFINE COUNTERMEASURES as close as possible to their point of improving the total cost of ownership for our occurrence in order to facilitate immediate D6 EXECUTE AND TRACK PROGRESS customers, and by reducing costs associated problem solving with defects, reworks and customer rejects D8 CHECK RESULTS accelerated product flow to allow quicker Built technical service offering to align detection of issues and impact rejects the business with customer needs through D8 STANDARDISE AND ESTABLISH CONTROL rework information received from customer surveys and through increased executive visits to standardised production methods to customers.
com 22904-04 26 March 2014 4:57 PM Proof 2 Vesuvius plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Quality continued The key features of our Quality Strategy are: Our experts are in permanent contact with our Case Study customers operations to provide support with Roll out the Quality Breakthrough Initiative creative solutions and new technologies, based throughout the organisation on their access to the unrivalled experience Reliability Build infrastructure to support embedding acquired across the world and throughout the Vesuvius is the pioneer in designing, of Quality Breakthrough Initiatives in the industry.
supplying and operating no-lift refractory organisation tube exchange mechanisms for slab casters.
Leverage global roll-out of the improvement There is more steel cast through Vesuvius Case Study process to drive behaviour to improve tube exchange devices than through any product and service quality and deliver other option available on the market.
A large customer loyalty number of such installations are successfully Reliability operating worldwide on more than 310 Use senior executive visits to customer sites In 2013, Voestalpine was looking for the slab strands.
The use of mechanisms and and lost business analysis as drivers for refractory materials, service and support for refractories from a single technological reducing customer attrition.
their jobbing foundry that uses one of the source guarantee utmost operational safety largest coreless induction furnaces in the Reliability and highest performance level.
Because this furnace is used up to 15 Reliability is vital to our customers as they use first in Europe, our most recent Tube times a month, it needs to be relined five Vesuvius products in critical areas of their Changer SEM3085, is now beginning to times per year, which requires ten tonnes own processes.
The level of risk attached to a be used worldwide.
By the end of 2014, of refractory material each time.
Due to the catastrophic failure is often such that, for people 16 strands in the Americas, Asia or Europe fact that the steel is heated up to 1,780C, and equipment, no compromise can be accepted.
will operate with this breakthrough model.
the lining application is demanding and the Reliability therefore is a primary commitment of Besides productivity, safety and quality refractory materials must perform well.
impact on final steel, the SEM3085 brings Vesuvius service personnel worked closely new reliability standards.
We strive to deliver reliability and consistency with the customer to find the best option.
through best-in-class quality management in Its strong design includes a new clamping After some preliminary trials the furnace was our 69 production sites and 107 major customer concept for refractory parts as well as an completely lined with Vesuvius products in locations.
iron cast metallic enclosure to support and June 2013 to meet customer expectations.
fix the refractory part in a more protected Reliability also flows from our close cooperation Maintaining our high level of service is part way.
Thus, it limits stress on refractory with customers operations, the permanent of our commitment to our customers.
materials and ensures minimum risk of presence of our engineers and technicians at our breakage.
A complete integration of pipes customers locations and the level of service and into the mechanical parts minimises risk of expertise we provide.
malfunction of the inert gas or air cooling Reliability is maintained within our global circuit.
process of innovation and continuous Case Study Through better sealing between plates, it also improvement through strict testing procedures offers better reliability on steel quality to the and transparency with our customers on the customer, while taking advantage of the tube Reliability protocols we follow to validate any change in change function for highest productivity and Foseco specialists played a significant our products.
Last but not least, role in the supply of safety critical steel Service is part of the Vesuvius culture SEM3085 has been designed robot-ready: the construction rings used for building a new The quality of our service delivery derives from tube change operation can be in option under roof at the 76,000 seat Olympic Stadium in our deep understanding of our customers full control of a robot that will change tube Berlin.
Foseco-patented KALPUR direct pour processes and expectations, our intimate after tube in a reliable protocol.
technology was used by  of their needs and our efforts to Htte FWH steel foundry for the production increase their performance at all levels of their of steel construction rings.
these safety-critical steel construction rings was crucial, and the foundry chose a Foseco Vesuvius plants are close to the customers they patented technology for making these serve and can deliver goods and technical service castings.
