Vesuvius plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Safety Vesuvius is fundamentally committed to protecting our employees by reducing and eliminating workplace hazards As set out in our KPIs on page 17, we place the designed to reduce the number of accidents All severe injuries are analysed locally, with highest priority on the safety of our employees in the business to the lowest level within the a formal presentation to and review by the and use the Lost Time Injury Frequency rate as a industry sector, with the ultimate goal to reach Group Executive Committee.
key indicator of our performance.
Our current strategies show good progress over We adopt an integrated and comprehensive The current phase of the Safety Breakthrough the past six years in reducing the number of lost approach to managing workplace risks, covering initiative - Turbo S - builds on the foundation of time injuries and Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate people and property, in our approach to Safety Breakthrough and includes a broad range LTIFR, as shown below.
This chart highlights effective health and safety management.
Our of actions based on recording, analysis and the the improvement achieved to date although aim is to identify, eliminate, reduce or control all subsequent development of new or improved we recognise the need for continued focus on workplace risks.
In 2013 we set ourselves a Group LTIFR target of 1.3.
We did not achieve this Safety Leadership As part of this initiative: during the year, recording the same LTIFR of Safety is the first item on the agenda at all our Senior executives regularly lead safety tours 1.8 attained in 2012.
For 2014 we will focus executive and management meetings.
at all locations on continual improvement to meet the Groups The Group is committed to continual safety target of 1.2.
Employees participate in routine safety audits improvement with a Group Health and Safety Very regrettably, and despite our efforts, in 2013 Policy stating an objective of: We invest significantly in safety training, Vesuvius suffered a work-related loss of life.
A recently covering Ergonomics and a complete Zero accidents full investigation with senior HSE Management review of Lock, Tag and Try implementation followed the accident and a Group-wide No repeat injuries All employees are expected to routinely raise review of relevant procedures was undertaken.
No harm to people safety improvement opportunities These standards were updated, operators were retrained and we communicated globally on the These objectives are pursued through a range Safety standards are continually updated, lessons learned from this tragic event.
of policies, standards and procedures.
Our first translated and deployed globally throughout major change programme, Safety Breakthrough Vesuvius was launched in 2008.
This global initiative was Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate Lost Time Injuries per million hours worked 12 9.9 10 8 7.9 6 4 3.5 3.3 2.5 1.8 2 1.8 1.3 0 2007 Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec LTIFR - Vesuvius, 12 m LTIFR Target www.
com 22904-04 26 March 2014 4:57 PM Proof 2 33 Stra Strategic tegic r report eport Accident information is openly available and Safety Audits summarised in the HSE database, including the A key part of the Turbo S programme is to ensure mandatory completion of a full investigation that safety audits become an established and report for more significant incidents to identify sustainable part of the Groups ongoing safety the true root cause in line with the No efforts.
The quality of accident The audit programme involves employees at investigation has improved thanks to the all levels from Group executives and safety common establishment of a Vesuvius 8D specialists through to local site management, process for practical problem-solving.
A database is Fire incident reporting is an important part of maintained of all Executive, Corporate and Fire the accident and incident reporting process.
Safety audits to enable all auditors to have a full Efforts to improve the reporting of all fires, and, site history available prior to undertaking the in particular, minor and contained process fires, next, upcoming audit.
The successful programme have been successful.
to include employees in safety audits as auditors started in 2012 has continued with nearly Taking Safety Breakthrough to the 50% of employees and contractors involved Next Level Turbo S in conducting audits.
The target employee Vesuvius launched Safety Breakthrough with participation for 2013 was 50% with 55% the aim of reducing the number of accidents participation achieved.
A target of 75% has been including fires, lost time injuries and increasing set for 2014. safety awareness through greater employee Accident and Incident Reporting engagement.
This major initiative aimed to raise Safety Improvements and and Analysis health and safety performance to best-in-class Lessons Learned A significant investment in time and resources levels throughout the Vesuvius business.
Turbo A feature of Turbo S is to become a true learning has been made over recent years to develop S integrates good management practices in the organisation, avoiding repeat accidents and robust, comprehensive and timely reporting of workplace with a strong emphasis on the need we share lessons learned using the Red Stripe accident and incident information.
Our standard to standardise tasks so that everybody works to distribution process to avoid repeat accidents by provides the foundation for targeted safety the same high standards in safety performance.
highlighting and sharing a serious issue.
interventions and activities to reduce the number, severity and frequency of lost time injuries and Turbo S has been designed to deploy best Promoting employee engagement in improving incidents.
As part of management reporting, the practice and increasing management and safety conditions is an important objective.
Vesuvius Board receives a monthly update on all employee involvement.
This is supported by This objective is also pursued using the Safety lost time injuries and severe accidents.
dedicated training for all employees including Improvement Opportunity with Permanent senior managers.
The initiative continues to work corrective Action SIOPA initiative.
This Vesuvius has developed a reporting process towards the ultimate objective of zero workplace requires site employees to identify safety that uses more stringent definitions for LTI incidents.
problems improvement opportunities, which and severe accidents than OSHA USA.
This then require a formal response including the ensures that we capture and investigate all fires, Turbo S features: implementation of improvement action.
The explosions and any major spill or other chemical The implementation and sharing of best Group has annual targets for employee SIOPAs release and means we report on all potential fire practices through Vesuvius standards and which are continually reviewed.
and explosion scenarios, no matter how small other tools the actual outcome.
2010 was used as the base A commitment to become a true Learning year for global reporting in order to establish key Organisation, avoiding repeat accidents and improvement initiatives and meaningful relative sharing lessons learned targets.
This process has been successful with much more effective reporting levels.
Total employee involvement, with the need for safety improvement being driven at the most senior levels of our business.
