41 Strategic report Human resources Our mission is to help our employees develop and deploy their talents so that Vesuvius is well equipped to meet its strategic objectives In 2013, the HR organisation has realigned We have met this challenge in a number of ways.
Split - Salaried Hourly itself and its initiatives to support the strategic In particular we have focused on knowledge objectives of the business.
Dedicated roles have transfer through the operation of a number of 9% been created in the areas of Talent Management Group-wide training programmes.
These are and Reward Management, together with a deigned to be relevant to all individuals within further role created to focus on the deployment Vesuvius, depending on the stage in their career of our Standard Operations Model.
path with the Company and their functional 37% 54% responsibilities.
We have established this Operations HR Business Partner role to ensure that in our drive We have taken particular effort to ensure to excellence, operations receive the Human that appropriately targeted technical training Resources support they need.
The role gives is available to all members of the Vesuvius active support on training and development, community.
Under the HeaTt banner - the Hourly Salaried Temps compensation and other technical HR issues to Vesuvius Technical University - we support the our manufacturing facilities and personnel in development of our technical service offering.
Headcount per product line order to support the deployment of the Vesuvius Through our Wings programme we aim to Standard Operations Model.
7% continuously develop the capabilities of our In delivering this global consistency, we rely on middle managers by exposing them to a wide a strategic framework that ensures alignment of range of management disciplines and coaching.
This framework Line managers are expected to release staff is named HTR, and focuses on: for training, and when involved in courses, Hiring and Resourcing the precedence of the course over day-to-day 4% responsibilities is strictly enforced.
Training and Developing 25% Critically, our HR programmes support the Retaining and Motivating.
deployment of our Group strategy.
In order Flow Control Foundry Fused Silicia Advanced Refractories Shared Services to maintain its technological leadership, the Foundry division has chosen the city of Enschede Headcount per region in the Netherlands to install its worldwide R&D centre.
The city is located near the borders 7% with Germany, centre of the foundry industry 16% 3% in Europe, and has a renowned university.
The Vesuvius is a community of experts.
We gain a 3% location is easily accessible for researchers on significant part of our competitive advantage short and long-term assignments and will also 22% from the skills and expertise of our technical operate as a centre for training employees on staff.
Many of our employees, particularly our products and processes.
those in technical roles, have been with the 42% Company for much of their careers, and as such 7% have obtained and retained hugely valuable knowledge within their fields of expertise.
As China Europe India NAFTA noted in our Principal Risks see page 19, we North Asia South America South Asia consider the ability to attract and retain the right level of talent as a key risk to be addressed by the business.
com 22904-04 26 March 2014 4:57 PM Proof 2 Vesuvius plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Human resources continued The smooth deployment of our strategy is To contribute to building the foundation of our The Columbus Project also supported by the positive relationship value-added solutions, Vesuvius has designed a developed with the employee representatives in series of marketing courses, as a continuation to the European region.
Agreement on the terms foundations laid down by senior management of the working of the European Works Council Boost!
and middle management Wings, Pulse was reached on 7 June 2012.
These are delivered the first session of the European Works Council as training modules available in the corporate took place in Belgium with management and training programme.
Over the course of 2013, personnel delegates from Belgium, Germany, 46 employees have attended one of the two France, Spain, the Netherlands, Poland, Sweden corporate courses EVC Forward Together and Romania.
Another 50 were exposed to key industrial marketing principles during our one week middle management training, Wings.
In order to meet our business objectives, we have to have the right structure to allow for the best people to be at the right place at the right The Columbus Project is definitely a really time.
challenging and life changing experience.
It is not easy being away from family and friends The optimal development and deployment of for nine months in a country that has such our people is at the core of our People Review a different culture and tradition.
Annually, global, regional and Pictured: First meeting of the European Works Council experiences helped me learning to see things country organisations establish their succession Back row, from left to right : Laurent Dubois, Martin Halsall, from different perspectives and made me plans, identify their high potentials and agree Luis Fernandez, Helmut Gohde more adaptable to new situations.
The feeling on individual development plans, supported by a Middle row: Anna Klenfeldt, Gerhard Sauber, Ignace now, when we are less than one month from global performance management system.
Liznjirabake, Ryan van der Aa, Franois Wanecq, Stefan Miron coming back to Brazil, is that we are not the Titi, Sean Keane Vesuvius has around 40 expatriates from 13 same.
Front row: Patrick Hskes, Krzysztof Zajda, Frank Mller, different nationalities across 11 countries.
Most Tadeusz akota, Francisco Lorenzo After three months in her home country, of the expatriate population is located in Asia Brazil, Aline Baros, Chemical Engineer from focusing on developing our local operations.
the Federal University of Minas Gerais, spent Our Columbus Project - now in its third year - nine months at Vesuvius in Pune and Calcutta, aims to ensure the continuous inflow of new India.
talent into our internationally mobile workforce.
In 2013, five young graduates, two from India and three from Brazil, have swapped countries for a year as part of pursuing a career at Vesuvius.
com 22904-04 26 March 2014 4:57 PM Proof 2 43 Strategic report In addition, the management of our Human HeaTt Training Resources is underpinned by the worldwide Towers Watson grading system and a structured and consistent compensation & benefits In 2013, more than 300 employees took management framework, that intends to attract, part in more than 20 heaTt training events retain and motivate our employees.
This platform, together with the continuous reinforcement of marketing HeaTt Training principles amongst our sales and technical people and a constant focus on innovation, ensures that Vesuvius is well positioned to We want to equip our people with the right keep on developing its offering of technical skills, both technical and behavioural, and services to complement its products offering.
preserve our talents from waning over time.
In addition to local training initiatives, the Vesuvius Corporate Training programme offers a wide range of disciplines and is adjusted every year to ensure that it still reflects the needs of the business.
Finally, Vesuvius and its employees support several small scale projects in local communities.
As an example, winners of an LTV award have each elected a charity to which Vesuvius made a donation.
In the Czech Republic, together with other local companies, Vesuvius has financed the purchase of several cars by a local charity in order to transport disabled children and adults in the area.
More examples of our contribution to such projects are provided on our website www.
Gender Diversity Details of the gender diversity of the Group are set out below excluding JVs.
HeaTt, the Vesuvius Technical University, supports Male Female Total % Female % Male the development of our technical service PLC Board 5 2 7 29% 71% offering, the fifth pillar of our strategy.
HeaTt GEC members 10 0 10 0% 100% stands for Hub for Employee Advanced Technical Senior management 101 4 105 4% 96% Training and is structured along five levels, from Middle management 274 27 301 9% 91% entry to expert.
The modules are designed and All other permanent delivered by our internal trainers.
While the first 1 employees 9,143 957 10,100 9% 91% introductory level gives an overall view of the Total employees 9,533 990 10,523 10% 90% Vesuvius business, its end-markets, products and their applications, the more advanced modules NOTE are specialised by Business Unit.
Gender details are not kept for hourly permanent employees www.
