Vesuvius plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 our Values Our corporate values guide us in our everyday behaviour Our five corporate values, aimed at directing our Embracing Diversity everyday behaviour at work, are as follows: Vesuvius is a global company built upon a true respect for local customs and experience.
Creativity We recognise and embrace the potential for Our commitment to technology and quality is the creativity that comes from the coexistence of so basis for our competitive advantage.
allows us to develop innovative solutions that generate value through performance The best examples of how our employees enhancements and continuous improvements.
demonstrate our values are celebrated once a year during the Living The Values LTV Awards Cooperation ceremony.
Encouraging internal and external cooperation is an effective tool which enables us to create unique solutions with our partners.
Each Vesuvius LTV Awards Vesuvius employee is committed to the success of their community of colleagues and customers.
During the year, every employee can Reliability nominate another employee or team to Our solutions involve us in critical aspects of recognise exemplary working behaviour our customers manufacturing processes.
Our in line with our values.
In 2013, over 107 commitment to consistently deliver quality nominations were received.
These were products and services gives them the level of reviewed by a selection committee and the confidence they require.
best selected for recognition at our LTV Awards ceremony.
Seventeen awards were Integrity made in 2013, bringing together employees At the heart of our promise lies the from all geographies of our business to trustworthiness of all Vesuvius employees in celebrate the Vesuvius values.
Integrity, honesty and transparency are essential in all our exchanges.
Pictured: The winning drawings made by the children during the 2nd Annual Vesuvius Mexico Picture: Samuel Dhote Values Drawing Contest Pictured: Winners at the Vesuvius 2013 LTV Awards www.
