Vesuvius plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group Executive Committee The Group Executive Committee GEC is convened and chaired by the Chief Executive.
It comprises the Chief Executive, the Chief Finanacial Officer and the following eight members of senior management.
Biographical details of Franois Wanecq and Chris OShea are set out on page 50.
Chris Abbott President Flow Control Chris Abbott was appointed President Flow Control in October 2008.
Having joined Vesuvius in 2000, Chris was appointed Vice President for Manufacturing, QHSE, Engineering and Purchasing in 2002.
Prior to joining Vesuvius he held a number of senior Industrial and manufacturing managerial positions with Schlumbergers UK and European businesses.
He completed an Engineering apprenticeship with the Wolsely Group whilst studying Mechanical Engineering and Business Studies at the Birmingham Polytechnic.
Chris is based in Belgium and is a British citizen.
Patrick Bikard President Operations Patrick Bikard was appointed President Operations in January 2014 having been Vice President for Manufacturing, QHSE, Engineering & Purchasing since February 2008.
Since joining Vesuvius, Patrick has led the operations functions with an emphasis on improving safety, quality and reducing inventories.
Patrick worked for nine years in Renault, ending as Director Production & Supply Chain of the Douai plant.
This was followed by senior operational roles at Alstom and Faurecia.
He has wide experience in creating value through customer focus, lean techniques, operations, change management and continuous Improvement.
He is a graduate from cole Polytechnique, cole des Mines fide Paris and Cedep INSEAD.
Patrick is based between Belgium and the UK and is a French citizen.
glenn Cowie President Advanced Refractories Glenn Cowie was appointed President Advanced Refractories in May 2011.
He started his career in Foseco South Africa in 1981, where he held several technical and sales positions in both the Foundry and Steel divisions, before becoming the Chief Executive Sub Saharan Africa.
Glenn transferred to the UK in an international Strategic Growth Initiative role and shortly thereafter was promoted to Area Director Northern Europe, based in Borken, Germany.
Following a two year period with Fosbel, he returned to Foseco in 2008 as Vice President Foundry NAFTA, and subsequently the Americas.
Glenn is a Diploma engineer in Metallurgical Engineering.
Glenn is based in Pittsburgh and is a South African and British citizen.
george Coulston Chief Technology Officer George was appointed Chief Technology Officer in October 2013.
Prior to joining Vesuvius, George worked for Kennametal Inc for nine years, where his most recent positions were VP Innovation Ventures and VP Marketing.
During his career George also worked for DuPont, in research, manufacturing technology and new business development roles.
He has wide experience in R&D, managing projects and organizations with additional experience in marketing and operations.
George is a member of the Product Development & Management Association and the Association for Iron & Steel Technology.
George has a BSc in Chemical Engineering from the University of Connecticut, a PhD in Engineering and Applied Science from Yale University and an MBA from the University of Pittsburgh.
George is based in Pittsburgh and is a United States citizen.
com 22904-04 10-02-2014 Proof 3 53 corporate governance David Hughes President Foundry David Hughes was appointed President Foundry in October 2011.
For the prior five years David was responsible for the Foundry business in Asia Pacific.
Having joined Foseco in 1981, David has held a number of technical, sales and general management roles in Asia followed by a central strategy and M&A role in the UK.
After three years he moved to India as Managing Director of Foseco India, a company listed on the Mumbai Stock Exchange and in 2006 David took over the role of Foundry Vice President Asia Pacific.
Dave has a Masters degree in Natural Sciences from Cambridge University and in addition holds a Diploma in Accounting and Finance from ACCA.
David is based in Shanghai and is a British citizen.
Henry Knowles general Counsel & Company Secretary Henry Knowles joined Vesuvius as General Counsel and Company Secretary in September 2013.
Prior to joining Vesuvius, Henry spent seven years at Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC, a FTSE 250 generic pharmaceutical manufacturer with significant operations in the Middle East and North Africa, where he held the roles of General Counsel, Company Secretary and also led the compliance function.
Henry trained and practised as a corporate lawyer with Ashurst in London and Tokyo.
He graduated from Trinity College, Cambridge with a degree in Social and Political Science, and attended law school in London.
Henry is based in London and is a British citizen.
Ryan van der Aa vice President Human Resources Ryan van der Aa was appointed Vice President Human Resources in May 2013.
Ryan joined Foseco in 1999 as HR Director Europe and, prior to its acquisition by Vesuvius, was HR Director of Foseco plc for two years.
Before 1999, Ryan held several international HR management positions in Indigo NV, HVA International BV and Berenschot Moret Bosboom.
Ryan has wide experience in international organisational development and change processes, people development processes and international compensation and benefits.
Ryan has a Masters of Law Degree from the University of Tilburg, Netherlands.
Ryan is based in London and is a Dutch citizen.
Roel van der Sluis President Refractories north Asia Roel was appointed President Refractories North Asia in April 2012.
Roel joined Foseco in 1997 when they acquired SMC Foundry Products from Metallgeshellshaft AG where Roel led the Europe global foundry division.
He then held the roles in M&T Northern Europe, Central Europe and the Middle East where he opened a number of new markets for Foseco before moving to China, where he was based for three years.
Roel has wide experience in both the Foundry and the steel industry and is a member of the German foundry institute, VDG, and the Dutch foundry institute NVVGT.
Roel has engineering degrees from the Universities of Delft and Utrecht in the Netherlands and holds an AMP from INSEAD in France.
Roel is based in Suzhou and is a Dutch citizen.
