Vesuvius plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Steel Division Flow Control and Advanced Refractories products in the steel manufacturing process Vesuvius products Advanced Refractories in TURQUOISE text Steel Flow Control in PURPLE text Lining LADLE Well Nozzle Purge Plug Ladle Tube Changer LTC Ladle Shroud Tundish Stopper Robotic Casting Technology RCT TUNDISH Lining Tundish Tube Changer Turbostop MOULD Tundish Slide Gate Mould Level Control Tundish Shroud Tundish Gas Diffuser Blast furnace stack repair Ladle bricks and Elby bottoms Converter bricks Iron trough Tundish lining www.
com 22904-04 26 March 2014 4:57 PM Proof 2 25 Stra Strategic tegic r report eport We supply the global steel industry with products that increase efficiency and quality in the continuous casting process 1 Steel Revenue m 150 20 1,039 1,018 1,018 951 125 15 760 100 10 75 5 50 0 25 0 -5 May 12 Jun 12 Jul 12 Aug 12 Sept 12 Oct 12 Nov 12 Dec 12 Jan 13 Feb 13 Mar 13 Jun 13 Jul 13 Aug 13 Sept 13 Oct 13 Nov 13 Dec 13 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 World Mt ROW Mt China Mt World % ROW % China % 1 Steel Trading Profit m Steel Industry Overview in 2013 Market View 2014 and Beyond According to the World Steel Association WSA Despite continued volatility and limited market 100.7 97.5 global steel production see above chart grew visibility the perspectives for steel production 88.7 82.2 3.5% in 2013 vs 2012 to 1,607.2 megatonnes in 2014 are generally positive.
The WSA has Mt, with China experiencing growth of 9.9% predicted a 3.3% increase in steel demand in to 779Mt: global production, excluding China, 2014.
Our expectations are that steel production 49.3 was flat at 828.2Mt.
The growth came mainly increases will be broadly in line with this increase from Asia, the Middle East and India whilst crude in demand, with modest growth in China and a steel production in the European Union, South return to growth across the developed world.
America and NAFTA decreased compared with The Steel Process and Vesuvius 2012.
Vesuvius in the Steel industry Growth compared to the prior year was stronger, The two product lines that comprise the Steel 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 in the second half of 2013 than the first half, division are Steel Flow Control and Advanced partially due to the fact the first half of 2012 was Refractories.
1 Steel Return on Sales very strong with the second half experiencing a Flow control products are used in the % substantial reduction in production.
continuous casting process which enables steel 10.3 Asias share of world steel production, driven manufactured in a blast furnace or electric arc 9.7 predominantly by China, increased slightly furnace to be cast directly into blooms or slabs 8.7 8.1 from 65.4% to 67.3% in 2013.
Growth in China without interruption i. e. be continuously cast was substantial albeit that month-on-month and to remain protected from the atmosphere 6.5 declines from Q3 2013 resulted in a reduction between tundish and mould i. e. be enclosed, in Chinese growth in late 2013 which is thus significantly reducing the levels of expected to continue into 2014. contamination.
com 22904-04 26 March 2014 4:57 PM Proof 2 Production Mt Growth % year on year Vesuvius plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Steel Division continued Vesuvius products have a short service life often Around 10% to 15% of revenues in the Steel In addition to a large range of products and a matter of a few hours due to the significant division arise from non steel-related process equipment Vesuvius has developed state-of-thewear caused by the high temperature, high industries supplied by the Advanced Refractories art global modelling and simulation capabilities thermal cycling and the erosive and corrosive product line.
which enable the development of custom environment in which they operate.
refractory designs to optimise the flow of molten the Vesuvius product and metal within the tundish and mould.
More They represent a relatively small proportion of Service offering details on this are contained in the Innovation the input costs of our customers e. g. less than Our products are highly specialised consumable section on pages 34 and 35.
1% for a steel producer but their performance ceramics, including shrouds, stoppers, nozzles, is critical to their production processes.
slide gates, lining refractories monolithic and Global steel production represents almost Therefore, customers demand high quality and pre-cast and fluxes for the steel production 100% of the end-market for Steel Flow Control consistent products for these most demanding of industry.
In addition, we supply automation products and services.
There is therefore a strong applications to ensure maximum safety, quality equipment and sensors used to control, correlation between steel production and Steel and productivity.
Vesuvius is a global leader monitor and regulate the flow of molten metal.
Global steel production in in the metal flow market.
We achieve this by This technical and application expertise is a the first half of the year was approximately 2% working closely with our customers to develop significant part of our product offering giving us higher than the first half of 2012, mainly driven customised refractory systems, services and a distinct competitive advantage.
However, from September onwards technologies that enable them to improve their there was a strengthening in steel production Steel Division performance performance.
compared with 2012, resulting in higher Steel In 2013, the Steel divisions revenue of 1,018 Flow Control revenues.
Vesuvius also supplies the steel industry and million comprised 556 million for Steel other process industries with advanced refractory Flow Control and 462 million for Advanced Revenue of 556 million was 2.7% higher materials used for lining vessels such as blast Refractories compared with 2012.
On an underlying basis furnaces, ladles and tundishes to enable them being revenue at constant exchange rates and Steel Flow Control to withstand high temperatures and or corrosive adjusted for the acquisition of Metallurgica in Steel Flow Control products supplied by Vesuvius attack.
March 2012, revenue was up 0.7% on the include: the Viso, isostatically pressed alumina prior year.
As both flow control and advanced refractory graphite and VAPEX extruded clay graphite products are consumables, steel production product ranges, used to channel and control Prices for raw materials, particularly for graphite volumes and, in particular, production of higher the flow of steel from ladle to tundish and and zirconia, remained relatively stable during quality steels using the enclosed continuous from tundish to mould: slide-gate refractories, 2013.
However, significant currency devaluation casting process are the critical driver of demand including nozzles, plates and speciality shapes in both Brazil and India adversely impacted our for the Vesuvius Steel division.
for furnace, ladle and tundish slide-gate systems: input costs.
Consequently, price increases were Accumetrix temperature measurement and initiated at the end of 2013 to compensate for Steel producers are continually striving to RADAR slag level detection: tundish and higher material costs but, due to timing, will not enhance the enclosed continuous casting process mould fluxes: purging systems and control have a positive impact until 2014. to improve production through less downtime, devices to monitor and regulate steel flow into to reduce labour costs, to increase steel quality, We maintain our technology leadership in the mould.
These products have been designed reduce energy usage, and reduce reworking flow control by continuing to leverage our to resist extreme thermo-mechanical stresses through thinner slab casting.
understanding of customer processes to provide and corrosive environments.
They must withstand products and solutions that meet customers Vesuvius has developed close, collaborative temperature changes from ambient to 1,600C needs in terms of safety, quality, reliability, relationships with industry-leading customers in just a few minutes, while resisting liquid productivity and ergonomics.
and Original Equipment Manufacturers steel and slag corrosion for several hours.
In OEMs and, due to the specialised nature of addition, the ceramic parts in contact with the its products and the high volume in which they liquid steel must not in any way contaminate are consumed, has developed a global network it.
To bring all of these characteristics together closely aligned with its customers locations, in the same products, Vesuvius has designed with 65 major manufacturing facilities across composite parts combining a variety of special the world.
Through this network we develop materials.
The majority of these products are customised refractory systems, services and consumed during the process of making steel technologies that enable our customers to and some must be replaced frequently.
for Vesuvius products is thus primarily linked to steel production volumes.
Customers of the Steel division are principally steel producers themselves, but also include the manufacturers of steel production equipment.
com 22904-04 26 March 2014 4:57 PM Proof 2 27 Strategic report Vesuvius flow control products can greatly We have developed new products and Advanced Refractories continues to focus on influence the quality of our customers products capabilities to monitor flow characteristics technology leadership with: and the efficiency of their processes.
Recently throughout various points in the steel casting The Gard brand that has established a introduced new products and solutions are process and data feedback systems and control best-in-class product offering in each market developed with value creation for our customers schemes for real-time optimal flow control served in mind, as demonstrated by our innovative throughout the entire casting sequence.
Application operators who are trained and technical solutions around the continuous Advanced Refractories certified in correct application practice using caster.
The latest robot compatible tundish tube Under new management, Advanced Refractories state-of-the-art equipment specific to the changer SEM3085 and the first products of our has embarked on a process of culture change required application new Robotic Casting Technology range continue by introducing value selling, training, brand to perform well with the first fully robotic Total Tundish Management, supported by and product rationalisation and multi-branding.
installation now fully operational in Korea.
advanced simulation techniques, which assists We have also exited low-margin and high risk our customers in ensuring optimum tundish A number of significant contracts for the business associated with labour-only construction design and associated steel cleanliness SEM3085 have also been secured in Europe, projects.
The focus has changed to providing China and Vietnam.
best-in-class products and application equipment Automated robotic application, used to supported by highly experienced and trained Maintaining a strong regional manufacturing ensure safe and consistent application of our technical support personnel.
Quality initiatives capability combined with local development advanced refractories in the tundish have also improved performance which has centres, including physical and computational The Elby, our Engineered Ladle Bottom assisted in the margin improvement we have seen fluid dynamic modelling, represents a key Yield programme, which has rapidly gained within this business during the year.
element in our strategy of capturing the growth acceptance at major forward-thinking steel in developing markets.
Previously announced A restructuring was undertaken in NAFTA and plants.
As a result Elby production capacity capacity expansion projects in Eastern Europe South America to align our organisation with was doubled in the USA with investment and South America were successfully completed customer requirements, as well as investment in in UK and German precast plants currently in 2013.
Equipment installation, commissioning growth areas in Central Europe, and the Middle being planned.
and production ramp-up of the Isostatic capacity East and North Africa MENA.
Value creation for our customers is a expansion in Trinec, Czech Republic, was Investment has also been made in a new fundamental focus.
It is critical that our technical completed successfully in the second half of production facility in Ras Al Khaima in the customer-facing colleagues understand the 2013.
The new manufacturing facility in Brazil to United Arab Emirates and also at Port Kembla cost and quality drivers of our customers.
improve the efficiency of raw material processing in Australia, as well as capabilities for taphole This continued high level interaction with our and sourcing was completed with commissioning clay production in India.
These new facility customers is key to meeting their requirements.
and production ramp-up commencing in the last investments are on schedule to achieve their Customer needs are communicated through quarter of 2013.
This will facilitate greater use of projected returns, despite a considerable to the organisation in R&D as well as reflected local raw materials, allowing shorter leadtimes, downturn in the Australian market.
Furthermore, in training sessions carried out with key a reduction in working capital, improved Vesuvius Advanced Refractories has recently customers.
Demonstrating this value creation production flexibility and allow us to maintain acquired its production site in Sao Paulo and objective, Advanced Refractories enjoys many our cost leadership.
invested in new senior management to assist in Total Material supply contracts under which the Vesuvius presence at our customer sites and our our strategy of growth in developing markets.
customer hands over their entire refractory needs intimate understanding of their processes places Finally, investment in a new laboratory in India to Vesuvius who takes full responsibility for cost Vesuvius in a strong position to build a technical has been approved and construction is expected and consistency.
The integration of SERT, AVEMIS to begin in early 2014.
Lithogard for the cement industry and and Metallurgica combined with Vesuvius Revenue of 462 million was 3.1% lower Lavagard in iron production are two examples refractory and flow control systems knowledge compared with 2012.
On an underlying basis of recently launched solutions that drastically and expertise is playing a key role in supporting revenue was up 3.5% reflecting the restructuring reduce overall monolithic refractory consumption this last strategic pillar.
In particular, the undertaken to divest non-core activities and to and increase up-time associated with these acquisition of Metallurgica, and the benefits that realign our business.
When Elby is employed, yield we have been able to deliver in this business As has been detailed elsewhere, the Groups improvements of up to 4% have been identified within Vesuvius, shows the opportunities strategy is based upon five major objectives.
that can be captured from the acquisition of The following provides more information about complementary businesses.
Advanced Refractories progress with these objectives.
com 22904-04 26 March 2014 4:57 PM Proof 2 Vesuvius plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Steel Division continued In a very competitive environment, Vesuvius China maintains its focus on cost leadership.
The A new management structure has been created global purchasing organisation only deals with and implemented in the Steel division in China approved suppliers and is constantly looking to drive business growth in this developing at opportunities to ensure consistent high market, together with a new overall organisation quality raw materials with long-term pricing structure reflecting the new market environment stability.
Whilst maintaining consistent quality, as China moves from a fast capacity growth dual sourcing of materials is an active ongoing market to a position of overcapacity.
In 2013 a quality programme was started to The technical services offering of Advanced improve performance in this area.
This has Refractories is of paramount importance in required investment in a new quality team and the differentiating us from low-tech commodity introduction of updated quality programmes in suppliers with limited technical support.
Recent several manufacturing plants in China.
progress in laser measuring techniques coupled After a period of reducing revenue in 2013 with intelligent camera systems and temperature Vesuvius achieved a small revenue growth in measurement have enabled us to identify steel China.
In addition, the profitability improved in cleanliness numerically together with safety the year, by coupling a cost reduction programme risks associated with ladle wear and inclusion and an adjustment of the manufacturing reduction.
Due to the exceptional quality of operation footprint with steps forward in quality our magnesium carbon bricks, capacity was to meet the current and projected market increased by 25% to support this objective and demand.
also to support the growing market demand.
China Market Environment Whilst the overall steel market in China continued to grow from 2012 to 2013, the strong focus by the central government on environmental issues favours production at new mills over older production sites.
More environmentally friendly products and processes are being stipulated, which are beneficial to Vesuvius although these developments are being countered by the need to maintain strong employment prospects in traditional manufacturing areas.
Within the Chinese market production volume exceeded 750Mt in 2013, although in 2013 the Pictured: second half volumes were stronger than the first An ELBY ladle bottom.
We believe that 2014 will see a modest growth in steel production although there is estimated to be significant overcapacity of crude steel production in the China market.
Due to this overcapacity the Chinese steel price is under severe downward pressure.
As a result, some cash shortages have been experienced throughout the steel industry and have lengthened payment terms and put pressure on receivables.
