Vesuvius plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 innovation Increasing value to our customers through the development and application of leading edge technology Innovation is at the core of all Vesuvius activities.
house training programmes, as well as by shrinkage, which will occur as the molten Maintaining technology leadership is a central hiring engineers from diverse industries, and metal cools.
This shrinkage can lead to a objective of our strategy and, as we identify on leading universities variety of defects and result in scrap.
Known page 19 a failure to develop and protect marketin the trade as feeders, our products are a Continuously investing in the latest analytical leading technologies could place our business at critical part of the solution to counteract that instruments, modelling facilities, and financial risk.
shrinkage and avoid scrapping the parts customer process simulation equipment We regularly examine the structure of the R&D so that prototypes of new offerings can be Improved iron-making productivity and organisation and its processes for developing developed quickly blast furnace operations with Lavagard new technologies and applications to support Monolithic Refractory Solutions.
Leveraging our understanding of customer Group strategy.
This process will be enhanced processes to provide products and solutions A fully engineered customer-designed following the appointment of our new Chief that meet a customers existing, as well as solution to improve blast furnace up-time and Technology Officer, George Coulston PhD, in unarticulated, needs.
productivity has significantly improved iron October.
making operations at one of the highest output We have expanded our R&D budget by over The innovation process starts with an intimate production facilities in the world.
Working with 20% in the last three years, and have already knowledge of our customers processes and blast furnace engineers using novel installation begun to see benefits.
We have more than 200 field applications and application technology, Vesuvius engineers in this report, R&D expenditure is a key engineers supported by local development were able to recommend changes to the existing performance indicator for our overall business.
These local technical casthouse design and refractory system.
We have filed 27 new invention and 150 new teams are constantly updated with the practical patent applications, in 2013, and also had 182 By incorporating products from the Lavagard information on the latest technologies developed patents granted worldwide during the year.
suite of monolithic refractories, which included in our six global research centres.
Lavagard FCX precast monolithics and Vesuvius solutions and products can greatly These centres have connections with universities Lavagard SZ pneumatically installed hot influence the quality of our customers products all over the world and our internal research and veneering repair materials, the blast furnace and the efficiency of their processes.
All our new our cooperation with universities and technical team was able to extend their scheduled rebuild products and solutions are developed with value centres is directed by a group of dedicated and maintenance practices.
This has resulted in a creation for our customers in mind.
We regularly scientists and engineers whose mission is to reduction of 20% repair materials and doubling conduct customer seminars and training sessions, ensure that both the short-term and longof the tilter life.
which are given to a wide range of managerial, term technology needs of our businesses are technical and operational staff.
We aim to strike a balance between ensure that the full range of Vesuvius products maintaining a local presence and capturing the and solutions are known and properly used, so synergies and other advantages that come from that the maximum benefits are derived.
organisations based in well-equipped global research centres.
With this objective in mind, The following two major innovations, one for a new global Foundry research centre is under the foundry industry and the other for steel construction in Enschede, the Netherlands and production, clearly illustrate how Vesuvius can will open during 2014. reduce its customers costs: Fosecos unique, patented collapsible metal Our customer-focused approach to research and Exothermic Feeder Sleeves with patented Compressor core core technology continues to capture market development R&D is critical to supporting technology, allowing more cost-effective complex casting share throughout all regions sales have the achievement of the objectives required by designs FEEDEX K grown 50% in the last four years, delivering the Groups strategy.
optimum feed performance, casting yield We will maintain our technology leadership by: improvement and cleaning cost reduction.
Continuously investing in the skills and When foundry customers pour molten metal knowledge of our employees through ininto a mould they need to account for www.
com 22904-04 26 March 2014 4:57 PM Proof 2 35 Stra Strategic tegic r report eport the solution development process.
For example, these modelling tools allow experienced scientists and engineers to analyse the complex fluid interactions between refractory materials and molten metals which would exist in our customers operations, and to predict the formation of undesirable impurities.
Consequently, potential problems with a product design can often be discovered and rectified Lavagard solution for blast furnace casthouse applications Numerical simulation of the high deposit potential region and before the design leaves the computer.
the actual refractor nozzle after use Advanced simulations are also used to Vesuvius local development centres are a key understand how geometric changes to a element in our strategy of capturing growth refractory design impacts the flow of molten in developing markets.
They are present in metal in our customers facilities, which in turn all regions, and include facilities for both impacts the quality of the product they produce.
physical and computational fluid dynamics.
The For example, gas injection into liquid metal, a centres ensure an immediate and local focus technique employed by our customers to ensure is applied to specific regional issues, ensure homogeneity of temperature and composition in new opportunities are identified for our current a melt, is extremely difficult to visualise in situ.
product range, and bring newly developed Our CFD tools allow such mixing to be simulated products quickly to market in these fast-growing and are extremely useful for determining the economies.
influence of the gas on the overall behaviour The R&D organisation has the direct of the system.
By combining this information 1 CFD Simulation - submerged entry nozzle inside a slab responsibility to support the cost leadership with detailed understanding of the chemical mould with gas injection element of our strategic objectives.
A dedicated interactions between refractories and molten group of engineers specialises in raw materials, metal, Vesuvius scientists are able to optimise with the objective of deeply understanding designs and material selection.
raw material quality and its effect on Vesuvius The graphics to the right show how CFD products.
modelling can be used 1 to visualise the flow of Vesuvius R&D is playing a key role in supporting argon gas injection in a sub-entry nozzle used in the strategic pillar to build a technical services a steel plant, and 2 to review the flow of gas in offering, by developing new products and a steel ladle.
capabilities such as: Vesuvius engineers are also able to create New instrumentation to monitor flow physical models of critical portions of our 2 CFD Simulation - review gas flow in a steel ladle characteristics throughout various points in customers operations to gain further insights the steel casting process into how certain products will perform.
Our customers often participate with us in this Data feedback systems and control schemes modelling process, and they use the results to for real-time optimal flow control throughout make their own design decisions.
By working the full casting sequence together with us, they are able to explore the Integrated foundry systems and controls to pros and cons of various design choices, which help ferrous melt shop to produce quality would otherwise potentially have been cost products.
Modelling Capabilities The Vesuvius R&D team makes extensive use of sophisticated modelling tools to A water model with string to visualise the contours of the accelerate the rate of innovation.
The use port exiting jets of Computational Fluid Dynamic CFD modelling, thermodynamic modelling, and physical simulation tools, such as advanced water modelling, are now deployed throughout www.
