Vesuvius plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategy Our five strategic objectives will enable us to deliver superior returns to shareholders Vesuvius is a community of experts in high Reinforce our technology leadership Increase the penetration of existing temperature and molten metal flow containment.
Given the breadth of our experience and and new value creating solutions As a company, we have developed this expertise global reach, we have an ability to undertake Our solutions bring value to our customers over more than fifty years of leadership in areas technological development unparalleled in our processes through quality improvement, where our technology has proven to bring industry.
Our aim is to concentrate our research productivity enhancement and increased outstanding value to our customers.
efforts in a small number of centres of excellence efficiency.
Process development is more easily where we activate a critical mass of knowledge adopted by the top end of our markets where Our strategy is to build on this unique asset and and, in parallel, operate development centres in all higher levels of quality are demanded and labour develop additional business segments where we major markets to interact with our customers and is more expensive.
In addition, we serve an have synergies from existing technological and address their immediate requirements.
industry which operates in hostile environments market expertise.
where innovation is continually challenged by the We ring-fence a substantial sum for longer-term This strategy is designed to enable us to grow our need to ensure process safety.
fundamental research, the acquisition of enabling revenue ahead of underlying growth in our endtechnologies and ensuring cross-business The foundation for momentum in growth for our markets: to provide higher margins and return on fertilisation.
All of these things help generate business is our ability to market the innovations capital as we aim to grow in less capital intensive innovation from out of the box thinking.
we develop to the wider audience of customers sectors: and to deliver strong cash flow and we believe can benefit from them.
We will superior returns to our shareholders.
Technology is the basis of our ability to create continue to invest in industrial marketing and value in our customers processes.
This underpins Our strategy is developed along the following five value capture analysis to enable us to deliver this our growth by continuously enriching our value objectives: message and outperform the underlying market proposition.
evolution with our revenue growth.
In addition to our capital investment in research facilities, we will spend approximately 2% of our annual revenue in R&D over the long term as detailed in our KPIs on page 17.
See the Innovation section on page See our Safety section on page 32.
Also 34 for more information on our R&D see the Sustainability section on page capabilities 44 for the effect of our products on customer efficiency www.
com 22904-04 26 March 2014 4:57 PM Proof 2 21 Strategic report Capture growth in the developing Improve our cost leadership and Develop a new business of markets margins technical services Our markets in Steel and Foundry divisions are No leadership position can be sustained without Our close relationships with customers and our driven by the industrial manufacturing base of maintaining clear control of costs as we need to permanent presence at their production sites puts the countries in which we operate.
The emerging remain competitive for the levels of quality we us in a privileged position for providing them with markets are large consumers of steel goods and deliver to our customers.
engineered services around the core operations of foundry castings and consequently the demand steel manufacturing and foundry casting.
We continue to leverage our manufacturing for our products and value solutions is growing volume and use our significant process experience We already offer much more than purely rapidly in these areas.
Today, more than 65% of to enhance productivity and upgrade our consumables, by providing customers with the world steel production is in Asia.
We remain focused on developing systems and design assistance complementary to Our business model is to produce at close efficiencies in supply and logistics costs and the use of our products.
proximity to our customers sites, and for several investing in process technology.
We will enrich our present offering over the decades Vesuvius has set up production facilities medium term by providing services around data in the emerging markets to answer the growing capture and interpretation that deliver decisionindustrial needs of these countries.
critical, process enhancing information to our most advanced customers in the metal casting field.
For more information on our global See the Lean Manufacturing section on For more information on services coverage see the Group at a Glance page 36 for further details on our drive for development see our Innovation section on pages 02 and 03 efficiency and excellence section on page 34 www.
