Our markets and megatrends Our markets and megatrends With long-term megatrends in our favour, we have a strong and diverse mix of growth opportunities across our key markets.
Megatrends Consequences Fuel efficiency and durability Emissions reduction designchallenges Automotive Fuel efficiency, safety and reliability Energy efficiency and durability are improvements resulting from consumer primarystrategic imperatives forthe andregulatory trends.
Fly lighter Weight reduction and fuel efficiency Lighter weight means fuel saving Weight reduction and improved fuel Aerospace a strategic imperative for the efficiency areprimary strategic drivers aerospaceindustry.
Thinner, smaller, smarter Energy and thermal management The need for instant access to challenges Electronics communication and information Increased functionality and miniaturisation onthemove is driving trends create challenges for mobile device formobiledevices.
performance as well asenergy and thermal management.
Natural resource depletion Extreme environments Increasing demand for and depletion Deeper, hotter, higher pressure and Energy ofexisting resources drive exploration chemically aggressive wells must be tapped intouncharted territory.
to reach new reserves, requiring more durable materials.
Ageing global population Joint replacement andpainmanagement People are living longer and have astrong Extended life expectancy results in an Medical desire to maintain their quality of life intheir increasing need toreplace worn out body elderly years.
parts or to alleviate pain in orderto resume normal activities.
Long term demand for new solutions in core markets, such as spine, and in emerging markets such as knee, trauma, dental, remains strong.
02 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information A sustainable business At Victrex, we are enhancing our own sustainabilityagenda, as well as delivering products to help customers improve their environmental performance.
Further detail is in our 23 sustainability report on page Divisions Our opportunities Lightweight metal replacement Victrex Polymer Solutions VPS VICTREX PEEK enables lightweighting andreliability via metal replacement and iskey to meeting thecomplex challenges Unique products for ofnext generation automotive industrial markets powertraintechnology.
VPS focuses on our major industrial markets.
We work with customers and Lightweight metal replacement end users to provide innovative and technical solutions that help them VICTREX PEEK helps aerospace meet their most difficult design challenges.
We work directly with industry lightweighting via metal replacement and leading decision makers, fromprototyping with end users to support for iskey to driving improved fuel efficiency processors.
Victrex delivers solutions for our customers across all our andreduced emissions.
Full review on page 12 High durability, thin film technology Victrex materials, such as our Aptiv acoustic film technology, create design opportunities by virtue oftheirdurability in todays thinner, smaller, smartermobile devices.
Recover more Reliable, safe and high yield operations are enabled usingVICTREX PEEK based solutions in exploration andproduction tooling.
High performance materials Invibio Biomaterial Solutions Invibio whichenable device innovation Invibio provides materials for devices that Dependable resources for surgical alleviate back pain and can be used in a minimally disruptive manner, accelerating and medical devices patient recovery.
Our materials are also being developed for useas component solutions in the repair ofhip, knee and Invibio is an established and proven worldwide leader in providing shoulder joints, as well as in dental discs.
biomaterial solutions for the surgical and medical device markets.
Invibioiscommitted to facilitating PEEK based device solutions in spine and developing medical markets such as dental and knee.
Our goal for allof these areas is to deliver extensive, dependable resources to medical device manufacturers, now and into the future.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 03 Chairmans statement Chairmans statement On behalf of your Board, I am pleased to report that we delivered a resilient performance at Victrex this year, with good underlying trading, and improvement in the second half year.
Board is therefore recommending a final Anita Frew dividend of 32.65p 2012: 28.4p per ordinary share.
This results in a total Chairman dividend for the year of 43.0p 2012: 37.4p, an increase of 15% over the prior year.
Our strong financial position and robust balance sheet underpins our ability to invest in our business including through potential acquisitions, as well as maintaining our progressive dividend policy.
It also provides reassurance to customers, suppliers and investors, helping to ensure we can maintain security of supply into the future.
We will continue to review our dividend policy in thelight of our medium-term strategic investment plans and will review any potential additional return to shareholders as appropriate.
Board composition and diversity Victrex has a strong and balanced Board, with a range of complementary skills to support the strategic and operational direction of the Group.
The strengthening This has been a year of investment in in our R&D capabilities to deliver technical ofour Board last year, with further executive ourbusiness to accelerate and underpin solutions to our customers remains a key representation, has helped to provide further future growth: investing in new capacity, differentiator for Victrex.
By working with capability as we drive forward delivery of ininnovation and in new talent, to build, our customers and end users, we are our strategy.
enhance and differentiate our capabilities working across the value chain producing now and into the future.
With growing and PEEK, developing PEEK and leading PEEK We recognise the importance of diversity long-term demand from our customers into new applications to drive future atBoard level and our Board members across our strategic markets of automotive, growth and profitability.
Continued comprise a number of different nationalities aerospace, electronics, energy and medical, investment in R&D expenditure of14.6m with a wide range of skills and experiences Victrex remains well placed to retain the was ahead of the prioryear 2012: 13.1m, from a variety of business backgrounds, position ofmarket leader innovating to representing approximately 7% of revenues including international and industrial deliver technical solutions for our customers 2012: 6%.
Our current female representation anddrivingour ownfuture growth.
on the Board is 25%, already consistent with We delivered Group profit before tax of 94.6m the recommended minimum representation and basic earnings per share was up1% to Results level to be achieved by 2015.
86.5p, even after the additional investment Amidst an uncertain economic background, in our business and headwinds from foreign Within the Executive Management team, we delivered record Group sales volume currency.
We continue to maintain a strong wealso strengthened our capability during of2,920 tonnes 2012: 2,904 tonnes and financial position, with arobust balance sheet the year, with the appointment of Dr Martin Group revenue of 221.9m 2012: 219.8m.
Cash generated Court as Managing Director of Invibio and With continued innovation, new business from operations was at record levels, 100.9m Carolyn Macnab as our Group HR Director.
commercialisation and steady growth in 2012: 89.9m, with Group cash balances Iam delighted to welcome Martin and industrial markets, wesaw an upturn in volume at30 September 2013 reaching 91.6m Carolyn to Victrex and these appointments as we moved through the year andremain well 2012: 83.9m and no debt.
further demonstrate our investment in new placed tocapture future growth once thewider talent to support our future growth.
Dividends In November, we announced the Our market leadership continues to be Our continued confidence in the underlying appointment of Louisa Burdett as Group reflected in our margins, with full year strength and growth prospects for our Finance Director.
Louisa is an accomplished grossmargin remaining strong and in line business is reflected by our intent to provide senior finance executive, who joins us in with expectations at 66.6% 2012: 66.3%.
a progressive and sustainable dividend January 2014, replacing Steve Barrow who The strong investment in our products and policy.
With record cash generated, the has decided to step down from the Board.
04 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: 41 A strong governance framework is in place throughout the business.
Further detail can be found on page 41 Iwould like to thank Steve for his significant activities and refine our measures.
Further contribution to Victrex and welcome Louisa detail can be found in theSustainability to the business.
Board effectiveness People Victrex remains well As Chairman I am responsible for the Victrex was named amongst the top 20 Most leadership of the Board and ensuring its Admired Companies in the UK by Management placed to retain the effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
The Today this year and we celebrated 20 successful position of market leader Board is responsible for the Groups strategic years in 2013.
As we move further downstream development, monitoring achievement of to drive growth and profitability using a innovating to deliver itsbusiness objectives, oversight of risk and market-led approach, we have continued technical solutions for our maintaining a system of effective corporate toinvest innew talent.
governance, which includes the responsibilities customers and driving our Victrex relies heavily on the skills, experience for health, safety, environmental, social and and competence of our people to drive own future growth ethical matters.
Further description of the business development in our existing governance processes that are embedded at andnew markets, as well as operating our Board level and throughout the business are assets safely and with a strong regard given in the corporate governance section totheenvironment.
ofthis report starting on page 41.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to Governance paytribute to all our employees and thank The Board leads a strong governance them for their contribution this year, amidst framework throughout the business, an uncertain economic environment.
This supported by the Audit, Currency, passion, innovation and performance of our Nominations, Remuneration, Risk and employees remains a key asset for Victrex Disclosure Committees.
The Board takes its and its success in the future.
responsibility to maintain sound governance very seriously and regards the continuing Outlook setting, maintenance and review of the Whilst it remains early in our new highest standards of corporate governance financialyear, our momentum from the as a key objective.
second half of 2013 has continued, with good underlying growth in VPS and We complied with all aspects of the UK recovery in Invibio.
Although we remain Corporate Governance Code throughout mindful of the wider macro-economic theyear ended 30 September 2013, except environment, we are encouraged by in one limited respect.
Further detail can be found in the corporate governance section of this report.
Sustainability Anita Frew We enhanced our approach to sustainability Chairman this year and we are embedding our 9 December 2013 sustainability strategy across Victrex, as an enabler to support our future growth.
Whilst our products and applications already support sustainability for many of our customers forexample in reducing energy consumption and weight reduction wearetaking a fresh view on how Victrex can continually improve its sustainability agenda, with a cross-group team reporting through to the Board on key activities.
We also hosted several visits from a range of sustainability experts and stakeholders during the year, helping us to further develop our own www.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 05
