Our strategy and business model Delivering sustainable growth We will seek to accelerate growth and capture value by a focused, market-led Our business model and innovation-driven approach.
Victrex differentiates itself From the Chief Executive through innovation and product leadership.
David Hummel Our strategic intent remains Chief Executive to achieve sustainable earnings growth for our shareholders.
This will be achieved through three key pillars: 1 Creating value through high performance polymer solutions Creating solutions not just producing high performance polymers.
High end materials, with clearly defined and proven benefits in many different forms, to suit our customer needs.
We evolved our strategy during the year, to build on our existing product leadership position, as well as leveraging our strengths in new areas of the 2 valuechain.
Whilst our strategy keeps us well positioned to maintain global leadership, we will seek to accelerate growth and capture value by a focused, Focused and market-led innovation market-led and innovation-driven approach, moving further downstream Continuing to work with customers and capturing towards our end customers with new technologies, products or applications value across markets.
Investing in strategic whether that be organically or through acquisitions and broadening the marketing: selecting theright projects to work applications forourproducts, an area we continue to invest in.
onand to ensure an appropriate balance of short Our customers specify VICTREX PEEK and our polymers to capture a unique and long-term projects.
combination of performance properties, which lead to application benefits suchas improved reliability, reduced energy consumption and environmental tolerance, as well as reduced complications and faster patient recovery inmedical applications.
3 To build on these strengths, maximising our growth requires us not only tocontinue working closely with our customers, but to enhance our global Application and technology knowhow to become truly market-led identifying the market need and capturing value as product leaders.
We focus our growth programmes around leadership three horizons, horizon 1, 2 and 3 short term, medium term and long term.
Developing new applications, products and Wewill also continue to excel in providing market, product, technical and regulatory technologies.
Understanding applications leadership to the markets we serve, helping our customers to gain competitive andtechnology in depth that can deliver advantage, as well as providing a clear point of difference for Victrex.
Strategic Report signed on behalf of the Board David Hummel Chief Executive 9 December 2013 06 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information A StrAtEgy FOr grOWtH 1 World leader in value creation through high performance polymer solutions 2 3 Focused and Application market-led and technology innovation leadership PASSION INNOVATION PERFORMANCE Operating model Invent R&D Ideas from everywhere, breakthroughs, reduced cycles, focused resource, reduced uncertainty Make produce Rapid, flexible manufacturing prepared for constantly changing product portfolio Sell commercialise Market preparation, commercialise quickly, early adopter programmes, narrow portfolio, value sell www.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 07 Our strategy and business model continued turning strategy into action Victrexs strategic intent is to achieve sustainable earnings growth for our shareholders.
As a solutions provider, our focused, market-led and innovation-driven approach will be delivered by: Strategic Intent Industrial Focus on polyaryletherketones PAEK in automotive, aerospace, electronics and energy, exploiting new technologies, downstream integration opportunities and extending into other proven markets.
Strategic Intent Medical Focus on spine, arthroscopy, trauma, dental and orthopaedics, delivering value-creating solutions, based on PEEK and other enabling polymers.
reputation and employee care Providing a safe and rewarding environment for our employees and operating our assets to appropriate environmental standards.
Enhancing external recognition with customers, investors and other stakeholders Sustainability agenda Strong governance and internal controls Talent management 08 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information At Victrex, we have multiple and diverse growth opportunities: Further market penetration New M&A applications GROWTH New New forms geographies New materials Strategic KPIs To track performance against our growth strategy, we will focus on the following key performance indicators KPIs : UNDERPIN DRIVE DIFFERENTIATE CREATE through safety, sustainability core business through innovation future value and capability What we are doing Strategic marketing: focuson Market-led innovation Strong pipeline Safe and sustainable business highest growthopportunities Invest in emerging businesses Portfolio management Future capacity solutions Execute on key growth Move further downstream: M&A Talent strategy programmes infive new applications, new forms, strategicmarkets new materials, new product Drive growth in launches emerginggeographies How we measure Revenue growth Revenue mix Business development Safety, energy New business New products Value creation Talent management Shown in Sustainability Report www.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 09
