Directors report Directors report Related party transactions of the Companys own shares were made The Company did not have any material during the year, with the exception of those transactions or transactions of an unusual purchased by employee trusts as detailed in nature with, and did not make loans to, note 17.
At the forthcoming AGM the Board related parties in which any Director is or will again seek shareholders approval torenew wasmaterially interested in the periods.
the annual authority for the Company to makepurchases of its own shares through Share capital themarket.
Details of the Companys share capital and reserve for own shares are given in note 17.
AGM During the year 299,067 shares were issued The notice of the 2014 AGM of the in respect of options exercised under employee Company is given on pages 94 and 95. share schemes.
Details of these schemes are summarised in note 16.
Directors Details of the Directors of the Company are Rights and obligations attaching to shares given on pages 38 and 39.
Details of Directors The holders of ordinary shares are entitled interests in shares are provided in the Directors Suzana Koncarevic to receive dividends when declared, the Remuneration Report on page 59.
Company Secretary Companys Annual Report, toattend and At the forthcoming AGM, resolutions will speak at general meetings ofthe Company, beproposed for the election or re-election to appoint proxies and toexercise of all members of the Board in compliance votingrights.
The Directors present their Annual Report with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
and Accounts to shareholders for the year There are no restrictions on transfer or ended 30 September 2013. limitations on the holding of ordinary shares Appointment and replacement and no requirements to obtain prior approval ofDirectors Principal activity toany transfer except where the Company has The Articles of Association of the Company The Company is a public limited company, exercised its right to suspend their voting rights, provide that the number of Directors shall incorporated in England, registration number withhold a dividend or prohibit their transfer benot more than ten and not fewer than two, 2793780.
The principal activity of the Company following failure by the member or any other unless otherwise determined by the Company is that of a holding company.
The principal person appearing to be interested in the shares by Ordinary Resolution.
Directors may be activity of the Group is the manufacture to provide the Company with information appointed by an Ordinary Resolution of the andsale of high performance polymers.
requested under section 793 of the Companies members or by a resolution of the Directors.
The Directors may, in certain A Director appointed either by the Directors Strategic report circumstances, also refuse to register the orat the previous AGM must retire at the Pursuant to sections 414AD Companies Act transfer of a share in certified form which is not nextAGM and offer himself for re-election.
2006, the business review has been replaced fully paid up, where the instrument of transfer ADirector may be removed by an Extraordinary with a strategic report, which can be found does not comply with the requirements of the Resolution of the Company.
This report sets out the Articles of Association, or if entitled to do so aDirector must automatically cease to be development and performance of the under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations aDirector if i he ceases to be a Director by Groups business during the financial year, 2001.
No shares carry any special rights with virtue of any provision of the Companies Act the position of the Company at the end of regard to control of the Company and there or he becomes prohibited by law from being the year and a description of the principal areno restrictions on voting rights except that a Director, or ii he becomes bankrupt or risks and uncertainties facing the Company.
ashareholder has no right to vote in respect makes any arrangement or composition with ofa share unless all sums due in respect of his creditors generally, or iii he is suffering Research and development thatshare are fully paid.
There are no known from a mental disorder, or iv he resigns from The Groups spend on research and agreements between holders of securities his office by notice in writing to the Company, development is disclosed in note 8. thatmay result in restrictions on the transfer or in the case of an executive Director, his ofsecurities or on voting rights and no known appointment is terminated or expires and the Results and dividends arrangements under which financial rights Directors resolve that his office be vacated, or Group profit after tax for the year was areheld by a person other than the holder v he is absent for more than six consecutive 72.9m 2012: 71.9m.
months without permission of the Directors The Directors recommend the payment of Shares acquired by employees under employee from meetings of the Directors and the afinal dividend of 32.65p per ordinary share share schemes rank equally with the other Directors resolve that his office be vacated or on 21 February 2014 to all shareholders on shares in issue and have no special rights.
vi he is requested in writing, or by electronic the register on 7 February 2014.
This makes form, byall the other Directors to resign.
a total dividend of 43.0p per ordinary share Own shares held for the year 2012: 37.4p per ordinary share.
Details of own shares held are given Powers of the Directors innote17 to the financial statements.
The powers of the Directors are determined Post balance sheet events by the Companys Articles of Association, At the 2013 Annual General Meeting AGM, There have been no such balance sheet the Companies Act 2006 and any directions shareholders renewed the Companys authority events that either require adjustment to given by the Company in general meeting.
to make market purchases of up to 8,450,807 thefinancial statements or are important The Directors have been authorised by the of its own ordinary shares representing 10% inthe understanding of the Companys Articles of Association to issue and allot ofthe issued share capital of the Company current position.
ordinary shares and to make market asat7 December 2012.
No market purchases purchases of shares.
These powers are 62 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Major interests in shares The Company has been notified of the following interests in 3% or more of its issued share capital as at 25 November 2013: Number of ordinary sharesheld Percentage BlackRock Investment Management Ltd 12,872,765 15.18 Mondrian Investment Partners Ltd 5,605,849 6.61 Schroders Plc 4,068,050 4.80 Montanaro Asset Management Ltd 3,790,051 4.47 Kames Capital 3,442,880 4.06 Legal & General Investment Mgmt Ltd 3,407,655 4.02 Norges Bank Investment Management 3,170,623 3.74 Baillie Gifford & Co Ltd 3,089,000 3.64 Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd 2,893,877 3.41 Allianz Global Investors 2,659,890 3.14 Directors of the Company control 4% of the voting shares of the Company, details ofwhich are given on page 59.
Company and the Group have adequate Powers of the Directors continued Employment policies resources to continue to operate for the referred to shareholders at the AGM for The Groups employment policies are foreseeable future.
For this reason they renewal.
Any shares purchased may be setouton pages 29 to 33. continue to adopt the going concern basis cancelled or held as treasury shares.
for preparing the financial statements.
Details UK Corporate Governance Code of the Groups policy on liquidity risk and Conflict of interest duties The Companys statement on corporate capital management are included in note 13 Procedures are in place to ensure compliance governance can be found in the Corporate to the financial statements.
with the Directors conflict of interest duties set Governance Report on pages 41 to 61.
The out in the Companies Act 2006.
The Company Corporate Governance Report forms part Disclosure of information to auditor has complied with these procedures during ofthis Directors Report and is incorporated The Directors who held office at the date theyear and the Board believes that these into it by cross-reference.
ofapproval of this Directors Report confirm procedures operate effectively.
During the year, that, so far as they are each aware, there details of any new conflicts or potential conflict Financial instruments isno relevant audit information of which matters were submitted to the Board for Information on the Groups financial risk theCompanys auditor is unaware and each consideration and, where appropriate, these management objectives and policies and its Director has taken all the steps that they were approved.
Authorised conflict or potential exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, interest ought to have taken as a Director tomake conflict matters will continue to be reviewed rate risk and foreign currency risk can be himself aware of any relevant auditinformation bythe Board on an annual basis.
found on pages 81 to 84. and to establish that theCompanys auditor is aware of thatinformation.
Environmental matters Branches Information on our greenhouse gas emissions The Company and its subsidiaries have Auditor is disclosed in the Sustainability Report on established branches in a number of Our auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has informed pages 27 to 29. different countries in which they operate.
the Company that for administrative reasons and to instigate an orderly wind down of Directors indemnities Donations business they wish to formally change the The Company has granted indemnities in No political donations were made 2012: nil.
entity that conducts the audit from KPMG favour of Directors under Deeds of Indemnity.
KPMG Audit Plc has indicated that it will not stand for re-appointment These Deeds were in force during the year Management report at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board has ended 30 September 2013 and remain in The Directors Report and Strategic Report decided to recommend KPMG LLP be appointed force as at the date of this report.
The Deeds comprises the management report for the as external auditor to the Company and a and the Companys Articles of Association purposes of the Financial Services Authoritys resolution concerning their appointment will are available for inspection during normal Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
business hours at the Companys Registered Office and will be available at the AGM.
Going concern By order of the Board The Directors, have performed a robust Change of control assessment, including review of the budget None of the Directors or employees service for the year ending September 2014 and contracts contain provisions providing for longer-term plans including consideration of Suzana Koncarevic compensation for loss of office or employment the principal risks faced by the Company, as Company Secretary that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Following this 9 December 2013 review the Directors are satisfied that the www.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 63
