Strategic Report: Strategy in Action 14 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements STRATEGY IN ACTION: INNOVATION ENHANCES OUR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE Creating products, technology and service models to provide the Group and our customers with competitive advantage.
How we do it: Case study Investing in engineering skills Three years ago, in collaboration with the University of Strathclyde, and research.
Weir launched a dedicated research facility in the Universitys Investing in operational capability.
Technology and Innovation Centre in Glasgow, with investment Developing innovation as part of of almost 2 million to date.
The Weir Advanced Research Centre our culture.
WARC is designed to review specific project proposals from Weirs global businesses, ranging from immediate product improvement opportunities to long-term advanced research What we did in 2013: activities.
Further investment in the Weir Advanced Research Centre.
After initial filtering and prioritisation, selected projects are ratified Developed new products and by the Weir Group Executive before being assigned to the research entered new markets.
A small leadership team from Weir and the University Rolled out enhanced product regularly review the direction and progress of selected projects introduction process.
to ensure project objectives and timescales are met.
The facility provides the Group with access to dedicated academic Benefits to Weir: resource and research capability and broadens and complements Technological advantage.
Weirs current engineering research capabilities.
Recently, in the Power & Industrial division, WARC helped the team Increased sales and returns.
develop a greater understanding of high pressure static face seals and the influences that affect the seal tightness.
This has increased Weirs knowledge and understanding and will enable engineers Benefits to our and designers to develop the next generation of seal designs, customers: with increased performance, efficiency and safety.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 15 Strategic Report: Strategy in Action STRATEGY IN ACTION: COLLABORATION LEVERAGING OUR CAPABILITIES Working with customers, suppliers, communities and colleagues ensures a better understanding of the markets we serve, and their evolving technology and support requirements.
How we do it: Case study Work together to secure contracts, Greater collaboration across Weirs divisions allows the Group to develop products and expand globally.
work closer together to meet and exceed customer expectations Develop deep relationships with and requirements.
customers to provide engineering solutions across the product life cycle.
In 2011, Weir established an internal Oil & Gas forum to create Create industry alliances to support new solutions for customers and more opportunities for Weir within growth into new markets.
Through collaboration and innovation amongst the three Weir Group divisions, the forum set out to bring new and existing products and expertise to oil and gas customers.
What we did in 2013: Worked together across divisions Weir Minerals has applied more than 25 years of experience to bring new products to market.
in high-performance rubber compounds to a line of swellable Expanded service centre network.
packers including the STAMPEDE packer, designed to facilitate Brought existing expertise to new efficient downhole application and enhanced sealing ability markets, including coal-seam gas.
By enhancing the sealing around wells, customers can benefit Benefits to Weir: from greater operational efficiency.
As a result, the product has Customer intimacy.
been able to support increased demand for more efficient Providing Group capability products in the North America oil and gas market.
Strong, sustainable relationships with local communities.
Maximising returns on assets and intellectual capital.
5m 5m in revenues from swellable Benefits to packers developed by the crossour customers: divisional Oil & Gas forum.
16 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 17 Strategic Report: Strategy in Action STRATEGY IN ACTION: VALUE CHAIN EXCELLENCE IMPROVING EFFICIENCY Developing our lean operating platform across the customer fulfilment process, from order to delivery.
How we do it: Case study Embedding customer needs As one of the worlds largest diversified mining and natural in technology development.
resource groups, Anglo American seeks to minimise its Working with suppliers to improve environmental impact, at the same time as maximising its processes.
Anglo American conducted total cost of Working with each other to pool ownership benchmarking of slurry pumping, with Weir solutions expertise across our three end providing significant productivity advantages and energy markets.
In September 2013, this led to the signing of a Global Framework What we did in 2013: Agreement GFA between Weir and Anglo American.
Introduced new service models to enhance customer experience.
The GFA will see Weir working together with Anglo American Worked with supply base to to improve energy consumption and lower maintenance improve quality and cost.
requirements across its operations in South Africa, South America, Signed landmark Global Framework North America and Australia.
It will also see Weir accelerate the Agreement with Anglo American.
roll out of its Wear Reduction Technology across Anglo Americans installed Warman pumps.
Benefits to Weir: Future opportunities may also see the piloting of innovative Culture of continuous improvement.
Weir Mill Circuit Technology, promotion of the WBH range Reducing waste.
of slurry pumps and wider use of Cavex hydro-cyclones in Supply chain savings.
Increased profitability, cash and returns on capital.
Benefits to our customers: Enhanced product and service quality.
Greater understanding of customer operations.
Reduced lead times and improved on time delivery.
18 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Photo courtesy of Anglo American.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 19 Strategic Report: Strategy in Action 20 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements STRATEGY IN ACTION: GLOBAL CAPABILITY GETTING CLOSER TO OUR CUSTOMERS Providing uniform excellence in service and solutions, wherever our customers are, whenever they are needed.
How we do it: Case study Establish global manufacturing In October 2013 we announced a major investment of 70m over facilities.
the next three years in our operations in Malaysia.
The investment Grow global service centre capacity.
will increase our capacity within the fast growing Asia-Pacific Create strategic alliances to region through the creation of an additional foundry, machine shop strengthen the supply chain.
and a second Linatex continuous rubber processing plant on a purpose built campus approximately 70km from Kuala Lumpur.
What we did in 2013: The foundry and machine shop will expand the production of Acquired additional foundry high quality castings sourced at best cost.
Meanwhile the rubber capacity in Malaysia and line will increase our ability to supply the growing demand for South Africa.
Linatex products, a 95% natural rubber product used in the Added ten new service centres.
mining industry which exhibits outstanding resilience, strength Shared lean operational principles and resistance to cutting, tearing and abrasion.
The new campus with key suppliers.
will be built on a 55 acre site with the new foundry capable of producing 6,000 tonnes a year with the potential to expand capacity up to 12,000 tonnes as demand increases.
Benefits to Weir: Worldwide routes to market.
The investment is one of the largest engineering investments Diverse revenues.
in Malaysia by a UK company and will result in our workforce Leveraging single solutions in the country more than doubling, from 400 to over 1,000.
investment will also support our operations outside the country, Developing cross-Group best including our valve manufacturing facility in Elland, West Yorkshire.
Over the course of 2014, Elland will double production levels to cope with increasing demand from its global customers.
Benefits to At the time of the announcement, UK Prime Minister David our customers: Cameron said: This is yet another sign of a UK company winning in the global race.
The Weir Group is a fine example of Scottish Global consistency of products engineering excellence.
70m 70 million investment in Malaysian operations over the next three years.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 21
