Directors Report: Board of Directors BOARD OF DIRECTORS Charles Berry Keith Alan Ferguson Melanie Gee Mary Jo Jacobi Richard Rick John Mogford Lord Robertson Jon Stanton Chairman 61 Cochrane Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Menell Non-Executive of Port Ellen Finance Director 46 Director 56 Director 52 Director 62 Director 60 Chief Executive 49 Non-Executive Non-Executive Director 58 Director 67 Nationality British British British British Dual American and South African British British British British citizenship Date of appointment Non-Executive Director since Joined the Group as Finance December 2011.
March 2013 and Chairman Director in July 2006 and since January 2014. appointed Chief Executive in November 2009.
Committee membership Chairman of the Nomination Member of the Nomination Chairman of the Audit Chairman of the Member of the Remuneration Member of the Audit, Nomination Member of the Audit & Member of the Nomination & None.
the Audit & Remuneration Member of the Audit Committee.
Expertise Charles was an Executive Following a number of years Alan was Chief Financial Officer Melanie is a Senior Adviser for Mary Jo is currently the Rick worked as an investment John is currently a Managing Lord Robertson is an Jon was formerly a partner with Director of Scottish Power plc with Arthur Andersen, Keith and a Director of Lonmin plc, Lazard & Co. Limited, having Managing Director of her own banker before joining Anglovaal Director for First Reserve, a large Adviser to Cable & Wireless Ernst & Young LLP having joined from 1999 to 2005 and Chief joined Stagecoach Group plc one of the worlds largest worked for them since 2008. consultancy practice and a Group in 1992.
He was global energy focussed private Communications plc, Special as a graduate trainee in their Executive of their UK division in 1993.
He was appointed producers of platinum group Formerly, she spent a number board mentor with Critical appointed Chief Executive of equity firm.
As part of this role Adviser to BP plc and a Senior Birmingham office in 1988. between 2000 and 2005.
Finance Director in 1996 and metals, from 2007 until 2010. of years with S. G. Warburg Eye.
She is a member of The Anglovaal Mining in 1996 then he sits on several boards.
Counsellor with The Cohen He was appointed as a partner Prior to joining Scottish Power, Group Chief Executive in 2000.
Prior to his role with Lonmin, now part of UBS and was Leadership Council and holds Executive Chairman in 2002.
He was the in their London office in 2001 he was Group Development He joined ScottishPower plc he held the position of Group appointed a Managing Director several advisory and consultancy In 2005, he left to become He was formerly an Executive Secretary of State for Defence with lead responsibility for the Director of Norwest Holst, in 2003 where he became Finance Director with the of UBS in 1999.
Between 2006 roles in the not-for-profit sector.
President and Chief Executive Vice President of BP plc having from 1997 until 1999 before audit of a number of FTSE a subsidiary of Compagnie Director of Group Finance.
Before this and 2008 she was a Senior of TEAL Exploration & Mining been with BP for over 30 years, becoming Secretary General 100 multinational clients.
Gnrale des Eaux and held he spent 22 years working Relationship Director of UBS.
She was formerly a Senior Inc.
He was formerly Chairman initially in their exploration of NATO from 1999 until 2003. management positions within He is a chartered for Inchcape plc in a variety Executive of Royal Dutch Shell of Avgold Ltd 1996-2004 and division and progressively rising He was formerly a Director of He is a chartered accountant subsidiaries of Pilkington plc.
accountant and a member of roles, including six years She was an alternate member plc, BP America Inc. Lehman Bateman Engineering BV 2005- to Executive Vice President Smiths Group plc 2004-2006 and a member of the Institute of the Institute of Chartered as Group Finance Director.
of The Takeover Panel LIBA Brothers Inc. HSBC Holdings 2009 and Director of Mutual Chief Operating Officer US and Deputy Chairman of Cable of Chartered Accountants He is a former Non-Executive Accountants of Scotland.
CFC between 2006 and 2013. plc and Drexel Burnham & Federal Insurance Company Downstream & Head of Refining.
& Wireless Communications in England and Wales.
Director and Chairman of Alan is a member of the Institute Lambert Inc. She was a NonLtd 1996-2010 and Standard He held numerous positions Plc 2004-2006 and Eaga plc and Thus Group plc, of Chartered Accountants Melanie was reappointed Executive Director of Tate & Lyle Bank Group Ltd 1997-2011. in every area of operations TNK-BP Ltd 2006-2013. and a former Non-Executive of Scotland and sits on their to the Council of Fauna & plc between 1999 and 2004. from gas and renewables to Director of Impax Environmental Business Policy Committee.
Flora International in 2013, Rick is a Senior Advisor to upstream and downstream oil.
A member of Her Majestys Markets PLC and Securities having previously served She previously served in the Credit Suisse and Chairman Privy Council, he is Chairman Trust of Scotland plc.
from 2007 until 2010. administrations of Presidents of Credit Suisse Securities He was formerly Chairman of the Ditchley Foundation Reagan and George H. W. Johannesburg Pty Limited.
of Amromco Energy LLC in and of the Commission on Bush.
She currently serves on He serves as a Director on a Romania, White Rose Energy Global Road Safety.
He is the UK Advisory Committee number of unlisted companies Ventures LLP in the UK and a honorary Professor of Politics at on Business Appointments and not-for-profit organisations.
Non-Executive Director of Deep Stirling University, an honorary and is a visiting Fellow Gulf Energy LP in America.
Fellow of the Royal Society of at Oxford University.
He is a fellow of the Geological Edinburgh, an Elder Brother of Society London, and He is a fellow of the Institution the Corporation of Trinity House both the Australasian and of Mechanical Engineers.
and is Chancellor of the Order South African Institutes of of St Michael and St George.
Key external appointments Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director of CHC Non-Executive Director of None.
of Royal Scottish National Audit Committee Chairman of Drax Group plc.
of Mulvaney Capital Gold Fields Ltd and Sibanye Helicopters SA in Luxembourg.
Western Ferries Clyde Ltd. Orchestra Society Ltd. of Johnson Matthey plc.
Gold Limited, both South Non-Executive Chairman African companies listed on Non-Executive Director of Senior plc.
Non-Executive Director and the Johannesburg Stock of DOF Subsea AS in Audit Committee Chairman Exchange and the New Norway and Midstates of Croda International plc.
Non-Executive Director and Non-Executive Director of Audit Committee Chairman Rockwell Diamonds Inc. a of London Mining plc.
South African company listed on both the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and the Toronto Stock Exchange.
64 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Charles Berry Keith Alan Ferguson Melanie Gee Mary Jo Jacobi Richard Rick John Mogford Lord Robertson Jon Stanton Lord Smith Chairman 61 Cochrane Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Menell Non-Executive of Port Ellen Finance Director 46 of Kelvin Director 56 Director 52 Director 62 Director 60 Chief Executive 49 Non-Executive Non-Executive Former Chairman 69 Director 58 Director 67 Nationality British British British British Dual American and South African British British British British British citizenship Date of appointment Non-Executive Director since Joined the Group as Finance December 2011.
Non-Executive Director March 2013 and Chairman Director in July 2006 and from February 2002 and since January 2014. appointed Chief Executive Chairman from July 2002. in November 2009.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Committee during 2013. the Audit & Remuneration Member of the Audit Committee.
Expertise Charles was an Executive Following a number of years Alan was Chief Financial Officer Melanie is a Senior Adviser for Mary Jo is currently the Rick worked as an investment John is currently a Managing Lord Robertson is an Jon was formerly a partner with Lord Smith was formerly Director of Scottish Power plc with Arthur Andersen, Keith and a Director of Lonmin plc, Lazard & Co. Limited, having Managing Director of her own banker before joining Anglovaal Director for First Reserve, a large Adviser to Cable & Wireless Ernst & Young LLP having joined Chairman and Chief from 1999 to 2005 and Chief joined Stagecoach Group plc one of the worlds largest worked for them since 2008. consultancy practice and a Group in 1992.
He was global energy focussed private Communications plc, Special as a graduate trainee in their Executive of Morgan Grenfell Executive of their UK division in 1993.
As part of this role Adviser to BP plc and a Senior Birmingham office in 1988.
Private Equity and was between 2000 and 2005.
Counsellor with The Cohen He was appointed as a partner Chief Executive of Morgan Prior to joining Scottish Power, Group Chief Executive in 2000.
He was the in their London office in 2001 Grenfell Asset Management he was Group Development He joined ScottishPower plc he held the position of Group appointed a Managing Director several advisory and consultancy In 2005, he left to become He was formerly an Executive Secretary of State for Defence with lead responsibility for the between 2000 and 2002.
Director of Norwest Holst, in 2003 where he became Finance Director with the of UBS in 1999.
He is a chartered accountant Gnrale des Eaux and held he spent 22 years working Relationship Director of UBS.
He was formerly Chairman initially in their exploration of NATO from 1999 until 2003. and a past president of management positions within He is a chartered for Inchcape plc in a variety Executive of Royal Dutch Shell of Avgold Ltd 1996-2004 and division and progressively rising He was formerly a Director of He is a chartered accountant the Institute of Chartered subsidiaries of Pilkington plc.
accountant and a member of roles, including six years She was an alternate member plc, BP America Inc. Lehman Bateman Engineering BV 2005- to Executive Vice President Smiths Group plc 2004-2006 and a member of the Institute Accountants of Scotland.
of the Institute of Chartered as Group Finance Director.
Chairman of SSE PLC of Drax Group plc.
Western Ferries Clyde Ltd. formerly Scottish Orchestra Society Ltd. of Johnson Matthey plc.
Gold Limited, both South and Southern Energy Non-Executive Chairman African companies listed on Non-Executive Director PLC : Chairman of the of Senior plc.
Non-Executive Director and the Johannesburg Stock of DOF Subsea AS in UK Green Investment Audit Committee Chairman Exchange and the New Norway and Midstates Bank plc: Chairman of of Croda International plc.
Glasgow 2014 Limited, the organising committee Non-Executive Director and Non-Executive Director of for the Commonwealth Audit Committee Chairman Rockwell Diamonds Inc. a Games: Non-Executive of London Mining plc.
South African company listed Director of Standard Bank on both the Johannesburg Group Ltd in South Africa Stock Exchange and the and Chancellor of the Toronto Stock Exchange.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 65
