Directors Report: Group Executive GROUP EXECUTIVE Name and title Dean Jenkins Steve Noon Keith Ruddock John Heasley Minerals Divisional Oil & Gas Divisional General Counsel and Power & Industrial Managing Director 42 Managing Director 49 Company Secretary 53 Divisional Managing Director 39 Dean is based in Melbourne, John joined the Group Biography Steve is based in Fort Worth, Keith is based at the Groups Australia.
He joined the Group Executive in January 2014 USA.
He joined the Group Head Office in Glasgow.
He in November 2010, becoming as Divisional Managing in 2007.
He has worked with joined the Group in April 2012 Power & Industrial Divisional Director for Weir Power and several multinationals including from Royal Dutch Shell PLC, Managing Director in January Industrial.
He is based at Schefenacker Vision Systems, where he was General Counsel 2011.
He was appointed to the Divisional headquarters James Hardie Industries and for Upstream International, his current role in August in East Kilbride, Scotland.
Before Shells largest business unit, 2012.
Dean previously worked A chartered accountant, he joining the Group in 2007, he based in The Hague.
He for Qantas Airlines and the has held a number of senior held the position of president has extensive international Australian listed infrastructure financial, commercial and of Schefenacker Vision commercial and legal services company UGL Ltd, operational roles.
John joined Systems, North America.
experience, having worked most recently as Chief Executive Weir in 2008 as Group Financial in the Middle East, North of the latters Rail Division.
Controller before becoming America, Africa, Australasia Valves Managing Director in the and Europe and was a Power & Industrial division.
member of Shells Upstream International leadership team.
Name and title Pauline Lafferty Gavin Nicol Andrew Neilson Director of Human Director of Operations Director of Strategy and Resources 48 Support and Corporate Affairs 38 Development 52 Pauline is based at the Groups Gavin is the Director of Biography Andrew joined the Group Head Office in Glasgow.
She Operations Support & Executive in January 2014 joined the Group in 2011.
Pauline Development based at the as Director of Strategy and was previously in executive Groups Head Office in Glasgow.
He is search with Miles Partnership He was previously President of based at the Groups Head and Russell Reynolds Associates Weir SPM for two years, based in Office in Glasgow.
Andrew in the UK and Australia.
Gavin joined holds a Masters degree in to this, she held business Weir in 2005 and was managing engineering from the University planning and operational roles director of the Weir Pumps of Strathclyde and he is a for 11 years with Motorola and business prior to its sale in 2007. member of the Institute of Digital Equipment Corporation Before joining Weir, he worked Chartered Accountants of DEC in Scotland, Australia for a number of multinationals Scotland.
Before joining Weir in and Hong Kong, ultimately including the Terex Corporation, 2010, he held a variety of senior becoming Asia Pacific PwC and Coats Viyella.
roles with banking, energy and Director of Supply for DEC. professional services companies including HSBC, HBOS, Scottish Power and KPMG.
Keith Cochrane and Jon Stanton are also members of the Group Executive.
Their biographical information can be found on pages 64 and 65.
66 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
