Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION 2014 Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 2.30pm on Thursday 1 May 2014 at the Radisson Blu Hotel, Argyle Street, Glasgow.
The Notice of Meeting along with an explanation of the proposed resolutions are set out in a separate circular to shareholders which accompanies this Annual Report and can be downloaded from the Companys website.
Notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Company conducts the vote at the AGM by electronic poll and the result of the votes, including proxies, is published on the Companys website after the meeting.
Dividend The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 33.2p per share for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014.
Payment of this dividend is subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM.
Substantial shareholders At 3 January 2014, the Company had been notified in accordance with the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules that the following held, or were beneficially interested in, 3% or more of the Companys issued share capital.
Percentage of Number of issued share Shareholder shares capital Aberdeen Asset Managers Ltd 10,797,589 5.07% AXA 10,637,959 4.99% Legal & General 9,978,391 4.70% Norges Bank 8,503,919 3.99% No changes have been disclosed to the Company between 3 January 2014 and 26 February 2014.
Since this date, the interest of any shareholder listed above may have increased or decreased.
No requirement to notify the Company of any increase or decrease would have arisen unless the holding moved up or down through a whole number percentage level.
The percentage level may increase if the Company cancelled shares pursuant to the power to purchase its own shares or decrease on the issue of new shares under the LTIP.
Material contracts There are no persons with whom the Company has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Company.
Employment policy and involvement The average number of employees in the Group during the period is given in note 4 to the Group financial statements on page 135.
Group companies operate within a framework of HR policies, practices and regulations appropriate to their market sector and country of operation.
Policies and procedures for recruitment, training and career development promote equality of opportunity regardless of gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability, race, religion or other beliefs and ethnic or national origin.
The aim is to encourage a culture in which all employees have the opportunity to develop fully according to their individual abilities and the needs of the Group.
The Group remains committed to the fair treatment of people with disabilities regarding applications, training, promotion and career development.
Employee involvement and feedback is actively encouraged.
A variety of ways are used to consult and inform employees including a Groupwide bulletin, e-mail, intranet and local briefings.
These are designed to facilitate dialogue while enabling the development of a common awareness among employees of what affects business performance.
Further details of the Groups employment policies and involvement are detailed in the Sustainability Review on pages 56 to 57.
Greenhouse gas emissions The Company is required to state the annual quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from activities for which the Company is responsible, including the combustion of fuel and the operation of any facility.
The Groups global greenhouse gas GHG emissions for 2013 and related disclosures required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 are contained in the Sustainability Review on pages 50 to 53 and form part of the Directors Report disclosures.
Financial instruments The information required in respect of financial instruments as required by Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 is given in note 30 to the Group financial statements on page 165 to 173.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 113 Directors Report: Other Statutory Information OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Continued Share capital and rights attaching to the Companys shares Details of the issued share capital of the Company, which comprises a single class of shares, ordinary shares of 12.5p each, are set out in note 25 to the Group financial statements on page 159.
The rights attaching to the shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
There are no special control rights in relation to the Companys shares and the Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
The Weir Group has two employee benefit trusts: one with the trustees Kleinwort Benson Guernsey Trustees Limited the Kleinwort EBT and one with the trustees Appleby Trust Jersey Limited the Appleby EBT.
During the period, the 2010 LTIP award vested and the trustees of the Kleinwort EBT transferred 24,528 ordinary shares to employees to satisfy the LTIP awards using ordinary shares purchased by the Kleinwort EBT in the market.
A further 382,450 ordinary shares were transferred out of treasury to satisfy awards under the LTIP.
In addition, a total of 259,159 ordinary shares, with an aggregate value of 32,394.88, were allotted during the period in connection with the Companys LTIP.
Both EBTs have agreed to waive any right to all dividend payments on shares held by them, with the exception of shares held in respect of awards which have a dividend entitlement.
Details of the shares held by the EBTs are set out in note 25 to the Group financial statements on page 159.
The Kleinwort EBT holds, through its account nominee K. B. CI Nominees Limited, 0.04% of the issued share capital of the Company, as at 3 January 2014, in trust for the benefit of certain Executive Directors and senior executives of the Group.
The Appleby EBT holds, through account nominee Forest Nominees Limited, 0.12% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 3 January 2014.
0.04% of this is held in trust for the benefit of certain senior executives of the Group, and 0.08% is held in trust on behalf of the Company for satisfaction of any future vesting of the Weir Group Deferred Bonus Plan.
With the exception of the shares held for the benefit of certain senior executives, the voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the trustees.
The EBTs may vote or abstain from voting with the shares or accept or reject any offer relating to shares, in any way they see fit, without incurring any liability and without being required to give reasons for their decision.
Repurchase of shares At the 2013 Annual General Meeting, shareholders renewed the Companys authority to make market purchases of up to 21.12m ordinary shares representing approximately 10% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
No shares were purchased under this authority during the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014 and at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Board will again seek shareholder approval to renew the annual authority for the Company to make market purchases.
Voting rights The Companys Articles of Association provide that on a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of ordinary shares present in person and by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The Notice of the AGM specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
The Company conducts the vote at the AGM by electronic poll.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the AGM and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
The Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution passed at a general meeting of shareholders.
Transfer of shares There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company, other than as contained in the Articles of Association: The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any certificated share which is not fully paid up, provided that this power will not be exercised so as to disturb the market in the Companys shares.
The Directors may also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated share unless it is delivered to the registrars office, or such other place as the Directors have specified, accompanied by a certificate for the shares to be transferred and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to prove title of the intending transferor.
Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations, for example, insider trading laws, in relation to the transfer of shares.
Appointment and replacement of Directors The provisions about the appointment and re-election of Directors of the Company are contained in the Articles of Association.
Powers of Directors The business of the Company is managed by the Directors who may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, any special resolution of the Company and any relevant legislation.
Directors indemnities The Company has granted indemnities to each of its Directors in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as Directors to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association.
In addition, Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries and trustees of its pension schemes are covered by Directors and Officers liability insurance.
114 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Change of control significant agreements The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to require prior approval, exercise termination, alteration or similar rights in the event of a change of control of the Company.
The Group has in place a five year US$800m multi-currency revolving credit facility with a syndicate of 12 banks due to mature in July 2018.
Under the terms of this agreement, if there is a change of control of the Company any lender may request, by not less than 30 days notice to the Company, that its commitment be cancelled and all outstanding amounts be repaid to that lender at the expiry of such notice period.
The Company has in issue fixed rate private placement notes with a range of maturities: US$90m at an interest rate of 4.2% due on 11 January 2015, 12m at an interest rate of 4.58% due on 11 January 2015, US$70m at an interest rate of 5.03% due on 11 January 2018, 43m at an interest rate of 5.36% due on 11 January 2018, US$210m at an interest rate of 3.69% due on 16 February 2019, US$590m at an interest rate of 4.27% due on 16 February 2022 and US$200m at an interest rate of 4.34% due on 16 February 2023.
Under the terms of the applicable note purchase agreements, if there is a change of control of the Company, the notes must be offered for prepayment by the Company within seven days of the change of control.
The prepayment date would be no later than 60 days after the offer of prepayment by the Company.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Management report The Strategic Report and the Directors Report constitute the management report as required under the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
Directors Report disclosures contained in the Strategic Report The Company has chosen to disclose the following information in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 63: Particulars of any important events, if any, affecting the Company which have occurred since the end of the financial year.
An indication of likely future developments in the business of the Company.
An indication of the activities of the Company in the field of research and development.
Confirmations So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by section 481 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each of the Directors has taken all of the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Going concern The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In forming this view, the Directors have reviewed the Groups budgets, plans and cash flow forecasts, including market downturn sensitivities.
In addition, the Directors have considered the potential impact of credit risk and liquidity risk detailed in note 30 to the Group financial statements on pages 165 to 173.
Each of these items has been considered in relation to the Groups banking facilities described in note 20 on pages 150 and 151.
The Directors Report, covering pages 64 to 116 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 has been approved by the Board of Directors in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
On behalf of the Board of Directors Keith Ruddock Company Secretary 26 February 2014 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 115
