Strategic Report: Operational Review OPERATIONAL REVIEW WEIR POWER & INDUSTRIAL John Heasley Divisional Managing Director Key priorities and progress in 2013 Global valves platform now well established and operating Embed global valve structure under a Valves leadership team and drive global comprising both product line sales hub and operational experts.
performance Double-digit emerging market sales growth.
UK Valve aftermarket input up 19% since 2012.
Further leverage Valve aftermarket opportunities Supply chain and operations capability upgraded in all Develop operational Valve facilities.
capabilities to On time delivery performance support higher increased by more than 10% activity levels in 2013.
In 2013, the division established a Best cost supply chain enhanced through acquisition of Cheong global valves platform and increased Foundry in Malaysia.
operational capabilities which position Additional approved repair us well to take advantage of future facilities established in Southeast Internationalise growth opportunities.
Over the course of hydro, wind and Asia, further internationalising power service the year some markets were particularly the power service offering.
offerings 20m Libyan power plant challenging but we responded by refurbishment contract awarded.
enhancing our global capability and Wind maintenance offering extended into South America.
further strengthening our customer relationships.
Entry to the FPSO control valve market secured with a number Continue Market drivers expansion in oil of contract wins.
Emerging markets offered the best opportunities for growth over and gas markets Oil and gas sector revenues the course of 2013.
Within Valves, demand from Korean Engineering up 6%.
Procurement and Construction Management EPCM companies was strong and there were positive initial signals in the nuclear new Significant success in control build market particularly in China and India.
However, general valve initiatives such as X-Stream Continue industrial conditions in India deteriorated during 2013, with a direct new product and turbine bypass products.
development impact on demand for valves.
In the Middle East momentum Transfer of range of valve and product continued in oil and gas markets, supporting control and safety technologies to Korea and China, extension valve opportunities.
extending the addressable market opportunity.
40 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Revenue Operating profit 330m 31m 1% -2% 2013 330 2013 31 2012 326 2012 32 2011 302 2011 26 2011 and 2012 restated at 2013 average exchange rates.
In developed markets, aftermarket demand in the UK total Valves fourth quarter revenues were 20% higher and the US improved although the power market in the than the equivalent prior year period.
Emerging market US was impacted by low natural gas prices.
This led to revenues increased by 16% year on year and accounted challenging trading conditions in the hydro, coal and for 34% of divisional sales.
nuclear sectors but encouraged new build Combined Cycle Gas Turbine CCGT activity.
In Europe, Operating profit was broadly unchanged at 31m conventional safety valve demand was subdued 2012: 32m, with underlying Valves profit growth offset reflecting general economic activity levels.
by substantial investment in extending capabilities.
A declining contribution from hydro was offset by one-off Strategic progress proceeds from an insurance settlement of a prior claim Valves aftermarket initiatives made progress as a and a gain on sale of property.
successful rapid response business model, which was initially developed in Canada, was replicated in the UK.
Operating margin was broadly stable at 9.5% 2012: The global valves platform is now well established, 9.8%, reflecting good growth from higher margin valve with senior leadership appointed at each plant to drive operations offset by additional investment to support improved operational performance.
revenue run rates were at record levels, reflecting progress on these operational initiatives.
Entry to the Investment Floating Production, Storage and Offloading FPSO Capital expenditure of 11m 2012: 19m included control valve market was secured with a number of investment in our UK aftermarket rapid response contract wins.
cell and additional capacity at our French safety valve facility.
Investment in research and development Product transfers to South Korea and China continued, increased by more than 50% to 3m 2012: 2m.
The broadening emerging market opportunities.
division added 30 employees as it invested in operational capabilities and extending sales and service channels Additional repair facilities were established in Southeast in the Valves business.
Asia, further internationalising the power service offering.
Action was taken to reduce costs in Hydro operations Outlook to reflect challenging end market conditions and the Long term power and oil and gas fundamentals remain wind services offering extended into South America.
Our addressable markets are expected to At the end of the year, the Services business secured grow at circa 4-5%, driven by emerging market growth.
re-entry into Libya with a large power plant Relatively low market shares in valve end markets provide refurbishment contract.
scope to grow faster than these end markets as we continue to execute on our expansion plans into oil and Order input decreased by 6% to 340m 2012: 363m gas markets, in particular.
Nuclear remains an attractive due to material declines in Hydro orders partially offset prospect in the medium to long term, particularly in China, by growing Services input, as a result of a 20m contract India and the Middle East.
Aftermarket opportunities win in the fourth quarter.
Original equipment orders are being targeted to offset any short term risks from declined 10%, primarily reflecting the reduction in Hydro uncertainty on new build projects.
Aftermarket input was 2% lower year on year with will continue to deliver opportunities for our Renewable, strong second half growth largely offsetting first half Services and Industrial businesses.
Valve orders declined slightly, with underlying progress offset by the absence of large individual project In 2014, emerging markets are expected to continue to wins.
Full year divisional book to bill remained positive provide good growth opportunities in the power sector at 1.03 while power markets continue to represent 60% although it is anticipated North American hydro markets of orders 2012: 60%.
Emerging markets accounted for will remain subdued.
Continued mid and downstream 33% of input 2012: 34%.
investment in oil and gas will also support growth.
The division is expected to benefit from an improved Revenue increased by 1% to 330m 2012: 326m and operational performance in Valves, following measures was slightly below expectations as a result of project taken in 2013.
Strong constant currency revenue growth delays in the fourth quarter.
Double-digit growth in Valves is expected, driven by Valves and Services, with low was offset by declines in Hydro and Services.
Within double-digit margins as the business continues to invest Valves strong growth was achieved in South Korea and in new products and extending global capability.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 41 Strategic Report: Operational Review OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED Market input breakdown Geographic input breakdown Market input breakdown Geographic input breakdown Power 60% Europe 40% Industrial 15% North America 27% Oil & Gas 11% Asia-Pacic 26% Other 13% Middle East Africa 5% Minerals 1% South America 2% Key priorities in 2014 Geographical expansion: Aftermarket enhancement: Continue strong growth in emerging market Maximise return from existing installed base, hubs and Korea: establish presence in Russia leveraging Services and Weir Group footprint: and Northern Eastern Europe: expand presence build on success of UK maintenance, repair in Asia and South America.
Best-cost sourcing: Market expansion: Continue product transfers to best-cost Expand in oil and gas, including LNG cryogenics countries and expand low cost supply chain.
capabilities: increase in-house technical expertise.
Product development: Enhance super ultra-critical capabilities for Valves: extend range of markets applications for existing products.
Partners in production worldwide The Power & Industrial team in the UK has been working to build deeper customer relationships as part of the Weir Groups commitment to being a partner of choice.
As a company with a long history This involved Weir engineers analysing of supplying the UKs nuclear industry, how products are used and identifying Weir has a large installed base of potential issues.
equipment in the countrys nuclear reactor fleet.
This is a legacy which goes back By doing this, engineers can recommend to the first conventional nuclear power replacing or upgrading equipment as programme at Calderhall in the 1950s.
appropriate, addressing issues early to More than six decades later, we are still help customers improve performance.
striving to help our customers improve Rapid Response Cells set up within Weir their operational efficiency.
In 2013, allow teams to respond to customer Weirs Power & Industrial teams focussed needs, turning around orders quickly in on working more closely with customers the event that customers are experiencing to exceed their expectations.
unexpected outages requiring parts quickly.
42 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
