Strategic Report: Operational Review OPERATIONAL REVIEW WEIR OIL & GAS Steve Noon Divisional Managing Director Market drivers In North America tight oil production continued to grow strongly.
The US government now estimates the US will shortly overtake Saudi Arabia as the worlds biggest oil producer.
Throughout the year WTI oil prices remained above incentive levels but traded at a discount to Brent because of US infrastructure constraints and restrictions on exports.
Gas prices stayed below incentive levels.
In Canada, an extended spring break and flooding in Alberta adversely impacted the market.
These factors contributed to a slower recovery in North American upstream markets than had been anticipated by the industry, with the number of wells drilled stable from the second quarter of 2013 onwards.
Increased drilling efficiencies meant well count declined by 3% despite a 9% decline in average rig count, as pad drilling enabled each rig to drill more wells.
Oil and liquids drilling increased to 79% of drilling and completion activity, emphasising the continued move away from gas, where rig count fell by 14%.
In 2013 the division continued to make Wells drilled, the key driver of our business, supported progress in pursuit of its key strategic demand for pressure pumping and pressure control products.
In pressure pumping markets, frack fleet objectives, despite further challenges utilisation is estimated to have improved marginally to in the pressure pumping market.
76% by the end of the year but remained below the level By increasing operational efficiency, required to stimulate an increase in original equipment demand.
There was a reduction in customer inventory leveraging our service centre network levels, with demand for shorter cycle aftermarket and maximising the benefits from our products and services normalising.
International pressure complete product portfolio, we were pumping markets continued to grow strongly, particularly in China, which saw a 73% increase in its frack fleet.
able to more fully capture aftermarket Pressure control markets declined slightly reflecting the opportunities.
number of wells drilled and the switch from gas to oil rich basins which are typically lower pressure and require less complex solutions.
In the Middle East, services markets continued to grow with average rig count increasing by 5%.
Iraq offered significant opportunities as the country continued to rebuild its oil and gas infrastructure.
In mid and downstream markets there were good opportunities in Liquified Natural Gas LNG and Floating Production, Storage and Offloading FPSO sectors, although the core refining market remained subdued.
36 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Market input breakdown Geographic input breakdown Market input breakdown Geographic input breakdown Oil & Gas 99% North America 70% Industrial 1% Middle East Africa 15% Europe 8% Asia-Pacic 4% South America 2% Australasia 1% Key priorities and progress in 2013 Dedicated aftermarket sales team The business secured its first established with positive impact Australian revenues with further Develop Capture across all aftermarket product orders expected in 2014. aftermarket Seaboard streams.
Aftermarket input up The customer base was business model domestic and 32% in Pressure Pumping, broadened and the business and bundling international with fluid end valves and seats grew wellhead revenues in strategy in growth especially strong, reflecting challenging market conditions.
Pressure opportunities the benefit of the Novatech Pumping acquisition in early 2012.
Mathena was successfully Duralast and stainless steel fluid integrated and has broadened Integrate ends released across the full frack its reach and extended its share Continue and realise pump range, assisting recapture of rigs across North America to momentum in the benefits of market share in this category.
over 400, up 26% year on year, new product expected from Gabbioneta completed in what was a declining market.
development the Mathena development of a high capacity acquisition vertical pump for downstream applications which has the We successfully launched our highest specific speed rating flowback and zipper rental Enhance ever designed by the business.
service streams towards the end Pressure Seaboard developed a unique of the year, giving us the platform Control overshot system for subsea for organic growth in 2014. offering in well kill applications.
North America upstream Input in Saudi Arabia and Iraq markets was up more than 40% year on Capitalise year including joint ventures, on growth In absolute terms the division as we took advantage of growing opportunities reduced like for like working Increase oil and gas production.
in Saudi Arabia capital by 2m.
supply chain and Iraq flexibility and reduce working capital Strategic progress Internationally, Pressure Pumping increased market In 2013, we responded to the slower than expected share in China as it benefitted from the extension of recovery in upstream markets by increasing our product the locally manufactured product range and targeted range and leveraging our industry-leading service centre sales initiatives: capturing both original equipment and network to grow aftermarket revenues.
was a real source of competitive advantage for Pressure Pumping allowing us to gain market share and leverage In Pressure Control, we launched a zipper frack manifold our complete product portfolio through the provision product which is used in pad drilling and contributes of integrated aftermarket products and services.
We also to the material efficiency gains seen from this technology.
made significant changes to ensure continued Seaboard also launched a frack flowback offering which operational efficiency.
Pressure Pumping manufacturing combines elements of both the Pressure Pumping was consolidated in Fort Worth, Texas, allowing the and Pressure Control portfolio to safely and efficiently closure of two small satellite manufacturing units.
These manage the initial flowback of water and solids initiatives partially offset the impact of pricing pressure, from completed wells.
Additional resources were particularly in frack pumps and legacy fluid ends.
also invested in Seaboard to increase service and operational capabilities.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 37 S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep po or rt t: : O Op per erat atiio ona nall R Re evi vie ew w OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED Services continued to experience good growth in both Revenue decreased by 7% 13% like for like to 796m Saudi Arabia and Iraq where Weir has the first facility 2012: 857m reflecting a lower opening order book to be awarded internationally recognised API and ISO at the start of 2013 compared to 2012 and continuing licenses, which led to a US$98m order from LUKOIL subdued demand for Pressure Pumping original in January 2014, to support its operations in southern equipment.
In total, original equipment revenues were down Iraq.
Downstream operations also saw momentum 42% 42% like for like.
Aftermarket revenues increased by build through the year as they expanded into mid and 22% 11% like for like.
Revenues increased sequentially upstream markets through organic product development.
driven by incremental growth in Pressure Pumping and Profitability improved as the business benefitted from Pressure Control.
Services and Downstream recorded value engineering initiatives and the commissioning of a strong growth in the period.
Divisional second half revenues best cost manufacturing facility in Poland.
were 17% higher year on year 9% like for like.
Order input at 811m 2012: 688m was 18% higher Operating profit including joint ventures was 16% lower and 10% higher like for like.
Aftermarket input was at 181m 2012: 214m and 29% lower on a like for like up 41% year on year 29% like for like due to strong basis, reflecting a smaller Pressure Pumping contribution.
Pressure Pumping and Services growth and accounted Total one-off costs of 6m 2012: 3m, were incurred, for 72% 2012: 60% of divisional orders.
Original primarily due to the closure of two small pressure equipment input fell 18% 18% like for like mainly due pumping manufacturing facilities.
Pressure Control to the reduction in demand for new pressure pumping profit growth was supported by a first contribution equipment, which was partially offset by good growth from Mathena which was partially offset by additional in Downstream orders.
Strong profit progression was seen at Services and Downstream operations.
Profits Pressure Pumping input increased by 9% with from joint ventures increased to 8m 2012: 6m improvement evident through the year such that second reflecting good growth in Saudi Arabia and the first half orders were 34% higher than the equivalent contribution from a North American oil and gas prior-year period.
This was driven by strong aftermarket equipment distribution partnership.
growth as a result of the normalisation of inventory levels and the success of our product bundling strategy.
SPM Operating margin declined 230bps to 22.7% 2012: aftermarket orders exceeded 2011 levels and Novatech 25.0% and was down 450bps on a like for like basis run rates approached levels last seen at the peak of the reflecting lower Pressure Pumping activity levels, higher market.
Original equipment orders were materially lower one-off costs and pricing pressure on legacy fluid ends year on year reflecting overcapacity in the frack fleet and original equipment frack pump orders.
Like for like and accounted for 17% of Pressure Pumping input.
Pressure Control margins also declined as a result of a International orders grew strongly as interest in new lower proportion of higher margin frack rental revenues shale opportunities continued to grow outside of North and additional investment in extending sales and America and now represent almost 15% of Pressure operational capabilities.
Divisional margins improved in Pumping input.
the second half due to higher activity levels and improved efficiencies as a result of the restructuring actions taken Pressure Control was impacted by the decline in well in the first half of 2013. count and the bias towards tight oil basins.
Input was supported by a good first contribution from Mathena.
Investment Capital expenditure of 38m 2012: 52m included Despite sequential second half growth, full year Seaboard expanding the Pressure Pumping service network and orders reflected the end market conditions and the delayed extending Seaboards rental product portfolio.
Total research introduction of new product initiatives in the first half.
and development expenditure of 5m was focussed on developing differentiated Pressure Pumping technology.
Input from Services and Downstream grew strongly in Employee headcount increased reflecting the increased the period.
In the Middle East, Services benefitted from input and investment in extending our service network.
regional expansion into Iraq and Oman while LNG and FPSO orders, alongside good spares trends, supported Downstream growth.
38 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Revenue Operating profit 796m 181m -7% -16% 2013 796m 2013 181m 2012 857m 2012 214m 2011 759m 2011 188m 2011 and 2012 restated at 2013 average exchange rates.
Key priorities in 2014 Partners in production worldwide Capitalise on growing international opportunities INCREASING OUR across each business.
GLOBAL CAPABILITY Accelerate customer uptake of recent product and service launches.
When the Weir Group acquired Seaboard Continue to grow share in the pressure in 2011, the provider of wellhead and frack pumping aftermarket.
stack solutions was focussed on growing in North American unconventional oil Expand maintenance services capacity in Iraq, and gas markets.
Weir identified the in support of the LUKOIL contract awarded in January 2014. opportunity to enter the frack flowback market by combining the product Deliver benefits from Group-wide upstream offering of Seaboard and SPM.
and downstream oil and gas forums.
As a result, the Weir Group is now With an increasing international Increase supply chain flexibility and improve using its international experience and interest in developing shale working capital ratios through Value Chain global capability to grow Seaboards resources, demand for wellhead, Excellence initiatives.
product and service lines into new frack stack and flowback solutions markets.
Weirs established service is increasing.
Seaboard is well centres, machining capabilities and placed to meet this demand, given Outlook well established sales networks enable its experience in the US and its The medium term outlook for global pressure pumping the company to expand quickly and exposure through Weir to a platform and pressure control markets remains positive.
In North efficiently into developing markets which will allow it to offer its America, shale gas production is predicted to grow such as Australia and the Middle East.
products and services to customers strongly as it is increasingly used as a feedstock for on a global scale.
power generation, manufacturing and transport.
Liquefied Natural Gas LNG exports are expected to increase demand in the medium term with six terminals approved in North America and more applications pending.
Tight oil production is anticipated to continue its strong growth as infrastructure constraints are addressed.
Internationally, development of shale reserves is expected to continue to grow in China, Russia, Saudi Arabia and Argentina, all of which are estimated to have substantial technically recoverable reserves.
The division entered 2014 at a substantially higher run rate than the prior year and is expected to deliver strong full year constant currency revenue growth, supported by mid single-digit growth in upstream expenditure in North America and the Middle East, assuming stable oil and gas prices.
Pressure Pumping will also benefit from the normalisation of aftermarket demand although original equipment revenues are expected to remain subdued.
It is anticipated divisional margins will remain broadly in line with the second half of 2013.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 39
