Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements OPERATIONAL REVIEW WEIR MINERALS DIVISION Dean Jenkins Divisional Managing Director Market drivers Mining sector capital expenditure fell by an estimated 16% in 2013 as metals prices continued to decline from 2011 highs.
Greenfield projects were hardest hit as mining companies switched their priorities from new projects to maximising returns from their current operations.
This drive towards optimisation supported largely unchanged maintenance and brownfield capital expenditure.
Some new projects experienced order delays as customers continued to adopt a cautious approach to large investments.
In addition, ongoing projects were subject to delay.
This was particularly evident in South America where developments were postponed by regulatory and operational issues.
Prices continued to remain above incentive levels for key commodities including copper and iron ore.
This, in addition to the commissioning of some greenfield projects, supported an estimated 3% growth in global 2013 saw the division continue to deliver ore production.
strong results and growing profits despite Regionally, there was strong growth in Africa outside challenging trading conditions.
We did this of South Africa with continued investment in a number by building closer relationships with our of ongoing greenfield developments.
In Europe and North customers and using our market-leading America, markets remained subdued.
In Australia, project activity stayed at low levels due to difficult conditions in position to offer a broader range of coal markets in particular.
Brownfield investment in South differentiated products which provide America continued to offer good opportunities.
This of mining end markets, the division saw growth in water and oil and gas.
This included continued growth in performance was supported by initiatives brownfield spending in the Canadian oil sands and the which delivered increased procurement development of coal-seam gas projects in Australia.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 31 Strategic Report: Operational Review Market input breakdown Geographic input breakdown Market input breakdown Geographic input breakdown Minerals 75% North America 24% Industrial 8% South America 22% Oil & Gas 10% Australasia 18% Power Generation 5% Middle East Africa 15% Other 2% Europe 12% Asia-Pacic 9% Key priorities and progress in 2013 Expansion of our best cost Secured a licensing agreement manufacturing base with the with KHD for their market-leading Global Establishing acquisition of two foundries in High Pressure Grinding Roll capability and capability South Africa and Malaysia.
HPGR technology and achieving value chain within Continued investment across first original equipment orders.
comminution our regions to strengthen our Established a joint venture with service and support capabilities.
Taiwan-based Minyu Machinery Eight service centres were Corporation for the development added during 2013. of crusher technology for mining.
The launch of a global systems integration programme to exploit synergies across the division and provide the management platform for long term sustainable growth.
Market entry into the attractive centrifuge aftermarket with the Secured our first significant Continue to acquisition of Australian centrifuge orders for swellable packers drive market Build on the engineered wear component for oil and gas downhole drilling share of the collaborative manufacturer Aspir.
applications developed using full product successes of Strengthening our aftermarket Minerals elastomer technology.
portfolio and the Oil & Gas capability in the North American services forum to engineered wear lining market develop new with the acquisition of R Wales.
products and Increase market share using the services full product portfolio and services.
Strategic progress total cost of ownership proposition.
A Global Framework The division has continued to make strategic progress Agreement with Anglo American, one of the worlds largest to ensure long term growth whilst at the same time mining companies, was signed which will roll out Weir demonstrating agility in responding to challenging products to their worldwide operations, helping to improve market conditions.
During the year, we reacted to energy consumption and lower maintenance requirements.
reductions in mining company capital expenditure by increasing customer responsiveness, extending Over the course of the year we made significant progress our product range into attractive adjacent markets through strategic acquisitions and alliances which and improving our operational efficiency.
provide access to differentiated technology and extend our presence in attractive non-mining markets.
We expanded our market-leading service centre network The purchase of Aspir complements our existing product and opened a new manufacturing plant in Mexico to portfolio and allows us to extend our aftermarket offering.
support the high growth Central American market.
The division also expanded further in the comminution Globally, our service network proved a valuable platform segment of the mill circuit through two agreements which for our enhanced and extended product range which increase our product offering.
The agreement with KHD supported a significant increase in aftermarket revenues gives Weir direct control over the design, manufacture and helped to offset the impact of reduced original and distribution of HPGRs, with the first original equipment spending.
As miners concentrated on equipment orders received in 2013.
We also entered into brownfield investment to increase productivity at existing a partnership with the Minyu Machinery Corporation, facilities, we were able to take advantage of our lowest providing crushing technology from which we can 32 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Revenue Operating profit 1,304m 269m 0% 6% 2013 1,304m 2013 269m 2012 1,307m 2012 253m 2011 1,169m 2011 208m 2011 and 2012 restated at 2013 average exchange rates.
develop product lines specifically for mining markets, Order input was supported by the initial success using our materials technology.
Combined, these of our comminution strategy which included the products give us a strong platform to grow and first orders for HPGRs.
In total, comminution orders increase our addressable market in comminution crushers, HPGRs and screens almost doubled to to circa 1bn.
Orders from a coal-seam gas project in Australia supported growth in dewatering pump We also concentrated on building capacity to meet orders approaching 50%.
Alongside growth in waste growing aftermarket demand in mining markets and water and general industrial markets, this supported expanding the product portfolio into non-mining markets.
a near 30% increase in non-mining orders in 2013.
The acquisition of additional foundry capacity in South Africa and Malaysia provides best cost manufacturing Emerging markets accounted for 46% of input 2012: 52%, near strategically important markets to support growing with orders reflecting lower activity in South America and aftermarket demand.
Our presence in the Canadian oil Indonesia.
Orders from mining end markets accounted sands market was also strengthened with the acquisition for 75% of input 2012: 80%.
of the R Wales group of companies.
Dewatering pump technology was used to secure orders in the coal-seam Revenue was flat year on year at 1,304m 2012: 1,307m gas market in Australia.
and 2% lower on a like for like basis with second half revenues 1% above the prior year record.
Original Our commitment to value chain excellence continued equipment sales were 9% lower and accounted for with significant operational efficiencies, cost reductions 37% 2012: 41% of divisional revenues.
Short-cycle and procurement savings supporting margins and production-driven aftermarket revenues increased by reductions in working capital.
We worked closely with 6% 3% like for like, with strong ore production growth key suppliers sharing the benefits of our lean operating and the benefits of an expanding installed base more system to reduce customer lead times.
than offsetting the impact of extended wear-life offered by our latest product enhancements.
Order input increased by 1% to 1,311m 2012: 1,296m and was flat on a like for like basis.
Original equipment Double-digit growth in Africa was offset by revenue orders were 6% lower year on year with a double-digit declines in South America and Asia Pacific.
Despite decline in original equipment slurry pump orders for subdued end market conditions, growth was also mining end markets, partially offset by growth in orders achieved in North American and European markets.
for the broader product range and success in non-mining markets.
Momentum increased towards the end of the Operating profit increased 6% to 269m 2012: 253m year with original equipment input up by 19% in the fourth benefiting from a positive first contribution from quarter, including for projects to be delivered in 2015 and aquisitions, a higher proportion of aftermarket revenues 2016.
Despite project delays and changes to the scope of alongside cost and procurement efficiencies.
certain greenfield developments, only 3m of prior year orders were cancelled and the division recorded Operating margin increased to 20.6% 2012: 19.4% a positive book to bill in 2013. and was ahead of expectations reflecting a growing aftermarket revenue mix, benefits from procurement Aftermarket orders grew by 6% 3% like for like and initiatives, productivity gains and effective cost control represented 63% of total input 2012: 60% supported measures.
Combined, these more than offset inflation by the benefits of a large and growing installed base, and the limited pricing pressure seen in the period.
reflected in the 4% order growth for slurry pump spares.
Margins were maintained at good levels in all regions.
Aftermarket growth of 5% or more was achieved in three out of four quarters with Q2 impacted by destocking in South America.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 33 Strategic Report: Operational Review OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED Partners in production worldwide CREATING INNOVATIVE ENGINEERING SOLUTIONS The Weir Minerals Screen Design Centre in Johannesburg, South Africa, is responsible for the development of the divisions vibrating screens global product portfolio.
The team comprises design engineers The design centre is also responsible for and draughtsmen who use the latest building and testing prototypes, making engineering analysis equipment to use of the dedicated vibrating screen and design new screen products.
geared exciter testing facility situated in the manufacturing plant in Johannesburg.
The design centre was established The engineers provide design and after the Weir Group purchased the manufacturing support to the Groups Linatex rubber brand in late 2010.
Since facilities around the world, expanding then, we have invested significantly in the divisions global capability and our team and provided our employees building on Weirs reputation for with cutting edge technology to develop creating innovative products.
innovative screening equipment, helping enhance our offering under the new brand identity of Enduron screens.
34 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Investment Key priorities in 2014 Capital expenditure was 53m 2012: 50m as investment was made in foundry capacity and wear resistant lining production.
Eight service centres were added and research and development spending Invest in comminution process knowledge remained in line with last year at 13m as the division and materials wear technology.
continued to develop its materials technology positions and broaden its product portfolio.
Identify new platforms for potential growth In Malaysia, land was secured to build a best cost aligned to our core strategy and competencies.
manufacturing campus with plans to invest more than 70m over the next three years establishing a new foundry, machine shop and continuous rubber Reduce lead times and working capital through processing line see case study on page 20. global supply chain initiatives.
Including acquisitions, the division added around 400 employees during the year.
Continue development of Minerals and Oil & Gas product portfolios through collaboration and Outlook innovation.
Weir Minerals remains well positioned to sustain its growth strategy supported by a strong business model and the long term attractive market fundamentals in Help make our customers existing operations mining and minerals processing which are driven by more efficient by continuous improvement of emerging market urbanisation and signs of improving our core products, wherever they need us.
economic conditions in developed markets.
Sustained ore output growth, underpinned by declining ore grades and metals prices above incentive levels, lends itself to ongoing demand as Weir Minerals leverages its strong aftermarket position.
The division entered 2014 with an order book at similar levels to the prior year, although total mining capital expenditure is expected to continue to decline at double-digit rates in 2014, reflecting miners investment plans.
Maintenance and brownfield capital expenditure is expected to remain relatively stable while greenfield activity will continue to decline.
The impact on original equipment revenues is anticipated to be partially offset by the combined growth of comminution and non-mining end market sales.
Commissioning of ongoing greenfield developments is expected to support continued aftermarket growth such that full year divisional revenues are expected to be slightly ahead of 2013 on a constant currency basis.
It is anticipated margins will decline slightly reflecting a greater proportion of lower margin products and further investment in new products and technology.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 35
