Governance Board of Directors Board of Directors 1: Henry Staunton 2: Stephen Clarke 3: Robert Moorhead 4: Suzanne Baxter 5: Annemarie Durbin 6: Drummond Hall 1.
Henry Staunton joined the Board of Leadership Board, a part of the Business Ian Houghton is Company Secretary and WHSmith in September 2010 and became in the Community BitC charity with a Legal Director and was appointed in Chairman on 1 September 2013.
He has focus on gender diversity and is also a September 1998. extensive finance, media and retail mentor for the ICAEWs Women in Board Committees expertise and is a nonexecutive director Leadership Programme.
Suzanne is a ofCapital and Counties Properties plc and member of the council of British Services Audit Committee Merchants Trust plc.
He was previously Association, a policy and research centre Suzanne Baxter Chair theFinance Director of Granada and ITV, of excellence for the support services Annemarie Durbin Chairman of Ashtead Group and Vice industry and she recently sat on the CBI Drummond Hall Chairman of Legal and General PLC.
Stephen Clarke is Group Chief Executive 5.
Annemarie Durbin is a nonexecutive Henry Staunton Chairman and joined the Board of WHSmith on director and joined the Board of WHSmith Suzanne Baxter 1June 2012.
He joined WHSmith in August in December 2012.
Annemarie is Group Stephen Clarke 2004 as Marketing Director for WHSmith Head, Independent Governance, Annemarie Durbin High Street.
In 2006 he was appointed Assurance: andWorkplace at Standard Drummond Hall Commercial and Marketing Director Chartered.
Shehas previously held senior andin2008 became Managing Director roles in Wholesale Banking, including Remuneration Committee ofWHSmith High Street.
He began his Head of Financial Institutions for Europe Drummond Hall Chairman career at the Dixons Group where he and Africa, and had global responsibility Suzanne Baxter carried out a number of store, product for the Development Organisation client Annemarie Durbin andmarketing roles.
She has held Consumer Banking Henry Staunton head roles in the Philippines and Thailand 3.
Robert Moorhead is Chief Financial and has been Chief Executive Officer in Officer and Chief Operating Officer and both countries.
Currently she is joined the Board of WHSmith in December responsible forinternal audit, property, 2008.
He joined WHSmith in 2004 as Retail security, business continuity globally and Finance Director.
Previously, he was Group corporate governance at Standard Finance Director at Specsavers Optical Chartered.
Group and Finance and IT Director of World Duty Free Europe.
Drummond Hall is a nonexecutive of roles at B&Q and Kingfisher Group.
He director and joined the Board of WHSmith started his career at Price Waterhouse.
He is the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the 4.
Suzanne Baxter is a nonexecutive Remuneration Committee.
He spent the director and joined the Board of WHSmith early part of his career with Procter & in February 2013.
She is Chair of the Audit Gamble, Mars and PepsiCo Inc, and from Committee.
She is a Chartered Accountant 2002 to 2006 was Chief Executive of Dairy and was appointed Group Finance Director Crest PLC.
of MITIE Group PLC in April 2006.
She is Deputy Chair of the Opportunity Now WH Smith PLC 30 Annual report and accounts 2013
