Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors report 64 Directors report The directors present their Report and Accounts Powers of directors for the year ended 28 February 2013 The business of the Company is managed by the directors Certain information required for disclosure in this report who may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to is provided in other appropriate sections of the Annual the Companys Articles of Association, any relevant legislation Report and Accounts.
These include the business review, and any directions given by the Company by passing a special resolution at a general meeting.
In particular, the directors the corporate governance and remuneration reports and the Group financial statements and notes to those financial may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow statements and accordingly these are incorporated into money, issue shares, appoint and remove directors and the report by reference.
Principal activities and review of business Appointment and replacement of directors The principal activities of the Group are the operation of a Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 20 hotels and restaurants business and a coffee shop business.
Directors may be appointed by the Company, These operations are largely carried out in the UK, although by ordinary resolution or by the Board of Directors.
Premier Inn operates one hotel in Ireland and two hotels in India.
It also has a joint venture, which operates one hotel in In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 Abu Dhabi and three hotels in Dubai.
Costa operates coffee all directors will stand for annual reelection at each AGM.
shops in 28 overseas markets through joint ventures in China or on a franchise basis, and wholly owns coffee shops in The Company may, by special resolution, remove any Eastern Europe.
directors before the expiration of his her term of office.
Details of the Groups activities, developments and Directors automatically stop being directors if: performance for the year, the main trends and factors i. they give the Company a written notice of resignation: likely to affect its future development and performance and information required by the Companies Act 2006 ii.
they give the Company a written notice in which they are set out on pages 4 to 37.
Details of the Companys key offer to resign and the other directors decide to accept performance indicators can be found on pages 26 to 29. the offer: iii.
all of the other directors who must comprise at least Results and dividends three people pass a resolution or sign a written notice requiring the director to resign: Group profit before tax and exceptional items 335.7 million Group profit before tax and after exceptional items 355.3 million iv.
they are or have been suffering from mental or physical ill health and the directors pass a resolution removing the Interim dividend paid on 10 January 2013 19.50p per share director from office: Recommended final dividend 37.90p per share Total dividend for the year 57.40p per share v. they have missed directors meetings whether or not an alternate director appointed attends those meetings for a continuous period of six months without permission Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM, from the directors and the directors pass a resolution the final dividend will be payable on 12 July 2013 to the removing the director from office: shareholders on the register at the close of business on vi.
a bankruptcy order is made against them or they make 17 May 2013. any arrangement or composition with their creditors Board of Directors generally: The directors at the date of this report are listed on pages vii.
they are prohibited from being a director under any 40 and 41.
All except Louise Smalley and Nicholas Cadbury served throughout the year.
Louise Smalley joined the applicable legislation: or Board on 1 November 2012 and Nicholas Cadbury joined viii.
they cease to be a director under any applicable on 14 November 2012. legislation or are removed from office under the Companys Articles of Association.
Details of the directors service contracts are given in the remuneration report on page 58.
None of the nonexecutive Directors indemnity directors has a service contract.
A qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined in Section 236 1 of the Companies Act 2006 is in force for Details of directors training are given in the corporate the benefit of the directors.
Compensation for loss of office There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs as a result of a takeover bid.
Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors report 65 Directors report continued Directors share interests paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received by the Companys registrars not later than Held at 28 02 2013 Held at 01 03 2012 i 48 hours before a meeting or adjourned meeting Anthony Habgood 50,797 50,797 excluding nonworking days, or ii 24 hours before Andy Harrison 191,106 191,106 a poll is taken, if the poll is not taken on the same day as the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Richard Baker 12,336 8,198 Wendy Becker 6,000 6,000 Unless the directors decide otherwise, a shareholder cannot 1 Nicholas Cadbury 600 attend or vote at any general meeting of the Company or at any separate general meeting of the holders of any class of Ian Cheshire 307 300 shares in the Company or upon a poll or exercise any other Patrick Dempsey 24,957 24,957 right conferred by membership in relation to general meetings Susan Hooper 800 or polls if he has not paid all amounts relating to those shares Christopher Rogers 50,000 50,000 which are due at the time of the meeting.
Simon Melliss 3,000 3,000 1 Where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in a class Louise Smalley 11,498 11,498 of shares has been served with a disclosure notice in relation Susan Taylor Martin 500 to a particular holding of shares and has failed to provide the Stephen Williams 9,691 9,440 Company with information concerning those shares, those shares will no longer give that shareholder any right to vote 1 At date of appointment.
The share interests shown above include the nonbeneficial interests 122 of Anthony Habgood in 522 ordinary shares of 76 p each.
153 Restrictions on transfer of shares There are the following restrictions on the transfer of shares Further details regarding the interests of the directors in in the Company: the share capital of the Company, including with respect to options to acquire ordinary shares, are set out in the certain restrictions which may from time to time be remuneration report.
There has been no change to the imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider interests shown above between the end of the financial trading laws : year and the date of this report.
pursuant to the Companys share dealing code, the directors and senior executives of the Company require Share capital approval to deal in the Companys shares: Details of the issued share capital can be found in Note 27 to the accounts.
where a person with at least a 0.25% interest in a class of shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and failed to provide the Company with information concerning speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint one interests in those shares: or more proxies and, if they are corporations, corporate the subscriber ordinary shares may not be transferred representatives to attend general meetings and to exercise without the prior written consent of the directors: voting rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may receive a dividend and on a liquidation may share in the assets of the the directors can, without giving any reason, refuse to Company.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive register the transfer of any shares which are not fully paid: the Companys Annual Report and Accounts.
Subject to transfers cannot be in favour of more than four joint meeting certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares holders: and may requisition a general meeting of the Company or the proposal of resolutions at annual general meetings.
the directors can refuse to register the transfer of an uncertificated share in the circumstances set out in Voting rights the uncertificated securities rules as defined in the On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, Companys Articles of Association.
every holder of ordinary shares present, in person or by proxy and entitled to vote, has one vote unless the proxy is The Company is not aware of any agreements between appointed by more than one member in which case the proxy shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been of shares or on voting rights.
instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against the resolution and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share held.
Voting rights for any ordinary shares held in treasury are suspended.
None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Electronic and Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors report 66 Directors report continued B shares and C shares Employment policies Holders of B shares and C shares are entitled to receive an Whitbread has a range of employment policies covering annual noncumulative preferential dividend calculated at a such issues as diversity, employee wellbeing and equal rate of 75% of six month LIBOR on a value of 155p per B share opportunities.
and 159p per C share respectively, but are not entitled to any The Company takes its responsibilities to the disabled further right of participation in the profits of the Company.
They are also entitled to payment of 155p per B share and seriously and seeks not to discriminate under any 159p per C share respectively on a return of capital on circumstances including in relation to training, career windingup excluding any intragroup reorganisation development and promotion against current or prospective on a solvent basis.
employees because of any disability.
Fair and full consideration is given to applications for employment Except in limited circumstances, the holders of the B shares made by disabled persons, having regard to their aptitudes and C shares are not entitled in their capacity as holders of and abilities.
Employees who become disabled during such shares, to receive notice of any general meeting of the their career at Whitbread will be retained in employment Company nor to attend, speak or vote at any such general wherever possible and given help with rehabilitation meeting.
Purchase of own shares Employee involvement The Company is authorised to purchase its own shares in The importance of good relations and communications with the market.
Approval to renew this authority will be sought employees is fundamental to the continued success of our from the shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
Each of the Groups operating businesses maintains employee relations and consults employees as appropriate The Company did not purchase any of its own shares to its own particular needs.
In addition, our employee opinion during the year.
13.8 million shares representing 7.14% of the survey, Your Say, is conducted twice a year to provide insight total called up share capital at the beginning of the year in to the views of employees.
are held as treasury shares 1 March 2012: 14.1 million.
During the course of the year, the Company transferred 320,000 Our employees are actively encouraged to take part in our shares from treasury to the Employee Share Ownership Trust Sharesave scheme, which is available to all employees and for the future satisfaction of awards under the Long Term offers an option price discounted by 20%.
Regular internal communications are made to all employees Employee share schemes to ensure that they are kept well informed of the performance Whitbread does not have any employee share schemes with of the Group and of financial and economic factors that may shares which have rights with regard to the control of the affect the Companys performance.
Company that are not exercisable directly by the employees.
Further information on employee involvement can be found Major interests in the Winning Teams sections on pages 12 and 20.
As at the end of the financial year, the Company had received formal notification, under the Disclosure and Transparency Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association Rules, of the following material holdings in its shares the Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the percentages shown are the percentages at the time of the Company may be made in accordance with the provisions disclosure and have not been recalculated based on the of the Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution.
issued share capital at the yearend : Significant agreements Number of shares % of issued share capital The Companys facility agreements and the private placement loan notes agreement, details of which can be BlackRock 17,184,930 9.73 found in Note 21 to the accounts, contain provisions entitling Capital Group Companies, Inc. 10,746,506 5.99 the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights Schroders PLC 10,531,421 5.35 in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Standard Life Investments 7,233,278 4.08 Legal & General 6,960,723 3.97 Contractual arrangements The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third parties in support of its business activities, none of which Since the end of the financial year the Company received a are considered individually to be essential to its business notification from Capital Group Companies, Inc. that they had and, accordingly, it has not been considered necessary for an increased their holding to 10,825,963 shares 6.04% of the understanding of the development, performance or position issued share capital.
No further changes to the above have of the Groups business to disclose information about any been disclosed to the Company in accordance with rule 5 of those third parties.
of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules between the end of the financial year and 29 April 2013.
Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors report 67 Directors report continued Financial instruments Disclosure of information to auditor Information on the Companys use of financial instruments, The directors have taken all reasonable steps to make financial risk management objectives and policies and themselves aware of relevant audit information and to exposure is given in Note 24 to the consolidated financial establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
directors are not aware of any relevant audit information which has not been disclosed to the auditor.
Supplier payment policy The Company has no trade creditors 1 March 2012: nil.
Going concern The Group has a standard term of 60 days in respect of The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely payments to suppliers.
Where this standard term does not to affect its future development, performance and position apply, operating companies are responsible for agreeing are set out in the business review on pages 4 to 37.
The terms and conditions for their business transactions when financial position of the Company, its cash flows, net debt orders for goods and services are placed, so that suppliers and borrowing facilities and the maturity of those facilities are aware of the terms of payment and the relevant terms are are set out in the Finance Directors report on pages 30 to 33. included in contracts where appropriate.
The Group keeps In addition there are further details in the financial statements to the payment terms which have been agreed with suppliers.
on the Groups financial risk management, objectives and Where payment terms have not been specifically agreed, it policies Note 24 and on financial instruments Note 25. is the Groups policy to settle invoices close to the end of the month following the month of invoicing.
The Groups ability A combination of the strong operating cash flows generated to keep to these terms is dependent upon suppliers sending by the business and the significant headroom on its credit accurate and adequately detailed invoices to the correct facilities supports the directors view that the Group has address on a timely basis.
The Group had 47 days purchases sufficient funds available for it to meet its forseeable working outstanding at 28 February 2013 1 March 2012: 47 days capital requirements.
The directors have concluded that the based on the trade creditors at that date and purchases going concern basis remains appropriate.
Annual General Meeting Charitable and political donations The AGM will be held at 2pm on 18 June 2013 at the Queen During the year, the Company made a direct charitable Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, donation of 111,480 to Great Ormond Street Hospital London SW1P 3EE.
The Notice of Meeting is enclosed with Childrens Charity and a further donation of 100,000 to this report for shareholders receiving hard copy documents, the Costa Foundation.
Costa Limited, a subsidiary of the and available at www.
co. uk for those who elected Company, also made a direct donation of 929,871 to the to receive documents electronically.
At the 2013 AGM, Costa Foundation.
In total 2.3 million was raised in the all voting will be by poll.
Electronic handsets will be utilised Group for its two designated charities.
In addition, the and results will be displayed on the screen at the meeting.
Company organised and supported a number of charitable events and a number of its employees carried out charitable Approved by the Board on 29 April 2013 and signed.
The value of these activities has not been quantified.
More information on Great Ormond Simon Barratt Street Hospital Childrens Charity and the Costa Foundation General Counsel and Company Secretary can be found at the back of this document.
Registered Office: The Company has not made any political donations during Whitbread Court the year and intends to continue its policy of not doing Houghton Hall Business Park so for the foreseeable future.
Porz Avenue Dunstable Auditor Bedfordshire Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to LU5 5XE continue in office as auditor of the Company and a resolution proposing their reappointment will be put to shareholders Registered in England: No.
After proper consideration, the Audit The directors report that has been drawn up and presented in accordance Committee is satisfied that the Companys auditor, Ernst & with and in reliance upon applicable English company law and any liability Young LLP, continues to be objective and independent of the of the directors in connection with this report shall be subject to the Company.
In coming to this conclusion, the Audit Committee limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
The directors report includes the business review on pages 4 to 37 and this report on pages gave full consideration to any nonaudit work carried out 64 to 67. by Ernst & Young LLP.
The Annual Report and Accounts contain certain statements about the future outlook for the Group.
Although the Company believes that the The Audit Committee has considered what work should not expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any statements about be carried out by the external auditor and has concluded that future outlook may be influenced by factors that could cause actual certain services will not be carried out by Ernst & Young LLP.
outcomes and results to be materially different.
Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Consolidated accounts 2012 13 68 Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Consolidated accounts 2012 13 69 Consolidated accounts 2012 13 70 Directors responsibility for the consolidated financial statements 71 Independent auditors report 72 Consolidated income statement 73 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 74 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 75 Consolidated balance sheet 76 Consolidated cash ow statement 77 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
