Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Costa 18 Costa We recruit, reward, train and develop We develop talented leaders and offer our 13,000 team members to build highly jobs with opportunity and exciting engaged teams who deliver a great international career prospects.
coffee experience for our customers.
The size of our network and the number We design our stores to create of distribution channels mean you are a warm and welcoming experience.
never far from a cup of Costa coffee.
We use customer insight to build We serve the best quality coffee.
We constantly develop new food We maintain quality through ongoing and drink ideas.
We invest in our stores to strengthen our We sell coffee through our wholesale, position as UK market leader and expand C osta at home and Costa Express in selected international markets where channels.
we can build significant presence.
We use a number of different ownership models including Costaowned, franchise and joint ventures.
We raise money for the Costa Foundation, All our coffee is 100% Rainforest Alliance which builds schools in coffeegrowing accredited and all our products are communities.
sustainably, ethically and, wherever possible, locally sourced.
Our teams take pride in supporting their local communities.
We are reducing waste to landfill and our carbon footprint.
We are creating 1,500 new job opportunities every year.
Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Costa: Key highlights 19 Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth H H H Heartbeat eartbea a at t Key highlights A force for good Key highlights Key highlights Key highlights Key highlights We achieved our highest Costa recognised as On track to meet The Costa Foundation ever engagement scores The UKs No.
1 Coffee 2016 growth milestone, registered as a stand in our Your Say survey.
Brand for the third with new milestone alone charity.
New barista induction All Costas coffee and skills training We are making it easier Improved return products are Rainforest programme launched.
to choose Costa, by on capital.
growing our store Significant job creation China remains an All food and beverages network and selling as we open a new exciting opportunity have nutritional coffee in new ways.
store almost every day for growth.
information available in store, on packs across the world.
Friendliness of staff Launched Costa is one of the highest and online.
Feel Good incentive at home.
scoring areas of scheme launched.
On track to meet 2017 customer feedback.
The Costa Coffee Club continues to drive loyalty.
Facts and figures Facts and figures Facts and figures Facts and figures 1,800 41% 324 1.5 million Attended management Proportion of UK adults New Costa stores opened Raised for the Costa Foundation development workshops who rate Costa as their favourite coffee shop 1,368 32 1,600 New Costa Express machines Completed Costa Foundation 120 New jobs created school projects Costaowned UK stores 29 reimaged in the year 8,400 21% Countries where Costa Team members received has a presence Less carbon emitted than 2 million Feel Good incentive points in 2009 relative to sales Active Costa Coffee Club members It takes a lot of love and skill to Our baristas are passionate The largest coffee shop brand The coffee journey starts make our unique Mocha Italia about delivering a great coffee in the UK and second largest on farms in coffeegrowing blend.
in the world means were all communities around the about choice, convenience and world.
The Costa Foundation great quality coffee.
is there to support their growth by building schools and providing education.
More on p20 More on p22 More on p24 More on p25 Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Costa: Winning Teams 20 Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbeat H H Heartbea a at t Winning A force for good Teams We believe that if we create a great place to work for our Skills development This year we launched a new barista induction and skills team members this will help us to build Winning Teams to make everyday experiences special for our millions training programme to more than 13,000 team members of Costa customers.
across Costa Retail and Costa Enterprises to engage, focus and enable our baristas to deliver an unbeatable coffee experience.
Costa uses Whitbreads sixmonthly team engagement survey, Your Say, to measure how well we are doing at building a great place to work.
The quality of our coffee and expertise of our baristas is vital to Costas success.
This year we focused on further Team engagement survey: Your Say developing the knowledge of our skills trainers in the sensorial analysis of espresso, which has led to their accreditation by Engagement Engagement Response Response the International Institute of Coffee Tasters.
score 2012 score 2011 rate 2012 rate 2011 Costa 83% 78% 93% 73% We have given a facelift to our Lambeth Training Academy with new, more advanced equipment and state of the art Your Say technology for the students to experience and learn from.
Costa had record Your Say scores this year, with 93% of people completing the survey and an overall engagement Job opportunities score of 83%, up from 78%.
With our ambitious growth plans, opening a store almost every day around the world, Costa is creating jobs and careers We use Your Say to help us understand how it feels to work for thousands of people.
In the UK, new openings of Costa at Costa and have a rigorous action planning process at Retail companyowned stores have created 904 new jobs stores and in our support teams to learn from the results and in 2012 13, whilst our franchise and delivery partners have continuously strive to make Costa a better place to work.
Communication is a key area where we know we can improve and our new team member website, Costa Share, provides a great way to share information and news.
This year we used Costa Share to ask our team members to vote for their new uniform which proved very popular and highly engaging.
We also run regular focus groups at stores and in regions to explore important topics with our teams.
Leadership At Costa we offer exciting leadership opportunities around the world and are committed to developing talented leaders.
We do this in a number of ways.
This year we rolled out a nationwide coaching scheme to all store managers and regional development managers to help them to engage and enable their teams better.
More than 1,800 barista maestros, assistant managers and store managers have been developed through one of Costas management development training workshops and 25 store managers have progressed through Handmade everyday our high potential development programme, Our baristas make an average of more Shining Stars.
Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Costa: Winning Teams 21 Winning Teams continued Opportunities to share in Costas success Pay for progression Since implementing pay for progression in our UK Retail stores there has been major shift in the way we reward our baristas after they complete their basic training.
We continue to pay above National Minimum Wage and we also offer an incentive scheme called Feel Good that all our baristas can participate in.
Reward and recognition Feel Good allows baristas to earn points and rewards for delivering great customer service.
In 2012 13 we awarded 80 million Feel Good points to more than 8,400 team members and, at present, 70% of our store teams are registered on the scheme.
Points are awarded on a quarterly basis against the customer measure, Listen and Learn, and Chill everyday sixmonthly against like for like sales.
They can then be Our new range of iced coffees redeemed online for a wide range of items from musical and lemonades proved popular with instruments to experience days.
Other ways in which we reward and recognise our teams include campaign incentives, introduced at the beginning of our summer and Christmas campaigns to improve team engagement, enhance the customer experience Career progression and drive sales.
Harriet Mason started her career with Costa in August 2001 as a barista.
Using her skills and expertise gained Across all levels of the business, individuals and teams through progressing at a store level, Harriets passion for are recognised through the use of Grazie cards, which give development led her to being nominated as a high potential a personalised thank you message, and recognition pins store manager and considered for an associate retail in the form of flying coffee beans.
Many of these individuals development management role.
After shining at the and teams are also celebrated at award events held across assessments, Harriet was one of two appointments made.
This allowed her to take the next step in her career and develop as a leader in a multisite role with responsibility for ten stores in Scotland.
Now a retail development Costa Barista of the Year manager with responsibility for more than 20 stores, Every year Costa baristas from around the world get to Harriet continues to be an inspiration to her team and showcase their coffee making talents at the Barista of the peers, constantly stretching herself in her role and looking Year competition.
The grand final is a two day competition, for the next challenge to strengthen her leadership skills testing their technical and coffee knowledge.
This years and style even further.
winner was Victoria Stewart from a Costa store in St Andrews.
Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Costa: Customer Heartbeat 22 Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbeat H H Heartbea a at t Customer A force for good Heartbeat Costa is one of the few brands on the UK high street that Making Costa the easy choice for customers is consistently achieving great like for like sales growth We place a lot of focus on making it easy to choose Costa and expanding at a rapid pace.
We believe this success by investing in growing our store network and extending is thanks to our commitment and focus on always putting the ways we sell coffee to our customers.
the customer at the heart of everything we do.
In the UK alone, in 2012 13 we opened 186 stores of which 97 No.
1 UK coffee shop brand were equity and 89 were individual and corporate franchises.
For the third year in a row, Costa has been recognised We also opened another four drivethrus, taking the total to as the UKs No.
1 coffee brand by Allegra Strategies.
nine and we have a solid pipeline for further drivethrus in Their independent survey of over 5,000 adults reported 2013 14 and beyond.
The drivethru concept is proving very that 41% of the UK population voted Costa as their popular with customers.
favourite coffee shop brand, versus 26% for Starbucks.
YouGovs usage and awareness study also showed that Costa was the UKs most popular coffee shop as shown in the graph below.
Growing strong brands 40 34% 35 31% 30 22% 25 20% 20 15 12% 11% 10 Choice everyday 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Our drivethru stores offer customers Costa Starbucks Caff Nero a new way to get a cup of Costa coffee.
Source: YouGov Annual Study, 2,000 national representative respondents: I f these three brands were next to each other which one would you choose?
Costa Express has been another highly successful innovation.
It offers customers another place to buy their favourite cup A key factor in helping to drive awareness has been Costas of coffee.
We have also introduced Costa at home, which recent Coffee Heads TV advertising campaign.
The advert now enables customers to make a cup of Costa coffee was launched in October 2012 and has seen a very positive themselves.
response with first mention awareness up by 5% pts and overall brand warmth up by 2% pts.
Internationally, the Costa brand is in the process of establishing itself within key markets, with China offering the biggest opportunity for growth.
In 2012 13 we opened 89 stores in China, bringing our total to over 250 stores in 28 cities.
In total we opened 138 stores across Costa EMEI and Costa Asia.
Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Costa: Customer Heartbeat 23 Customer Connecting everyday Heartbeat Costas Facebook fans are up 269% and are continued set to hit one million next year, making it one of the top five largest sites within hospitality.
Best quality coffee Developing new food and drink products As well as choice, customers are also looking for a great Over the course of the year Costa has launched a number quality cup of coffee and at Costa we are passionate about of new products including Cortado, Caff Caramella and only serving the very best, handmade by our specially Chai Latte.
We also introduced a number of new flavours to our Ice Our awardwinning roastery in Lambeth roasts 7,500 tonnes Cold Costa range, including three lemonadebased drinks.
of green coffee a year and supplies every Costa store Supported by strong point of sale advertising, Ice Cold around the globe, with the exception of our stores in India.
Costa proved popular with UK customers.
The Roastery was recently accredited with an ISO 50001 certificate recognising reductions in carbon emissions and is In Europe, innovative new products such as the rosemary the only roastery in the world to have achieved this accolade.
and kalmata olive bread are selling well, whilst in China western products are the biggest sellers with tiramisu and hazelnut latte cake being the most popular.
Using customer insight to drive customer satisfaction Our Listen and Learn customer insight programme has been a driving force in Costas outperformance.
Providing real time customer feedback to each UK store inspires our teams to deliver great customer service, linking them directly to what customers are saying about their experience.
This provides a snapshot to the team of what is going well and what opportunities they have to delight customers even further.
The impact on driving team engagement as well as improving service quality is tremendous.
In 2012 13 Costa achieved an increase in Net Promoter Score, with one of the highest scoring areas being friendliness of staff.
Taste everyday Loyalty card Our unique Mocha Italia blend has The Costa Coffee Club continues to go from strength to strength with two million active users of the card.
The scheme been roasted in Lambeth for 42 years.
continues to drive loyalty with the number of visits per quarter up 4% year on year and average transaction value also up 4% year on year.
As a result total spend through the Club is up 20% year on year.
A warm and welcoming store design We are proud of our store design and ambience.
Our baristas do a tremendous job creating a warm and welcoming During the year we launched the Costa Coffee Club app and integrated it onto Costas Facebook page, which means atmosphere and we put a lot of effort into making sure the design and layout of the stores is equally warm and welcoming.
members can now check their points balance, manage their card and report it lost or stolen all via Facebook.
Our last In 2012 13 we started to roll out our new evolution design promotion on the Coffee Card app saw almost 32,000 people log in to their accounts using Facebook across across the estate and completed 120 reimages in the year, with an investment of 18.2 million in refurbishment and three days in January.
In addition to these refurbishments we have also opened 109 new stores incorporating the evolution design this year.
We are also using the evolution store design for new openings overseas.
In China we have opened five Metro stores and nine Bake Off stores, where we are trialling the concept of baristas cooking certain dishes in store to create fresh baked pastries and savoury dishes.
Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Costa: Profitable Growth 24 Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbeat H H Heartbea a at t Profitable A force for good Growth Costa produced another outstanding performance During the year we opened 89 new stores in China taking during the year, with total sales increasing by 24.1% driven our total number of stores to 253 in 28 cities.
This puts by good like for like growth and a strong store opening us on track to achieve our target of 500 stores by 2016. programme.
Making Costa convenient Total system sales, which are sales derived from Costa In addition to our store portfolio, we provide access to Costa owned and franchise stores, were up 22.6% to 1.0 billion.
through a number of different channels including Wholesale, This puts us on track to achieve our 2016 growth milestone Costa Express and Costa at home.
Costa Express, which of 1.3 billion of system sales.
Costa Express had another targets the selfserve coffee bar market, had a highly strong performance with the addition of 1,368 units taking successful year adding 1,368 new units following a successful our total number of units to 2,560. partnership with Shell for the installation of around 700 units.
We ended the year with 2,560 units.
Our wholesale business Following a strong top line performance, underlying operating also made good progress and, following the successful launch profit increased by 29.3% to 90.1 million.
Once again, a of our Costa at home range, we continue to make progress disciplined approach to capital deployment combined with in a nascent but fast growing category.
strong cash flow generation has increased return on capital Number of Costa stores worldwide by 2.3% pts to 34.7%.
2012 13 2,527 Growth 2011 12 2,203 During 2012 13 we continued to invest in strengthening 2010 11 1,871 our position as the UKs leading coffee shop as well as 2009 10 1,600 expanding in selected international markets where we can build significant market share.
In the UK we opened 186 net new stores taking the total to 1,578 and internationally we opened 138 net new stores taking the total to 949.
This takes our total worldwide store numbers to 2,527.
We recently announced a new 2018 milestone to get to around 2 billion of system sales.
To facilitate our growth we use a range of ownership models such as equity, franchise and joint ventures which we currently operate in a total of 29 countries across the world.
This not only helps us in delivering on our expansion plans, but also helps us to focus on driving like for like growth across our equity estate and joint ventures.
During the year we delivered another strong performance, with like for like sales growth of 6.8% across our equity estate in the UK.
This is driven by our continuous focus on innovation, investment in the brand and customer propositions.
International Convenience everyday We made good progress during the year, with our franchise Costa has added 1,368 new Costa Express business in the Middle East and India continuing to perform well.
However, progress in our Eastern and Southern units to its portfolio.
European markets was more difficult due to weak consumer confidence resulting from the ongoing crisis in the Eurozone.
China remains an exciting opportunity for Costa where we operate two joint ventures.
Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Costa: Good Together 25 Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbeat H H Heartbea a at t Good A force for good Together Team and Community Approach Aim by 2017 Progress The Costa Foundation will build 50 schools Costa team members, customers and charitable We will develop to educate 50,000 children.
products helped raise over 1.5 million to the Costa our people and Foundation.
Provide enhanced skills training to 20,000 support the team members.
11 school projects were completed in 2012 13.
are now 32 completed projects in six different countries.
Give our team members over 5,000 management progression opportunities.
17,553 children now have access to education in remote Programmes coffeegrowing communities around the world.
Charitable giving We have delivered programmes of enhanced skills training to a total of 7,762 team members and barista maestros.
Job and career UK wide management development programmes now development have a total of 2,455 graduates over the last two years.
904 new jobs were created by the growth of Costa Community engagement owned sites, with many more as a result of our business partners growth.
A UKbased community engagement and support plan has been developed to start during 2013.
Customer Wellbeing Approach Aim by 2017 Progress All our hot drinks will be sustainably All coffee products in every worldwide market are now We will be proud sourced and certified.
Our everyday tea served in the of the provenance UK is also Rainforest Alliance Certified.
Our products will be locally ethically of our products.
The Costa at home range of roast and ground and Tassimo products, launched in UK supermarkets and We will improve the nutritional value Programmes department stores, are 100% Rainforest Alliance Certified.
of our products and enable our customers to make a fully informed choice when they All the meat and poultry in our savoury products and Sustainable sourcing visit our stores.
the milk in our drinks come from accredited UK farms Menu development producing high quality, high welfare products.
All our cardboard food packaging comes from sustainably Customer education managed, FSC certified sources.
All our food and beverages have nutritional information available in store, on packs and online via our customer calorie counter at www.
Environment Approach Aim by 2017 Progress 25% carbon reduction from direct Costa has achieved a 21% reduction in carbon emitted We will achieve the operations relative to sales against since 2009, relative to sales on a like for like basis, lowest environmental a 2009 baseline.
representing an improvement of 3% in the year.
Zero waste to landfill from UK Company The Costa Roastery has maintained its ISO 50001 stores.
environmental accreditation and further reduced CO 2 Programmes emissions per tonne of coffee produced to 32% versus We will provide clear guidance to our its 2009 base position.
partners to achieve similar results.
Consuming less 100% of electricity consumed at the Roastery and our Costa Express offices comes from renewable sources.
Waste reduction Approximately 20% of Costaowned stores were Influence in partnership served with power from renewable energy sources.
Costaowned stores improved diversion from landfill from 29% pts to 59%.
