Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Hotels & Restaurants 10 Hotels & Restaurants We recruit, reward, train and develop our We offer jobs with opportunity, and 29,000 team members to build highly an industry leading apprenticeship engaged teams who deliver great programme to grow talented leaders.
customer service and make everyday experiences special.
With the largest UK hotel network, We build brand awareness and loyalty Premier Inn offers customers the greatest through targeted marketing and sales.
At every Premier Inn we serve great Premier Inn offers a consistently high food and drink.
quality product supported by our unique We have 372 restaurants next to a Good Night Guarantee.
Our Dynamic Pricing system means Our Beefeater, Brewers Fayre and Table we can offer customers the best value Table restaurants have distinctive brand and deliver occupancy targets.
propositions and serve great quality We are a leading online retailer value menus appealing to a local 4 out of every 5 bookings is made customer base and our hotel guests.
We continually refurbish our hotel and restaurant estate to maintain quality.
We invest in high returning, consistently We maximise synergies and efficiencies profitable sites and are increasing with our joint site restaurants.
our share of the UK market with rapid expansion of Premier Inn, especially in London.
We are entering into selected international markets with the Premier Inn brand.
We plan to raise substantial funds for our We are committed to sustainable partner, Great Ormond Street Hospital sourcing.
We minimise our environmental impact We are creating more than 1,000 job with innovative construction methods opportunities every year with a focus and processes.
on under 25 year olds and longterm unemployed.
Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Hotels & Restaurants: Key highlights 11 Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth H H H Heartbeat eartbea a at t Key highlights A force for good Key highlights Key highlights Key highlights Key highlights We achieved our highest Premier Inn voted On track to meet Great Ormond Street ever engagement scores Best Leisure Hotel 2016 growth milestones, Hospital Childrens in our Your Say survey.
Chain and Best Budget with new milestones Charity chosen by Hotel Brand at the 2012 announced for 2018. team members as Named Employer of the British Travel Awards.
Year at the Hospitality Maintained a good Guild Apprenticeship Best ever levels of return on capital.
customer satisfaction policy updated and Premier Inn and in Premier Inn and relaunched.
Provided work placement Restaurants both Restaurants.
opportunities to young outperformed Water consumption competitors.
reduction target met and unemployed people.
Rolled out a new two tier pricing system in and new updated Launched the industry Progressed plans to Premier Inn providing target set.
leading My Rewards grow Premier Inn in value for our customers.
programme in our India, the Middle East On track to meet Restaurants.
Premier Inn is now and South East Asia.
2017 carbon one of the UKs leading reduction target.
Facts and figures Facts and figures Facts and figures Facts and figures 2,613 78% 4,242 800,000 Qualifications attained Proportion of Premier Inn New Premier Inn Raised for Great by team members bookings made online rooms opened net Ormond Street Hospital Childrens Charity 415 103.1 million 10 468 Apprenticeships delivered Spent on the maintenance New restaurants of our estate Volunteering hours given 1,100 1.7% 36 93% New jobs created Like for like RevPAR Restaurants refurbished growth in Premier Inn Waste diverted from landfill Our teams pride themselves We welcome over 60 million As the UKs largest hotel Our teams are passionate on giving everyone a warm hotel and restaurant guests company you can find us about their chosen charity, and friendly welcome.
in the best locations in the UK.
Great Ormond Street Hospital Childrens Charity and working together to reduce waste and energy usage.
More on p12 More on p14 More on p16 More on p17 Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Hotels & Restaurants: Winning Teams 12 Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbeat H H Heartbea a at t Winning A force for good Teams Across our 655 Premier Inns and 397 restaurants we employ Our focus on building internal leadership and developing 29,000 people, serving millions of customers every month.
high potential individuals has ensured that 71% of Success is all about making everyday experiences feel management and senior appointments in the year came special for our customers and we rely on our Winning Teams from internal promotions.
Thats why its so vital that our teams are Skills development highly engaged and passionate about what they do.
Developing the skills and abilities of our teams is core to We measure their engagement through our sixmonthly our strategy, to enable our people to achieve their ambitions, Your Say survey and in the most recent survey we achieved have a good sense of wellbeing at work and deliver great our highest ever response rate and engagement scores.
experiences to our millions of customers.
In 2012 13 we significantly broadened our approach and are now reaching Team engagement survey: Your Say out into the communities in which we operate, supporting our Good Together goal to be a force for good.
Engagement Engagement Response Response score 2012 score 2011 rate 2012 rate 2011 We have hosted and taken part in several industryled Hotels & Restaurants 75% 72% 96% 87% forums, Big Conversations in Hospitality, to focus on three areas: youth unemployment: apprenticeships: and work Your Say is a tool that lets us know the things that matter experience.
This has resulted in 10,000 pledges from most to our teams and we use the results to develop specific ourselves and other industry employers to offer jobs, action plans.
One of the priorities identified is to have better experience and apprenticeships to young people.
twoway communication and we have taken a number of steps to address this, including new listening forums.
These We secured funding from the Governments Employer have taken place in over 100 sites enabling team members to Ownership of Skills project to support our own programme, have a voice and speak freely with the leaders of the business WISE Whitbread Investing in Skills and Employment, and to share ideas for improvement.
which focuses on a number of initiatives including: Leadership building links with schools, colleges and universities: We are focused on building our talent and succession pipeline providing sustainable and inspirational work experience in all regions and countries where we operate to meet our to young people: ambitious growth plans.
transitioning the unemployed into work: and We continue to run our very successful two day leadership developing a progression of apprenticeships.
development programme, designed to accelerate our leaders understanding of how they can contribute to future success.
To date some 450 leaders have benefitted from this intensive focus on their personal development, and this year all 112 Premier Inn senior managers took part in the programme.
We have a number of graduate programmes running within operational teams and functional departments to help bring high calibre and high potential talent into the organisation.
Improving everyday 2,600 kitchen managers and general managers attended one of the three skills academies in the year.
Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Hotels & Restaurants: Winning Teams 13 Winning Teams continued Work placements This year, we have started providing opportunities to young and unemployed people who may struggle to gain experience and access to employment.
In total, 220 placements were completed with structured work experience for school students to give them experience working in a highly customerfocused environment.
Apprenticeships We were proud to win Employer of the Year at the Hospitality Guild Apprenticeship Awards and were commended for an outstanding contribution to raising the profile of apprenticeships and raising skills across our industry.
The number of apprenticeships completed in 2012 13 was 415 and 2,613 qualifications were attained.
Since we introduced apprenticeships in 2009, 650 have been completed Working everyday alongside a total of 6,456 qualifications, which include Gillian Shepherd and Nisha Jassal both awards for Skills for Life and functional English and maths.
joined the new Premier Inn Westeld, Creating opportunities Stratford and were recruited through Our ambitious growth plans, both in the UK and internationally, Jobcentre Plus.
make Whitbread an exciting place to work with plenty of opportunities and we are proud of our ability to develop people and build exciting and diverse careers.
This year we have appointed over 17,000 people into positions In the year we also launched the My Rewards programme across the business including 657 management roles.
Out of in our Restaurants business and will roll this out in Premier these over 1,100 were brand new jobs in newly opened sites.
This industryleading programme works by We have a target to ensure 50% of new roles go to people not using reloadable, prepaid VISA debit cards for all reward in education, employment or training and have achieved 35% payments.
We have a strong culture of recognition and celebrating Reward and recognition success, which helps create an environment in which people The Guest Promise rewards scheme, launched in 2011, is see that their work is valued and are inspired to achieve.
making a big difference to our teams and customer service.
This year Restaurants recognised 100 heroes in the business.
The scheme provides an incentive for all team members to This is a programme which will be run again this year to create make everyday experiences special for our customers and is even more heroes.
based on achievement of their sites customer Net Promoter Score targets.
Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Hotels & Restaurants: Customer Heartbeat 14 Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbeat H H Heartbea a at t Customer A force for good Heartbeat With 60,000 people sleeping in our hotels a night Quality product, Good Night Guarantee and our restaurant teams serving 125,000 meals a day, Something that sets Premier Inn apart from our competitors its all about making these everyday experiences feel is the quality of our rooms and hotels.
This year we invested special for our customers.
103.1 million in maintenance, a significant part of which was in refurbishing around 6,000 rooms to ensure our hotels are Largest network in the best condition.
Our large UK network means that we are able to meet the needs of our customers by being located in convenient We are so confident in our product that we guarantee places.
Over the year we have opened 29 hotels, with it with our Good Night Guarantee.
Any guest who doesnt 4,242 net rooms.
Of those, nine hotels were alongside enjoy a good nights sleep is refunded their full nights stay.
We run one of the largest guest satisfaction surveys in A key area for growth is London, where historically we have Europe, with 860,000 responses every year.
This gives us been underrepresented.
This year we have added 841 new invaluable insight into what our customers love and what they rooms, which is 12% more capacity within Greater London.
think we could improve upon.
A great example where we have We now have hotels in some key locations including Leicester worked hard to improve the customer experience is on the Square and in the City of London at Blackfriars.
The Stratford level of noise in our hotels.
Weve run a number of projects Premier Inn, on the site of the new Westfield shopping centre looking at smarter ways to reduce noise.
and overlooking the Olympic Park, opened in time to welcome many thousands of Olympic guests and delegates.
The UK hotel market While the overall growth of the hotel market in the UK is expected to be slow, the branded budget sector continues to win share from independent operators, which gives us confidence in setting new milestones.
We expect the independent market to decline from around 54% to 46% of the total hotel market while the branded budget sector rises from around 21% to 28%.
Structural growth opportunity c. 75,000 rooms by 2018 700,000 2018 46% 26% 28% rooms Premier Inn rooms c. 75,000 690,000 2016 49% 26% 25% rooms Ready everyday Premier Inn rooms 65,000 Premier Inn prepares 37,000 rooms every day.
682,000 2012 54% 25% 21% rooms Premier Inn rooms 51,000 679,000 2010 57% 24% 19% rooms Dynamic pricing Our dynamic pricing model continues to evolve and enables Premier Inn rooms 43,000 us to manage demand and offer customers the best value.
678,000 In the year we rolled out our two tier pricing system, Premier 2007 63% 21% 16% rooms Flexible and Premier Saver, which gives customers a greater Premier Inn rooms 36,000 choice.
The price sensitive customer can select a Saver rate, which has more restrictive cancellation terms, whilst the Key customer who values flexibility can book at the flexible rate, Independents Other branded Budget branded which can be cancelled up until the day of arrival and with a full refund.
Our two successful formats, solus and joint site, facilitate We are able to offer great value packages for customers.
growth in both city centres and in the regions, and our A good example is our new Sleep, Park and Fly airport freehold leasehold model provides a full range of property package which is available at Gatwick and Heathrow.
Together, they provide us with the flexibility in terms enables customers to book for one night and leave their of location and geography to further strengthen our network car at the airport for a highly competitive rate.
and continue to win market share.
Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Hotels & Restaurants: Customer Heartbeat 15 Customer Happy everyday Heartbeat Premier Inn has received high guest continued recommend scores throughout this year.
A leading digital retailer Customer appeal We increased the number of people eating in our restaurants Premier Inn is now one of the UKs leading digital retailers, with 83% of all our bookings made digitally, up from 76% by appealing to more and more customers with our great last year.
This has been driven by continued investment in value menus, quality food and outstanding levels of service.
marketing to encourage people to use the website, which has Were focused on making our teams really passionate about food, giving them the skills and knowledge they need to be increased visits to 61 million in 2012 13.
In March we launched our latest TV advert, with Lenny Henry.
This helped drive able to wow customers.
We continue to develop our menus, spontaneous awareness to 71% in October, ahead of all our introducing new dishes and concepts such as nachos topped key competitors, and deliver an increase in web visits of 21%.
with rump steak or paprika chicken and spicy cheese dipping Our new digital platforms are performing well with 29% of sauce, Sunday Roast with mini joints from our chargrill bookings made through mobile devices.
and a new Burgers and Hot Dogs buffet at Brewers Fayre.
We continue to invest in our digital capability, building a dedicated team and enhanced infrastructure.
We are working to improve both our search engine optimisation and the booking flow when a customer makes a reservation online.
Brand awareness and loyalty Premier Inn has topped the YouGov brand index for a fourth year running, and has been rated No.
1 for best value hotel three years running.
Popular with leisure and business customers alike, this year Premier Inn was voted the Best Leisure Hotel Chain and Best Budget Hotel Brand at the 2012 British Travel Awards.
Our business customers benefit from our Business Account Card, which enables them to control expenses in their organisation, whether theyre a company with ten or 10,000 employees.
Business Account represents 26% of all Premier Smile everyday Inn revenue and we now have 22,000 accounts.
82% of We achieved 72.8% friendly service score Business Account holders make the most of our meal deals in the adjoining restaurant.
in our Restaurants guest service survey.
Building stronger restaurant brands At every Premier Inn, customers can be sure to get great food and drink and we have 372 joint site restaurants that are next Appealing to the local market is key to any restaurants door to the hotel and operate under either the Beefeater Grill, success and we have focused on making sure each restaurant Brewers Fayre, Table Table or Taybarns brand.
is actively promoting itself within its community.
This entails much more prominent signage outside each site, targeted In a highly value sensitive market our restaurant brands local promotions such as Breakfast with Santa which was outperformed the competition and delivered our best ever a big success with families over Christmas and a major drive customer satisfaction scores.
This has been achieved by to increase breakfast sales, which are up 16.6% year on year.
a significant reduction in customers scoring zero to six out of ten and an improvement in customers scoring nine or ten out of ten.
In the year, we completed the rollout of Buffet Place in Brewers Fayre sites, with 17 new Buffet Places opened.
3.6 million has been invested in refurbishing 36 restaurants and we are also continually innovating within our Beefeater Grill and Brewers Fayre brands, with new approaches to design, menus and customer environments.
Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Hotels & Restaurants: Profitable Growth 16 Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbeat H H Heartbea a at t Profitable A force for good Growth During 2012 13 our Hotels & Restaurants business delivered Joint site restaurants a solid performance amid a challenging consumer market.
We have a total of 397 restaurants, of which the majority Total sales grew by 9.7% and like for like sales by 2.8%.
are adjacent to a Premier Inn.
The joint site model continues Underlying operating profit rose by 5.9% to 313.1 million to provide significant benefits to Whitbread through offering and return on capital was maintained at 12.4%.
a superior customer experience to both our hotel and restaurant guests.
This translates into a higher guest Our strong cash flow generation allowed us to invest recommend score leading to higher RevPAR in the adjacent 158.2 million in growing our estate during the year.
This, hotel, delivering a better return on capital.
combined with our disciplined approach to deploying capital in both new hotels and restaurants, while maintaining our International existing estate, allows us to grow profits and shareholder Overseas, our four hotels in the Middle East and two hotels value year after year.
in India made good progress with like for like occupancy rising by 12% pts to 77% and like for like RevPAR growing 20% pts Growth to 33.
Our committed pipeline now consists of 12 hotels and During 2012 13 Premier Inn continued to win market share eight signed memoranda of understanding as we continue through opening 4,242 net new rooms and 29 hotels net to expand the Premier Inn brand across the Middle East, India taking our total number of rooms to 51,671.
Our market share and South East Asia, pursuing a more asset light strategy.
is around 7% of the total hotel market.
This, combined with our committed pipeline of 10,000 rooms, puts us on track to reach our 2016 growth milestone of 65,000 rooms.
We have now extended this growth milestone to c. 75,000 UK Premier Inn rooms by 2018.
The London hotel market, where we are under represented, remains a key focus for the Group, representing 40% of our committed pipeline, as we continue to increase the penetration of Premier Inn in the capital.
In addition to our Premier Inn expansion, we also added ten new joint site restaurants during the year taking our total number of restaurants to 397.
While it is important that we deliver on our growth milestones, it is equally as important that we deliver a good return on capital.
Our continuous focus on improving customer propositions combined with the key levers of dynamic pricing, digital, reinvestment in our estate and the strength of our network drove like for like sales growth of 3.1% for Premier Inn Expanding everyday during the period.
Like for like revenue per available room RevPAR, which is a key focus for Premier Inn, grew by 1.7% Whitbreads Hotels & Restaurants network as we continued to outperform the Midscale and Economy continues to grow with 655 Premier Inns sector, winning market share.
Restaurants also delivered a positive performance for the year with like for like sales growth of 2.3%, outperforming the Coffer Peach industry benchmark.
The growth in like for like sales has been driven by management actions and a focus on breakfast and coffee sales as well as careful revenue management.
Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Hotels & Restaurants: Good Together 17 Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams profitable Growth Heartbeat H H Heartbea a at t Good A force for good Together Team and Community Approach Aim by 2017 Progress Substantial funds raised for charities.
Almost 800,000 raised for Great Ormond Street We will make lives Hospital Childrens Charity.
6,000 nationally recognised qualifications better for our teams for team members including 1,100 2,613 nationally recognised qualifications achieved and communities apprenticeships.
including 415 apprenticeships completed and 330 through education, team members in learning.
5,000 new jobs created 50% of these filled employment and by young and longterm unemployed.
Over 1,100 new jobs many filled by young and long opportunity.
Team member health and wellbeing Charitable giving programme in place.
Whitbread was recognised for the fourth consecutive year by Business in the Community with reaccreditation Job opportunities of the Skills in the workplace Award 2012.
Career development Team member wellbeing Customer Wellbeing Approach Aim by 2017 Progress Accreditation and sustainable supply of Responsible Sourcing Policy published in 2010 We will make lives global critical products.
updated and relaunched to suppliers January 2013. better for our customers Progressive improvement of nutritional High risk products identified and sustainable sourcing by providing goods and content across our food and drink process developed.
services they can trust portfolio enabling customers to make First product specific sustainable sourcing policy and helping them make informed choices.
developed for timber and timber related products.
We will communicate with our customers All fish procured from sustainable sources.
openly and transparently about our actions, All printed materials from FSC accredited sources.
Programmes All Costa coffee served in our outlets is Rainforest Guest Recommend Net Promoter scores Sustainable sourcing Alliance certified.
in line with business average.
88% of procured food meets Department of Health 2012 Menu development targets for salt content.
Customer engagement Insight on corporate responsibility concerns gathered from over 17,000 customers to inform our programme and customer communication strategy over 63% of customers rated our corporate responsibility performance as good or very good.
Full nutritional information for all menus available on brand websites and calorie information introduced across our Thyme Restaurants.
Environment Approach Aim by 2017 Progress 25% carbon reduction from direct 11.66% less carbon emitted than in 2009 relative to sales.
We will make lives operations relative to sales against Carbon heat map produced for supply chain and carbon better for everyone a 2009 baseline.
footprint established for the Premier Inn bed.
by reducing our impact 10% carbon reduction across supply 93.06% of waste now diverted from landfill.
on the environment chain activities.
Establishing a baseline for product packaging in order through our carbon, 15% water consumption reduction to measure performance on waste reduction in the water and waste relative to sales against a 2009 baseline.
Zero waste to landfill from direct operations.
15.62% water consumption reduction relative to sales 10% waste reduction across supply against our 2009 baseline.
This means that the target Programmes chain activities.
A new target of a 25% reduction has been set.
Consuming less New build efficiency Influence in supply chain Waste reduction Green travel
