Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Key Performance Indicators 26 Key Performance Indicators Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams Heartbeat H H Heartbea a at t profitable Growth A force for good Our key performance indicators are Winning Teams based on the strategic framework of the Company Winning Teams, Team engagement Team turnover Customer Heartbeat, Profitable Engagement measures how We measure the percentage of Growth and Good Together.
Behind our teams feel about working for our team members who leave the each of these headings are clear and the Company.
We find out by business during the year.
For example, measurable targets which together if we had team turnover of 50% asking everyone in the Company make up our balanced scorecard to complete a survey twice a year that would mean that half had left or WINcard as we call it Whitbread that asks questions that give us during the year and had to be replaced.
It is used throughout a very clear idea as to how they the Company.
Every hotel, restaurant are feeling at that time.
and coffee shop has its own WINcard.
All support centres, each business and the Group as a whole have their Why this is important Why this is important own WINcards.
Every month the results We want our people to enjoy what We aim to keep turnover as low are published throughout the Group they do and to know we will work as possible as this means that we so that everyone knows exactly how to improve things if they tell us they have more settled and consistent they are doing against the key targets are not happy.
We also know that the teams who will serve their customers for the year.
happier our teams feel about their better.
We also save money on work the better they will serve our recruitment and training if we can As these are key strategic measures customers.
We will attract as well retain team members.
a number of them form an important as retain great people if we can show part of the incentive schemes for our high levels of engagement.
Details of how the executive directors are rewarded for their How we have done in 2012 13 How we have done in 2012 13 WINcard performance are described in the remuneration report on page 57.
Group Group The WINcard targets are set at the 77.5% 41.8% beginning of each year and agreed Hotels & Restaurants Hotels & Restaurants with the Remuneration Committee.
They are set at or above the level 75.4% 43.0% achieved in the previous year to Costa Costa improve performance.
In general a green WINcard is achieved where 83.4% 38.1% the performance is better than both target and the previous year.
WINcard results WINcard results An amber score is for performance which is better than the prior year Group Group but below target and a red score Hotels & Restaurants Hotels & Restaurants is for a result below the previous year.
Costa Costa Our goals for 2013 14 Our goals for 2013 14 We have very deliberately set high The targets we set for this measure standards for our engagement scores are based on what the business and consistently look to improve on has achieved in the past year and what are strong scores by reference what other companies in our sector to benchmark results.
As we have different types of business and support centre Group 79% employees varying targets are set.
Hotels & Restaurants 75.7% Costa 81% Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Key Performance Indicators 27 Key Performance Indicators continued Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams Heartbeat H H Heartbea a at t profitable Growth A force for good Winning Teams Customer Heartbeat Health & Safety Brand standards Brand performance Nothing could be more important Our customers rightly expect With our aim to make everyday than the safety of our teams and a consistently high standard experiences special it is vital our customers.
Independent audits of service and physical that we have a robust way of surroundings in our sites.
measuring how our customers are carried out throughout the year to check that standards are We have developed brand rate our performance in terms being maintained with certain key standards, which are of recommendations and areas resulting in automatic failure appropriate to the relevant preference over other brands.
business and not directly comparable to each other.
Why this is important Why this is important Why this is important Our people have a right to work We know that our customers have Without this information we in a safe environment and our a choice when they are booking would not be able to measure and customers rightly expect us to a hotel or choosing a restaurant improve our customers experience look after them when they choose or cup of coffee and that we have or compare the experience we to sleep, eat or drink with us.
to be able to show that we operate provide to that provided by our A significant health and safety at consistently high levels that competitors.
failure would also affect confidence make them want to choose us.
How we have done in 2012 13 How we have done in 2012 13 How we have done in 2012 13 Hotels & Restaurants and Costa Each of the businesses has developed both exceeded the stretching Premier Inn its own customer measures which targets that had been set.
track elements particularly relevant 73.2% to them.
Costa had an average brand preference score of 31% during the Restaurants year beating Starbucks at 23%, Hotels 82.1% & Restaurants had a net recommend score of 60%.
The Group score is a Costa combination of the Costa and Hotels 91.5% & Restaurants scores.
WINcard results WINcard results WINcard results Group Group Group Hotels & Restaurants Hotels & Restaurants Hotels & Restaurants Costa Costa Costa Our goals for 2013 14 Our goals for 2013 14 Our goals for 2013 14 In the interests of improving Costa will keep its target at Hotels & Restaurants 62% standards even further we have 90%.
For Hotels & Restaurants net recommend score.
raised the bar for an individual the brand standards measure has Costa 33.6% average brand site to achieve a green score and been replaced on the WINcard preference score and ahead increased the proportion of sites by a new measure to encourage of Starbucks.
required to pass the audit for each synergies between the two parts business to achieve a green score.
Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Key Performance Indicators 28 Key Performance Indicators continued Cust C Customer omer r Winning Teams Heartbeat H H Heartbea a at t profitable Growth A force for good Profitable Growth Profit Like for like sales growth Market performance Growth As with all businesses we measure We closely follow the sales Our strategy is based on the our financial success by the profits growth performance of those profitable growth of our brands we make through our growing hotels, restaurants and coffee which we measure in terms shops that have been open of our sales per available room brands and operating our businesses efficiently.
A budget is agreed with for more than a year.
compared to our competitors the Board each year which sets in hotels and the number a target profit level.
of net new stores in Costa.
Why this is important Why this is important Why this is important Recognising that our shareholders have While we are investing so much in the We need to be able to understand a choice in investing their money we organic growth of Hotels & Restaurants how we are performing on a constant need to be able to demonstrate that and Costa we need to keep a close eye basis to show our shareholders how our businesses can produce sustainable on how the mature parts of the business we are performing against the rest of profit growth.
This should mean that are performing.
This enables us to make the market and to develop our strategy the underlying value of the Company better investment decisions in terms accordingly.
will increase and dividends can be of our new developments as well as paid in line with that growth.
being able to react to shorterterm performance trends.
How we have done in 2012 13 How we have done in 2012 13 How we have done in 2012 13 As shown earlier in this report we The strength of our brands has We had a RevPAR premium of 6.2% grew our Group underlying profit meant we have beaten our like against our hotel competitors last for like targets across the Company year and we opened 324 net new before tax by 11.4% last year with Hotels & Restaurants growing its profits with Group at 3.7%, Hotels & Costa stores worldwide.
These Restaurants at 2.8% and were very good results, achieved Costa at 6.8%.
WINcard results WINcard results WINcard results Group Group Group Hotels & Restaurants Hotels & Restaurants Hotels & Restaurants Costa Costa Costa Our goals for 2013 14 Our goals for 2013 14 Our goals for 2013 14 Our profit targets are commercially Our like for like sales targets are These targets are commercially sensitive.
They will remain stretching, commercially sensitive but are sensitive but are set in the but achievable.
set in the budget process against context of continued brand a realistic but stretching view growth and outperformance.
of the markets in the coming year.
Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Key Performance Indicators 29 Key Performance Indicators continued Cust C Custo omer mer r Winning Teams Heartbeat H H Heartbea a at t profitable Growth A force for good Profitable Growth Good Together Returns on investment Carbon consumption Waste to landfill A crucial factor in measuring our Our corporate responsibility performance is how well we have programme covers a number invested our shareholders money.
of areas against which we measure We calculate this by dividing the ourselves.
Hotels & Restaurants underlying profit of an asset or has a carbon reduction target and business by the capital value of Costa has a target to reduce waste the asset it has been invested in.
Why this is important Why this is important Our investors want to be able to Companies have a responsibility judge how well we are using their to reduce their impact on the money in comparison to other environment which we fully endorse.
Serving everyday investments that they could make.
There are also clear economic Total covers in our We also want to be able to compare benefits in reducing carbon restaurants were the performance of different types consumption primarily through of businesses and assets to focus our reduced energy bills.
own plans, and measuring returns helps us to do so.
How we have done in 2012 13 How we have done in 2012 13 The Group returns grew from We remain on track for our Group 13.6% to 14% last year.
Hotels & target of reducing our relative carbon Restaurants return on capital was use by 25% by 2017.
The colder maintained at 12.4% and Costa weather this year made this harder grew returns to 34.7%.
Costa now diverts 59% of its waste from landfill.
Return on capital is an important WINcard results indicator and is a key measure for the Group Companys Long Term Incentive Plan, but is not on the WINcard.
Hotels & Restaurants Costa Our goals for 2013 14 Our goals for 2013 14 We want to make more profit from 25% reduction in carbon emissions an investment than it costs to raise by 2017 with annual targets of the money to pay for it whether a 3% reduction in like for like carbon it has been borrowed, invested consumption.
Costas target is to as equity or paid as rent.
reach 64% of waste diverted from landfill next year.
