William Hill PLC 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CorPoraTe resPonsibiliTy rePorT aWard-Winning seCuriTy In 2011, our Counter Plan Refresh training programme won the Security Training Initiative of the Year at the Security Excellence Awards.
In 2013, Mark Hepherd followed that up by being awarded Security Manager ofthe Year, in competition with some key figures across the wide-ranging security industry.
Security Manager of the year at Security Excellence Awards 2013 Mark Hepherd centre Colleagues Health and safety We have developed a root cause analysis thRoughout 2013, we approach for accidents and incidents, with Health and safety has been a major focus continued to embed accelerated accident investigation and during the year.
ouR home pRinciples process improvement.
This has driven changes such as improving our approach In January 2013, Jacob Marx, a young New AcRoss the gRoup Zealand lawyer, lost his life following the to asbestos management.
with home-focused collapse of a signage sub-fascia outside events in A numbeR of In the coming year, we will formulate a our shop in Camden Road.
This matter is national inspection plan with Westminster locAtions.
As we become of deep regret to the Group and we extend City Council, centring on key risk areas and eveR moRe diveRse And our sympathies to Jacob Marxs family.
including violence in the workplace.
inteRnAtionAl, home At the time of writing, the inquest has not becomes incReAsingly taken place and we are co-operating fully In March 2014, we will roll back our policy with an ongoing health and safety enquiry.
on mandatory dual-manning of LBOs helpful in engAging after lunchtime hours in our low-risk and ouR colleAgues in new The key changes we have made during medium-risk shops.
It brings us in line with opeRAtions, such As 2013 were identified as priorities in not only other LBO operators but also other in williAm hill us And conjunction with Westminster City Council, companies in the retail sector and allows us with whom we entered into a Primary williAm hill AustRAliA, to remain competitive against a challenging Authority relationship in 2012.
This gives bycleARly identifying economic backdrop.
Before making this Westminster full transparency on our thepRinciples by which decision, we undertook an extensive fourhealth and safety management systems, month trial, which included consultation we opeRAte.
including the health and safety objectives with colleagues as well as testing whether as overseen by the Boards Corporate home RepResents the wAy the changed approach affected our Responsibility Committee CR Committee, ability to fulfil our licensing obligations or we woRk At williAm hill.
and it has proved to have been a very affected our high security and health and constructive relationship on both sides.
home stAnds foR: safety standards.
In our view, the standard of our health hungry for suCCess and fire safety in the Retail operation has Human rights improved significantly during the last few Following a review, the Board considers ouTsTanding serviCe years through, for instance, updating our that it is not necessary for the Group to policies, improving risk assessments and making iT haPPen operate a specific human rights policy at rolling out training for fire risk assessments.
Our policies already operate within These improvements are having a positive everyone maTTers a framework to comply with relevant laws, effect on the culture and standards within to behave in an ethical manner and to the LBOs, with the use of the health respect the human rights of our employees and safety manual, procedures and and other stakeholders in the business.
1 Scottish and English Health Surveys, 2012.
William Hill PLC 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The CR Committee, on behalf of the Board, Colleagues are also encouraged to make A further 650 undertook the Stepping Up reviewed the ten principles of the UNs their voice heard through the annual HOME programme to prepare Customer Services Global Compact, covering areas of human Truths engagement survey, which we have Assistants who want to go on to become rights, labour, the environment and antiheld each year since 2010.
This year, the Deputy Managers and 27 shop managers corruption.
Given that the Global Compact highest scores related to managers treating went through Taking the Lead to prepare is a widely accepted benchmark for human colleagues with respect, putting customers them for becoming a multi-site manager.
rights, the CR Committee has confirmed first and training.
We saw a significant During 2013 and 2014, all our 104 District that it is satisfied that William Hills policies improvement in scores relating to team Operations Managers will go through the operate in a way that is consistent with the working, benefits and individuals feeling Maximising Performance programme.
valued for their contribution to William Hill.
We continue to run our Springboard Areas that colleagues highlighted to be womens development programme, which addressed included communications and we have run each year since our Different Pension auto-enrolment and work life balance.
Perspectives event in 2010 was held to colleague saving schemes encourage more women into management During the year the regulations for the positions across the Group.
Another 49 Development auto-enrolment of UK colleagues into women participated in Springboard in 2013.
We reviewed our talent pool again in a workplace pension scheme came The following is a breakdown by gender into effect.
We agreed to offer a defined 2013, building on the extensive review of our Board, senior managers and first conducted in 2011 and updated in contribution section within the existing all colleagues.
pension scheme under which joiners were 2012.
This is a critical part of our internal succession planning process, identifying asked to contribute 4% of salary, matched Gender diversity by the Group with a further 4%.
Whilst this the development needs and potential of our top 240 managers.
For the second time, is higher than the statutory minimum, this was offered as there were concerns a small group of high-potential individuals 1.
2 6 are taking part in a 14-month programme that a lower rate would likely not create a 2.
60 295 retirement provision substantial enough for to develop both their commercial and 3.
anything other than a very small annuity.
Women Men Around 65% of colleagues who were Project Africa see page 47 continues to be automatically enrolled have remained in the 1.
Board of directors one of the most challenging and unusual scheme, saving for their retirement.
Senior managers ways in which we develop our people.
We have supported UK colleagues saving The three projects conducted in the year 3.
All colleagues saw colleagues from many different parts of by introducing the Christmas Shopping While legislation requires that we define Saving Scheme and Leeds Credit the business participate in the programme, senior managers as the directors of which pushes people mentally, emotionally Union Scheme.
our subsidiary companies, the Board and physically by putting them in an considers that including such environment that presents leadership, Engagement information does not provide a motivational and engagement challenges meaningful analysis of how the Group In June, we held our first International operates.
The breakdown shows the as well as the requirement to handle Colleague Forum, bringing together 16 proportion of senior managers by our specific projects in a short window of time.
For colleagues from six international locations reporting purposes, there are 40 The Retail Academy, established in 2012, to share their colleagues views from directors of subsidiary companies, isproving an early success.
During the across the Group, thus building on the comprising 34 men and six women.
year, almost 3,000 colleagues undertook success of the colleague forums we have in the first stage of the programme, called many locations.
CelebraTing our Colleagues In May, 235 people gathered at The Grand Hotel in Brighton from across the William Hill world to recognise the winners and runners-up in the HOME Awards, awarded in 15 different categories for everything from National Shop of the Year to Outstanding Contribution to Innovation to Most Promising Newcomer.
In September, 34 colleagues who recorded 25 years or 40 years service including our Chief Executive who has served the Company for 40 years, attended our annual Long Service Awards, with a weekend of celebrations at the Ayr Gold Cup.
A weekend of celebrations at the Ayr Gold Cup Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
