William Hill PLC 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 in meeting with investoRs, AnumbeR of key questions ARe RegulARly RAised.
onthenext pAges, RAlphtopping Responds tothose questions.
18-19 We have established ourselves as the third The regulated Australian online betting largest online sports betting operator in market is one of the largest in the world inTernaTional Spain, increasing our market share to 15% and has demonstrated high growth exPansion as at Q3 2013. rates.
Sportingbet was already a leading online bookmaker and we see significant In Italy, where it is important to be strong Selective international expansion is a core potential to expand by improving our digital in gaming as well as sports betting, part of our strategy enabling us to diversify offer and by targeting the recreational or our broad product range has led to us our revenues by accessing non-UK mass market customer.
In August 2013, taking 7% market share in sports and territories, particularly as other governments we completed the bolt-onacquisition 8% in casino.
In our view, the more the change their gambling regulations to take for an upfront payment 20.5m of regulator liberalises this market, the more account of developments in online and tomwaterhouse.
com, a young, small competitive we can be.
For instance, we mobile gambling.
but fast-growing corporate bookmaker are expanding the range of sports betting that is successfully targeting the mass Having launched Onlines locally licensed opportunities we offer to customers market customer.
operations in Italy in 2011 and Spain in through the liberalisation of palinsesto 2012, we have continued to enhance otherwise known as British-style sports In mid-2013, we laid out a 12-18 month the product range in each country as betting.
We also launched a mobile improvement plan to install the foundations regulations have evolved, such as allowing betting app in Italy in January 2014. for further growth in Australia.
Sportingbet business is a good business In March 2013, we established Australia focused primarily on maintaining strong In the predominantly sports betting as our second home market through the relationships with a group of core, high focused Spanish online market, we were acquisition of Sportingbets Australian yielding customers.
The larger growth able to enhance our market share by online business, comprising the opportunity in Australia, though, is mass exercising a call option over Sportingbets Sportingbet and Centrebet brands, for market, which mirrors how we grew Online Spanish business, miapuesta, in 459.4m.
To reach that audience, September 2013. we are improving the quality of the user experience via the website, enhancing the digital capabilities of the business, for instance to take advantage of customer recruitment through search engine optimisation, and changing the marketing mix to focus our investment on this larger customer base.
We are making good progress, with key activities including the launch of a new website in the first half of 2014.
Ralph Topping Chief Executive Pages 1 to 47 from William Hill PLCs Strategic Report for the year ended 31 December 2013 have been approved by the Board.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
