William Hill PLC 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 sTraTegiC revieW Mobile is attractive to us because, Our focus for the past year has been on Our content has been substantially we believe, it reaches a wider, more delivering a mobile gaming experience expanded during 2013, with the launch recreational customer base than desktop of the same high standard as our mobile of the Vegas app in the Apple App Store alone as well as reducing friction for Sportsbook offer.
This is arguably being a key step.
Functionality that customers in interacting with our products harder with gaming than sports-betting: customers now take for granted on and services.
It is technologically forSportsbook, mobile is another desktop single sign on, balance challenging to do well, making it access route into the same infrastructure transfer and multiple payment methods potentially a competitive differentiator.
whereas, with gaming, the games are have had to be developed specifically built into the app or mobile site and more for mobile gaming.
This should also We have already delivered an outstanding linking of core IT systems is required, make easier the cross-selling of mobile Sportsbook performance.
which means the technology hurdles customers from the mobile Sportsbook Our app has been downloaded more are higher.
As a result, a fully integrated into mobile gaming.
Now, were focusing than 1.5 million times, mobile accounts mobile gaming capability is now more of on introducing the right bonus engine for 42% of Sportsbook turnover as at abarrier to entry.
and implementing systems that will December 2013 and it has grown by simplify and speed up the launch of new more than 630% over the last two years.
The mobile gaming opportunity is games on mobile.
Research suggests William Hill is the exciting, with mobile devices ideally most popular sports betting app among suited to giving easy access.
We have iPhone-owning sports gamblers with focused on delivering both product 38% market share source: Onavo.
hoW are you CaPiTalising on The mobile groWTh oPPorTuniTy?
William Hill PLC 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 166% Mobile gaming net revenue grew 166% in 2013.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report William Hill PLC 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 sTraTegiC revieW PPTS 2.5 William Hill grew its online sports betting market share 2.5 percentage points between 2011 and 2012, at the fastest rate of any of the three companies growing their share.
whAt does point of consumption tAx meAn foR youR business?
In 2014, the UK Government intends Analysts estimate the tax which will That Online has been able to increase to change the basis of its regulation of impact the c75% of Onlines revenues its market share from 7% in 2008 to online gambling from where the operator that come from the UK will cost William 15% in 2013 in a highly competitive is based to where the consumer is Hill 60-70m in 2015.
External views environment speaks to the quality of based.
In December 2014, it plans to on our ability to mitigate the cost vary, our management team and betting tax companies on the same Point of with analysts projections assuming and gaming offering, the strength Consumption basis and as at the time mitigation from zero to one third of that of our operations and the calibre of of this report has indicated a tax of 15%.
cost, based primarily, on increased our innovations.
There may also be business, our priority is to maintain Whilst the impact will be felt across the opportunities to reduce business cost, Onlines competitiveness through industry, larger scale operators appear although our priority as an operator is our investments in marketing and in to have both higher operating margins to maintain strategies designed to grow our product range and technology and larger marketing budgets, giving market share.
to continue to differentiateour user them more flexibility to invest rather experience.
We also aim to mitigate thanhaving to cut marketing investment.
In the Boards view, this change, whilst some of the impact in 2015 by achieving Accordingly, market commentators unwelcome, creates an opportunity for 15-20m of cost savings against what suggest that the larger scale operators William Hill to increase further its market we would otherwise have expected to may benefit in relative terms at the share in one of the most fragmented spend in that year.
online gambling markets in the world.
William Hill PLC 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Although for the majority of customers William Hill is committed to encouraging In 2013, we started embedding a betting is a pleasurable pastime, for a responsible gambling.
We have put new Code for Responsible Gambling, small number of them it becomes a measures in place to encourage produced by the Association of British serious problem.
customers to gamble responsibly and to Bookmakers following industry-wide provide them with tools to help control consultation.
This is the latest step in Problem gambling levels as tracked their gambling.
For instance, our betting our efforts to help customers manage through the 1999, 2007 and 2010 shop colleagues carry out around 2,000 their gambling responsibly.
It gives Prevalence Surveys and now through responsible gambling interactions a increased prominence to problem the English and Scottish Health month and facilitate self-exclusions gambling messages in the shops and Surveys have been relatively stable for around 6,700 at-risk gamblers a advertising.
To underpin this, we have throughout the past decade and may year.
In addition, we fund the research, trained our colleagues on interacting even be declining, in spite of the growth education and treatment of problem with customers.
We have also of gambling during that time.
The levels gambling through the Responsible implemented technology upgrades to are low by international standards with Gambling Trust, a leading UK charity our machines that will enable customers around 0.5% to 0.7% of adults in Britain that aims to stop people getting into to pre-set how long they play for or how having a propensity to have a problem problems with their gambling and to much they spend, and we use pop-up with gambling.
ensure that those who do develop screens based on customer spend or problems receive fast and effective duration of play to force a break in their According to academic experts, a problem gambler typically uses six to treatment and support.
play, facilitating an active decision on whether to stop or continue playing.
There is no evidence that any single These behavioural tools are the right approach to helping our customers to product is a cause of problem gambling.
WhaT are you doing abouT Problem gambling?
0.5% The English health survey, published in December 2013, reported that the prevalence of problem gambling had fallen from 0.9% in 2010 to 0.5% of the adult population.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report William Hill PLC 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 sTraTegiC revieW Why ConTinue To invesT in reTail?
William Hill PLC 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Even in this digital world, the LBOs are The shop experience has changed over It also allows us to better leverage our still the largest channel, both to William the years, too, with more technology cost base across Retail and Online.
Hill with 61% of our revenues and such as video walls, self-service We continue to invest in our estate.
In total, 79% of the betting terminals, gaming machines In 2013, we put 10m capex into estimated 7-8 million people who bet and Price Finders all enhancing the opening 59 new shops, meaning we during the course of a year use betting leisure experience.
increased our estate by 2% as we only shops.
The shops even appeal to the And it is a leisure experience.
A primary closed 19 shops last year.
youngest, most tech savvy customers: driver for a customer choosing a 79% of 18 to 24 years old bettors also Retail is the bedrock of our business.
particular William Hill shop is the use the betting shops either alone or in It has held up incredibly well during relationship they have with the staff in conjunction with digital channels.
these tough economic conditions and that shop.
it remains the channel of choice for the Retail remains relevant through the The value of Retail to William Hill as vast majority of our customers.
continuous evolution of the customer a group goes beyond its immediate offer.
Today, the product mix is very revenue and profit contribution.
An LBO different from ten years ago, reflecting estate 2,400-strong means were the growing appeal of football betting ubiquitous.
That gives our brand huge and gaming.
20 % The return on investment on the new shop portfolio regularly exceeds our targeted return on capital hurdle rate of 20% and resiting  value.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report William Hill PLC 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 sTraTegiC revieW Trading is our core sports-betting Our product range is vast.
While in Now, were offering prices on 50,000 capability.
You could say its the Retail you can access c20,000 betting football matches a year.
When you beating heart of William Hill.
Its also a opportunities over-the-counter, in Online consider there are only 380 English key generator of intellectual property its 1.3 million.
Premier League matches in a season, that makes William Hill stand out from it gives you the sense of that breadth.
Weve deliberately expanded our betting the crowd.
Everything from Manchester United, product range, allowing us to differentiate Real Madrid and Bayern Munich to We benefit from the scale of our trading in terms of what we can offer our NGTriglav and FK Crevna Zvezda.
capability in terms of the breadth customers, becoming market leading in and depth of our product offering, in areas such as horse racing markets and Add to that 25,000 tennis matches and our event creation and pricing and in-play football betting in Europe or in NFL 9,000 basketball games.
Now were in the ability to support our liability in-play markets in Nevada.
extending our depth within matches, risk management.
innovating with first five-minute markets Weve also expanded content, for and then twoand one-minute markets.
example the number of different games on which we can offer prices.
WhaT makes your ProduCT offering a ComPeTiTive differenTiaTor?
William Hill PLC 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Marketing is the single largest The upside is that only those with the investment in our Online business, with deepest pockets like our Online 24m worth of free bets in sports betting business are likely to buy the best and 123m investment in online and spots.
Its no coincidence that, as offline marketing in 2013. the number one Online UK operator, we own the top Channel 4 and BT In sports betting, its critical to be front of Sports spots and are joint leaders on mind at the time the customer wants to Sky Sports.
Thats why TV advertising is crucial.
And thats where scale, yet again, is in But its about so much more than TV our favour.
In our view, the three key advertising.
Having a team of experts media contracts for our industry are running our online marketing is critical.
Channel 4 for horse racing, and Sky Whether its pay per click deals with Sports and BT Sports for football.
Google, search engine optimisation, All three are now bid for via an auction banner advertising campaigns or deals process.
Yes, the downside is that were with affiliate websites, this is a valuable now paying more than we did before.
Our functional expertise in online marketing, based in Tel Aviv, is key in complementing and underpinning our offline marketing.
How do you make your markeTing inveSTmenT Pay?
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report William Hill PLC 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 sTraTegiC revieW 2 1 % William Hill Australia the combination of Sportingbet Australia and tomwaterhouse.
com is one of the largest corporate bookmakers with an estimated 21% of the Australian online betting market source: Macquarie.
William Hill PLC 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 how cAn you win in the competitive AustRAliAn mARket?
Australia is a very attractive online To do that, we need to further digitalise betting market.
Its grown 19% per the business to improve the user annum over the last five years and its experience on the website and to projected to continue to grow at 16% improve marketing enablers such as per annum for the next five years.
We also Thats significantly ahead of the 10% need to change the ways in which the growth rates projected for the UK.
Its marketing budget is invested, increasing also, compared with the UK, a relatively the rates at which we acquire new immature market, with only pre-match customers by using the right mix of betting licensed for online betting.
TV, online and offline marketing, and The Aussies gamble even more than the thereby reducing the average cost per Brits per capita and they have one of the acquisition.
This is critical because highest rates of smartphone penetration we expect mass market customers in the world, which makes the market to be lower yielding than our existing ideal for mobile betting.
customers but en masse much more valuable to the business.
At a competitive level, its becoming a consolidated market, with the corporate Add into that mix the tomwaterhouse.
com bookmakers such as Sportingbet business one of the fastest growing having capitalised on a trend towards corporate bookmakers of the last few more online betting, more fixed odds years and one of the most successful betting and more betting on sports as in reaching out to mass market well as on racing.
Thats why we felt it customers but one that is in need of was important to acquire a company the product range, technology platform with an established position, not to try to and operational support that it gains as grow from scratch.
being part of our business.
The Sportingbet business is very Altogether, that means youve got in attractive, with a well-established core William Hill Australia a business that, we business focused on higher value believe, can be very competitive in a very customers.
Thats a great business attractive growth market.
that we continue to nurture.
However, the growth opportunity as we see it is to expand further into the more mass market customer base, particularly with the structural shift to mobile continuing space.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
