William Hill PLC 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 markeTPlaCe oPPorTuniTies and Challenges WiTh regulaTory Change.
The market today Scale Overview of William Hills key markets The importance of having a large-scale Internationally, the gambling industry takes The UK remains William Hills primary operation is increasing, for instance many different forms, from casinos to market, representing 85% of net revenue to make affordable investments in bingo clubs, betting shops and track-side in 2013.
During the period April 2012 technology, marketing and core betting to lotteries and online and mobile to March 2013, the British gambling capabilities such as sports betting betting and gaming.
industry generated a gross gambling trading, or to absorb the impact of yield of 6.3bn, a rise of 0.44bn or 8%.
Land-based activities remain the regulatory changes or new taxation.
This covers the industry as regulated by International expansion further increases channel of choice for most gambling the Gambling Commission: as such, it customers, across all the leading the benefits of scale and reduces the excludes much of the UK online gambling risks associated with exposure to any countries by gambling revenue worldwide.
industry which is regulated in a number Online gambling first started in earnest in one country.
1998 and mobile gambling has become Regulation more prominent in the last five years Excluding the National Lottery, which Changing regulation is a key feature of with the advent of smartphone and has more outlets than any other part the gambling industry today, with many tablet technology.
of the gambling sector at c38,000, the markets now revising their regulatory largest part of the industry is licensed In many countries, gambling is either stateregime to cater for the internet.
A legal betting offices LBOs, which accounted framework typically involves the licensing controlled or restricted to a small number for 3.2bn or 51% of the gross gambling of licencees.
The advent of online mobile of companies that are required to comply yield.
LBOs were first legalised in 1961. with a domestic regulatory regime gambling has made many governmental There are currently approximately 9,000 restrictions on gambling more difficult to and to pay gambling taxes in return LBOs, only 2% higher than in March for being allowed to advertise locally.
enforce and has led to many governments 2009, 0.7% lower than in the prior year reviewing their gambling regulations, a Licensing regimes, such as the UKs, and significantly lower than the industrys can also focus on key social aims such trend further motivated by governments peak of c14,000 LBOs in the 1970s.
seeking to tax the online gambling industry as encouraging responsible gambling, The industry has consolidated into four preventing under 18s from gambling, as a new source of tax revenues.
major operators accounting for 86% treating customers fairly and equally, of LBOs, with the rest made up of a andpreventing crime.
How the market is changing number of small chains and independent Regulation is a complex area, with each operators.
Changing customer habits Technology country taking a different approach, have resulted in LBOs opening for longer The fastest-growing products today are but we believe that a competitive and and in bookmakers offering a wider range supported by innovations in technology.
regulated environment drives out illegal of betting and gaming products than In the UK, for example, in-play betting and gambling and delivers better value for ever before.
mobile gambling have been key drivers of customers in a safe and responsible way.
the growth of the online industry in recent The online gambling sector has been While taxation and product restrictions years.
This requires significant investment well-established in the UK since about may impact short-term performance, over in innovation and know-how, and the 1998 and has been regulated by the the medium to long term we believe that increasing cost of such investment to drive Gambling Commission since 2007 the ability to advertise in local markets may differentiation is increasingly favouring under the Gambling Act 2005, although mitigate this impact.
In many countries, much of the industry is regulated in other land-based incumbents have struggled territories.
In 2014, the UK Government to capitalise fully on the online opportunity intends to change the regulation from a because of these hurdles in terms of Point of Transaction basis to a Point of technology and expertise.
Consumption basis, which will require companies based offshore to take a licence to provide products to UK William Hill PLC 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 54,093 1 The number of people employed in LBOs 27% The proportion of digital wagering in Australia 2 nowcoming from mobile devices 3.2bn The gross gambling yield generated by LBOs 1 in Britain consumers.
William Hill has been awarded Classication of regular taxing companies on the same basis as licences to operate online in Italy and UK gamblers % from December 2014 at a 15% tax rate.
In both countries, the online market The Online market was estimated to have is estimated to be growing at around 10% 1.
50 3 generated 2.1bn of gross gambling yield per annum in 2013-2015.
45 in 2012, of which sports betting was the has gradually liberalised the range of 3.
38 biggest contributor at 824.2m, with products allowed, for instance Italy started 4.
36 casino at 690.8m, poker at 263.8m to increase its permitted sports betting 5.
William Hill is range in 2013 and legalised online slots the single largest provider of online from December 2012.
6 31 gambling services, with an estimated 15% 1.
National lottery scratch cards Australia 3.
Other lotteries In the US, land-based sports betting is banned under the Professional and 4.
Race betting gaming machines The Australian gambling market, like the Amateur Sports Protection Act 1992 in 5.
Private betting UKs, is still dominated by land-based all but four states: Nevada, Delaware, 6.
It differs from the UK in having stateMontana and Oregon.
In practice, only the by-state monopoly operations and by being Source: Gambling Commission.
first two permit sports betting.
In Nevada, predominantly tote-based betting instead of sportsbooks have to be sited within fixed odds betting.
The leading land-based casinos and are, typically, either run by Retail remains the primary channel operators are Tabcorp and Tatts.
the casino operator or outsourced to a even among younger customers % With the development of the online market, specialist operator.
50 29 21 there has been a trend towards more largest such operator by number of outlets 2.
44 30 26 fixed odds betting and more betting on and was created from the acquisition and sports other than horse racing.
The last consolidation of three small operators.
55 22 23 five years have seen the emergence In Delaware, sports betting is run by the 4.
66 15 19 and establishment of the corporate Delaware State Lottery and William Hill US 5.
80 7 13 bookmakers, akin to the specialist is the exclusive bookmaker for that service.
Retail only Retail and Online Online only online operators who started growing to The Governor of New Jersey is seeking 1.
1824 prominence in the UK around a decade to overturn the federal ban that prevents 2.
The leading corporate bookmakers other states from allowing land-based are Sportingbet including Centrebet, sports betting.
3544 acquired by William Hill, and Sportsbet, banned under the Interstate Wire Act 1961.
As in the UK, Within Nevada, we are able to offer sports 5.
55 mobile has grown substantially in recent betting on mobile devices as long as Source: Kantar Market Tracker, 2013. years and is now estimated to be worth deposits into the customers account are A$3bn in wagering or 27% of the total made through land-based outlets.
digital market, driven by smartphone In September 2011, the US Department penetration, which is particularly high of Justice released a formal legal opinion 2 in Australia.
concluding that the Act did not relate to online gaming.
Since then, a number of Italy and Spain states including New Jersey and Nevada have introduced legislation to permit A number of European countries 1 Gambling Commission Industry Statistics April online gaming within state boundaries.
have followed the UK in amending or 2012-March 2013 2 Macquarie Research establishing licensing regimes for online 3 H2 Gambling Capital Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
