William Hill PLC 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 1.5m 50,000 App downloads Product expansion Our Sportsbook app has been downloaded We have vastly expanded our product range from the Apple App Store more than 1.5 million overthe last five years.
For example we now times since it was launched in February 2012. provide markets on50,000 football matches a year.
In football, we consistently offer more than In August, we extended our innovative Wider 100 in-play markets per match compared AccaInsurance offer from mobile to ProduCT with our nearest competitor offering c60.
desktop, accelerating the appeal of offering In 2013, we launched a new cricket model accumulator betting among mass to increase our pre-match and in-play market customers.
We are best known for our sports offering for the summer, giving us the Gaming accounted for 48% of the Groups betting offering and this remains a critical market-leading in-play offering for the start net revenue in 2013.
Innovations in both core capability which supports the of the Ashes series.
Our NFL and NCAA Retail gaming machines and in mobile differentiation of our offer to customers.
models were ready for the start of the gaming are a key area of focus, given American football season in the second We continue to innovate in this area.
the appeal of these products in both half and we expanded the new Australian Over the last few years, we have channels and the cross-sell opportunity.
businesss product offering by supplying substantially expanded our betting range, We replaced the four-year-old Storm football feeds from Online from the start particularly to drive the growth of the machine in half our shops with the of the UK domestic football season Online business.
This comes both from next-generation Eclipse model between in August.
increasing the number of events we September 2013 and March 2014, and cover and from expanding the number We also bring customers innovative offers are reviewing plans to replace Storm of markets we can offer within any given and tools to make their betting more in the remaining estate during 2014. event.
For instance, we have extended engaging.
For example, we launched a Online continued to refresh and extend the the number of events we cover each Cash In My Bet facility in December 2012 gaming content for williamhill.
com with the year to 50,000 football matches, 25,000 and extended it to mobile in December launch of 196 new games during 2013, tennis matches and 9,000 basketball 2013.
This allows players to settle multiple with 73 games launched to support our games.
At the same time, we use our bets before the completion of every leg of fast-growing mobile gaming revenues.
own algorithmic models to derive large the bet, offering them greater flexibility at numbers of markets that we can offer on the right price.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
