William Hill PLC 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 invesTing in mobile gaming During 2013, we focused on developing a mobile gaming offering that is at least as strong as our successful mobile Sportsbook offering, having identified this as a significant growth opportunity for Online.
As part of our ongoing development plan, we have expanded the product range substantially and enhanced the user experience by providing single sign on, wallet transfer and multiple payment methods.
We increased mobile gaming net revenue by 166% to 40m.
Our target is for mobile to generate 40% of gaming net revenue by mid-2015.
We progressed from 6% in2012 to 17% in 2013 as a whole.
We have also significantly improved Betting customers account for 72% of the The ubiquity of internet and mobile access Onlines product range to the point where 3.7 million UK online gamblers, with almost and issues of effective control have led we are now offering 1.3 million betting 3% of the British adult population regularly more European countries to review their opportunities a day via williamhill.
betting online, up from 1.5% in September regulatory approach, further encouraged 2009.
Of these customers, 1.3 million by the European Commission.
As part of our multi-channel model, Online people bet online at least once a month now manages our telephone operations Certain states in the US have also and the betting customer base grew 21% as well as internet, mobile and text betting, regulated or plan to regulate online 1 in the last year.
William Hills online sports and colleagues from Online have been gaming, sports betting remains banned betting market share grew 2.5 percentage supporting the development of William online, though we can offer mobile betting points between 2011 and 2012, faster than Hill Australia.
Mobile is becoming another barrier Marketplace and regulatory position Strategic priorities to entry, particularly in gaming, with Online, including mobile, remains the Onlines strategy focuses on maximising significant investments in technology fastest growing segment of the gambling our UK market share through product required to support delivery of a highindustry.
Online gambling is a highly development and channel innovations, quality user experience for customers fragmented market with a large number of such as mobile betting and gaming.
now very used to a sophisticated high-profile companies but no player with Estimates indicate that we have desktop experience.
successfully increased our market share The UK was the first European country from 10% to 15% between 2008 and 2013 Sports betting capability remains a high to regulate online gambling under the as a result of revenues growing at doublebarrier to entry, with the most successful Gambling Act 2005.
The Government is digit rates since 2010. operators, like William Hill, benefiting in the process of changing the basis of from large-scale specialist teams that We are also taking our online offering in regulation from where the companies are produce increasing volumes of betting a focused way into a number of other based point of transaction to where the opportunities, innovative products and countries, focusing on markets with a consumer is based point of consumption.
proprietary algorithmic models to derive strong gambling culture and a competitive Other countries have subsequently pricing for those markets.
regulatory framework in which we have regulated and, at each point, we have the ability to offer as many products as then taken a decision whether or not In our view, Sportsbook is the most possible.
Sportsbook and Casino are to take a licence to supply our services effective way to attract and retain Onlines most important products.
For instance, we have customers, with a lower cost per taken licences in Italy and Spain but acquisition, the longest customer lifespan withdrew from France because we felt the and the best cross-selling potential.
regulatory and tax regime there made it Sportsbook customers also have greater economically unviable.
brand loyalty with, on average, four or five Sportsbook accounts but typically using two most frequently.
1 Kantar Sport GB Syndicated Online Gambling Research Q213 Report data up to June 2013.
2 Gambling Data, European Regulated Online Markets Data Reports 2012.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report William Hill PLC 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 A look At ouR business online uk online markeT share by revenue online revenue sPliT by ProduCT William Hill 15% Poker 4% Sportsbook 48% Bingo 5% Others 36% Bet365 11% UK online Online revenue market share split by product by revenue Betfair 10% Ladbrokes 6% Casino 43% Paddy Power 8% SkyBet 7% Gamesys 7% Source: Gambling Data, European Regulated Online Markets data reports 2012.
We hit our target of mobile accounting for Wider product offering We have an attractive pricing approach Online provides all the major product that focuses, in football, on the hour before 40% of Sportsbook amounts wagered in June 2013, six months ahead of schedule.
verticals Sportsbook, Casino, Poker kick-off.
and Bingo and has either developed Our Sportsbook net revenue grew at a We have set a new target for mobile to be or licensed in market-leading software compound annual growth rate of 38% 40% of gaming net revenue by mid-2015.
We have In December 2013 it was 24%.
To achieve centres on Sportsbook, which plays to more than 1.4 million active Sportsbook this, we have focused on enhancing ourcore strength and brand.
accounts and around 30% of revenues both the product range and the user Leveraging William Hills enhanced trading from customers who initially signed up via experience, addressing key enablers Sportbook are generated by cross-sold such as a single sign-on, multiple payment capability, the Sportsbook product range has been substantially expanded in recent gaming products.
systems and balance transfer facilities.
years and continues to be developed.
Greater multi-channel usage Increased internationalisation We have the market-leading in-play football With more markets available than ever Approximately 75% of Onlines revenues 3 and tennis offering, and are continuing to before, it becomes ever more critical in 2013 came from the UK, with Spain and expand our pre-match and in-play product to make it easy for customers to bet Italy our other two key licensed territories range in a variety of other sports, including when they want on what they want.
horse racing, basketball and American The increasing use of mobile technology The remaining revenues are spread across football.
The number of in-play bets we has been a key trend in the industry in a large number of other countries.
take has grown 1,400% between 2008 recent years, with smartphone penetration and 2013 and in-play represented 41% We are focusing on a small number in the UK, Italy and Spain ranging from of our Sportsbook amounts wagered in of core territories for our international 53% to 66% and an estimated 86% of 2013.
Having established our ability to expansion strategy.
In defining a core mobile internet users engaged in second generate multiple bets on matches, we territory, we focus on markets with a screen activity by using their devices while extended the number of matches we strong gambling culture and a competitive watching TV.
For instance, we now regulatory framework, including: the ability offer prices on 50,000 football matches While PC and laptop usage is still to offer as many products as possible, a year.
The next phase of development widespread, the level of PC-only users with Sportsbook and Casino being the includes the expansion of niche markets fell below 50% for the first time in 2013 most critical to us: a reasonable tax rate, such as five-minute markets.
and c30% of customers are using a preferably a gross profits tax: and the combination of PCs, smartphones strength of any incumbent operators, We have also introduced innovative tools and tablets.
particularly in the sports betting field.
such as Cash In My Bet, which we The perception of Britains heritage as extended to mobile at the end of 2013, Mobile betting and gaming has continued a sporting and sports betting nation is and offers such as AccaInsurance, which to be a major focus for us during 2013 and proving a strength on which we capitalise.
encourages greater multiples betting continues to be in 2014.
app remains the number one sports betting app in the Apple App Store, downloaded more than 1.5 million times.
