William Hill PLC 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CorPoraTe resPonsibiliTy rePorT CusTomers Protecting the vulnerable The number of self-exclusions did not in the uk, the stAndARds, materially change in spite of the fact that Encouraging responsible gambling policies And pRoceduRes we have substantially increased our level Problem gambling levels as tracked by which we opeRAte ofinteractions with customers in the shops.
through the 1999, 2007 and 2010 ouRbusiness ARe We undertook a further extensive colleague Prevalence Surveys and now through the training programme in 2013 to help them defined by the gAmbling English and Scottish Health Surveys have manage such potentially confrontational commissions been relatively stable throughout the past situations.
In Retail, we are now routinely licensingobjectives.
decade and may even now be declining.
recording every month more than 2,000 The levels are low by international standards interactions and 550 self-exclusions.
with around 0.5% to 0.7% of adults in Britain objeCTive 1 We are also reviewing our processes within having a propensity to have a problem to pRevent gAmbling Online to identify ways to add usefully to 1 with gambling.
fRom being A souRce the existing tools, which already include According to academic experts, a problem enabling customers to set their own of cRime And disoRdeR, deposit limits.
gambler typically uses around six or seven being AssociAted products regularly.
There is no evidence withcRime oR disoRdeR Preventing underage gambling that any single product is a cause of oR being used to Betting shops are an over 18 environment problem gambling.
We have put measures and we have continued to make good suppoRtcRime.
in place to encourage customers to gamble progress with our Think 21 age verification responsibly and to provide them with tools objeCTive 2 programme to ensure our customers are to help control their gambling.
For many to ensuRe thAt gAmbling over the age of 18.
We use an independent years now, we have provided self-exclusion third party to test the effectiveness of our is conducted in A fAiR systems in the betting shops and for Online approach.
Having changed our testing And open wAy.
Since 2011, methodology in 2012, throughout 2013 when we reviewed and revised our objeCTive 3 we have been measuring colleagues approach in the shops, we have required challenging of customers who appear to pRotect childRen customers who want to take advantage to be under 21 at different stages of their oR otheR vulneRAble of this facility to self-exclude for a fixed interaction with the shop, from entering peRsons fRom being one-year term and to provide a photograph the door to approaching the counter or so that we can share the information with hARmed oR exploited attempting to use a gaming machine.
other William Hill betting shops likely to be bygAmbling.
We recorded 6,767 self-exclusions in Retail in 2013 and 17,915 in Online and Telephone.
William Hill PLC 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 more on CorPoraTe resPonsibiliTy Looking after our customers welfare is good business senseand reflects our commitment to keep gambling as anenjoyable activity.
We have continued to make good progress in all our key corporate responsibility areas and have outlined major developments in this report.
As there is always more to discuss than can be encompassed within this summary report, we are again publishing a separate Corporate Responsibility Report, including the William Hill Commitment, which outlines how we behave towards our key stakeholders.
This is available online at www.
com or from the Investor Relations department.
To request a copy, please e-mail ir@williamhill.
Download our 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
com It is pleasing to have achieved a high rate Preventing crime The abb Code of challenges, with a greater than 80% Like any other responsible business, The key change during 2013 2014 success rate from third-party testing and we want our shops to be a safe and has been the development and an 84% success rate from regular local crime-free place for both our colleagues implementation of the industrys authority testing.
This compares favourably and customers.
own voluntary code of practice, the with other age challenge industries and Association of British Bookmakers it takes a consistently high level of focus Through our longstanding and awardCode for Responsible Gambling and for all our Retail colleagues to achieve this.
winning Counter Plan initiative, together with Player Protection in Licensed Betting We remain committed to sustaining such our investment in incident management Offices in Great Britain, which William good practice.
systems such as safe havens and StaffSafe, Hill took a lead to develop with the we continue to be very successful in industry body.
reducing the number of attempted or actual Fair and open gambling robberies, burglaries and cash-in-transit It focuses on improving our We strive to ensure our rules and terms incidents across our Retail estate.
In the performance in four areas: and conditions are easily available and last five years, robberies have fallen 60%, comprehensible to customers, and issuing clearer and more accessible with 34% of those incidents in 2013 being information on how to gamble responsibly to resolve all betting disputes in a fair, classed as attempts.
Burglaries have fallen and highlighting the sources of help available: consistent and equitable manner.
In 2013, 76% and cash-in-transit incidents have providing customers with new tools such the number of disputes escalated to the reduced 46%.
as mandatory timeand money-based Independent Betting Adjudication Service reminders, and the ability to set spend and IBAS fell slightly to 453, with 1.1% of these Money laundering in betting shops remains time limits on gaming machines and request a focus for discussion though the number being found in the customers favour.
machine session data: Having moved to an improved mystery of suspicious incidents involving proceeds training staff to detect the signs of potential of crime or money laundering in betting shopper programme in Retail in 2012 and problem gambling more quickly and how to provided relevant training, we saw the net shops remains low at less than 1% of the interact more effectively with those identified: and reported cases.
As a cash business, there promoter score increase from 37% to 47%.
will always be a low risk around Retail but undertaking more consistent central analysis of data to identify abnormal activity both in we take that risk very seriously and have a specific shops and, where possible, that dedicated Money Laundering Reporting relating to individual customers.
Officer, comprehensive training, clear systems for escalation and fraud alert We have made good progress in software on the gaming machines.
In 2013, all these areas, with the technology we reported 154 cases to the National changes to the machines being the Crime Agency previously the Serious last key step, implemented before the Organised Crime Agency.
2,000 Responsible gambling interactions We expect these measures Our Retail colleagues are consistently recording to have a positive influence on around 2,000 responsible gambling interactions responsible gambling.
84% Age verification In age verification tests by local authorities, weachieved an 84% success rate.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
