William Hill PLC 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 invesTing in mobile gaming During 2013, we focused on developing a mobile gaming offering that is at least as strong as our successful mobile Sportsbook offering, having identified this as a significant growth opportunity for Online.
As part of our ongoing development plan, we have expanded the product range substantially and enhanced the user experience by providing single sign on, wallet transfer and multiple payment methods.
We increased mobile gaming net revenue by 166% to 40m.
Our target is for mobile to generate 40% of gaming net revenue by mid-2015.
We progressed from 6% in2012 to 17% in 2013 as a whole.
We have also significantly improved Betting customers account for 72% of the The ubiquity of internet and mobile access Onlines product range to the point where 3.7 million UK online gamblers, with almost and issues of effective control have led we are now offering 1.3 million betting 3% of the British adult population regularly more European countries to review their opportunities a day via williamhill.
betting online, up from 1.5% in September regulatory approach, further encouraged 2009.
Of these customers, 1.3 million by the European Commission.
As part of our multi-channel model, Online people bet online at least once a month now manages our telephone operations Certain states in the US have also and the betting customer base grew 21% as well as internet, mobile and text betting, regulated or plan to regulate online 1 in the last year.
William Hills online sports and colleagues from Online have been gaming, sports betting remains banned betting market share grew 2.5 percentage supporting the development of William online, though we can offer mobile betting points between 2011 and 2012, faster than Hill Australia.
Mobile is becoming another barrier Marketplace and regulatory position Strategic priorities to entry, particularly in gaming, with Online, including mobile, remains the Onlines strategy focuses on maximising significant investments in technology fastest growing segment of the gambling our UK market share through product required to support delivery of a highindustry.
Online gambling is a highly development and channel innovations, quality user experience for customers fragmented market with a large number of such as mobile betting and gaming.
now very used to a sophisticated high-profile companies but no player with Estimates indicate that we have desktop experience.
successfully increased our market share The UK was the first European country from 10% to 15% between 2008 and 2013 Sports betting capability remains a high to regulate online gambling under the as a result of revenues growing at doublebarrier to entry, with the most successful Gambling Act 2005.
The Government is digit rates since 2010. operators, like William Hill, benefiting in the process of changing the basis of from large-scale specialist teams that We are also taking our online offering in regulation from where the companies are produce increasing volumes of betting a focused way into a number of other based point of transaction to where the opportunities, innovative products and countries, focusing on markets with a consumer is based point of consumption.
proprietary algorithmic models to derive strong gambling culture and a competitive Other countries have subsequently pricing for those markets.
regulatory framework in which we have regulated and, at each point, we have the ability to offer as many products as then taken a decision whether or not In our view, Sportsbook is the most possible.
Sportsbook and Casino are to take a licence to supply our services effective way to attract and retain Onlines most important products.
For instance, we have customers, with a lower cost per taken licences in Italy and Spain but acquisition, the longest customer lifespan withdrew from France because we felt the and the best cross-selling potential.
regulatory and tax regime there made it Sportsbook customers also have greater economically unviable.
brand loyalty with, on average, four or five Sportsbook accounts but typically using two most frequently.
1 Kantar Sport GB Syndicated Online Gambling Research Q213 Report data up to June 2013.
2 Gambling Data, European Regulated Online Markets Data Reports 2012.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
