William Hill PLC 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 our business Today WhaT We do and Where We do iT.
we offeR ouR customeRs A wide RAnge of spoRts betting And gAming leisuRe oppoRtunities wheneveR And wheReveR they wAnt to gAmble.
Although best known foR ouR spoRts betting, ouR full RAnge of gAming pRoducts now Accounts foR 48% of Revenues.
The home ouR customeRs Access ouR pRoducts of beTTing viA multiple chAnnels thAt include shops, cAsino-bAsed spoRtsbooks, smARt devices, theinteRnet, telephone oR text.
17,000 Worldwide employees William Hill now has operations in nine countries around the world.
In addition to the UK and Australia, our two home markets, our Online business is headquartered in Gibraltar with online marketing and customer services functions in Israel, Bulgaria and the Philippines.
It also has licensed websites in Italy and Spain.
William Hill US operates in the states of Nevada and Delaware.
breakdoWn of 2013 revenues US 2% William Hill Australia 6% 2% Australia 6% Online 30% William Hill US Other 7% By division By market Telephone 1% Retail 61% UK 85% Our UK Retail business remains the primary driver of A key component of our strategy is to diversify our income revenues, with Online continuing to grow as a proportion of stream by taking our expertise into other regulated territories the business.
In 2013, Australian revenues were almost nine outside of the UK and we are making good progress on months of the Sportingbet business and almost five months this.
The proportion of revenues coming from outside the of the tomwaterhouse.
It was the first full year UK increased from 9% in 2012 to 15% in 2013 following ofcontribution from William Hill US.
thegrowthof the US business, the development of the international markets withinOnlineand the acquisition ofSportingbet and tomwaterhouse.
William Hill PLC 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 reTail.
What we do William Hill is the UKs leading operator of Licensed Betting Offices LBOs, with 2,432 LBOs as at the end of 2013 of the c9,000 1 licences issued by the Gambling Commission.
Inour LBOs, we offer both betting and gaming, with the key products being horse racing, greyhound racing, football betting and electronic gaming, predominantly roulette and slots.
Retail remains the primary channel for UK gambling customers, even amongst the youngest 18-24 demographic, with 79% #1 2,432 of customers regularly using betting shops acrossall demographics.
Number one bookmaker in the Betting shops in the UK The total number of betting shops in the UK UK by number of betting shops has stayed relatively stable for the last five years The UK betting shop market has consolidated 1 at around 9,000.
We continue to target a net over time with four major operators together increase to our estate of c1% per annum.
William Hill is the largest operator with 26% market share by number 1 of shops.
1 Gambling Commission Industry Statistics April 2008 to March 2013. online.
What we do Our Online business is the leading provider of online betting and gaming to UK-based customers, with an estimated 15% market 2 share by revenues.
We had 2.4 million active online customers in 2013.
Betting accounted for 48% of Onlines revenues in 2013 with gaming accounting for the remaining 52%.
For betting, football, horse racing and tennis are the most popular sports.
The 52% of Online revenues thatcame from gaming were predominantly fromCasino, at 43% of Online revenue, with #1 40% Bingo and Poker representing 5% and 4% Our target was for mobile to generate 40% of respectively.
Mobile has been a key growth Number one provider of online driver in recent years and we are now focused Onlines Sportsbook stakes by the end of 2013. betting and gaming to UK customers By December 2013, it was up to 42% of stakes.
on delivering to customers a mobile gaming The UK online gambling market remains one of experience that is at least as good as our Our newtarget is to generate 40% of gaming the most fragmented in the world.
Within this, revenues from mobile by mid-2015.
William Hill is the third largest provider of sports betting and the largest provider of casino games, giving us the leading market share overall.
2 Gambling Data European Regulated Online Market Data Reports 2012. our geograPhiC sPread.
Where we do it The UK represented 91% of our revenues in 2012 and 85% in 2013.
Part of our strategy is todiversify our sources of revenues by taking our sports betting and gaming expertise and ouroperational capabilities into other territories UK Australia US on a selective and targeted basis.
This benefits Market leader in retail A leading corporate The leading operator of us by reducing our exposure to the UK and by and online bookmaker offering land-based sportsbooks increasing the proportion of revenues generated online betting in Nevada by number in locally licensed territories outside the UK.
In the last two years, we have developed locally of outlets licensed online businesses in the Italian and Spanish markets, established land-based operations in the US and established Australia as our second home market through the acquisition of the online sports betting businesses, Italy Spain Sportingbet and tomwaterhouse.
Locally licensed betting Locally licensed betting and gaming online and gaming online Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
