William Hill PLC 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 A look At ouR business ausTralia abouT TomWaTerhouse.
com, one of the fastest growing corporate ausTralia.
bookmakers in Australia in August 2013 for 20m upfront and up to duRing 2013, we estAblished williAm hill c41m in potential earnout payments, of which we have recognised c1m in A second home mARket thRough in our 2013 accounts.
As part of the Acquisition of two coRpoRAte William Hill Australia, the business will benefit from a better technology bookmAkeRs, spoRtingbet And platform, operational scale and a wider tomwAteRhouse.
21% William Hill Australia comprising Sportingbets Australian business is Sportingbet Australia and one of the two leading online corporate tomwaterhouse.
com is one of bookmakers in Australia by market share.
the largest bookmakers in Australia It is based in Darwin and Sydney, and with an estimated 21% market share comprises the Sportingbet and, since source: Macquarie.
August 2011, Centrebet brands, offering sports betting products via online, mobile and telephone channels.
We acquired this business as the major part of a 459.4m acquisition that also included Sportingbets 278 Spanish online betting and gaming business, miapuesta.
people work for William Hill Australia in Sydney, Darwin and Melbourne.
com became one of Australias fastest growing online racing and sports betting businesses.
We acquired the business for an upfront cash consideration of A$35m 20.5m.
A potential additional earn-out on a sliding scale of up to A$70m c41m in cash is payable, subject to tomwaterhouse.
com achieving 247,900 incremental operating profit on a sliding unique active customers used scale between A$10m and A$30m in the the Sportingbet, Centrebet and year to 31 December 2015. tomwaterhouse.
com websites in our ownership period in 2013.
the cost per acquisition was 299 in 2013.
This reduced during the second half of the year and improved the effectiveness of marketing investment.
William Hill PLC 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 ausTralia online markeT share by revenue Tabcorp inc. Luxbet 26% Others 13% Tatts 6% abouT sPorTingbeT Australia Betfair 14% online market We acquired Sportingbets Australian and Spanish businesses share by for 459.4m in March 2013.
Sportingbet in Australia revenue operates two brands, sportingbet.
au, which Sportingbet had acquired in August 2011.
Together, they are one of the leading corporate bookmakers.
We aim to expand into a more mass market customer base by improving Sportingbets digital capabilities and user William Hill Australia 21% experience.
Through a successfully refocused retention and Sportsbet 20% reactivation programme, we have stabilised the unique actives performance and expect to drive growth in new accounts through our investment programme.
Marketplace and regulatory position Performance review We continue to improve the effectiveness of the marketing investment and are in The Australian betting market is one of the Since acquisition, William Hill Australia has the process of reallocating more of the 1 largest and most attractive locally licensed generated 86.7m of net revenue from total budget to online marketing and online markets in which the Group did amounts wagered of 1,177.1m at a gross offline advertising.
This will continue not previously have a footprint.
With operating costs to improve during 2014 as current demonstrated strong structural growth of 54.5m, we recorded an Operating sponsorship contracts expire, freeing 2 in areas where William Hill has particular profit of 12.0m.
The results of the up resources to invest in our target skills: online, mobile, fixed odds and sports Australian business were impacted by of more mass market-focused areas.
Currently, only pre-match sports poor results in the peak Spring Carnival The Sportingbet brand will be the key betting is licensed online in Australia, with period and, reported in sterling, have focus of ongoing TV advertising, using the both in-play and gaming banned although been adversely affected by the c30% Australian cricket legend Shane Warne as in-play is permitted by telephone.
depreciation of the Australian dollar against our spokesperson.
sterling over our period of ownership.
In the first half of 2014, we plan to Strategic priorities We have previously outlined our migratetomwaterhouse.
com onto 12-18 month plan to develop and enhance The acquisition of Sportingbet and theWilliam Hill Australia technology the business by expanding the product tomwaterhouse.
com complements the platform, improving the user experience range, enhancing the user experience and Groups strategy to expand internationally.
and giving thosecustomers access to applying our established and proven online It gives William Hill exposure to an amuch wider product range.
Progress against attractive locally licensed market and tomwaterhouse.
com will be supported this plan has been good to date and diversifies revenues by geography by the William Hill Australia operations, we are already beginning to see some and channel.
We believe we have the enabling us to achieve cost synergies improvement in operational metrics from resources and expertise to continue to inthat business.
the initiatives we are undertaking.
grow this business successfully, building on its already strong market position.
In terms of enhancing the user experience, our principal achievement has been the We are excited by the opportunity we development and imminent launch, as see to develop William Hill Australia by at February 2014, of a new responsive improving our digital offer and targeting design website for sportingbet.
We see au as part of our efforts to enhance the opportunities to enhance the business, for user experience.
This benefits from using instance by expanding the product range, HTML5 which automatically optimises improving the website user experience display of the content to suit the users and applying our established and proven device, whether they are viewing via a online marketing expertise.
desktop, laptop, tablet or smartphone.
1 Net revenue is a gaming term that is equivalent to the Revenue defined in the statutory accounts on page 91.
2 Operating profit loss is defined as pre-exceptional profit loss before interest and tax before the amortisation of specific identified intangible assets recognised onacquisitions.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
