William Hill PLC 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 A look At ouR business reTail Why a customer chooses a particular betting shop % 1.
38 williAm hill is the uks lARgest 4.
Staff knowledge Source: Kantar Market Tracker 2013.
13, 300 people work in our Retail business.
Retail is the largest William Hill division, generating 61% of our revenue in 2013 and employing 13,300 people in the UK.
It continues to be a highly cash-generative business as we have substantially evolved its product range to deliver what our customers want.
LBOs are still the channel of choice for around 79% of the 1 c7-8 million UK customers who gamble.
Our view is that, as a low ticket leisure 57% activity, gambling in the LBOs has proved of our Retail colleagues are women and is continuing to prove to be relatively and, through training and development resilient in the current economic climate programmes, we have actively following the onset of the credit crunch.
encouraged more women to move into management, with women holding Marketplace and regulatory position 50% of our shop manager roles.
The retail marketplace is regulated under the Gambling Act 2005, which enshrined the three Gambling Commission objectives that are core to our operating 30% policies and procedures: of our Retail colleagues are aged 18-24, Preventing gambling from being a making us a disproportionately high source of crime or disorder, being employer of people in this age group, associated with crime or disorder or which is experiencing a higher level being used to support crime: of unemployment than the average.
Ensuring that gambling is conducted in a fair and open way: and Protecting children and other vulnerable persons from being harmed or exploited 13 by gambling.
years is the average length of service by managers of William Hill betting shops.
William Hill PLC 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 a key uk ConTribuTor The British betting industry is a key contributor to the UK economy.
We directly support around 38,800 full-time equivalent jobs and generate 2.3bn towards GDP.
With a number of other industries being reliant on ours, notably UK horse racing, our total economic footprint is more than 100,000 FTE jobs and 5bn towards 2 GDP.
Greyhound racing is entirely dependent on the success of LBOs.
We make a positive contribution to local economies, paying c58m in business rates a year, offering flexible working arrangements and in providing a meeting place for members of local communities to take part in an enjoyable pastime.
Source: Measuring the economic contribution of theBritish betting industry, March 2013, Deloitte.
36 More on the ABB Code Despite this improved regulatory We regularly review our systems to identify The UK betting industry is a major environment, the number of betting shops ways to improve.
For instance, in 2011 employer, directly providing an estimated in the industry has stayed relatively stable we reviewed how our shop colleagues 38,800 jobs, with up to c100,000 full-time over the last five years at around 9,000, interact with customers about responsible equivalent jobs dependent on the sector.
having declined from a peak of more gambling and encouraged shop teams With a high proportion of our betting than 14,000 in the 1970s.
The market to provide written reports describing shop costs being fixed in nature, we are continues to consolidate slowly into four conversations they have had with those vulnerable to negative changes in our major operators, of which William Hill is the customers they suspect may have issues revenues.
Any material adverse revenue largest with 26% market share by number with their levels of gambling.
In 2013, we consequence arising from regulatory of LBOs.
added to this with an extensive colleague change to the betting shops risks training programme as part of our substantial shops closures and job losses.
The modern day betting shop offers commitment to responsible gambling.
This would hit not only our industry and a wide range of betting and gaming We are now routinely recording more than employees but also those reliant on ours, products delivered through a technology- 3,000 interactions a month with customers such as horse racing which is substantially enabled infrastructure.
It is a fast moving and around 500 customers take funded by a combination of the Levy and and dynamic environment offering betting advantage of our self-exclusion measures our Retail payments for TV pictures from opportunities on average every three in Retail each month.
minutes throughout the trading day.
The regulatory environment for LBOs We continue to have an active dialogue We continue to develop our LBOs to last changed significantly with the 2005 with Government to ensure that any suit changing customer preferences Gambling Act and the regulation of gaming decisions relating to the betting shops are and behaviours.
In the last decade, for machines.
We pay 15% gross profits tax based on facts and data, not opinion.
instance, football betting has grown on over-the-counter OTC betting and, 190% at William Hill at the same time as since February 2013, 20% gross profits the popularity of the gaming machines tax on gaming machines.
In addition, has grown, with both being the preferred we pay 10.75% of gross win from UK products of the new generation of horse racing to sustain that industry and customers using the shops.
a voluntary levy to support greyhound There is a strong experiential component racing.
We also donated around 900,000 to the Responsible Gambling Trust RGT to Retail shop usage, with shops providing a social environment, and with many being in 2013, to fund research into gamblingrelated issues.
We continue to operate in a highly regulated environment with an operating licence required for the trading companies, personal management licences required for people in senior roles and premises licences needed for each of the LBOs.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
