Performance and strategy review Annual report and financial statements 2012 13 Our business model doing more of what matters What we do Where we do it Our business model is underpinned by We operate throughout the UK so were the manufacturing and sourcing of great closer to our suppliers and customers food, sold across our stores by our friendly the people who matter.
people put simply we make, we buy, we move and we sell.
Morrisons has grown from a market stall in Bradford to Key the UKs fourth largest supermarket group with c500 Head office stores including 12 Morrisons M local convenience stores.
Online head office We employ 129,000 people across our business, including Distribution centres over 5,000 trained butchers, bakers and fishmongers.
Manufacturing We have over 600 lorries and 150,000 trolleys!
M local Supermarkets Each of our stores including convenience has its own Market Street, complete with trained colleagues using 58 their craft skills to bring fresh products to our customers, prepared just the way they like it.
Every day in-store we Scotland bake 128,000 loaves, filet 5,000 fish and make 11,500 sandwiches.
We make more fresh food in-store than any other supermarket.
90 We have always cared about the origin of our food.
In the 1960s we began sourcing our meat from Woodhead North Brothers, a company which became part of the Morrisons family in 1991.
We are now the UKs second largest fresh food manufacturer and our vertical integration gives us both transparency over our supply chain and the flexibility to run industry leading promotions to support our profitability.
99 Our business model has evolved to reflect the changing Midlands demands of todays consumer, in particular when, where and how they shop.
We continue to invest in the convenience market, recently buying 62 stores from other 85 retailers.
We have made progress with our multi-channel offer, with Kiddicare and Morrisons Cellar, and the South East development of our online food proposition.
84 70 South Central Our head office, logistics and distribution teams support our South West stores and we continuously invest in technology.
Our Evolve programme has helped us increase efficiency by making sure we have the right systems in place to deliver continuous improvement across our operations.
We recognise the importance of developing our people and the Morrisons Academy gives colleagues the opportunity We are proud to be a British Group and close to both our to learn skills to take them from shop floor to top floor.
We are committed to behaving responsibly page 33 in We are continuing to grow so that we can reach even more everything we do, for example reducing waste through customers.
In 2013 14 we plan to open 20 stores and increase our Great Taste, Less Waste scheme.
our convenience store portfolio to 100.
Our continued store roll out means were creating local jobs across the UK.
We understand the need to protect our business from operational and reputational risk.
Details of our risk We work closely with our communities to support local initiatives, management and mitigating factors are set out on page 28. such as Lets Grow our fun educational scheme for schools and Raise a Smile our charity partnership scheme.
2 s r e e d l u o l a h V e r a h s r u o S r e o r Performance and strategy review Governance Financial statements How we do it differently How were building on We provide great service to our customers by Fresh offering the best value fresh food, prepared in-store Value by our experts.
We are unique because of the Service transparency of our supply chain and our focus on traditional crafts.
Fresh Value more of what matters more of what matters fresh food from field to fork, honest prices affordable for everyone catch to kitchen in hours transparent promotions made from scratch in-store every day great availability vertical integration we own the supply We price our food honestly to offer the best value to chain and we source locally our customers.
Our vertical integration allows us to drive out efficiencies and quickly pass savings on to customers.
we guarantee our fresh credentials In Market Street our customers can see their food being prepared.
Even our Morrisons M local stores have Market Street made products giving customers the same great fresh food.
Owning our supply chain means we know where our food comes from.
We can also react more quickly to customer demands throughout the day, resulting in less waste.
Service more of what matters We pride ourselves on our in-store craft skills.
craft skills in-store see and We have over 5,000 trained butchers, bakers taste the food on Market Street and fishmongers preparing food and delivering friendly people, offering the exactly what our customers want, tailored to suit local markets.
best advice and service knowledgeable HOT Hello, Offer, Thank service 3 f v i e c u e l a v g n i s i h m s i e x r a F M
