Performance and strategy review Annual report and financial statements 2012 13 Driving the topline WHAT WE SAID WE WOULD DO Completing National to Nationwide Roll out our Fresh Format to There are currently 6.4m households 90 stores in Britain not in close proximity to Liberate 114,000 square feet a Morrisons store.
of space There are therefore significant opportunities for us to grow, particularly in the South where we are less well represented.
Launch 5,000 new own brand lines In March 2011, we announced an accelerated programme to open 2.5m square feet of new space over the three years to 2013 14.
During the current year we added a further 17 new core stores WHAT WE DID to our estate, including three replacement stores, as well as nine convenience format stores.
We ended the year with 13.4m Rolled out Fresh Format to over square feet of net retail space in total and an estate of 498 stores, including 12 in convenience format.
Including convenience stores, 90 stores our overall net selling space increased by 517,000 square feet 4.0%, of which 40,000 square feet came from extensions.
This is Continued to liberate space in our in line with the revised target we set out at the time of our interim grocery aisles results in September 2012 and is a result of our determination to maintain capital discipline in a period of difficult trading.
It also Launched over 5,000 own brand reflects a recognition that it is important that management is able lines, including NuMe to fully focus on current trading and our ambitious growth agenda.
Deferring the addition of some of our planned new stores helps achieve these objectives.
WHAT WE WILL DO NEXT We will maintain this approach in 2013 14, when we now expect to add a further 500,000 square feet of new space, a decrease Continue the Fresh Format roll out, of 44% from our previous guidance.
Over the three years to tailoring the concept to local markets 2013 14 we have reduced the amount of core space we will open by 800,000 square feet 32% from our original target, and now Relaunch 10,000 products expect to add a total of 1.7m square feet over that period.
This excludes convenience space, which was not included in our original by 2013 14 estimates.
In 2013 14 we also expect to add 250,000 square feet Launch Nutmeg, Morrisons own of new space from the convenience channel.
label childrens clothing Own brand Own brand lines launched this year 5,000 Sales growth of % M savers brand 37 16 Performance and strategy review Governance Financial statements Our meat goes from field to fork in a matter of hours.
Strengthening our own brand In May we announced the introduction of our new healthy eating Having great own brand products range, NuMe, with over 300 products across chilled, ambient and can give customers a reason to frozen categories.
Customers are responding well to the broader range as well as to the healthier versions of old favourites.
launch of our new premium M Signature range in March, which will include over 500 products when complete, we are well on our way Based on intensive research and customer insight, we are now to building an appealing family of relevant brands.
Our customers around half way through a three year programme to deliver greater have responded very positively and own label participation in our quality, whilst maintaining our strong value perception across sales mix has increased consistently through the year and now the whole of our own brand range of some 10,000 products by stands at 48.3%.
During the Autumn we re-launched Food To Go which now Since the programme started, we have re-launched over 5,000 includes over 90 new and improved lines with a majority freshly products and introduced four new Morrisons brands, in addition made in-store.
to our core range of everyday family favourites, and we have had great feedback from our customers.
We have also announced that we will launch Nutmeg, our new range of clothing for children aged 0 to 13, which will be available M Kitchen, our exciting range of ready meals, continues to progress in over 90 stores from March 2013. well, building on the success of its launch in 2011.
M savers, our new entry price-point range, is designed to be a clear proposition of good quality at the best price, in strong support of our I always shop at Morrisons because conviction that value is forever.
This has resonated strongly with our customers, making M savers the fastest growing value own I know therell be a great selection label brand in the year with market share growth of 110bps.
The range now has over 500 products, which allows our of fresh food available.
customers to do a full price led shop should they choose.
Judith Hutton, customer, Leeds 17 Performance and strategy review Annual report and financial statements 2012 13 Driving the topline continued Moving further ahead on fresh Fresh Format is about providing customers with the best fresh food in the UK, unrivalled value for money and fantastic service from an environment that really feels different.
This initiative is a key part of our strategy and is underpinned by our core convictions that customers want fresh food, great value and a more experiential and engaging shopping environment.
From the outset we have been very conscious that the new format would have to be tailored to reflect different stores sizes and the requirements of local demographics one size would certainly We have continued to build on the initial progress we made in not fit all.
2011 by applying the Fresh Format concept to a further 76 of our existing stores, and implementing it in the 17 new stores we To highlight our points of difference and provide more of what opened during the year.
In all we have now introduced this new matters to our customers, we have rationalised the space given thinking into 105 stores in our estate.
These stores now account over to ambient grocery items and added a new wow factor into for 26% of our retail store space and around 30% of our in-store Market Street, including introducing category experts to provide sales, with over 2.7m customers now visiting a Fresh Format store advice to customers.
In some stores we have knocked down walls each week.
Customer feedback has been very positive.
so that customers can see our craft skills in practice, and in others we have introduced childrens clothing, a category customers now The Fresh Format stores that have been updated with the new expect to see in-store.
fresh concept continue to deliver like-for-like sales growth of 4% to 6% above their control group benchmark.
Their sales and margin During the year we introduced new packaging and new signage progression is in line with the targets we set for them, and we to our fish counters.
We trained over 1,000 fishmongers in how are encouraged by their performance to date when compared to prepare and advise on fish to encourage customers to enjoy with their control group.
We will continue to use the learnings our range of over 250 fish and seafood lines.
from these stores as we take the concept into smaller stores and different demographics.
We will tailor the core concept to meet local requirements, introducing only those elements that will meet customers needs.
We also have plans to expand our food range further and introduce new, relevant categories by reducing our non-food ranges rather than moving aisles or replacing refrigeration, thereby reducing investment cost whilst meeting customer needs.
By the end of 2013 14 a further 100 stores will have benefited from the new fresh treatment.
This will be at a reduced average capital cost of 0.5m per store, which is contained within our 2013 14 capital expenditure targets.
This continuing evolution will see some 40% of our stores refreshed by the end of 2013 14.
Our fruit and veg is so fresh its award winning weve won produce retailer of the year three years running.
