Governance Annual report and financial statements 2012 13 Board of Directors and Management Board Board of Directors left to right Committee key N R C Sir Ian Gibson Nomination Committee N R Remuneration Committee N R C A Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee C Johanna Waterous A Audit Committee N R C A Nigel Robertson N R A Philip Cox Board Director biographies N R C A See page 38 for further information Penny Hughes Richard Pennycook See our report visit: morrisons.
co. uk corporate ar2013 N C Dalton Philips 36 Performance and strategy review Governance Financial statements Management Board left to right Management Board biographies Neal Austin See page 39 for further information Trevor Strain See our report visit: morrisons.
co. uk corporate ar2013 Mark Amsden Dalton Philips Richard Pennycook Martyn Fletcher Martyn Jones Terry Hartwell Mark Harrison 37 Governance Annual report and financial statements 2012 13 Board of Directors and Management Board continued 1 Sir Ian Gibson CBE 5 Philip Cox CBE Chairman Chair of Audit Committee Sir Ian joined the Group as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman in Philip joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in April 2009.
September 2007 and was appointed Chairman in March 2008.
Sir He is a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Ian is Chair of the Boards Nomination Committee and a member Committees.
Philip has been the Chief Executive Officer of of its Remuneration Committee and Corporate Compliance and International Power Plc since 2003: he will retire from this position Responsibility Committee.
He is a Non-Executive Member of the on 30 April 2013.
Philip is a Non-Executive Director of Meggitt Plc Public Interest Body of the UK firm of  and will be appointed as a Non-Executive Director of PPL LLP.
Previous Board appointments include Non-Executive Corporation with effect from 1 April 2013.
He was a NonChairman of Trinity Mirror Plc, Chairman of BPB Plc, Deputy Executive Director at Wincanton Plc from 2001 to 2009, having Chairman of Asda Group Plc, and a Director of Chelys Limited, chaired their Audit Committee from 2001 to 2008 and was Chair GKN Plc, Greggs Plc and Northern Rock Plc.
He is also a former of their Remuneration Committee from 2008.
His previous Board member of the Court of the Bank of England.
Sir Ian enjoyed a positions were as Chief Financial Officer at Siebe Plc.
distinguished 30-year career in the motor industry, most recently as President of Nissan Europe.
6 Penny Hughes CBE Chair of the Corporate Compliance and 2 Dalton Philips Responsibility Committee Chief Executive Penny joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in January Dalton joined the Group as Chief Executive in March 2010.
She is a member of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration a member of the Boards Nomination Committee and Corporate and Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committees.
Penny Compliance and Responsibility Committee.
Prior to joining is currently a Non-Executive Director of The Royal Bank of Scotland Morrisons, he was Chief Operating Officer of Loblaw Companies Plc and a trustee of the British Museum.
Pennys previous Limited, Canadas largest food distributor and a leading provider of experience includes 10 years with Coca-Cola GB and Ireland and general merchandise.
Prior to that position, he was Chief Executive various Non-Executive roles including Body Shop International Plc, of Irish department store group, Brown Thomas.
Between 1998 GAP Inc, Reuters Plc, Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken, Trinity Mirror and 2005 he worked for Walmarts international divisions latterly Plc, Vodafone Plc, Home Retail Group Plc and Cable and Wireless as Chief Operating Officer in Germany.
Dalton started his career Worldwide Plc.
with Jardine Matheson, working in New Zealand and Spain.
Dalton is a Non-Executive Director at the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills.
7 Johanna Waterous CBE Chair of the Remuneration Committee 3 Richard Pennycook Johanna joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in February 2010.
She is a member of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Group Finance Director and Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committees.
She Richard joined the Board as Group Finance Director in October is currently a Non-Executive Director of RSA Group Plc, Non- 2005 and has responsibility for finance, IT, strategy and multiExecutive Director and Senior Independent Director of Rexam Plc channel development.
Prior to joining Morrisons he was the Group and a Non-Executive Director of Shoppers Drug Mart Corporation Finance Director of RAC Plc, the quoted specialist motoring and listed on the TSE, as well as being an Operating Partner of Duke vehicle management company.
Previous senior roles include Group Street LLP and Chairman of Sandpiper CI.
Her previous experience Finance Director of HP Bulmer Holdings Plc, Laura Ashley Plc and includes 22 years with McKinsey & Co, London, ultimately as JD Wetherspoon Plc and Chief Executive of Welcome Break Co-Leader of the firms Global Marketing and Sales Practice.
He is also Senior Independent Director and Chairman a Trustee of the Royal Botanic Garden Kew Foundation and of Kew of the Audit Committee of Persimmon Plc, Chairman of the Hut Enterprises Ltd.
Between 1998 and 2006, she was Chairman of Group Limited and will be appointed as a Non-Executive Director Tate Enterprises.
of Thomas Cook Group Plc with effect from 1 April 2013.
Richard will retire from the board on 10 April 2013.
4 Nigel Robertson Senior Independent Director 17 4 56 3 2 Nigel joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in July 2005 and has been Senior Independent Director since March 2011.
He is a member of the Nomination, Remuneration, Audit and Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committees and was Chair of the Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee from September 2009 to March 2011.
Working in the private equity sector, he is the Group Chief Executive of Health and Surgical Holdings Limited.
Until the business was sold in 2007 he was the Chief Executive Officer of Chelsea Stores Holdings Limited and he was previously the Managing Director of Ocado, the online grocery shopping business set up in partnership with Waitrose.
Nigel retired from the board on 13 March 2013.
38 Performance and strategy review Governance Financial statements 8 Neal Austin 12 Terry Hartwell Group Logistics and Supply Chain Director Group Property Director and interim HR Director Terry was appointed to the Management Board in October 2010 after joining the Group in May 2009 as Group Property Director.
Neal joined the Management Board in October 2010 and is Prior to joining Morrisons, Terry was Group Property Director for responsible for logistics and supply chain.
He is also currently the worldwide operations at Kingfisher Plc.
He spent 25 years with overseeing the Human Resources function on an interim basis.
Kingfisher Plc and, during that time, held a number of senior He joined Morrisons in October 2006 from MFI, where, as Logistics property positions, including a spell in front line operations, Director, he was involved in the sale of the retail business to private running the new depot division in the mid 1990s.
Neal began his career in 1989 with Tesco as a graduate Surveyor with experience in all aspects of commercial property trainee in the buying division, where he undertook a number of development, retail acquisition and property management.
buying and marketing roles, progressing to senior wine buyer.
He then took a role with Asda as a senior buyer and progressed through the supply chain in a number of roles before being 13 Martyn Jones appointed Supply Director.
Group Corporate Services Director Martyn was appointed to the Management Board in October 2010 9 Martyn Fletcher as Group Corporate Services Director, and is responsible for policy Group Manufacturing Director and technical standards.
He joined Morrisons in 1990 as Trading Manager and was promoted to Trading Operations Director in Martyn became a member of the Management Board in October 1993, Grocery Director in 1997 and then Senior Trading Director 2010 and is responsible for the Groups food manufacturing in 2002.
Martyn spent three years on the Board as Group Trading operations, including abattoirs, bakeries, processing and packing Director before changing role at the end of 2010 to Group facilities.
He joined the Group in 1985 and has held a number of Corporate Services Director on the Management Board.
Prior to roles within stores and in head office.
In 1988, he was appointed as joining Morrisons, he spent eight years with J. Sainsbury Plc before Purchasing Manager and promoted to Purchasing Director in 1995. moving into manufacturing with RHM Plc and then Campbells, In 2002, he was appointed as Production Director, responsible for gaining wide buying, marketing and product development the food manufacturing operation, before being appointed as experience in fresh and frozen foods.
14 Trevor Strain 10 Mark Harrison Group Finance Director designate Group Retail Director Trevor joined Morrisons in June 2009 as Commercial and Mark joined the Management Board in October 2010 and was Operations Finance Director.
In June 2011 he became Finance appointed Group Retail Director in June 2011.
His responsibilities Director Corporate and took responsibility for the Companys are retail operations, central retail operations and other retail productivity programmes.
Prior to joining Morrisons he worked for related projects.
He joined the Group in 1980 as a management Tesco in a number of roles until his appointment as UK Property trainee and quickly progressed to Store General Manager.
After Finance Director in 2006 and subsequently UK Planning and a successful career in store management, he held progressively Reporting Finance Director.
Trevor began his career with Arthur senior positions of regional management between 1996 and 2004.
Andersen and is a member of the Institute of Chartered In 2004 he became Stores Director.
Accountants in England and Wales.
Trevor will succeed Richard Pennycook as Group Finance Director in April 2013.
11 Mark Amsden Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Mark is a qualified lawyer who joined the Group and the Management Board on 1 February 2013.
Prior to his arrival, Mark spent 25 years with a number of law firms.
Between 1998 and 2013 he was a partner in leading national law firm Addleshaw Goddard LLP previously Addleshaw Booth & Co, where he specialised in commercial litigation and was Head of the national IT 3 Litigation team.
Marks clients included many of the UKs leading 89 14 1121 13 120 companies, including retailers, manufacturers and suppliers.
