Performance and strategy review Governance Financial statements Capturing growth WHAT WE SAID WE WOULD DO Becoming multi-channel Trial more convenience stores Customers are changing the way Open our first Kiddicare store they shop.
Continue to develop Morrisons Online, with a total market value of 31bn and forecast growth of 13.6% in 2013 is now the fastest growing channel in the UK.
online food proposition General merchandise is migrating online, away from the high street and from big box supermarkets.
There is a significant Open Grimsby seafood factory trend towards the growth of the multi-channel retailer and this is an exciting opportunity for Morrisons.
WHAT WE DID Morrisons took the first steps in establishing itself in online retail through its acquisition, in 2011, of Kiddicare, a leading online baby and infant merchandising retailer.
We have expanded Kiddicare as Opened nine convenience stores a true multi-channel retailer.
In March we announced the acquisition including a petrol forecourt and of ten stores from Best Buy which will be converted into flagship city centre locations Kiddicare showrooms to support its online proposition, allowing customers to try before they buy.
We are making good progress Acquired a dedicated convenience with our store opening programme, having opened stores in Nottingham, Dudley and Thurrock during the year.
Since the year store distribution centre in Feltham end, our new Rotherham store has opened and six further outlets Successfully opened three Kiddicare are planned for 2013.
We are also leveraging the c11 million customers who shop in Morrisons each week by increasing their stores and our Grimsby seafood plant awareness of the Kiddicare business.
Launched wine online As planned, we have continued to integrate Morrisons and Morrisons Cellar Kiddicare brands using Kiddicares industry leading technology platform to provide the foundation for Morrisons first own online offer.
In the second half of the year we launched Morrisons Cellar, WHAT WE WILL DO NEXT to offer an outstanding range of wines at great prices, with fulfilment from our distribution centre in Peterborough.
We also announced that in the Spring of 2013 we will expand our non-food Continue to roll out convenience business online by entering a partnership with Lakeland, offering stores, particularly in the South East kitchenware to customers through Morrisons.
We will continue to expand our online presence by adding further new Further develop Morrisonscellar.
com categories that are relevant to our customers.
In order to support our multi-channel non-food ambitions we have appointed Nigel and other online non-food categories Robertson as CEO of Kiddicare, with overall responsibility for all Launch Morrisons online food offer Morrisons general merchandise online offer.
in 2014 The online food market is currently growing at 16% and over the next five years is set to grow by 98%.
In 2011 we took an initial step in online grocery through the acquisition of a minority stake in Fresh Direct, a leading online, fresh food retailer in New York.
We established a very positive relationship with Fresh Direct Convenience which enabled us to embed a Morrisons team into their business for nearly a year.
During that time we developed a detailed understanding of Fresh Directs operating model and how those New convenience learnings could be applied to launch a successful online business stores in 2012 13 9 in the UK.
We have completed that evaluation and are now confident that Target convenience we have identified a model that will enable us to provide food online in a distinctive, customer focused way that reinforces stores by the end 100 Morrisons leadership in fresh food by putting fresh food at the of 2013 14 heart of its offer.
Accordingly we will be launching Morrisons first online food offer in line with previous guidance by the end of January 2014.
In order to do this, we will accelerate the development of our technology infrastructure and will further strengthen our online food management team.
21 Performance and strategy review Annual report and financial statements 2012 13 Capturing growth continued Growing convenience Customers want to be able to top up on the items they need without having to travel to their nearest large supermarket.
The UK convenience market, which is currently worth 36bn, is a huge opportunity for Morrisons.
It already accounts for 21% of UK grocery sales and is expected to grow by a further 30% in the five years to 2017.
Convenience is a market that Morrisons has only recently entered.
It is an outstanding opportunity to leverage our points of difference, our unique vertical integration and great fresh and value credentials, and to develop a truly compelling new fresh food experience at the heart of local communities.
In this sector it is important to develop a proposition that is Increasing our presence in London and the South East, where flexible enough to meet the specific needs of different locations.
we are significantly under represented, is a major opportunity for During the year we continued to experiment with the format, Morrisons and convenience outlets have a key role to play in that opening a Morrisons M local in a petrol filling station in Doncaster development.
Increasing our convenience presence in this region and at a city centre location in Birmingham.
By the end of the is a priority for 2013 14.
After the year end we opened our first year we had 12 convenience stores open, primarily in the North two London convenience stores, in Ealing and Elm Park their of England.
These stores offer a very different and attractive initial performance has been very encouraging.
shopping experience, with the same fresh food pricing as our core stores, and with half of the space dedicated to fresh food and We will support our expansion in London and the South East from scratch cooking.
The performance in these stores has been well a 100,000 square foot distribution centre in Feltham, West London, ahead of our expectations and customer feedback has been which opened in the first quarter of 2013.
In the coming year we particularly encouraging.
will be looking to acquire a new convenience distribution centre CDC in the north of England to support our planned growth In February 2013, we announced that we had acquired a total of of convenience formats in that region.
Outside of the major 62 stores from a variety of other retailers.
These will be converted conurbations we will supplement this expanding CDC network to the Morrisons M local format and will open over the course of with our unique hub and spoke distribution system.
We are delighted to have acquired these stores, and as a result have increased our target for new convenience We believe that capturing strategic growth through the development format openings in 2013 14 by some 40%, taking our expected of multi-channel opportunities will be an important driver of total at the end of 2013 14 to 100.
We will be looking to increase shareholder value in future years.
Building these businesses has that number in the future.
required incremental revenue expenditure of 17m in the year.
This will increase to 40m in 2013 14 as we accelerate these opportunities.
We also invested 40m of capital expenditure in our multi-channel operations in the year which will increase to 150m in the coming year.
This sum is included within our projected total capital expenditure of 1.1bn for 2013 14.
22 Performance and strategy review Governance Financial statements We have over 50 species of fish available seasonally.
Vertical integration Vertical integration is crucial to our leadership in fresh food.
Sourcing and processing fresh food through our own facilities has Flower World in 2011, and fresh meat packing following the long been a key point of difference for Morrisons.
In addition to acquisition of a facility from Vion Group in the first half of the year.
the flexibility that controlling our own supply chain brings to the This will enable us to extend the range of categories we produce business, it is a true source of competitive advantage which enables through Farmers Boy.
In addition, we have expanded our authority us to offer great quality products for great prices.
It also enables us in fresh fish by establishing a seafood processing facility in Grimsby to have control over the provenance, safety and quality of our fresh which is now on stream.
We have also started to expand our Colne products.
It is becoming increasingly important to consumers that abattoir to facilitate further pork processing and are adding further they are able to understand and trust where their food comes from.
capacity through the expansion of our bakery in Wakefield.
With half of the fresh products we sell in-store being processed through our own factories, Morrisons is uniquely placed to offer customers the reassurances they seek.
Morrisons own their own farm, In 2010, we set out our strategic objective to increase the scope so I can trust where the meat of our vertical integration by investing 200m over three years comes from.
in additional capacity for relevant fresh categories to support our retail operations.
Since then we have expanded into several new categories.
These include fresh flowers through the purchase of Nicola Jones, customer, St Albans At our Grimsby site we fillet around 10,000 salmon, 10,000 cod and 10,000 haddock each week.
