Performance and strategy review Governance Financial statements Increasing efficiency WHAT WE SAID WE WOULD DO Driving in-store productivity Implement new IT systems at our Efficiency remains paramount, Woodheads meat manufacturing site particularly in a low growth sales Introduce a new distribution centre environment and with value for money forecasting system at the forefront of customers minds.
Deliver 40m of efficiency savings We continue to look for better ways of working, to improve the service we offer and to reduce unnecessary spend.
We have implemented a number of long term initiatives to make Morrisons WHAT WE DID more efficient but always with the guiding principle that great customer service is central to our business.
Rolled out new financial systems to In March 2011 we launched an initiative to focus on in-store all three meat manufacturing sites productivity and have made further good progress in the year, delivering productivity savings of 4% in addition to the 25m Implemented our new distribution reported for 2011 12.
During the year we completed the roll out centre forecasting system of intelligent labour planning across Market Street, reconfigured our check outs to reduce the amount of time required to process a Continued to focus on cost control, till transaction, introduced more self service checkouts, increased our case rates and redesigned a number of other work processes delivering over 90m of savings including receipting systems for newspapers and magazines.
Individually each of these is a relatively small benefit but as WHAT WE WILL DO NEXT every hour per day we save across all of our stores equates to approximately 1.5m of annual cost saving, even small changes can deliver big results.
Roll out supply chain forecasting solution to four further distribution During the coming year we will continue to trial and roll out centres new ideas and we are well on track to deliver our target savings of 100m by 2013 14.
Deliver new commercial systems and processes to increase focus on promotions Tackling indirect procurement Deliver 100m of further Our indirect procurement programme efficiency savings aims to reduce the cost of our goods and services without impacting customers.
Our colleagues have played a significant part in helping us to identify and remove unnecessary costs from the business.
Key savings The programme involves reviewing every area of spend in the business, both revenue and capital expenditure, looking for ways to sensibly reduce cost, including the use of e-auctions, rate In-store and distribution negotiations, consolidating spend and reducing consumption.
% During the year we made further good progress delivering a further productivity 4 45m of annual revenue benefit in addition to the 40m we improvements in achieved in 2011 12.
2012 13 Some of the initiatives, such as rationalising our waste collections and consolidating the purchase of consumables, were significant.
Others, including the respecification of our flower buckets, the Indirect procurement m consolidation and renegotiation of napkins purchases, a reduction savings 45 in postage stamps and the introduction of energy-efficient lighting, were smaller, but they are all contributing to our cost savings targets.
We are on track to deliver our planned savings of 100m annually by 2013 14.
19 Performance and strategy review Annual report and financial statements 2012 13 Increasing efficiency continued Our Evolve programme has delivered significant improvements across all areas of the business.
Revamping our systems This is a significant step towards us delivering improved inventory We are now well over the half way stage control across the business.
of our six year Evolve programme.
All of these completed projects are now providing the benefits expected in our business case and during the year the programme When complete, the programme will replace all the systems in our delivered a further 28m of savings.
business and provide us with industry leading software capability.
Throughout the life of the programme we have taken great care to In the coming year we will be building still further on this solid manage it through a comprehensive governance process, including base and will be making changes to our core manufacturing, external assurance, to enable us to carefully manage any risks to logistics, trading and retail systems, supported by improved the business.
As expected, it has been a long journey but we are management information.
We are on track to meet our target delighted with the improvements we are delivering to the business.
of delivering 100m of annual benefits by 2013 14.
2012 13 saw the deployment of new systems to many parts of the business.
During the year we concluded the implementation of our EPOS till system, introducing it into our petrol filling stations and our stores.
We substantially completed the roll out of new meat manufacturing solutions in Woodheads which link our buying, delivery, production and despatch to stores processes onto a single The last few years have seen a lot system, helping us to trace our meat products from field to fork.
We also commenced the implementation of the important supply of changes in the way we work, chain module which has initially been introduced into the Stockton warehouse and will ultimately enable us to consolidate but weve made sure we keep great our accounting, supplier ordering and distribution systems onto customer service at the forefront a single platform.
Paul Finch, Store Manager, Cheadle Heath 20
