Our business model Business model Wolseley is a distributor, bridging the gap between around 70,000 vendors and Around 70,000 Around 1 million Source Distribute Sell around 1 million customers.
vendors customers We market and sell a wide range of products that our customers need and provide our vendors with access to these customers How we source How we distribute How we sell cost effectively.
See page 23 See page 24 See page 25 To achieve this each business unit We supply customers in the new: repair, Business and focuses on: maintenance and improvement: and civil managementstructure infrastructure sectors.
The exposure to t best customer service: The Groups business falls into six each market differs by geography and by geographic regions the United States, t best branch employees: and business unit and is outlined on pages 4 Canada, United Kingdom, the Nordic and 5. t preferred vendor relationships.
region, France and Central Europe.
Underlying this, Wolseley aims to operate Market trends Within each geography the Group operates the most efficient operating model in the a number of distinct business units with The Groups results depend on levels industry, ensuring its distribution activities strong trading identities, including many of activity in the new construction and benefit from national scale and an efficient with market leading positions in their property repair and remodelling markets.
The major factors which influence demand The business units drive operational value therefore include: The Group has strong management teams through gaining market share, improving in each region.
Business units report on t the rate of gross domestic product productivity, expanding gross margins operational performance and strategic GDP growth: andimproving returns and cash.
progress through regular performance t consumer confidence: review meetings with senior executives.
In order to give customers greater choice we are developing new business models t the availability of credit to finance The business model offers opportunities including e-commerce platforms in consumer investment: forsynergies to be achieved by being part most geographies.
These include: t mortgage and other interest rates: t management synergies such as sharing Market overview t government initiatives to stimulate best practice, management development economic activity: The markets for plumbing and heating and and corporate finance: and building materials are directly exposed t ination: and t operating synergies in the areas of joint to macroeconomic cycles.
sourcing, private label development and delivered improved overall financial results the sharing of costs and infrastructure.
against a backdrop of weak demand in To better aid understanding of how these Continental Europe and improved market macroeconomic trends directly affected Business unit strategies conditions in the USA.
Further detail by demand in the major countries in which the geography is provided in the regional Group operates, quarterly GDP data has Business unit strategies are aligned with performance reviews on pages 26 to 37. been set out in the regional performance our value creation model as outlined on reviews on pages 26 to 37.
Each business unit aims to grow Although our markets are cyclical, where the Group operates building materials market share faster than the competition the business model is strong and it is businesses, principally in the Nordic region through gaining a greater share of its underpinned by demographic trends and France, construction indicators have existing customers business and through towards ageing populations, small also been shown.
This is because activity attracting new customers.
households and by the ageing of levels in building materials businesses housing stocks.
correlate more directly to construction activity levels than in plumbing and heating which are more directly exposed to repairs, maintenance and remodelling markets.
Wolseley plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview The Group continues to work with low cost, Civils waterworks, industrial and high quality manufacturers tosupply our commercial Source private label product ranges.
t Drainage pipes, associated supplies The Groups vendor base is highly and covers.
We source a wide range fragmented and the Group is not highly t Underground pressure pipes.
ofproducts efficiently and reliant on any single supplier.
responsibly, bringing together t Small bore pressure pipes and ttings.
the range of products from Products t Carbon and stainless steel pipes, valves different vendors that our and ttings.
The Group sources and supplies a broad customers need.
The main product t Other pipes, valves and ttings.
categories are as follows: Other Plumbing, heating and air t Services, including installation, conditioning maintenance and management t Baths, showers and accessories.
The proportion of Group revenue derived from each product category is shown in the t Bathroom furniture.
Product mix by category t Radiators and valves.
% of total 2012 13 revenue t Hot water cylinders and ues.
What differentiates Wolseley Other 1% t Control equipment.
Civils waterworks, t Around 70,000 trade vendors supplying Plumbing, industrial and t Heating and cooling equipment.
heating and a broad mix of products including private commercial air conditioning label ranges.
t Leading national market positions drive t Plastic pipes and ttings.
scale advantages in sourcing a key t Copper tubing and ttings.
Building materials t Targeted international sourcing drives 23% Building materials scale advantages in areas such as t Insulation.
Product integrity t Plaster and plasterboard.
The Group is committed to responsible Vendor relationships t Roong materials.
sourcing and has a range of policies and Our vendors need distributors who can give procedures in place related to product t Bricks, blocks and aggregates.
them access to many smaller customers safety and ethical sourcing practices.
Our relationships with these t Tiles and ooring.
Our Group-wide product integrity vendors are key to our success: we want policy and the associated business unit t Timber products.
to build strong relationships and grow our procedures are starting to improve the business with them.
way that we procure products of the right quality from vendors that adhere to our Key vendors are manufacturers with t Beams, trusses and frames.
Product integrity market leading brands, usually focused t Hardware and tools.
is a core element of our Corporate on the needs of local markets.
We work Responsibility programme and further in partnership with our key vendors to t Workwear.
detail is provided on page 60. offer market breadth and penetration and to collaborate on promotions and incentive programmes.
We aim to derive benefit from national scale.
Whilst the vendor base is predominantly based on national geographies, some international sourcing benets exist, for example across Europe and for the sourcing of private label products.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23 Our business model continued At a branch level, product ranges are Distribution network focused on the fastest moving products, Distribute Distribution centres are a key competitive with the distribution centres able to quickly advantage for Wolseley, allowing the deliver a wide range of other products Group to purchase in bulk and better serve We distribute products as required.
A number of our businesses customers through reduced delivery times, offer service guarantees and next day efficiently to our branches broader product selection, increased delivery options.
and customers, allowing us ll-rates and improved product availability, toprovide great product as well as enabling the Group to better manage inventory.
The Group has an extensive network of Our objective is to distribution centres which serve branches operate the lowest cost, for our plumbing and heating businesses.
By contrast, the majority of products in our most efcientoperating building materials businesses are delivered directly to our branches or customers.
Our objective is to operate the lowest cost, most efficient operating model in our industry, ensuring that our distribution Branches activities benefit from national scale and With 2,917 branches across 11countries, an efficient supply chain.
The Group Wolseley is an international business but has invested signicantly in supply chain also a local business, with the majority technology to manage inventory in our of the Groups customers travelling less distribution centres and branches in order than 20 miles to a branch.
We rely on to maximise efficiency.
What differentiates Wolseley the strength of our brands in their local An example of how a pilot project in markets, and the local knowledge of t Branch network of 2,917 branches.
Stockholm is leading to a more efficient ouremployees in the branches to meet supply chain in the city is outlined on t Large scale network of distribution ourcustomers needs.
centres supporting the plumbing and heating businesses.
Transport Product availability t High levels of product availability across The Group uses a range of transport abroad range of stock keeping units The availability of a wide range of products solutions in each of its businesses including SKUs.
to our customers is fundamental to the its own extensive fleet and third party Wolseley business model.
The Group uses fleet network is key to allowing us to management systems and backhauling outperform the competition in this area.
arrangements to maximise the efficiency Each distribution centre aims to maximise of its transport network and minimise its the ll-rate that it achieves, which is the environmental impact.
The Group is also proportion of orders that can be fullled piloting more centralised approaches to from inventory on hand at the time of the logistics to improve efficiency.
The distribution centres operate of this is outlined on page 16, which with ll-rates that are substantially better relates to the Beijer business in Sweden.
than those we receive from our vendors, Further detail on the environmental impact bridging the gap between vendor ll-rates of our transport requirements and actions and those to our branches.
An example taken to minimise CO2 emissions is given from the UK of how On Time In Full in the Corporate Responsibility report measurements against customer orders onpages 48 to 63. is driving improved customer service is outlined onpage 21.
Wolseley plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Customer service Sell Wolseley is a relationship business and E-commerce is a rapidly our focus is to meet our customers needs better than the competition, ensuring we growing sales channel We sell through a variety of deliver the right products, at the right price, channels including branches, forthe Group and we at the right time, on every occasion they do call centres and online, with business with us.
We use regular customer continue to invest in astrong focus on providing surveys in all of our business units so B2Band B2C websites.
that we can take actions to improve our excellent customer service.
performance, both nationally and within each branch operation.
See pages 18 and 19 to read more about how we measure E-commerce is a rapidly growing sales customer service.
channel for the Group and we continue to invest in B2B and B2C websites and mobile applications across the Group.
An example Branch employees relating to our Swiss e-commerce business In order to achieve the best customer is outlined on page 2.
Our B2C offering service in the industry we need to have the now includes websites in the USA, Canada right talent with relevant training, skills and and the UK.
Within each of the business units there is a strong focus Customers on ensuring that training programmes and tools are available for our people so that The Group has a wide range of customers they are equipped to give the best service operating in different industry sectors, in the industry.
Employee engagement is ranging from individual plumbers and What differentiates Wolseley measured in each business unit at least builders through to national contractor annually and the results are used to make chains and house builders.
Wolseleys t Continued focus on customer improvements in working practices and primary customer focus is on professional service measured through regular environments.
An example which relates contractors, who constituted 88 per cent of customer surveys.
tohow we measure employee engagement the Groups customer base during the year t Investment in employee training in the UK is outlined on page 10. ended 31 July 2013.
The Group has around programmes and tools to allow our 1 million customers globally and no single branch employees to deliver the best Employees by region customer represented greater than 1 per customer service.
Group Services 104 Central Europe 2,736 t Investment in online sales channels France 2,869 Customer mix todrive organic growth.
% of total 2012 13 revenue Heating, ventilation Nordic 6,145 Channels and air conditioning 6% Building contractors USA 18,969 21% Sales to customers are made over the Utilities 10% counter at our branches, through supply UK 5,952 Mechanical contracts which are managed centrally, contractors Canada 2,511 or through orders that can be placed 10% with branches, into call centres, or via the End users internet.
In some regions we also operate 12% Plumbing and anetwork of showrooms which enables heating engineers 26% usto showcase our product range.
Industrial 15% Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25 Regional performance: USA Regional KPIs 2013 2012 Business unit portfolio Performance overview andprole Like-for-like revenue growth 8.2% 8.4% Revenue 53% of Group Trading margin 7.3% 6.3% In the USA we operate six business units.
Ferguson is the primary operating brand 6,785m although a number of other brands have Five year performance m Revenue been retained to service specic markets.
Trading profit Trading profit The business operates in all 50 states and 5,820 5,174 5,500 6,168 6,785 is served by 11 distribution centres across the country that provide next day product 492m availability, a key competitive advantage.
Small in-ll acquisitions have been made Trading margin to strengthen positions in existing markets 492 388 297 314 239 and to enter areas where the business has historically been under-represented.
7.3% Ferguson predominantly serves the RMI 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 markets and has relatively low exposure tothe residential new construction market.
Quarterly like-for-like revenue growth % Key highlights The Ferguson Blended Branches business 10.2 7.4 9.4 6.7 7.1 9.7 8.3 7.8 sells to customers across the residential, t Like-for-like revenue growth commercial and industrial sectors for new of8.2%.
construction and RMI projects through its national branch network.
In smaller markets t Continued share gain in that may not justify a stand alone presence majorbusiness units.
for heating, ventilation and air conditioning HVAC and waterworks, a blended t Trading margin of 7.3% Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 location can also provide the products 2012 2013 exceeded previous peak andservices for these customers.
The Waterworks business distributes Business unit revenue % of total 2012 13 revenue pipes, valves, hydrants, ttings and Industrial Other meters to residential, commercial and 11% 5% municipal contractors.
The business is Operations diversifying its customer base into private HVAC Ongoing business units water companies and treatment plants, 7% and expanding its product range into new t Blended Branches Waterworks areassuch as metering technologies.
15% Blended t Waterworks The HVAC business distributes Branches 62% heating, ventilation, air conditioning t HVAC andrefrigeration equipment to specialist contractors, predominantly in the t Industrial residential and commercial sectors.
Revenue by market sector % of total 2012 13 revenue t Fire and Fabrication Branded dealershipsof high quality Non-residential Civil equipment are an important feature of new construction infrastructure t B2C 13% 15% this market.
Most revenue is generated by providing equipment and parts for Residential new therepair and replacement market.
Branches construction 14% Residential RMI 1,348 29% Non-residential RMI Employees 29% 18,969 Wolseley plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Market position and Operating performance competitive environment Revenue in the USA was 8.2 per cent Gain market share ahead of last year on a like-for-like basis Ferguson is the market leading distributor including price ination of approximately of plumbing supplies in the USA.
The The major business units 1 per cent.
The RMI segment remained market positions of the main business units of Blended Branches, resilient and the recovery in levels of are estimated as follows: new residential construction continued.
Market position Waterworks and heating, The major business units of Blended Blended Branches 1 Branches and Waterworks gained market ventilation and air Waterworks 2 share in the period.
conditioning HVAC Industrial 3 Blended Branches continued to grow HVAC 4 gained market share strongly across the country, underpinned by good RMI markets.
The Waterworks and inthe period.
Ferguson has no direct competitor that HVAC businesses grew strongly though operates across all its markets, and each Industrial was slightly lower overall due to business unit has its own competitors.
low demand for shale gas piping products, These range from large national players, although Pipes, Valves and Fittings PVF including professional sales from the grew well.
com continued to grow national home improvement chains, to strongly and generated good returns.
Gross margins improved across most The market remains fragmented with business units.
Operating expenses a large number ofsmall and regional were 9 per cent higher in constant distributors making upthe majority of currency, and this included 26 million the market.
growth from acquisitions, 9 million of increased healthcare costs, and Overall, Ferguson has continued to gain 11 million of additional investment in market share in the year, growing sales B2C marketing.
The UK B2C business is signicantly ahead of the market.
managed from the USA and the prior year results have been restated to reect this.
Market trends Favourable exchange rate movements contributed 4 million to trading profit GDP growth % which was 26.8 per cent ahead at The Industrial business distributes pipes, 2.0 1.9 1.5 2.0 3.3 2.8 3.1 2.0 1.3 1.6 492 million 2011 12: 388 million.
valves and ttings, including specialty high-density polyethylene pipes, to Acquisitions completed in the year industrial customers across all sectors accounted for 2.1 per cent of revenue including oil and gas, mining and power growth in the region.
It is a project driven business Davis& Warshow, a Blended Branches that has historically performed strongly business in New York, Power Equipment over the economic cycle.
The Industrial Direct, a Chicago based online distributor Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 business also offers maintenance, 2011 2012 2013 of power equipment and Fluid Systems Inc, repair and operations services MRO a Hawaii based distributor of below ground Source: The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and off-site integrated supply with drainage products.
We opened 54 new and Development OECD.
centralised procurement, storeroom branches, principally in the Waterworks and GDP growth shown is the movement of the quarter andcommodity management.
Headcount growth compared to the same quarter of the previous of 3.9 per cent was well controlled with calendar year.
Our Fire and Fabrication business unit nearly half of all headcount growth coming supplies re protection systems to from acquisitions.
Quarterly GDP growth in the USA has commercial contractors.
remained steady throughout 2012 13 which The USA trading margin was 7.3 per cent Our B2C business supplies to consumers drove a continued recovery in levels of new 2011 12: 6.3 per cent which was ahead via websites using the product range construction and a resilient RMI segment.
ofthe previous peak achieved in 2007. and distribution network of the Blended Branches business.
This is a particularly fast growing area ofthe US business.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27
