Governance Other disclosures Amendment of the Companys Change of control significant agreements Articles of Association The Company is not party to any significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by a takeover except for the 750,000,000 multicurrency revolving credit special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
facility agreement dated 18 July 2011, the US$270,000,000 revolving credit facility agreement dated 21 July 2011, the Authority to allot shares 200,000,000 revolving credit facility agreement dated 27 March At the Annual General Meeting held in November 2012, authority 2013 and the US$500,000,000 receivables facility agreement dated was given to the Directors to allot new ordinary shares up to a 31 July 2013 which could become repayable following a relevant nominal value of 19,087,512.
The Directors intend to propose at change of control.
There are no agreements between the Company the Annual General Meeting in November 2013 to seek authority and any Director that would provide compensation for loss of office to allot and grant rights to subscribe for or to convert securities or employment resulting from a change of control following a into shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 19,122,250, takeover bid, except that provisions of the Companys share representing approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued schemes may cause options and awards granted under such share capital as at the date of this report, but of that amount, schemes to vest in those circumstances.
All of the Companys 9,561,125 may only be allotted pursuant to a fully preemptive share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
If approved, this authority will expire at the conclusion Outstanding options and awards would normally vest and become of the Annual General Meeting to be held in November 2014. exercisable for a limited period of time upon a change of control following a takeover, reconstruction or winding up of the Company Subject to the terms of the authority noted above, the Directors not being an internal reorganisation, subject at that time to rules will also recommend that they be empowered to allot equity concerning the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
securities for cash other than pro rata to existing shareholders, until the Annual General Meeting to be held in November 2014.
Charitable donations This authority shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,434,165 being The Groups charitable donations in 2012 13 totalled 2,425,000 approximately 5 per cent of the ordinary share capital issued at 2012: 1,389,000.
Donations to charitable organisations from the date of this report.
The Directors currently have no intention the businesses across the Group range from small to substantial to issue ordinary shares, other than pursuant to the Companys amounts.
The charitable organisations which received donations employee share schemes and any share dividend alternatives.
of more than 10,000 per annum from Wolseley and other details of charitable donations made in the year are referred to in the Corporate responsibility report.
Authority to purchase shares In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the Company Conflicts of interest to purchase its own ordinary shares and a special resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting in November 2013 Processes and procedures are in place which require Directors to to renew the Directors limited authority, last granted in November identify and declare actual or potential conflicts of interest, whether 2012, to purchase the Companys ordinary shares in the market.
These notifications are made by a The authority will be limited to a maximum of 27,436,390 ordinary Director prior to or at a Board meeting, or in writing.
All Directors shares being approximately 10 per cent of the Companys issued have a continuing duty to update any changes.
share capital at the date of this report and sets the minimum and The Board may authorise potential conflicts which can be limited maximum prices which may be paid.
The Directors will use this in scope, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
authority to purchase shares only after careful consideration, taking These authorisations are regularly reviewed.
During the year, into account market conditions, other investment opportunities, all conflict management procedures were adhered to and appropriate gearing levels and the overall financial position of the operated efficiently.
The authority will enable the Directors to continue to be able to respond promptly should circumstances arise in which Creditor payment policy they consider that such a purchase would result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the best interests of the All Group companies are responsible for establishing terms and Company.
In accordance with the Companys Articles the conditions of trading with their vendors.
It is the Companys policy Company is allowed to hold shares purchased by it to be held as that payments to vendors are made within agreed terms and are, treasury shares that may be cancelled, sold for cash or used for the where applicable, consistent with The Prompt Payment Code, purpose of employee share schemes.
As at the date of this report, which is sponsored by the UK Department for Business Innovation the Company holds no shares in treasury but the Directors currently & Skills BIS.
Copies of this Code can be obtained from BIS.
intend that any shares which are purchased will be held in treasury.
At 31 July 2013, the Company had no trade creditors 2012: nil.
The authorities to be sought by each of the resolutions noted The amount of trade creditors for the Group as at 31 July 2013 above are intended to apply equally to shares to be held by the was equivalent to 63 days 2012: 63 days of trade purchases.
Company as treasury shares and to the sale of treasury shares.
The Directors consider it desirable for these general authorities CREST to be available to provide flexibility in the management of the The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement Companys capital resources.
system for stocks and shares.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 85 Other disclosures continued In addition, having taken all matters considered by the Board and Directors responsibilities statement brought to the attention of the Board during the year into account, The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors consider that the Companys 2012 13 Annual Report the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements and Accounts, taken as a whole, presents a fair, balanced and in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors understandable assessment of the Companys position and have prepared the Directors Remuneration Report as if the prospects and provides information necessary for shareholders to Company were required to do so in accordance with the UK assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires the Directors to prepare Employees financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the The Group actively encourages employee involvement in driving Directors have prepared the Consolidated financial statements in our current and future success and places particular importance accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs on keeping employees regularly informed on the Groups activities as adopted by the European Union.
The Directors are also and financial performance and on matters affecting them individually responsible for preparing parent company financial statements in and the business generally.
This can be through informal bulletins, accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards, and for in-house publications and briefings, as well as via the Groups being satisfied that the Consolidated and Company financial intranet sites.
The Group operates on a largely decentralised basis statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the with a rigorous control framework exercised by a small team at Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company the Group Services Office.
This ensures that consistent standards and Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, are set and maintained while allowing for implementation in a way the Directors are required to: that supports each business units particular circumstances.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Local management is responsible for maintaining high standards consistently: of health and safety and for ensuring that there is appropriate employee involvement in decision-making.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: A European Works Council EWC has been operating since 1996 to provide a forum for informing and consulting employees in state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Europe on such matters as significant developments in the Groups applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, operations, managements plans and expectations, organisational subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in changes within the Group and also for employee representatives to the Consolidated and Company financial statements respectively: consult Group management about concerns over any aspect of the and Groups operations.
At the date of this report, there were 18 EWC prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis representatives of which 12 were employee representatives and six unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the were management representatives.
Employee representatives are Company will continue in business.
appointed from each European country in which Wolseley operates.
All employees are offered a range of benefits depending on their The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting local environment.
Where possible, they are also encouraged to records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys build a stake in the Company through the ownership of shares transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time through participation in the Companys employee share schemes.
the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Consolidated financial statements comply Employment policies with the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of Our employment policies aim to attract the very best people and the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps we believe that a diverse and inclusive culture is a key factor in for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Group remains committed to equality of opportunity in all of its employment practices.
It is the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Groups policy that the selection of employees for appointment, the Companys website.
Jersey legislation and United Kingdom career development and promotion be determined solely on the regulation, governing the preparation and dissemination of financial skills and attributes which are relevant to the job and which are statements, may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
in accordance with the laws of the country concerned, and it will Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on progressively promote diversity.
Ongoing training of employees pages 66 and 67, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: and the continued development of their skills is of prime importance.
The Group also has policies in place relating to the Consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared the continuation of employment of, and appropriate retraining for, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and employees who become disabled.
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Performance review contained in the report of the directors includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Wolseley plc 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Indemnities and insurance Restrictions on transfer of shares The Company indemnifies the Directors in respect of liabilities There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the incurred as a result of their office in accordance with its Articles of Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the Association and to the maximum extent permitted by Jersey law.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions to the maximum extent special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company permitted by English law were granted to all Directors in office and is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that to the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel by Wolseley may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting plc now known as Wolseley Limited and these remain in force as rights.
The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by at the date of this report.
When Wolseley plc registered in Jersey a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
became the new holding company, additional third party indemnity provisions were granted by the Company, and it has granted Share capital and voting rights indemnities to all Directors appointed since November 2010 in On 10 December 2012, the shares of Wolseley plc were accordance with Jersey law.
consolidated on a 22 for 23 basis Consolidation.
Details of the There is appropriate insurance coverage in respect of legal action authorised and issued share capital, together with any movements against the Directors and officers.
Neither the Companys in the issued share capital during the year, are shown in note 26 indemnities nor insurance would provide any coverage to the extent of the consolidated financial statements.
As at 31 July 2013 there 5 that a Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
were 274,361,228 fully paid ordinary shares of 10 11 pence each in issue and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Independent Auditors and audit information Subject to the provisions of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and  LLP PwC are willing to continue without prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares or as auditors of the Company, and resolutions concerning their class of shares, any share may be issued with such rights and reappointment and the determination of their remuneration will restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution determine be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Directors or as the Board shall determine.
Copies of the Companys Articles in office at the date of this report confirm that, so far as they are of Association can be obtained from Companies Registry, Jersey or each aware, in respect of the consolidated financial statements by writing to the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel.
for the financial year ended 31 July 2013, there is no relevant audit The Company also has a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt information of which PwC are unaware and each Director has ADR programme in the US for which Deutsche Bank Trust taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a Director to Company Americas acts as Depositary.
The American Depositary be aware, in respect of the consolidated financial statements for the Shares ADS which are evidenced by ADRs are traded on the financial year ended 31 July 2013, of any relevant audit information US over-the-counter market, where each ADS represents one-tenth and to establish that PwC are aware of that information.
of a Wolseley plc ordinary share.
Management report Share options The management report for the year, as required by the Disclosure At the time of the share Consolidation in November 2012, the and Transparency Rules, is incorporated within the Overview and Board determined that since the effect of a share Consolidation, Performance sections of the Annual Report.
when combined with the payment of a special dividend, was intended to be neutral in relation to outstanding share awards and Political donations options, no adjustment to such share awards and options, or any At each of the Annual General Meetings held since 2002, shareholders performance criteria in relation to them, was required.
During the have passed a resolution, as a precaution, to approve donations to financial year ended 31 July 2013, options were exercised pursuant political organisations and to incur political expenditure as such terms to the Companys share option schemes resulting in the allotment are now defined in sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006. of 161,630 ordinary 10 pence shares prior to the Consolidation 5 Each year, the Board has confirmed that it operates a policy of not and 372,018 ordinary 10 11 pence shares after the Consolidation.
5 giving any cash contribution to any political party in the ordinary A further 2,743 ordinary 10 11 pence shares have been allotted meaning of those words and that it has no intention of changing that under these schemes since the end of the financial year to the policy.
In previous years this resolution related to the provisions of date of this report.
Details of shares issued during the year are set the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has ensured that, although out in note 26 to the financial statements.
registered in Jersey, it will continue to apply the same standards and has such provisions incorporated into its Articles of Association.
The Directors propose to seek, once more, authority for the Group to make political donations and or incur political expenditure for amounts not exceeding 125,000 in aggregate, which they might otherwise be prohibited from making or incurring under the provisions of Article 12 of the Companys Articles of Association equivalent to sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006 and which would not amount to donations in the ordinary sense of the word.
This authority would last until the Companys next Annual General Meeting.
During the year, no expenditure was incurred which could be regarded as political in nature.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 87 Other disclosures continued UK pension schemes Wolseley currently has two pension schemes in respect of employees in the United Kingdom: 1 Defined Benefit Scheme the Wolseley Group Retirement Benefits Plan Plan is a trust-based defined benefits scheme.
It consists of two sections: the Wolseley Section and the William Wilson Section.
Both sections have been closed to new entrants since 31 May 2009.
Following detailed and comprehensive consultation it has been agreed with the Trustees to close the Plan to future accrual from 31 December 2013.
On and from 1 January 2014, all remaining active members of the Wolseley Group Retirement Benefits Plan will transfer to the Wolseley Group Defined Contribution Plan.
There are three trustees consisting of an independent trustee, a member nominated trustee and a corporate trustee.
The corporate trustees consists of six trustee directors and, save for David Illingworth chairman of the trustees and Ian Percy, CBE, all of the other trustee directors are employees of the Group.
2 Defined Contribution Scheme the Wolseley Group Defined Contribution Plan is a trust-based defined contribution pension scheme with three Company nominated trustees, one of whom is an independent trustee and two who are UK-based employees of the Group: the chairman of the trustees is Wayne Phelan of PS Independent Trustees Limited.
In addition, up to three member-nominated trustees may be appointed.
The Trustees have regularly sought membernominated trustees.
Whilst there were none who put themselves forward following the last selection process, a further process will be run in January 2014.
The Wolseley Group Defined Contribution Plan has been used as the vehicle to auto-enrol Wolseley employees and the plan rules have been updated to meet the auto-enrolment legal requirements.
The basis of contribution to the Wolseley Group Defined Contribution Plan will be enhanced from 1 January 2014.
On behalf of the Board Richard Shoylekov Group Company Secretary and General Counsel 30 September 2013 Dividends See page 40 Going concern See page 41 Post balance sheet events See page 144 Profit See page 38 Wolseley plc 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
