How were doing Branding & Identity B to D Group Addison Group Report by Simon Bolton Addison had a transformational year with the Worldwide chief executive officer, Brand Union acquisition of The Group, adding further strength and FITCH, tothe agencys digital capabilities.
Now rebranded Lois Jacobs asAddison Group, it continues to grow both in the Chief executive officer, Landor Associates UK and across Europe, attracting new projects and withits enhanced integrated offer.
Rob Horjus below Chief finance officer and chief operating officer, Brand Union See report on page 79 Bto D Group The B to D Group expanded via acquisition in FITCH See report on page 80 2013, as Addison joined forces with The Group, theUKs leading provider of corporate websites.
In addition, Brand Union, PeclersParis and Lambie-Nairn ThePartners all delivered impressive profit growth, while FITCH generated growth in North America Lambie-Nairn increased its focus on media, andEMEA and Landor saw exceptional growth telecommunications and sport, and building its inRussia, Indonesia, Japan and Australia.
presence in faster-growth markets by winning projects Many respected brands added B to D Group for FIFA, Saudi Telecom, Red Chillies Entertainment companies to their roster, including Aeroflot, Argos, India and Green Networks Africa.
The agency Colgate-Palmolive, Det Norske Veritas, Dunkin continues to work as the global brand guardian Brands, Ford, Land Rover, Merck, Qtel Group, Royal forTelefnica.
Bank ofScotland, Royal London Group, Russian Copper Landor Associates See report on page 58 Company, Toyota Lexus and Walgreens.
The Partners 2014 will be an exciting year Led by an exceptionally good new business for the B to D performance, The Partners experienced strong revenue Group as we growth across its network.
The agencys growth with continue to Colgate and its win of the XL Telecom assignment focus on doing inIndonesia reinforces that their strategically-led, great work, creatively-focused approach is compelling and sets making The Partners up for continued growth in 2014. acquisitions, expanding ouroffer andentering newmarkets.
More overleaf WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 77 How were doing Branding & Identity PeclersParis 2013 was another good year for PeclersParis, our consulting agency in trends, style and innovation.
Trend book revenue grew strongly, helped by the launch of new products and positive sales momentum worldwide.
The companys consulting offer has resonated in China, resulting in double-digit growth in that market.
VBAT 2013 was a challenging year for Amsterdam-based VBAT, as the regions economic difficulties impacted the business.
However, the agency strengthened its relationships with key clients including Heineken, fide Master Blenders and ING Bank, while opening an office in Mexico City and building its business there.
78 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Branding & Identity Brand Union Report by Simon Bolton right Worldwide chief executive officer The experience of the brand is the brand is thecentral belief that underpins the Brand Union network.
Conceived in 2012, this now drives ourentire offer.
Our proprietary methodology, the Experience Imprint, is a manifestation of this belief and provides a framework for evaluation, diagnosis and futureproofing of brands.
It has proved to be a flexible approach that works across categories, markets anddisciplines and has helped us welcome many newclients.
Growth was fuelled in markets such as China, South East Asia, the Middle We also won RedDot and Eurobest Awards for our East and the UK work with Absolut and the Midas award for Worlds best Financial Advertising for Bank of America.
There were a number of notable talent changes Growth was fuelled in markets such as China, including: Toby Southgate transferred from London South East Asia, the Middle East and the UK.
We to become CEO of our North American operation were also successful in winning assignments from based in New York in August: Catherine Gale joined major new clients: Jaguar Land Rover, CFLD, in October as CEO for our London and Dublin SABMiller, CBRE and Prudential America.
operations: Tab Lai was appointed MD for our 2013 saw many of our offices recognised for Shanghai operation: and Arvind Hegde MD for our outstanding achievements: we were voted agency India business.
At the time of going to press, I am ofthe year in both Singapore and India: our offices delighted to welcome John Shaws experience and in Stockholm and Hong Kong contributed to the intellect to our company as worldwide director groups success at the Cannes Lions Festival and ofstrategy and planning.
Digit won the prestigious Royal Television Society My thanks go to all of the people from Brand Union award for Design & Craft Innovation for D-Day: As for their contribution to such a memorable year.
It Happens which fused traditional TV with the web and social media in a highly-engaging new format.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 79 How were doing Branding & Identity FITCH Asian Paints flagship stores continue to be recognized, with accolades from the DBA and Retail Report by Simon Bolton see preceding page Design Institute.
Vodafone EBEZ was awarded Worldwide chief executive officer twiceover in Indias VMRD Retail Design Awards.
In November 2013, my colleague and CFO, Delivering seamless retail experiences through bold AlexSpark, and I proudly transitioned into leadership thinking is FITCHs driving ambition for its clients roles with FITCH.
We have been joined by Lesley around the globe.
Brady global human resources director and I have Good progress was made against this objective recently promoted Tim Greenhalgh to chairman in2013 as FITCH continued to deploy its Physical, andchief creative officer, reflecting the depth of his Human and Digital PHD process and toolkit knowledge and influence across our network.
Our strategy in 2014 is to continue to boldly Whereas discontinuity remains a constant in the deliver seamless retail experiences and thinking global economy, we were able to generate growth andto secure FITCHs reputation as the undisputed through our key hub offices in Columbus, Phoenix kings of retail design.
representing North America and London covering EMEA.
Significant new contracts were secured in the banking, automotive, fashion, FMCG and hospitality sectors.
We scooped 30 awards in 2013, forour work and our teams We scooped 30 awards in 2013, for our work andour teams: Design Firm of the Year for the thirdyear running from DDI magazine and Design Team of the Year for the second time at the Retail Interior Awards.
Chain Store Age awarded FITCH for the signature experiences we created for PIRCH, City Target and Buffalo Wild Wings in the US and Ann Summers in the UK.
