How were doing Strategic report to share owners Dear share owner Your share price rose sharply in 2013 an increase of over 55% to 1,380.0p at year end.
Since then, however, the share price has fallen to 1,218.0p at 013, our twenty-eighth year, thetime of writing, reflecting the weakness in global stock markets over recent weeks.
Dividends increased was another record one, with by 20% to 34.21p, a record level.
This represents a revenue, profitability, headline dividend pay-out ratio of 42% on headline diluted 2 margins and earnings per earnings per share, in line with the objective set after the 2013 Annual General Meeting of increasing the share all reaching new highs.
For the dividend pay-out ratio to approximately 45% over third successive year, your Company the following two years.
Weare targeting a pay-out was awarded a Cannes Lion for ratio of 45% in 2014.
Reported billings increased by over 4% to Creative Holding Company of 46.2billion and were up well over 3% in constant theYear, in recognition of your currencies, driven by a strong leadership position Companys collective creative inall net new business league tables.
Revenues were up over 6% to 11.0 billion and up well over 5% excellence: and for the second inconstant currencies.
Gross margin, or net sales, consecutive year, WPP was ranked increased by almost 6% and over 5% in constant Most Effective Holding Company in currencies.
Including 100% of associates, revenue is estimated to total 13.3 billion almost $21 billion.
the Effie Global Effectiveness Index.
Headline PBIT was up well over 8% to 1.662 At the same time, we have responded billion against 1.531 billion in 2012 and up 9% to the changing competitive landscape inconstant currencies.
Headline PBIT margins increased by 0.3 margin points to a new high of by accelerating the implementation 15.1% and, on a constant currency basis, were up ofour strategic goals.
Sector targets 0.5 margin points, in line with target.
for faster-growth markets and new We are seeing the increasing impact of digital inventory trading, where billings effectively become media have been raised to 40-45% revenues in comparison to traditional media buying.
ofrevenues over the next five years.
Revenues are, therefore, likely to grow at a faster rate Wewelcome the challenges and than gross margin or net sales.
On gross margin, theheadline PBIT margin was16.5%, up 0.4 opportunities a post-POG Publicis marginpoints on 2012 and up 0.5margin points Omnicom Group world will bring, inconstant currency.
We will increasingly focus ifand when it happens.
onthis measure and growth in gross margin, or net sales, as they represent a more meaningful basis for competitive comparisons.
Reported profit before interest and tax rose almost 13% to 1.478 billion from 1.311 billion.
Headline EBITDA increased by 8% to 1.896 billion.
Headline profit before tax was up well over 10% to T his strategic report to share owners should be read in conjunction with 1.458 billion and reported profit before tax was up and as part of the Directors report on pages 121 to 129 and the section headed How we comply on pages 175 to 188. well over 18% to 1.296 billion.
Diluted headline 24 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Strategic report to share owners earnings per share were up over 10% to80.8p an sterling, particularly against the US dollar, Japanese yen, all-time high and diluted reported earnings per Australian dollar and Indian rupee in the final quarter.
On a like-for-like basis, which excludes the Free cash flow strengthened to 1.220 billion impact of currency and acquisitions, revenues were inthe year, over 1 billion for the third consecutive up 3.5%, with gross margin or net sales up 3.4%.
Net debt averaged 3.0 billion in 2013, a Inthe fourth quarter, like-for-like revenues were up decrease of 0.2 billion at 2013 exchange rates, over 4%, following like-for-like growth in the third andnet debt at 31 December 2013 was 2.2 billion, quarter of 5%, reflecting stronger growth in North 0.6 billion less than 2012, reflecting improvements America and Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa and in working capital and the redemption of the the Middle East and Central and Eastern Europe, 450million Convertible Bond, reinforced by lower offset by lower growth in the UK.
Average net debt was growth in the second half was therefore well over around 1.6 times headline EBITDA in 2013 4%compared with over 2% in the first.
compared with 1.8 times in 2012, and well within the Groups current target range of 1.5-2.0 times.
In November 2013, the Group issued $500 Latin America and Africa led the way million of 30-year bonds at a coupon of 5.625%, together with 750 million of 10-year bonds at Like-for-like revenue growth in North America 3.0%.
The bonds were well received by investors, improved as the year progressed, from -1% in the first with strong demand for both, and will reduce the quarter to up over 5% in quarter four, with particularly Groups funding costs, as well as increase the average strong growth in Advertising and MediaInvestment maturity of the Groups debt to almost eight years.
Management, Healthcare Communications and parts Headline interest cover in 2013 was 8.2 times.
So of the Groups digital operations, especially AKQA.
far, in the first two months of 2014, average net debt Data Investment Management also performed well, was down approximately 0.6 billion at 2.3 billion with like-for-like growth of 5% in the final quarter.
In against 2.9 billion for the same period in 2013, at constant currencies, full year revenue growth in this 2014 exchange rates.
Our long-term debt is currently region was over 4%, while like-for-like revenues were rated Baa2 and BBB and our short-term debt P2 and up almost 3%.
A2, by Moodys and Standard & Poors respectively.
In the UK, full year revenue growth was almost With a current equity market capitalisation of 11% in constant currencies and almost 5%  16.4 billion, the total enterprise value like.
The rate of growth slowed in the final quarter of your Company is approximately 18.7 billion, toover 5% in constant currencies, and over 2% amultiple of 9.9 times 2013 headline EBITDA.
like-for-like, partly due to strong comparative rates of growth in the final quarter of 2012.
The Groups Advertising and Media Investment Revenue growth better in second half Management, Public Relations & Public Affairs, direct, digital and interactive and Healthcare Our reported revenue growth for the year was 6.2%, Communications operations all performed strongly, and on a constant currency basis, which excludes the partly offset by lower revenue growth in Data impact of currency movements, revenues were up 5.7%.
However, overall gross Changes in exchange rates increased revenue growth margin or net sales in the final quarter increased by by0.5%, chiefly reflecting the weakness of the pound well over 5% on a like-for-like basis, with stronger sterling against the US dollar and euro in the first nine gross margin growth in the custom research months, largely offset by the strength of the pound business.
Full year gross margin or net sales in the WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 25 How were doing Strategic report to share owners 1 UK increased by almost 7% on a like-for-like basis.
Constant currency revenue growth Western Continental Europe, like the UK, slowed by geography % slightly in the final quarter, with both constant North America 13 4.4 12 3.7 currency and like-for-like growth of over 1%.
For theyear, Western Continental Europe revenues grew UK 13 10.9 12 7.7 0.5% like-for-like almost 2% in the second half compared with 0.1% in 2012.
Italy, Turkey, the Western Continental Europe 13 2.1 12 3.7 Netherlands and Germany all showed good growth in the final quarter, but Spain, Portugal, Belgium, Asia Pacic, Latin America, 13 7.9 12 9.3 Africa & Middle East and Switzerland and Austria were tougher.
Central & Eastern Europe Our strongest regions in 2013 were again Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East 2 and Central and Eastern Europe, with constant Headline PBIT margins by geography % currency growth of almost 8% and like-for-like growth of over 6%.
Growth in the fourth quarter North America 13 16.5 12 16.3 was similar to the full year and driven principally by Latin America, Australia and New Zealand, Central UK 13 14.5 12 13.6 and Eastern Europe and Africa, the CIVETS and MIST countries.
After a difficult first half, Central Western Continental Europe 13 10.5 12 10.4 and Eastern Europe improved significantly, with like-for-like growth of over 10% in the second half Asia Pacic, Latin America, 13 17.4 12 16.9 Africa & Middle East and and over 12% in the fourth quarter, with strong Central & Eastern Europe growth in the Czech Republic, Russia and Poland.
The Middle East slowed in the fourth quarter, while Africa grew by over 9% like-for-like.
Latin America Revenue by geography m showed consistently strong growth for most of 2013, North America 12,000 UK with like-for-like revenues up well over 8% in the 10,000 Western Continental Europe final quarter and up 9% for the year.
8,000 Asia Pacic, Latin America, 1 6,000 Full year revenues for the BRICs, which account Africa & Middle East and 4,000 Central & Eastern Europe for almost $3 billion of revenues including associates, 2,000 were up almost 7% on a like-for-like basis, with the 0 09 10 11 12 13 2 3 Next 11 and CIVETS up over 9% and over 15% 4 respectively.
In 2013, 1 almost 30% ofthe Groups reported revenues came See definition on page 246.
2 The calculation of headline PBIT is set out in note 31 of the financial statements.
from Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East and Central and Eastern Europe slightly down compared with the previous year, as a result of the strength of sterling against the currencies of many ofthe markets in these regions.
On a constant currency basis, 30.5% of the Groups revenues came from these regions, up 0.7 percentage points compared with 2012 1 Brazil, Russia, India and China.
2 B angladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, the Philippines, and against the Groups strategic objective of 40-45% South Korea, Turkey and Vietnam the Group has no operations in Iran.
Markets outside North America 3 C olombia, Indonesia, Vietnam, Egypt, Turkey and South Africa.
4 M exico, Indonesia, South Korea and Turkey.
now account for 66% of our revenues.
26 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Strategic report to share owners 1 Strong growth in advertising and media Constant currency revenue growth by sector % Advertising and Media Investment Management Advertising and Media 13 6.9 12 5.2 Investment Management revenues were up almost 7% for the year in constant currencies and well over 5% like-for-like, the strongestData Investment 13 3.0 3 12 2.8 Management performing sector on this basis.
In the final quarter, constant currency revenues were up almost 8% and Public Relations 13 0.7 12 4.2 & Public Affairs like-for-like revenues were up well over 6%, very similar to like-for-like growth in the third quarter.
Branding & Identity, 13 8.4 12 10.2 Healthcare and Of the Groups advertising networks, Ogilvy & Specialist Communications Mather, JWT and Grey performed especially well inNorth America in the fourth quarter, with Y&R 2 performing strongly in the UK.
However, the Groups Headline PBIT margins by sector % advertising businesses in Western Continental Europe generally remained challenged, with like-for-like Advertising and Media 13 18.0 12 17.7 Investment Management revenues under pressure.
Growth in the Groups Media Investment Management businesses has been Data Investment 13 10.3 3 12 10.0 Management very consistent throughout the year, with constant currency revenues up almost 11% for the year and Public Relations 13 14.5 12 14.9 & Public Affairs like-for-like growth of almost 10%.
tenthavenue, the engagement network focused on out-of-home media, Branding & Identity, 13 14.8 12 14.4 Healthcare and also performed strongly in the fourth quarter, with Specialist Communications like-for-like revenue growth up over 16%.
The strong revenue growth across most of the Groups businesses, together with good cost control, resulted in the Revenue by sector m combined headline PBIT margin of this sector Advertising and Media 12,000 Investment Management improving by 0.3 margin points to 18.0%.
10,000 Data Investment In 2013, Ogilvy & Mather, JWT, Y&R, Grey 3 8,000 Management 6,000 and United generated estimated net new business Public Relations 4,000 & Public Affairs billings of 2.3 billion $3.7 billion.
GroupM 2,000 Branding & Identity, theGroups Media Investment Management arm, 0 Healthcare and 09 10 11 12 13 which includes Mindshare, MEC, MediaCom, Specialist Communications Maxus, GroupM Search and Xaxis, together with 1 tenthavenue, generated estimated net new business See definition on page 246.
3 Data Investment Management was previously reported as Consumer Insight.
Data Investment Management formerly Consumer Insight revenues grew 3% on a constant currency basis, with like-for-like revenues up well over 1%, and the second half much stronger than thefirst half.
More significantly, gross margin or netsales was up over 2% like-for-like, a turnaround of the trend seen in 2012.
In the fourth quarter, revenues grew by almost 4% on a constant currency basis, with gross margin up 4%.
On a like-for-like WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 27 How were doing Strategic report to share owners basis, revenues were up over 1% and gross margin At the Groups Branding & Identity, Healthcare upalmost 2%.
North America, Asia Pacific, Latin and Specialist Communications businesses including America, Africa and the Middle East performed direct, digital and interactive, constant currency wellabove the average in the fourth quarter, as they revenues grew strongly at over 8% with like-for-like did for the year as a whole.
The UK and Western growth of almost 4%.
Like-for-like revenue growth Continental Europe were more difficult.
There seems slipped slightly in quarter four, due primarily to to be a growing recognition of the value of real data slower growth in parts of the Groups Branding & businesses, rather than those that depend on thirdIdentity and Specialist Communications businesses, party data.
Headline PBIT margins improved 0.3 but overall the second half was much stronger than margin points to 10.3%, while headline gross margin the first half on a like-for-like basis.
AKQA, the or net sales margins headline PBIT as a proportion leading digital agency acquired in July 2012, of gross margin rather than revenue also improved performed particularly well with full year like-for-like 0.3 margin points to 14.3%.
revenues up over 20%, with the fourth quarter even Although there has been marked improvement stronger.
For the sector as a whole, headline PBIT during 2013, the weakest sub-sector continues to margins improved by 0.4 margin points to 14.8%.
bethe custom businesses in mature markets with Almost 35% of the Groups 2013 revenues came North America maybe now an exception where from direct, digital and interactive, up over two discretionary spending remains under review by percentage points from the previous year and clients.
Custom businesses in faster-growth markets growing well over 7% like-for-like.
Marketing and syndicated and semi-syndicated businesses in services comprised almost 60% of our revenues allmarkets remain robust, with strong like-for-like in2013, a similar proportion to 2012. revenue and gross margin or net sales growth.
Margins reach new high, but affected by Almost 35% of the Groups 2013 strength of sterling revenues came from direct, digital and Headline PBIT margins were up 0.3 margin points to a interactive, up over two percentage new historical high of 15.1%, compared to 14.8% in 2012.
The impact of exchange rates reduced reported points from the previous year and margins by 0.2 margin points, but on a constant growing well over 7% like-for-like currency basis margins increased by 0.5 margin points, and on a like-for-like basis by 0.6 margin points, more than in line with the Groups margin target.
Over the The Groups Public Relations & Public Affairs last three years, reported headline PBIT margins have businesses had a difficult year, particularly in North improved by 1.9 margin points and by 2.3 margin America, Continental Europe, Latin America and points excluding the impact of currency.
However, although revenues for the Group revenues are more weighted to the second year fell by almost 1% on a constant currency basis half of the year across all regions and functions, and by almost 2% like-for-like, top-line growth especially in the faster-growing markets of Asia returned in the fourth quarter with constant Pacific and Latin America.
The Groups profitability currency revenues up over 2% and like-for-like and margins continue to be skewed to the second growth of over 1%.
Despite careful cost half and, in particular, the final quarter.
The management, Headline PBIT margins fell by 0.4 strengthening of sterling in the final quarter, margin points to 14.5%.
particularly against the currencies of the faster- 28 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Strategic report to share owners growing markets, therefore resulted in a reduction in management of headcount and staff costs in 2013 to the Groups operating margins.
This currency effect balance revenues and costs.
Also on a like-for-like is exacerbated by the fact that disproportionate basis, revenues increased by 3.5% and gross margin amounts of central overheads and incentive costs or net sales were up 3.4%.
arepaid in sterling and US dollars.
Reported staff costs, excluding incentives, rose by Given the significance of Data Investment well over 5% and by over 5% in constant currency.
Management revenues to the Group, with none of Staff costs included 27 million $43 million of ourparent company competitors presently represented severance costs compared with 51 million $82 in that sector, gross margin or net sales is a more million in 2012.
Incentive costs amounted to 328 meaningful measure of comparative top-line growth.
million $521 million which was over 17% of This is because Data Investment Management revenues headline operating profit before incentives and income include pass-through costs, principally for data from associates, compared with 291 million $462 collection, on which no margin is charged.
In addition million or well over 16% in 2012. the Groups Media Investment Management sector is Performance in parts of the Groups Data increasingly buying digital media on its own account Investment Management custom businesses, Public and, as a result, the subsequent billings to clients have Relations & Public Affairs, Healthcare to be accounted for as revenue as well as billings.
Thus, Communications and direct, digital and interactive revenues and the revenue growth rate will increase, businesses fell short of the target performance although gross margin and the gross margin growth objectives agreed for 2013, as the like-for-like revenue rate will remain the same and the latter will present growth rate was slower in the first nine months of aclearer picture of underlying performance.
theyear, although most improved in the final quarter.
Because of these two significant factors, the Group, Our objective remains to pay out approximately whilst continuing to report revenue and revenue 20%of operating profit before bonus and taxes at growth, will focus even more on gross margin or net maximum and 15% at target and, in some cases, sales margins as well as operating margins in the 25%at super-maximum.
Headline gross margin or net sales margins Headline PBIT margins, before all incentives and were up 0.4 margin points to 16.5%, achieving the income from associates, were 17.3%, up 0.4 margin highest reported level in the industry.
points, compared with 16.9% last year.
The Groups staff cost to revenue ratio, including incentives, decreased by 0.1 margin point to 58.8% compared Operating costs contained with 58.9% in 2012, indicating an improvement inproductivity.
During 2013, the Group continued to manage Part of the Groups strategy is to continue to ensure operating costs effectively, with improvements across that variable staff costs incentives, freelance and most cost categories, particularly staff, property, consultants costs are a significant proportion of total commercial and office costs.
On a like-for-like basis, staff costs and revenue, as this provides flexibility to total operating and direct costs rose by 2.9%, deal with volatility in revenues and recessions or aslower rate of growth than for revenue.
In 2013, the ratio of variable staff costs On a like-for-like basis, the average number of tototal staff costs was 12.7%, compared with 11.4% people in the Group decreased by 0.1% in 2013.
As a proportion of the same basis, the number of people in the Group revenue, variable staff costs were 7.5% in 2013 at31 December 2013 increased by 0.7% compared compared with 6.7% in 2012 and 5.7% in 2009. with the end of 2012.
These average and point-toThebusiness is, therefore, well positioned if current point figures reflect the continuing sound market conditions deteriorate.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 29 How were doing Strategic report to share owners As a result of all this, headline PBIT rose by well like revenue growth at the beginning of 2013, our over 8% to 1.662 billion from 1.531 billion, up forecast for full year growth became progressively 9% in constant currencies.
Reported PBIT rose stronger, and we finished the year with like-for-like almost 13% to 1.478 billion from 1.311 billion, growth of 3.5%.
This, combined with intelligent upwell over 13% in constant currencies, in part control of headcount and discretionary spend, dueto exceptional gains of 36 million arising on improved profitability and replenished bonus pools.
thedisposal of minority investments and the reHowever, pressures within the industry are becoming measurement of certain of our equity interests more and more intense, with clients understandably wherewe have acquired a majority stake.
continuing to demand more for less and consolidating Net finance costs excluding the revaluation competitors discounting their pricing heavily, offinancial instruments were 204 million, down particularly in Media Investment Management.
This reflected So why was 2013, although another record year, the beneficial impact of lower net debt funding costs still difficult?
Clients were certainly in better shape and higher income from investments, partially offset with profits at an all-time high as a proportion of by the cost of higher average gross debt, due to GDP, margins generally stronger, share prices rising pre-funding of 2014 debt maturities.
Headline profit as institutional investors rotated out of government before tax increased by well over 10% over 11% in securities and with clients sitting on, in the case of constant currencies to 1.458 billion and reported US-based multinationals, over $4 trillion in cash profit before tax was up well over 18% over 19% with relatively unleveraged balance sheets.
But, inconstant currencies to 1.296 billion.
whilst clients are now certainly in stronger shape The Groups tax rate on headline profit before tax than post-Lehman in September 2008, they still was 20.2%, compared with 21.2% in 2012, and on lackthe necessary confidence given that global reported profit before tax was 21.9% against 18.1% GDPgrowth remains sub-trend and the grey swans, in 2012.
The difference in the reported tax rate is orknown unknowns remain although most, if primarily due to significant deferred tax credits notall, of the latter are whiter.
Black swans are, arising in the prior year in relation to acquired bydefinition, the unknown unknowns.
intangibles that were non-recurring items.
There are at least four or five grey swans, perhaps Diluted headline earnings per share rose over 10% even six now in the case of the UK.
well over 9% in constant currencies to 80.8p and Firstly, the potential fragility of the Eurozone, diluted reported earnings per share increased by almost certainly better since one of the Super Marios, Mario 11% well over 10% in constant currencies to 69.6p.
Draghi, took over as the President of the European Central Bank, but still subject to potential shocks, for example, from the implementation of banking A record year, but not without challenges stress tests during this yearand the still socially and politically unacceptable levels of unemployment and 2013 was another record year for your Company.
youth unemployment, for example in Spain.
The Insome respects it was easier than 2012, with faster Eurozone has also been aided by others stressing the like-for-like revenue growth, 3.5% versus 2.9%.
need to reduce unemployment and surrendering the Wereached our margin targets on a constant currency inflation rate constraint, for example, by both the basis and did even better like-for-like.
But following former and newChairpersons of the Federal Reserve amajor strengthening of sterling against most of the Bank in the US, the re-elected Prime Minister Abe in faster-growth markets currencies, we missed our Japan and Mark Carney, the new Governor of the margin target in reportable sterling terms.
This has certainly Encouragingly, having budgeted around 3% like-forhelped equity securities too.
30 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Second, the prospects for the Middle East, are growth should resume on towards the Rio Olympics probably now, if anything, better than a year ago.
India may be a different kettle of fish.
Although Syria remains a mess and there remain Theelection may not deliver a clear-cut result and challenges in Libya and between Israel and Palestine, although the BJP party looks stronger, there will the Russian-led intervention on the chemical beacoalition, which may result in continued stasis.
weapons issue in Syria and President Rouhanis However, the continued increase of the hundreds initiatives from Tehran have improved the political of millions in the new middle classes in all these climate.
Perhaps, the next election in Egypt will also countries seems to be the real economic motive force, bring more stability, although the region remains particularly for fast-moving consumer goods.
On its generally fragile to say the least.
25th anniversary, CNBC, together with Third, a China or BRICs hard or soft landing.
, took a look at the world in Most, if not all of these markets have suffered a 25 more years.
China was projected as the worlds slowdown in 2013 and, following the tapering noises biggest economy with GDP of $34 trillion versus $8 from the US, significant currency weakness, with the trillion now, the US second at $28 trillion but still exception of China.
However, they still remain faster with markedly higher GDP per capita versus $16 growth markets than the slower growth mature trillion now, and India third.
India would be the most markets of the West.
populous nation with 1.6 billion people and China second with 1.4 billion.
We continue to significantly focus our future on the growth of these markets.
We reached our margin targets on Fourth, dealing with the US deficit and a record level of $16 trillion of debt in the most effective way.
aconstant currency basis and did Despite the sequester, which slowed growth in the US even better like-for-like in the first half of 2013 by 100 basis points or so and the Congressional agreement to kick the can down the road further than usual, these issues remain to We remain bullish on China.
In addition, we have to come off the has immediately addressed issues of corruption and post-Lehman cheap money drug at some time and the Third Plenum document reinforced the strategic the scale and speed of tapering remains the key issue directions of the 12th Five Year Plan, with an for the strength of equity and currency markets.
This emphasis on lower quantum, higher quality GDP remains the elephant in the room, as the US is still growth, a switch to consumption from savings, a currently twice the size of the Chinese economy.
healthcare and social security safety net and a Fifth, and more parochially, the decisions to strengthening of the service sector.
launch referenda for Scottish independence and While we are traditionally bullish on Russia, Britains European Union membership, whilst no andthe Sochi Winter Olympics were an undoubted doubt being astute political moves, add further success, the crisis in Ukraine means that everyone is uncertainty to the UK economy until and after watching carefully to see how events unfold.
Brazil thenext UK General Election in 2015. and India both face elections shortly and politics Finally, whilst economic conditions may have andthe economies are dominated by electoral generally slightly improved this year, a further considerations.
It looks likely that President Dilma geopolitical risk emerged at the World Economic Rousseff will be re-elected, particularly if Brazil Forum in Davos last January the Sino-Japanese winsthe 2014 FIFA World Cup.
It should be a great spat over the islands of Diaoyu Senkaku and the tournament, despite infrastructure issues and social willingness of both sides to engage in a limited unrest, which will continue.
After the election, military action to resolve it.
This reminded everyone WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 31 How were doing Strategic report to share owners of historical precedents, where seemingly small 2013 revenue by geography vs peers $bn events triggered bigger ones.
In addition, the Ukraine Asia Pacic, 25 Latin America, crisis has added further geopolitical risk.
Africa & 20 So all in all, whilst clients may be more confident Middle East 15 than they were in September 2008 post-Lehman, and Central & 10 Eastern Europe with stronger balance sheets, sub-trend global GDP 5 Western growth combined with these levels of uncertainty 0 Europe & UK 1,2 1,3 1,4 5 1,3 WPP POG Omnicom Publicis IPG Dentsu Havas and increased corporate governance scrutiny make North America Including associates them unwilling to take further risks.
They remain focused on a strategy of adding capacity and brand 1 building in both faster-growth geographic markets Sourced from 2013 company presentations.
Central & Eastern Europe estimated at 3% of revenue.
and functional markets, like digital and containing 2 Assumed non-Euro countries in Europe are 3% of revenue and Canada or reducing capacity, perhaps with brand building is1.5% of revenue.
3 Assumed $1 0.75 based on the average for 2013. tomaintain or increase market share, in the mature, 4 Assumed Canada is 1.5% of revenue.
Dentsu based on disclosed pro forma group revenue splits against 2013 reported revenue.
This approach also has the apparent virtue of limiting fixed-cost increases and increasing variable costs, although we naturally believe that marketing is an investment not a cost.
We see little reason, if any, for this pattern of behaviour to change in 2014, with continued caution being the watchword.
There is 1 2013 digital revenue vs peers $bn certainly no evidence to suggest any such change in behaviour so far in 2014.
$6.0bn $6.1bn Managing our risks The Board has considered the principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group as at 31 December $3.5bn 2013 and up to the date of this report.
These are described in detail on pages 182 to 185.
$2.6bn Outlook for 2014 continues to be demanding $1.0bn $0.6bn 2014 looks to be another demanding year, as a strong UK pound and weak faster-growth market currencies continue to take their toll on our reported margins.
WPP POG Publicis Omnicom IPG Havas The pattern for 2014 looks very similar to 2013, perhaps with slightly increased client confidence enhanced by the mini-quadrennial events of the Winter Olympics at Sochi and the FIFA World Cup in Brazil which will re-position perceptions of 1 Peer digital revenue according to Sanford Bernstein percentages applied Russia and Latin America, just like the Beijing to FY US$ revenue.
32 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Olympics did for China, the World Cup did for Management, including data analytics and the South Africa and London 2012 did for the UK application of technology, in creativity and andthe mid-term Congressional elections in the US.
horizontality the increasing opportunities for coordination and co-operation between activities both nationally and internationally, and at a client New markets, new media and Data and country level.
New markets, new media and Data Investment Management account respectively Investment Management account for 30%, 35% and 23% of the Groups revenues of respectively for 30%, 35% and 23% $17.3 billion, demonstrating the success of our strategic focus.
of the Groups revenues of $17.3 At the same time, we will concentrate on meeting billion, demonstrating the success our operating margin objectives by managing absolute levels of costs and increasing our flexibility ofour strategic focus in order to adapt our cost structure to significant market changes and by ensuring that the benefits of Forecasts of worldwide real GDP growth still hover the restructuring investments taken in 2012 continue around 3.6%, with inflation of 2.1% giving nominal to be realised.
GDP growth of around 5.7% for 2014, although they The initiatives taken by the parent company in the have been reduced recently and may be reduced further areas of human resources, property, procurement, IT in due course.
Advertising as a proportion of GDP and practice development continue to improve the should at least remain constant overall, although it is flexibility of the Groups cost base.
Additionally, as still at relatively depressed historical levels, particularly noted earlier, flexible staff costs including incentives, in mature markets, post-Lehman.
Advertising should freelance and consultants remain close to historical grow at least at a similar rate as GDP, buoyed by highs of around 7.5% of revenues and continue to incremental branding investments in the underposition the Group extremely well should current branded faster-growing markets.
Although both consumers and corporates seem to The budgets for 2014 have been prepared on a be increasingly cautious and risk averse, they should cautious basis as usual hopefully, but continue to continue to purchase or invest in brands in both reflect the faster-growing geographical markets of fastand slow-growth markets to stimulate top-line Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa and the Middle sales growth.
As the former leading chief investment East and Central and Eastern Europe and fasterofficer of one of the largest investment institutions growing functional sectors of Advertising, Media said perceptively, companies may be running out of Investment Management and direct, digital and ways of reducing costs and have to focus more on interactive to some extent moderated by the slower top-line growth.
Merger and acquisition activity may growth in the mature markets of the US and Western be regarded as an alternative way of doing this, Europe.
Our 2014 budgets show like-for-like revenue particularly funded by cheap long-term debt, but we and gross margin growth of over 3% and a target believe clients may regard this as a more risky way operating margin and gross margin or net sales than investing in marketing and brand and hence margin improvement of 0.3 margin points before growing market share.
In 2014, our prime focus will remain on growing Incentive plans for 2014 will continue to revenues and gross margin or net sales faster than the emphasise revenue, gross margin or net sales industry average, driven by our leading position in andoperating profit growth in conjunction with the new markets, in new media, in Data Investment operating margin improvement, although objectives WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 33 How were doing Strategic report to share owners will continue to include qualitative Group objectives, Longer term looks favourable including coordination and co-operation, talent management and succession planning.
In the long term, the outlook for the communications At the time of writing, we have revenue and profit services industry appears favourable.
data for the first two months of 2014.
The Group The shift in economic power to the East, South hashad a good start to the year, with like-for-like and South-East, overcapacity of production in most revenue growth up over 6% in the first two months sectors and the shortage of human capital, the and gross margin or net sales up over 4% on the developments in new technologies and media, the same basis, again reflecting the divergence in revenue growth in importance of internal communications, and gross margin or net sales in the Groups Media the rise of proximity retailing and e-commerce, the and Data Investment Management businesses.
rise of procurement and finance, the focus on central All geographic regions were up, with growth in and local organisation, the growth in government North America, the UK and Latin America up well spending, further consolidation amongst clients, above the average.
All sectors, other than Branding media owners and competitors, and the new focus & Identity, were up, with Advertising and Media oncorporate sustainability issues such as climate Investment Management and direct, digital and change, underpin the need for our clients to continue interactive particularly strong.
to differentiate their products and services both These trends are in line with our budgets, tangibly and intangibly.
whichalso indicate a broadly steady rate of Moreover, the continuing growth of the BRICs, growththroughout the year, albeit with the usual Next 11 and other faster-growing geographical conservatism in quarter four.
Operating profits markets will add significant opportunities in Asia andmargins were above budget.
Pacific, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East and Central and Eastern Europe along with the growth of new-BRICs such as Vietnam, Pakistan, Revenue in faster-growing markets Indonesia, Bangladesh, Nigeria, Colombia, Turkey 2010-2013 $bn and Mexico and even Myanmar, with Cuba and WPP Iranto come.
Advertising and marketing services 5 POG expenditure as a proportion of GDP has started to 1,2 Omnicom 4 resume its growth, although in these relatively 1 Publicis 3 1 IPG low-inflationary times, where our clients havelimited 2 pricing power, we remain committed to working 1 with our clients and their finance and procurement 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 departments to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of their investments and spending.
1 P eer data sourced from annual results translated at average exchange rate Given these shortand long-term trends, your for the year.
Company believes it has the correct strategic 2 A ssumed non-Euro countries in Europe are 3% of revenue and Canada is1.5% of revenue.
priorities new markets, new media, Data Investment Management and horizontality andafocus on not only strategic planning, creative execution and distribution, but also on both the application of new technology and analysis of data, to the benefit of our clients and people.
Including associates, the Group currently employs almost 175,000 full-time people up from over 34 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Strategic report to share owners 165,000 the previous year in over 3,000 offices in The Group continues to improve co-operation and 110 countries.
It services 351 of the Fortune Global coordination among its operating companies in order 500 companies, all 30 of the Dow Jones 30, 69 of to add value to our clients businesses and our peoples theNASDAQ 100, 31 of the Fortune e-50, and some careers, an objective which has been specifically built 770 national or multinational clients in three or more into short-term incentive plans.
We may, in addition, disciplines.
Almost 490 clients are served in four decide that a significant proportion of operating disciplines and these clients account for 57.5% of company incentive pools are funded and allocated on Group revenues.
The Group also works with nearly the basis of Group-wide performance over the coming 400 clients in six or more countries.
Horizontality has been accelerated through These statistics reflect the increasing the appointment of 41 Global Client Leaders for our opportunities for horizontality developing major clients, accounting for over one-third of total clientrelationships between activities nationally, revenues of $17.3 billion, and 15 Sub-Regional and internationally and by function.
We estimate that Country Managers in a growing number of test well over a third of new assignments in the year markets and sub-regions amounting to nearly 50 weregenerated through the joint development of countries.
The Group continues to lead the industry in opportunities by two or more Group companies.
coordination geographically and functionally through Horizontality is clearly becoming an parent company initiatives and winning Group increasingly important part of client strategies, pitches.
For example, the Group has been very, very particularly as they continue to invest in brand successful in the recent wave of consolidation in the inslower-growth markets, and both capacity pharmaceutical and shopper-marketing industries andbrand in faster-growth markets.
Our 8 Billion Dollar Brands In 2013, eight WPP brands each generated revenues of $1 billion or more WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 35 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Four core strategic priorities If we implement this strategy effectively then ourbusiness will be geographically and functionally Our reason for being, the justification for WPPs well positioned to compete successfully and to deliver existence, continues to be to add value to our clients on our long-term financial targets: businesses and our peoples careers.
Our goal Revenue and gross margin or net sales growth remains to be the worlds most successful greater than the industry average, supplemented by communications services advisor to multinational, acquisitions.
Annual improvement in operating margin and To that end, we have four core strategic priorities, gross margin or net sales margin of 0.3 margin as presented on pages 16 and 17. points or more, excluding the impact of currency, Increase the combined geographic share of depending on revenue and gross margin net sales 1 revenues from the faster-growing markets of growth, and staff cost to revenue ratio improvement AsiaPacific, Latin America, Africa and the Middle of 0.2 margin points or more.
East, and Central and Eastern Europe to 40-45%.
Annual diluted headline EPS growth of 10% to Increase the share of revenues of new media 15% delivered through revenue and gross margin 2 to40-45%.
net sales growth, margin expansion, acquisitions Maintain the share of more measurable and share buy-backs.
3 marketing services such as Data Investment Management and direct, digital and interactive at50% of revenues, with a focus on the application of new technology, big data and digital.
Achieve horizontality by ensuring our people 4 work together for the benefit of clients, primarily through two horizontal integrators: Global Client Leaders and Country Managers.
36 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Our six specific objectives First, to continue to improve operating margins.
In 2013, we achieved a margin of Here are six objectives which represent our key 15.1% on revenue, a new high, and 16.5% performance indicators KPIs.
For an assessment 1 ongross margin net sales, the highestof how we performed against them in 2013, reported level in the industry.
We continue to believe a margin of around 18%or more on revenue, and well over 19% on Continue to improve operating margins gross margin or net sales, is a tough, but realistic, 1 on revenue and gross margin net sales.
objective given that our best-performing companies in each services sector have already demonstrated Increase flexibility in the they can perform at a combined Group margin of 2 cost structure.
In the future, we will focus more on headline Use free cash flow to enhance share PBITas a percentage of gross margin or net sales, 3 owner value and improve return given it is a more meaningful competitive comparison.
The Group has embarked on a number of programs to improve operational effectiveness including process Continue to develop the value simplification, shared service centres, offshoring 4 added by the parent company.
certain tasks to lower-cost markets and outsourcing.
We are consolidating IT infrastructure and centralising Emphasise revenue growth more systems development and applications to create 5 as margins improve.
These programs areprojected to deliver a 1.0 margin point benefit I mprove still further the creative excluding the impact of currency over the course 6 capabilities and reputation of all ofthe next three to five years.
1 Headline operating margins vs peers % WPP 20 WPP including associates WPP gross 2 15 margin margin IPG 3 Omnicom 4 Publicis 10 Havas 5 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1 B ased on headline operating profit as defined on page 247, excluding share of results of associates, and sourced from relevant public filings, adjusted to a comparable basis to WPP.
2 G ross margin margin is set out in note 31 of the financial statements.
3 Operating margin includes $41 million of POG merger-related costs.
4 Operating margin includes 38 million of POG merger-related costs.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 37 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Second, to increase flexibility in the cost new media and Data Investment Management, structure.
In 2013, flexible staff costs including the application of new technology and big including incentives, freelance and data, totally consistent with our strategic priorities in 2 consultants returned to historical highs of the areas of geography, new communication services around 7.5% of revenues and continue to position and measurability.
In 2013, the Group spent almost the Group extremely well should current market 200 million on initial acquisition payments, net of conditions deteriorate.
cash acquired and disposal proceeds.
Net acquisition spend is currently targeted at around 300-400 Change in variable costs % million per annum and we will continue to seize 2013 13.4 12.2 11.4 12.7 7.8 7.2 6.7 7.5 opportunities in line with our strategy, as in the 15 2012 firstquarter of 2014.
2011 12 2010 9 1 Distributions to share owners m 6 Buy-backs 3.4% 3.0% 4.5% 4.3% 3.8% 3 600 Dividends paid 0 Variable staff costs Variable staff costs as 450 as a % of staff costs a % of revenue 300 150 Third, to enhance share owner value and 3.8% 0 09 10 11 12 13 maximise the return on investment on the Companys substantial free cash flow of over 1 3 1.2 billion or almost $2.0 billion per Sum of share buy-backs and dividends paid divided by average shares inissue for the relevant period, as a percentage of the average share price annum.
As capital expenditure remains relatively for the relevant period.
stable, there are broadly three alternative uses of funds: acquisitions, share buy-backs and dividends.
In 2011, the Board increased the We have increasingly come to the view, based on dividend pay-out ratio objective to approximately co-operative research with leading investment 40% over time, compared to the 2010 ratio of 31%.
institutions that, currently, the markets favour This was largely achieved in 2012, some 18 months consistent increases in dividends and higher later, and ahead of schedule.
sustainable pay-out ratios, along with anti-dilutive As outlined in the June 2013 AGM statement, progressive buy-backs and, of course, sensibly-priced theBoard then gave consideration to the merits of strategic acquisitions.
further increasing the dividend pay-out ratio from Mergers and acquisitions.
There is a very 40% to between 45% and 50%.
As a result of that significant pipeline of reasonably priced smallreview, the Board decided to target an increase in the andmedium-sized potential acquisitions, with the pay-out ratio to 45% over the next two years and, exception of Brazil and India and digital in the US, following the strong first-half results, your Board where prices seem to have got ahead of themselves raised the interim dividend by 20%, around 10 because of pressure on our competitors to catch up.
percentage points higher than the growth in headline This is clearly reflected in some of the operational diluted earnings per share and a pay-out ratio in the and governance issues that are starting to surface first half of 37%.
elsewhere in the industry, particularly in fasterFor the full year, headline diluted earnings per growing markets like Brazil, India and China.
share rose by over 10% and the final dividend has Our acquisition focus in 2013 was again on the also been increased by 20%, bringing the total triple play of faster-growing geographic markets, dividend for the year to 34.21p per share, up 20%, 38 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Strategic report to share owners 10 percentage points higher than the growth in able to achieve efficiencies that would be beyond the headline diluted earnings per share.
This represents reach of any individual operating company.
But it is apay-out ratio of 42% for 2013 compared with 39% also clear that there is an increasing requirement for in 2012.
Dividends paid in respect of 2013 will total the centre to complement the operating companies almost 460 million for the year.
inprofessional development and client coordination.
Share buy-backs will continue to be targeted Itisa relatively recent development for certain toabsorb any share dilution from issues of options multinational marketing companies, when looking orrestricted stock.
However, given the reduced tosatisfy their global communications needs, to make operating and gross margin or net sales margin their initial approach not to operating companies, but targets of 0.3 margin points improvement, the directly to holding or parent companies.
targeted level of share buy-backs will be increased Such assignments present major, and increasingly from around 1% of the outstanding share capital frequent, opportunities for the few groups of our to2-3%.
If achieved, the impact on headline diluted size.
It is absolutely essential that we have the EPS would be equivalent to an improvement of professional resources and the practice development 0.2margin points.
capability to serve such clients comprehensively, In addition, the Company does also have actively and creatively.
Initiatives involving some considerable free cash flow to take advantage of ofthe worlds largest marketers continue to gain anyanomalies in market values, particularly as the momentum.
The worlds largest advertiser is itself average 2013 net debt to EBITDA ratio is 1.6 times, integrating its efforts around brands, in the areas of at the low end of our market guidance of 1.5-2.0 advertising, media investment management, market times, and should come down further in 2014.
Share research, packaging design and public relations.
buy-backs in 2013 cost 197 million, representing Forour largest client, amongst others, we have 1.4% of issued share capital.
implemented a seamless model, effectively a oneclient agency within our Group.
All our clients, Fourth, we will continue to develop the value whether global, multinational or local, continue to added by the parent company and build focus on the quality of our thinking, coordination unique integrated marketing approaches for ofcommunications and price.
In response, we focus 4 clients.
WPP is not just a holding company on talent, structure and incentives.
focused on planning, budgeting, reporting and financial issues, but a parent company that can add value to our clients and our people in the areas of Managing talent is the priority human resources, property, procurement, IT and practice development, including sustainability.
We Talent and its management therefore remain at the will continue to do this through a limited group of heart of our reason to be: that is what our clients 400 or so people at the centre in London, New York, payus for.
Development of our people and the way Tokyo, Hong Kong, Singapore, Shanghai and So we manage that talent is a critical determinant Paulo.
This does not mean that we seek to diminish ofperformance and on that critical dimension, the strength of our operating brands, but rather to wecontinue to make significant progress.
Our objective is to maximise In developing highly-competitive incentives the added value for our clients in their businesses and combined with extremely attractive working our people in their careers.
environments, we increasingly differentiate ourselves Many of our initiatives are possible because of the from our competitors and improve the attractiveness scale on which we now operate.
In the optimum use of of WPP companies as destinations for talent.
Our property, in IT and in procurement generally, we are quarterly reviews with the operating companies have WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 39 How were doing Strategic report to share owners been structured to give more time and attention to advantage of sharp falls in share prices to re-price talent and to clients.
Our recruiting efforts throughout orissue options or giving limited disclosure to 2013 were especially fruitful as we successfully investors of compensation plan details.
A failure of targeted and recruited top talent within and beyond external, as well as internal, audiences to understand our industry, often competing with investment the importance of globally competitive incentivebanking, management consulting, new media and based compensation will undermine the Companys private equity offers.
The war for talent is fierce and leadership position.
After all, we invest well over will intensify further, and there is more to be done.
$10billion a year in human capital, as opposed The blueprint for our executive development toonly $500 million in fixed assets 20 times more.
curriculum has been completed, and our flagship client leadership training program, Maestro, now inits 11th year, is being continuously developed.
Communications Theparent company and each of our operating companies have installed their own approach to Of all businesses, a communications services company performance assessment and succession planning, must be a model of excellent external and internal aimed at developing the careers of their people, communications.
To that end, we accelerate improving the quality of feedback, coaching and understanding of the Groups vast resources with a mentoring they receive and providing for orderly raft of regular communications online through our succession.
A senior management mentoring and websites, social media channels and in print: our development program, The X Factor, run by monthly public news bulletin, e. wire: our multiCharlotte Beers, the former chairman and CEO awarded global newspaper and eBook, The WIRE: ofOgilvy & Mather and chairman of JWT, our annual Atticus Journal of original marketing continues to prepare women for the next level thinking: our online Fact Files profiling Group ofleadership in the Group.
resources companies products: regular communication In 2011, your Company teamed up with the on Group initiatives such as the WPP Worldwide Shanghai Art & Design Academy SADA to Partnership Program and the WPP Fellowship establish the WPP School of Marketing and Program: our annual Sustainability Report and this Communications.
This jointly run school offers Annual Report, both consistently awarded, in print Chinas first professional marketing and and online.
As part of the increased focus on horizontality, Thisinitiative continued in 2013, with the third WPPs public website is being substantially refreshed intake of 100 students.
After 19 years, the WPP to highlight the scope and scale of the Group as well Fellowship program remains surprisingly the as enhancing the overall user experience.
The Group  and multi-geographical intranet is being continuously redeveloped to recruitment and training initiative in the industry, facilitate further internal strategic alliances and with a lower acceptance rate than Harvard Business cross-company co-operation.
We continued to scrutinise and modify our compensation practices, both to offer competitive Property management and appropriately based rewards to our people and to attract outstanding talent from elsewhere.
This In 2013 we again reduced our core property portfolio, isa key strategic priority for us.
Our competition with absolute square footage falling by 0.6%, while is, sometimes, not so rigorous in evaluating and revenues attributable to acquisitions added 2.2% and rewarding performance for example, taking in total, revenues in constant currencies rose by 5.7%.
40 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Strategic report to share owners The average cost per square foot rose by 3.8% 400 suppliers in the UK and China completed a in2013, largely due to the expiry of a number of self-assessment questionnaire which enabled us to below-market leases in the year, although this assess environmental, social and governance risks.
wasstill less than the increase in constant currency Future plans include an extension of the advertising revenues.
The combination of all these factors production risk assessment to the US, and a focus on resulted in a reduction of the establishment cost-toother areas of our supply chains which we perceive revenue ratio to 6.6% from 6.7% last year.
may carry more inherent risk.
In 2014 we will continue to focus on For 2014, we will continue our focus on the key consolidating the number of properties in the Group, drivers of supplier cost.
For indirect procurement, further reducing square foot per head as we take on our goal remains to have a minimum of 50% new leases, and introducing more agile working supplier spend in each major country covered by enabling companies to run at less than one WPP preferred suppliers and contracts, and for these workspace per person to further reduce the preferred suppliers to work with us to deliver yearestablishment cost-to-revenue ratio.
Also in 2014, we are Our operating companies workplaces are often launching The Bridge Advanced Production Buying, cited for their creativity and innovation.
Recent anew initiative in advertising production procurement accolades include first place at the 2013 International and the first of its kind in our industry.
Property Awards America for GroupMs Bogot offices and Best of the Best for Interior Design at the2013 Sydney Design Awards for Lightspeed.
The Information technology offices of JWT Atlanta, Wunderman California and Ogilvy & Mather Jakarta all featured in a recent In 2012, following the impact of Hurricane Sandy on edition of Interior Designs Best of Office book.
some of the Groups IT infrastructure, we accelerated a major review of the Groups IT operations to make them better coordinated, more responsive to Procurement changing needs both internal and external and more cost-effective.
Core to this strategy will be In procurement, our goal is to make savings, add greater centralisation, standardisation and value and minimise risk across all of WPPs external transformation of the Groups IT infrastructure and spend, with particular emphasis on opportunities to services, with the objective of delivering savings of at leverage our scale to the benefits of our clients and least 10% or 50 million on current delivery cost.
We have recruited a highly-regarded CIO for the In 2013, we continued to implement and develop Group, Robin Dargue, whose first priority is to push aspend analytics system, which now provides supplierthis program of work forward.
We estimate that level visibility of over $5 billion of external spend, implementation will take two to three years.
across nine of our largest markets the US, UK, Germany, France, Spain, Italy, China, India and Brazil.
Access to data of this detail is now driving procurement Practice development opportunity assessment and project activities across the Group.
The procurement team have been re-organised In practice development we continue to develop to reflect the major opportunity areas.
horizontal initiatives in a focused set of highAs a consequence of better data, 2013 saw the potential areas across our vertical operating brands: completion of a risk assessment pilot in our supply in media investment management, healthcare, chain for advertising production, during which over sustainability, government, new technologies, new WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 41 How were doing Strategic report to share owners markets, retailing, shopper marketing, internal beenreinforced in such areas as healthcare, retail, communications, financial services and media and internal communications, corporate sustainability entertainment.
Specifically, we continue to invest in and mediaand entertainment.
This has been sharing insights and developing initiatives through especially important in developing our portfolio of WPP Digital in digital marketing and media, The direct investments in new media under WPP Digital Store in distribution and retail and our new and where our investments are working with our Government & Public Sector Practice.
agencies and people to bring new technology capabilities and understanding to our clients.
All these initiatives are designed to ensure that We have increased the number we, the parent company, really do as well as being perceived to inspire, motivate, coach, encourage, ofWPP Global Client Leaders to support and incentivise our operating companies coordinate our efforts on behalf toachieve their strategic and operational goals.
ofclients Fifth, to emphasise revenue and gross margin or net sales growth more as margins improve.
In key geographic markets we are increasingly One legitimate criticism of our performance coordinating our activities through WPP Country 5 against the best-performing competition is Managers.
We continue to believe that increasing our comparative level of organic revenue growth, coordination is required between our brands at although the methods used to calculate rates of global and country levels, as the arguments for organic growth vary to say the least and we investment in regional management become weaker, mayhave put too much emphasis on margin largely because of improved technology.
In 2013, our like-for-like revenue we have increased the number of WPP Global Client growth of 3.5% led the industry.
Our margin Leaders to coordinate our efforts on behalf of clients performance is consistently at the top end of the and to ensure they receive maximum benefit from pack.
We continue to believe that profitable growth their relationships with WPP operating brands.
Furthermore, we continue to encourage internal Estimated net new business billings of 6.1 billion strategic alliances and promote co-operation.
almost $10 billion were won in 2013, up over 57% Practice development initiatives have therefore on 2012, placing the Group first in all independentlyOrganic revenue growth vs peers % WPP WPP organic 8 gross margin growth 6 1 IPG 1 Omnicom 4 1 Publicis 1 Havas 2 0 -2 Q112 Q212 Q312 Q412 Q113 Q213 Q313 Q413 1 Peer data sourced from company presentations.
42 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Strategic report to share owners sourced net new business tables.
The Group Expansion plans continues to benefit from consolidation trends in the industry, winning assignments from existing and We intend to expand our strong networks new clients, including several very large industryJWT, Ogilvy & Mather, Y&R, Grey, United, leading advertising, digital, media, pharmaceutical BatesCHI&Partners, Scangroup, Mindshare, and shopper marketing assignments.
These wins MEC, MediaCom, Maxus, tenthavenue, TNS, partly benefitted the second half of 2013, but the full Millward Brown, Kantar Media, Kantar Health, benefit will beseen in 2014.
Kantar Retail, Kantar Worldpanel, Hill Knowlton Our practice development activities are also Strategies, Ogilvy Public Relations, Burson-Marsteller, aimed at helping us position our portfolio in the Cohn & Wolfe, Brand Union, Landor, FITCH, faster-growing functional and geographic areas.
Ogilvy CommonHealth Worldwide, Sudler & TheGroup completed 62 acquisitions in 2013: 38 Hennessey, ghg, OgilvyOne Worldwide, Wunderman, acquisitions and investments were classified in new Geometry, POSSIBLE and AKQA inhigh-growth markets of which 32 were in new media : 22 in markets or where their market share is insufficient.
DataInvestment Management, including data In 2013, we announced the merger of OgilvyAction analytics and the application of technology: with and G2 to form Geometry, the largest and most theremaining two driven by individual client or  activation agency in the agency needs.
world, uniquely placed toexploit the intersection Specifically, in 2013, acquisitions and increased ofthe worlds brands anddistribution systems.
equity stakes were completed in Advertising and We will also enhance our leadership position Media Investment Management in Canada, Kenya, inData Investment Management by further Colombia, China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Myanmar, development of our key brands with particular the Philippines and Thailand: in Data Investment emphasis on North America, Asia Pacific, Latin Management in the US, Brazil and Myanmar: in America and Continental and Eastern Europe.
We Public Relations & Public Affairs in the US, the will continue our growth of research panels and have UK, China and Hong Kong: in direct, digital and established a Kantar-wide operational capability.
We interactive in the US, the UK, Belgium, France, will reinforce our growing position in media research Germany, the Netherlands, Poland, South Africa, through Kantar Media, which includes our Turkey, Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Uruguay, investments in television and internet audience India, Singapore and Australia.
research and IBOPE, Marktest and CSM CTR, So far in 2014, the Group has made acquisitions which, combined, is the market leader outside North or increased equity interests in Advertising and America.
We currently measure television and or Media Investment Management in Russia, the internet audiences in 60 markets around the world.
Middle East and the Philippines: and in direct, In addition, we intend to reinforce our worldwide digital and interactive in the US, the Netherlands, strength in direct and interactive marketing and Poland, Russia, South Africa, China and Vietnam.
research through our traditional channels such as These acquisitions continue to target our Wunderman, OgilvyOne, Geometry, Blanc & Otus previously-described strategic priorities: expanding and Lightspeed.
We will also invest directly in new theshare of revenues of our businesses in Asia Pacific, channels through start-ups, particularly as US and Latin America, Africa and the Middle East, and French valuations in search, for example, are still Central and Eastern Europe to 40-45%: in new media prohibitive.
Other opportunities will be sought to to 40-45%: and in Data Investment Management, enhance our online capabilities.
direct, digital and interactive, to one-half.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 43 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Lastly, we will continue to develop our specialist Sustainability matters expertise in areas such as healthcare, retail and interactive and to identify new high-growth areas.
The Groups commitment to, and investment in, sustainability initiatives supports major business wins.
We estimate that clients who engaged with Creativity remains paramount WPP on our approach to sustainability were worth 1.26 billion out of our total revenues of 11.02 Sixth, to build on, still further, the billion to the Group in 2013. impressive creative reputation WPP now We are in business for the long term and, like enjoys globally.
allleading companies today, we recognise our 6 The creative capability of the Group is led responsibilities to clients, our people and the world at by John OKeeffe, WPPs worldwide creative director.
Sustainability at WPP cuts across all areas of John reminded us last year, as indeed he does our business: from the work we do for clients, to the constantly, that whilst many issues facing WPP are very time we donate to causes through pro bono work, important margin growth, acquisitions, geographical the way we run our Company and look after our spread and the like the creative quality of the work people, and our commitment to respect human will always be priority No.
We live or die by the ideas rights.
Sustainability issues are ever more important we deliver to our thousands of clients: design ideas, to our clients, and our own track record gives us media and digital ideas, consumer insights and, of credibility as advisors on these topics.
course, Millward Browns influential BrandZ studies.
A summary of the Groups approach to Training and development programs remain sustainability can be found on pages 167 to 173, akeyfocus, as of course does the judicious use including our commitment to respect human rights ofourM&A skills to identify the best and most on page 169.
Pleasealso see our annual Sustainability like-minded creative businesses to join us.
Report onthe work our clients and our people do in In 2013, we celebrated our seventh annual internal this important area.
WPPED Cream awards, showcasing what we consider our very best work.
com is now a key Sustainability performance summary 2013 2012 2011 online destination website for anyone searching for Value of client business thevery best in marketing creative excellence.
supported by our 1 But beyond our own views, lest we appear sustainability credentials 1.26bn 0.77bn 0.63bn inwardly focused, there is of course the Cannes Lions Gender diversity % female employees 54% 54% 54% International Festival of Creativity.
WPPs Gender diversity % female achievement in securing back-to-back Creative executive leaders 32% 32% 31% Holding Company of the Year Awards in 2011 and Investment in training and 2012, which many thought the pinnacle, became welfare 64.4m 57.8m 58.3m ahat-trick in 2013.
Cannes is acknowledged as the Carbon footprint tonnes of CO per person 2.35 2.45 2.44 2 only truly global award, across all media, so to win 2 Social contribution 39.4m 30.5m 27.7m there is to be the best.
To do it three times in a row isa wonderful tribute to all of our people the world 1 Value of clients who requested information on our sustainability policies and performance through their supplier management process.
over and we congratulate every one of them.
2 Includes free media space donations.
Our main competitors, as we have seen, have nowjoined forces partly in response.
So the challenge for WPP is clear.
44 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Strategic report to share owners And finally... As is always the case, and never more so than in testing times, any success that WPP may enjoy can be Efficient marketing companies always watch their no more than the cumulative success of our talented costs closely.
And when they encounter difficult people.
times, they examine them with a rigour bordering onruthlessness.
Over the last five years or so, there cannot have been a single WPP client who failed Philip Lader tointerrogate their advertising and promotional costs Chairman to within an inch of their lives in the hope of finding what they were hoping to find: savings that carried no financial penalty.
Sir Martin Sorrell There have, of course, been some reductions in Group chief executive advertising spend, and in other forms of marketing communication.
But for an area of expenditure whose return has been historically more difficult to evaluate Paul Richardson than many others, marketing communications has Group finance director shown itself to be remarkably resilient.
In part, this has been because more sophisticated methods of measurement have allowed companies to authorise marketing expenditure with a higher level of confidence: and in part because of the stark reality of competitive life.
There is a limit to how much you can cut before you begin to eat away at the very brand on whose future profit stream you depend.
There is no such Hamish Maxwell limit to the degree to which you can make a brand 1926-2014 more desirable: or if there is, it is a limitation not of It is with great sadness financial resources but of the human imagination.
that we report the In the early part of the 20th century, Sir Ernest passing of Hamish Rutherford, the father of nuclear physics, is reported Maxwell, who was our to have told the staff of his laboratory, We havent chairman from October any money so weve got to think.
1996 until February Over the last few years, a similar demand, though 2001.
He was a fine thankfully not quite as draconian, has been made of gentleman, marked our companies people around the world: and they bya mild, cheerful manner that hid a steely have responded magnificently.
He loved marketing and algorithm, the human mind can perform a kind of advertising and was the ideal chairman.
alchemy that turns ideas, words, pictures and stories Hewasknowledgeable, insightful for example into deeply satisfying objects that the world can take onhostiletakeovers, motivating, wise and pleasure from.
comfortable in his own skin, refraining from And, around the world, the tens of thousands of grandstanding.
We will miss him greatly, but human minds that WPP is supremely fortunate to weare very proud to have known him and represent have helped create real wealth for our tens tohave had him as our chairman.
of thousands of appreciative clients.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 45 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Forward-looking statements In connection with the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 the Reform Act, the Company may include forward-looking statements asdefined in the Reform Act in oral orwritten public statements issued by or on behalf oftheCompany.
These forward-looking statements mayinclude, among other things, plans, objectives, projections and anticipated future economic performance based on assumptions and the like that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
As such, actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Important factors which may cause actual results to differ include but are not limited to: the unanticipated loss of a material client or key personnel, delays or reductions inclient advertising budgets, shifts in industry rates ofcompensation, regulatory compliance costs or litigation, natural disasters or acts of terrorism, the Companys exposure to changes in the values of other major currencies because a substantial portion of its revenues are derived and costs incurred outside of the UK and the overall level of economic activity in the Companys major markets which varies depending on, among other things, regional, national and international political and economic conditions and government regulations in the worlds advertising markets.
In addition, you should consider the risks described under the caption principal risks and uncertainties on pages 182 to 185, which could also cause actual results to differ from forward-looking information.
In light of these and other uncertainties, the forward-looking statements included inthis document should not be regarded as arepresentation by the Company that the Companys plans and objectives will be achieved.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any such forwardlooking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
