How were doing Advertising Ogilvy & Mather People are sometimes surprised to learn that Ogilvy has the largest network of social media Report by Miles Young below experts in the world.
Social@Ogilvy now has 740 Worldwide chairman and chief executive officer staff in 40 locations working to serve clients and transform the agency.
With another excellent year, and, now with Thomas Crampton at the helm, Social@Ogilvy is poised for more growth.
Selective acquisitions have helped us reinforce unique areas, such as Social Lab in Europe for social media-related performance marketing and Pennywise in India, forsocial customer care.
Netizens represent the new judge and jury ofgreatness in our business, but the conventional juriesstill remain!
We won Network of the Year at Cannes by a margin bigger than ever recorded by any agency in its history: we once again were the most effective agency network measured by the Effies: and Campaign magazine voted us Network of the Year.
Once again, thousands of our people worked so hard to put us at the top of what we call, shamelessly, the Twin Peaks of effectiveness and creativity.
Social has, in fact, become the new currency which differentiates the great from the merely good Last year, one of our pieces of work for Dove, RealBeauty Sketches, became in a very short period oftime the single most watched piece of advertising in Also of note in 2013 has been the very rapid 1 the world, with 5.5 billion impressions and 170 million expansion of OgilvyRED, our consulting business.
Of course, there was Led by Carla Hendra, it provides strategic counsel of sophisticated social management behind it, but the highest kind focused on critical c-suite questions fundamentally it went around the web like wildfire ranging from how will we grow our brand portfolio because it touched something in our hearts, deeply and in both share volume and profit?
to can our legacy poignantly.
All the academic evidence shows that B2B brands stretch into a B2C e-commerce business sharing on the internet relates to a state of emotional model?
The answers that RED develops are helping arousal, and throughout the year we evidenced not just our clients chart their future.
in Dove, but in many of our other brands, the power of 2013 represented the birth of Geometry Global, socialised advertising, driven by creativity which adding the talent and skills of the G2 network to arouses.
Social has, in fact, become the new currency thestrengths of OgilvyAction.
The worlds largest which differentiates the great from the merely good.
activation agency gives us the benefit of greater scale 1 Media impressions: Edelman and local PR agencies tracked the media impressions assisted by media tracking companies such as Cision and Burrelles.
2 Views: The source is the publicly-presented stats shown on each video, accessed via the APIs available on the various platforms YouTube, Vimeo, Tudou, Youku.
48 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Advertising while preserving the benefits of proximity and invaluable in generating insights and analysis and integration.
Its positioning of Precision Activation offers an entirely fresh approach to engagement iscompelling, and speaks to the new world of data.
Steve Harding describes Geometry in detail on This new planning process has energized page84 of this report.
ourworkfor current clients and driven significant new Speaking of data, we appointed a chief data business wins in all regions.
Weve won major new officer in 2013, reporting directly to me.
It reflects clients across adiverse range of categories including the primacy of data in our strategy, both structured CPG, finance, heath & wellbeing, information data and the new, unstructured data which &technology and telecommunications, helping us increasingly guides the crafting of messages and shape our client portfolio for future expansion.
Business growth brings fresh talent and energy OgilvyOne, Ogilvy Public Relations and Ogilvy intothe network.
We attracted skilled Customer CommonHealth are covered in detail by Brian Engagement practitioners, and appointed our first Fetherstonhaugh, Chris Graves and Matt Giegerich everglobal chief data officer.
In recognition of our respectively.
Suffice it for me to say that, together global commitment to the training and development with Geometry, their capabilities represent an of talent, OgilvyOne Worldwide received the increasingly formidable force in delivery, not just Marketing EDGE formerly DMEF Corporate ofintegration, but of really deep integration around Leadership Award this year.
As either Ogilvy itself or working inextended WPP teams, 2013 confirmed again that deft thinking and execution around a 21st century operating system is a powerful driver of success inthe marketplace.
OgilvyOne Worldwide Report by Brian Fetherstonhaugh right Chairman and chief executive officer As we enter 2014, the one question on every senior clients lips is: how do I engage with customers in a world that has gone digital?
OgilvyOne Worldwide is uniquely poised to answer that question.
According to Forrester Research, OgilvyOne istheundisputed leader in the emerging discipline ofCustomer Engagement, defined as the bringing together of creativity and data to create compelling personal experiences that grow our clients businesses.
In 2013, we undertook a global project to sharpen our Customer Engagement tools and processes, pioneering a new proprietary methodology to deliver solutions to clients.
The tool has proven to be WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 49 How were doing Advertising Creativity is the centerpiece of Customer Ogilvy Public Relations Engagement and is an area in which we continue toexcel and improve upon each year.
We extended Report by Christopher Graves below our winning streak as the most awarded agency at Global chief executive officer theDirect Marketing Associations Echos, which recognize both creativity and effectiveness, scooping 2013 was the year when Ogilvy PR Asia Pacific 28 awards.
We improved our performance at the became our largest region for the first time, Caples, taking home 18 awards, and contributed perhapsfor any global network.
It was also the year to18Direct, Cyber and Mobile Lions at Cannes.
that Europe really came of age for us.
New talent completely transformed our London office, triggering rapid growth and award-winning work such as As we look to the future, LargeAgency of the Year from the PRCA in the UK.
Our South Africa office continued to soar and garner OgilvyOne is placing big bets many accolades as well.
on data and e-commerce The industry arbiter, The Holmes Report, namedOgilvy PR No.
1 in the world for creativity, and named us The Best Digital Consultancy in Weve been named Digital Agency of the Year theWorld.
inmany markets, including Singapore, Vietnam andGreece, as well as the entire Asia Pacific region.
OgilvyOnes trailblazing work for clients such as IBMcontributed to North America being named B-to-BAgency of the Year by Advertising Age.
As we look to the future, OgilvyOne is placing bigbets on data and e-commerce.
We continue ourthought leadership in data through the global expansion of Sexy Little Numbers, the book that demystifies data and analytics, written by OgilvyOne New York president, Dimitri Maex.
At the start of 2014, we expanded our global Continuous Commerce practice, which is built on combining traditional e-commerce skills with a deep heritage in CRM.
We begin 2014 with all the ingredients and toolsrequired to succeed.
We have a fantastic client portfolio, a truly global footprint and a Customer Engagement offering that will be amplified through our three growth pillars: data, e-commerce andmobile.
50 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Advertising All told, Ogilvy PR scored more than 200 awards Scott moved from leading the Global Strategy and honors around the world thanks to remarkable &Planning group to now heading up the New work.
New, fresh and challenging campaigns for Yorkoffice.
clients such as DuPont, BP, Ford, IBM, the US What separates Ogilvy PR from the industry is Federal Reserve, Crayola, Google, Nestl, American our ability to quickly partner with in-house Ogilvy Express and British Airways demanded our best & Mather experts from advertising, social, direct creative and effective thinking.
marketing and entertainment, and gain insights fromleaders in mobile and big data.
Were heading into a thrilling realm The industry arbiter, The Holmes of content marketing led by data-driven intelligence.
Our offices are rapidly skilling up and building Report, namedOgilvy PR No.
1 in the resources to identify effective content opportunities world for creativity, and named us for our clients, and to leverage our best-in-industry knowledge of behavioral science and narrative theory The Best Digital Consultancy in to move people on their behalf.
theWorld Ogilvy CommonHealth Worldwide See report on page 81 Meanwhile, Tony Morain and Kate Donahue out of our San Francisco office honored us by winning Ogilvy PR a Grand Challenges Exploration Grant from The Gates Foundation to pursue a global health and development research project.
Furthermore, we bolstered our global capabilities with Espresso, a communications offering designed specifically for start-ups and emerging brands born from our technology practice.
We are so grateful for the lifelong service of two top executives who retired in 2013 Steve Dahllof asregional CEO in APAC and Tom Beall as global MD of the Social Marketing practice.
A new generation of top leaders stepped up, including veterans Scott Kronick and Robert Mathias moving up to serve as regional CEOs of Asia Pacific and North America respectively.
Nathan Friedman transitioned fromChicago office lead to head our West Coast operations as regional MD.
Thomas Crampton moved up to global managing director ofSocial@Ogilvy and Marshall Manson joined us asmanaging director, Social@Ogilvy for the EAME region, along with new hire April Scott to lead Social@Ogilvy inNew York.
New office heads include: Ann Maes in Brussels and Richard Brett for Pulse inAustralia.
Jennifer WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 51 How were doing Advertising JWT There is a spirit of endeavor, bravery and ambition that we see in JWTs history time and time again.
Report by Bob Jeffrey below right Ithas led us to reinvent and renew ourselves to Worldwide chairman and chief executive officer remain relevant in every era.
with We call it Pioneering.
The Pioneering spirit of JWT Gustavo Martinez below left is what has created our past success and it is what we Global president cherish and exploit for our future success too.
Pioneers dont stand still: they keep moving and exploring.
And As I write this era of marketing communication needs that kind this in early of agility more than any other weveseen.
2014, our The more we Pioneer, the more we are celebrations continuously relevant to clients needs, the more have already weachieve financial growth.
begun for Delivering organic growth from existing clients our 150th requires high quality and adventurous solutions for anniversary.
We aim to provide more of those firsts JWT is the wherever we can.
Our Fakka work for Vodafone longest inEgypt, for example, was the most awarded piece standing ofstrategy in the industry last year across the worlds agency in award shows.
Inevitably it also swept the board the world.
inmany of the industrys creative shows.
But we are It was very pleasing to be awarded the global very clear creative services for Nokia last year to complement that JWT is the local activation work that we had been providing old because for them around the world.
Equally, we were it is good, delighted to take on responsibility for handling the not good Tylenol brand for one of our biggest existing clients, because it is old.
In an industry rightly obsessed with Johnson & Johnson.
the new it remains a source of great pride that JWT New business growth is an important signal of has remained relevant to the needs of clients across JWTs contemporary relevance as it often involves the decades powerful brands including Bayer, Ford, attracting clients from newer industries.
Becoming HSBC, Johnson & Johnson, Kelloggs, Kimberlythe global agency of record for PUMA confirmed Clark, Microsoft, Nestl, Nokia, Pfizer, Rolex, Royal JWTs credibility in the booming section of sport and Caribbean, Schick, Shell, Unilever and Vodafone.
Other exciting new business wins included As Charles Darwin noted, It is not the strongest Energizer personal care brands, Air Canada and or the most intelligent who will survive but those TheSingapore Tourism Board.
who can best manage change.
It has clearly been our It is extremely rare now for a communication ability to manage change that served us so well.
We solution not to involve digital channels and often talk about the agencys many firsts: the first technology-led answers.
JWT has demonstrated its agency to become international, the first to appoint ability to manage this digital change: much as we did afemale creative director, the first with the account with the invention of the television medium in the planning discipline, to name but a few.
We now have over 2,000 nonspirit that created those firsts that has been key to traditional specialists who spend more than 50% of ourirrepressible success.
their time delivering digital work for clients.
The big 52 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Advertising opportunity is to create an agency that is the perfect important we are investing in the growth markets blend of timeless brand-building wisdom and modern where our clients need their own brands to do well.
Equally it is important we can provide scale and Our recent work on one of the worlds oldest innovation for our clients in the big, mature regions.
confectionery brands shows us the way forward.
Nestls Kit Kat was recently named by TIME magazine as one of the most influential candy bars Our Pioneering spirit is helping ofall time a pioneering achievement worthy of JWT reinvent and grow.
We are abrand that embraces the blend of classic FMCG marketing with leading-edge technology.
diversifying our capabilities and Within the JWT group we are reinventing, or managing our different geographies digitalizing, the JWT agency, and also acquiring pure-play digital agencies.
Four of our recent digital acquisitions have taken on wider regional roles It was symbolic last year that JWT signed an fromtheir local beginnings.
We now have anchor affiliation agreement with Mango Marketing in digital agencies across the world: Digitaria in Myanmar giving our global advertising network NorthAmerica, XM in Asia Pacific, Casa in Latin aPioneering foothold in the regions newest America, and Activeark in Europe and continue to emergingmarket.
acquire growing digital agencies with the purchase JWTs APAC region saw a historic creative ofThomas Idea in Thailand, Post Visual in South performance in 2013, winning more Lions than Korea and DesignerCity in Hong Kong.
anyother Asia Pacific network in history.
As the consumer journey and experience So our Pioneering spirit is helping JWT reinvent expandsto include multiple online touchpoints and grow.
We are diversifying our capabilities and across numerous devices, the power of the digital managing our different geographies.
But at the end channel toinfluence purchasing decisions grows ofthe day we are creating value for our current more important.
Our specialist digital offerings for andpotential clients.
example, Lunchbox, focusing on digital activation We welcome with great enthusiasm the arrival of atpoint ofsales position us as the tip of the spear Gustavo Martinez to the agency as global president.
totake advantage of these opportunities.
He will become our global CEO at the end of 2014 JWT is also an active collaborator with WPPs when I will become non-executive chairman.
We recently became one of the Our 150th birthday year will be a platform jointventure partners of WPPs The Data Alliance forreinvigorating the agency with our spirit of tohelp fuel our data strategy and capability.
We will be bringing back the original JWT has enjoyed a huge influx of new digital J. Walter Thompson logo as the anniversary icon talent in recent years.
It is often the norm to see The Owl and the Lantern, a symbol of intelligence account teams that boast skills of digital strategy, that we hold dear.
But, as Darwin says, it is our social media and interactive design.
If the agency is ability to manage change that will ensure our future about Pioneering then our talent must be Pioneers.
I have every confidence that Gustavo can JWTs geographical ability is one of our great manage that change better than anyone.
Some parts of the world are still feeling theeffects of the ongoing recession, while others are experiencing much faster development.
One of the responsibilities of being a global agency is being able to manage that portfolio of business situations.
It is WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 53 How were doing Advertising Y&R Group thisinthe marketplace and the diversity of our expertise gives us substantial differentiation.
Report by Peter Stringham below Chairman and chief executive officer Of our top 20 clients, 17 work with As you will see in three or more Y&R Group companies.
thefollowing reports, Y&R Group And we partner with sister WPP companies continued agencies on every one of those top to demonstrate theirleadership as 20clients individual companies in 2013.
But they alsoshowed their As we write about our individual and collective collaborative strength.
progress in this report, we remember Ed, who Of our top 20 clients, brought so much innovation and integrity to our 17work with three industry.
We strive daily to live up to his vision.
And we partner with sister Y&R WPP agencies onevery one of those top 20 clients.
This ability to collaborate is not surprising.
Report by David Sable opposite, left Itisinour DNA, a key part of the origins of Y&R Chairman and chief executive officer Group.
For that, we honor Ed Ney, who passed awaythis past January.
Ed served as chairman and Last May, we celebrated Y&Rs 90th anniversary.
He was the When Raymond Rubicam opened a new agency architect of Young & Rubicam Group, a visionary with his name on the door in May 1923, he did who saw the import of reaching consumers across sobecause he wanted to do things differently than multiple touchpoints.
Out of this insight, he created wasthe custom of the day.
He made creative core to integrated communications, acquiring companies thebusiness.
And he made research core to creative like Wunderman, Burson-Marsteller, Sudler & by hiring a little-known professor named George Hennessey and Landor.
It was a move that Gallup to create the very first Research Department.
Most importantly, he established our DNA with In 2013, there were many successful initiatives his favorite maxim, Our job is to Resist the Usual which advanced our ability to collaborate successfully, on behalf of our clients, which played out in his including the creation of a New Business Development enthusiasm for innovation of all kinds.
We continued our cross-disciplinary that lent itself to the highest standards of storytelling, training through Rubicam University, using real using leading-edge channels of distribution available client challenges.
And, at 90, Y&Rs DNA is still very We are also working towards the launch much in evidence.
ofaY&R Group sustainability practice in True to our DNA, we understand that creativity 2014, agateway into the considerable assets and and innovation are inextricably bound.
Creativity expertiseacross all of our companies which focus without innovation is ineffective.
We see increasing demand for creativity is boring.
54 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Advertising So, we are still great believers in the power technology.
And wecontinue to drivecapabilities like ofstorytelling.
In 2013, we ranked among the shopper marketing, which helpus connect with our topfourglobal creative agencies, in part fueled by clients customers at theright touchpoints.
ourbest performance ever at Cannes.
Significantly, We are opening offices where our clients ourwinning Lions were spread broadly across willbenefit from an agency presence.
We launched our own internal SicolaMartin fully into the Y&R fold, creating crowd-sourcing platform, The Kitchen Table, sharing Y&RAustin, which makes us the first global agency select creative briefs to everyone at the agency, which brand in that vital market.
We also launched Y&R has resulted in some terrific new ideas from all over inMyanmar, which offers great growth potential the world.
And, as we go to press, Y&R Singapore inthe future.
was selected as one of eight winners out of 900 Most critically, however, we continued to build entries in the Cannes Chimera competition, which VML globally, aligned with the Y&R Advertising asks for innovative campaigns to address the issue footprint, to create new opportunities for our ofextreme poverty.
For example, in Africa, we established Native VMLby merging a top-flight digital agency with our localdigital resources.
Given the predominance of Ourwinning Lions were spread mobile in Africa, Native VML gives us an unparalleled platform for expansion across the entire continent.
broadly across ourglobal network More on VML on page 56.
All of this added up to a strong year for Y&R We continue to invest in our proprietary vital new business wins around the network and BrandAsset Valuator, still the worlds largest global good growth from existing clients.
New assignments database of consumer perceptions of brands and a came from Microsoft, Bel Fromagerie, the Bank brand management tool that is not only diagnostic ofMontreal, Huawei, Queensland Government, but prescriptive.
We also complement our data side Vodafone, Diageo and Erste Bank, to name just with our eXploring practice, which immerses our afew.
Y&R North Americas double-digit growth planners into the real lives of consumers.
signaled recovery in that market, followed by To bring our clients the best of new thinking, strongperformances in Latin America, Asia, technology and products, we are in the third year Australia andNew Zealand.
ofrunning our To celebrate our anniversary in May, we launched innovation incubator, asocial media campaign #AdvertisingIs that Sparkplug, which engaged our entire global network and industry offers interesting byasking them what advertising meant to them.
start-up residencies Thecampaign culminated on an interactive atour offices and billboardin Times Square, using technology from connects them one of our Sparkplug companies, Hyperactivate.
virtually to our Alltold we reached over eight million people.
entireglobal Were a 90-year-old start-up, still innovating.
In 2013, wealso formed a partnership with Shazam that gives usaccess to itsproprietary WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 55 How were doing Advertising VML fully integrated VML-branded operations in Atlanta, Boston and Bogot, Colombia, and with the Report by Jon Cook below acquisition of Biggs|Gilmore in Kalamazoo and Chief executive officer and president Chicago in the US.
With full-scale operations across six continents, Expanded global VML is delivering forward-thinking ideas for many reach and capabilities of the worlds most influential brands.
drove VMLto new heights over the past year.
We proudly Wunderman launched full-service VML operations in Report by Daniel Morel below China, Japan and Chairman and chief executive officer South Africa and established an Eastern European hub based in Poland, further strengthening VMLs worldwide offering.
With more than 1,900 VMLers connected around the globe, we established new client engagements such as Bridgestone, Commonwealth Bank, Danone, Korean Air, MasterCard and State Street Global Advisors.
In the sports arena, we added Australias National Rugby League and U. S. Soccer alongside our Barclays Premier League partnership.
Our relationship with Kelloggs has expanded dramatically.
VML is privileged to serve as Kelloggs Wunderman is one of the worlds great marketing North American and Australian Digital Agency of institutions, serving some of the best-known brands Record, working with iconic brands such as Kashi, through 170 offices in 60 countries.
Advertising Age Special K, Pop-Tarts and Pringles.
1 digital network in the VML has always featured a strong social world for the second year in a row.
We have mediaoffering which we took to a new level with maintained our top position for nearly a decade groundbreaking work for Wendys.
In just the first byactively addressing and driving change.
In 2013, year of our partnership, VML-produced social we continued this legacy of transformation forming mediacampaigns for Wendys have been praised four divisions bridging Brand Experience, Customer byAdweek, BuzzFeed, Creativity Online, Forbes, Engagement, Data & Insights and World Health Forrester Research, Mobile Marketer and others.
thatfurther align with our client needs.
As an active member of the Red Fuse and Cavalry Today, we stand apart from our competitors as integrated WPP teams, VML is privileged to partner the most connected agency, linking clients customers with talented cross-agency groups on behalf of with relevant information and experiences Colgate-Palmolive and MillerCoors.
We have earned the right to say this In the Americas, we amplified scale and brand thanks to our most distinctive benefit our mastery awareness through the conversion of Studiocom to of data that links our ideas, creativity and resources.
56 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Advertising Increased pressure in North America and Burson-Marsteller thedownsizing of two accounts weighed down performance.
However, we grew by double digits Report by Donald A. Baer below inLatin America: achieved stability in Europe: Worldwide chair and chief executive officer andadded significant new business including Shell, adidas, Blue Cross Blue Shield Louisiana Burson-Marsteller took full advantage of its 60th andAlabama, WellCare and Sunovion, as well as anniversary year to build on our strengths and expanded relationships with Microsoft, Land Rover, continue moving forward in exciting directions.
By design, our structure Introducing our new positioning Burson-Marsteller, nowmakes us stronger, more nimble and more Being More we reaffirmed our promise to our connected to address dynamic market forces that clients and to one another: To exceed expectations influence performance.
today and constantly improve for tomorrow.
Our win of Shell Retails multi-million dollar Our teams working around the world brought global CRM business is a shining moment for our this spirit to life as we won major new assignments UK team headed by Mel Cruickshank.
com, Comcast, Peabody Energy falls in our sweet spot of e-CRM and data, and has andRezidor, among many other major companies.
already grown beyond its initial scope.
The same We also built significant growth with clients Bank istrue for adidas.
Team United, formed by WPP for ofAmerica and Ford.
The firm added important United Continental Holdings, also gives Wunderman newtalent, including UK-based Kevin Bell as global a foundation of data, digital and CRM business on public affairs practice chair, former managing which to build.
partner of Blue State Digital, Thomas Gensemer, as Other important developments include US chief strategy officer, former Ogilvy & Mather SM BrandSnap, a social engagement measurement executive Michael Law as US president and former platform that connects social networking with brand senior editor for Asia for The Wall Street Journal valuation to capture snapshots of immediate brand Mariko Sanchanta as Asia Pacific managing director.
performance, and our Technology Partnership We put the energy behind Burson-Marsteller, Being Program with Adobe to better connect emerging More into action on many fronts for our clients.
These marketing cloud technology with our digital solutions.
efforts included positioning Telefnica as a technology In November 2013, Lincoln Bjorkman joined leader with a major new push among millennials and Wunderman as global chief creative officer.
developing a new crisis communications process for InDecember, we launched CHOREOGRAPH, SAP.
Our China team launched adidas #allinformygirls ajointventure offering with sister media agency campaign to MECthatconnects various data sources in realsupport its time, fordynamic content creation and distribution.
female sports This year we will lay important groundwork apparel line, forfuture growth.
Looking ahead, we will remain which helped true to a fundamental value championed by Lester lead to a 40% Wunderman years ago: Relentlessly pursue increase in sales.
In Brazil, we launched Heinekens most important new offering in thatmarket.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 57 How were doing Advertising All of our breakthrough work helped the firm Sudler & Hennessey win more industry awards in 2013 than in any previous year.
All of this effort underscores that, Report by Jed Beitler below in2014, as we approach our 61st year, we know Chairman and chief executive officer worldwide thatthe best days for Burson-Marsteller lie ahead.
2013 was a very successful year full of Landor Associates fast-paced beginnings, including 20 brand Report by Lois Jacobs below launches in the Chief executive officer USalone.
Globally, our business continued Landor enjoyed a good 2013 with stellar performance to grow through our in a number of markets.
We saw a tripling of revenue in participation in our Moscow office, and our Southeast Asia & Pacific cross-Group region returned exceptional growth in Indonesia, Japan teamwins.
We gained new clients everywhere Driven by the including Bayer, Hess, IGT and the Russian Copper continued need for Company, while continuing to support existing clients interactive innovation like Diageo, Kraft, andProcter & Gamble.
In Russia with iPads, crosswe completed theidentity for our 65th airline indeed platform apps and 2013 sawLandor offices around the world working interactive designs, onbranding assignments for eight different airlines.
our internal digital We dedicated considerable time to launching a integration resulted in new, more flexible approach to our strategy work.
digital growth that outpaced the agency growth in This included the introduction of an innovative the US, and led to success throughout thenetwork.
prototyping tool that will provide clients more This years Global Managers Meeting focused certainty and ongrowing our business organically, refining engagement ourprocesses, and building tools to help us react inour work, morequickly to the changing environment.
farearlier in New business initiatives, Primary Source theprocess.
consulting and Quality Matters health 2014 is management, quickly gained new clients with already shaping Quality Matters being acknowledged as one of up well.
themost Innovative New Divisions by industry trade publication PM360.
New managing directors were appointed in London and Sydney: a new chief digital officer and chief financial officer joined the New York office.
And, once again, numerous Sudler offices throughout our regions were recognized for their creative efforts.
58 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Advertising Bravo Report by Eddie Gonzalez right, top Chairman and chief executive officer and Eric Hoyt right, below President and chief operating officer Bravo continues to excel by helping our clients capitalize on the growing US Hispanic population inthe US.
Our systematic approach of understanding through discipline, compelling through imagination and delivering with precision is providing clients withwinning solutions across brand, digital and retail channels.
Key in 2013 has been partnering with sister WPPcompanies.
For example, Bravo teamed up withGeometry, Lunchbox, Kantar and other WPP agencies to provide unparalleled shopper marketing solutions.
And for Campbells, Bravo teamed up with Y&R and MEC to activate the US Hispanic market to its fullest potential.
Cohn & Wolfe See report on page 75 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 59 How were doing Advertising Grey Group Grey Report by Jim Heekin right Chairman and chief executive officer 2013 was a watershed year for Grey.
It marked oursixth year in a row of record new business and creative performance.
We achieved a hat-trick as Grey was named Adweek Global Agency of the Year:Advertising Age Agency of the Year and No.
1 on its A-List of the best agencies, as well as Shoot magazines Agency of the Year.
Advertising Age summed up our progress best bywriting, That a big, holding company-owned beast of an agency can churn out double-digit growth and buzzy mass-recognized creative is rare.
To outdo itself year after year is rarer.
We are very proud of this track record and it proves you can renew a venerable agency brand for todays communications landscape.
We added to our blue-chip client roster, winning the most-watched review of the year for the global Gillette account.
High-profile new business wins alsoincluded HSBC, Volvo, Hasbro, GE Healthcare, Greys mantra of Famously Effective work Symantec, Wella and Papa Johns Pizza.
Most fueled our soaring creative reputation.
We won ofourlong-time clients grew in revenue and we 36Cannes Lions, our best showing ever across wereawarded major new assignments from AARP, allregions.
Adweek wrote, Grey produced some Allergan, Ally Financial, Boehringer Ingelheim, ofthe most memorable work of any agency in 2013.
Canon, GlaxoSmithKline, Procter & Gamble, Greys flagship agencies in New York and London Pfizer, TJ Maxx, Eli Lilly and 3M.
Our New York agency was awarded an Emmy for Best PrimeTime Commercial for Canon and made the shortlist We achieved a hat-trick as Grey at the Academy Awards, an advertising industry first.
Highly-acclaimed integrated campaigns from was named Adweek Global Agency of New York for CoverGirl, Pantene, Febreze, NFL, the Year:Advertising Age Agency of DirecTVand Canon gained wide acclaim and nineCannes Film Lions, more than any agency the Year and No.
1 on its A-List of the intheworld.
best agencies Grey New Yorks president and chief creative officer, Tor Myhren, took on a global role as worldwide chief creative officer.
Michael Houston 60 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Advertising moved up from Grey New Yorks chief operating officer to become Grey North America chief executive officer.
We also welcomed Joe Lampertius asthe first global chief executive officer ofGreyShopper, our fast-growing shopper marketingpractice.
Our New York agency was awarded an Emmy for Best Prime-Time Commercial for Canon and made the shortlist at the Academy Awards, an advertising industry first Grey EMEA, led by David Patton, was named theEuro Effie Agency of the Year for the second consecutive year.
Grey London, under Chris Hirst, recorded one of its most impressive new business performances ever and ranked among Campaigns top agencies.
The London agency won the Cannes Black Creative Effectiveness Lion for the British Heart Foundation, among many accolades.
Grey Greater China was named Campaign AsiaPacifics Agency of the Year.
Our two top leaders inAsia Pacific, Nirvik Singh and TH Peng, oversawarecord new business performance in Chinaand significant expansion of our capabilities inthe region.
We continue to invest in the worlds developing growth countries.
A new Grey Brazil was launched, increasing our ranking in this critical market.
Weenhanced our global footprint in digital and shopper marketing with the acquisition of premier companies in Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin Americaand added to our healthcare resources.
We are well-positioned to build on Greys success story and bullish on the future.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 61 How were doing Advertising United Group Report by Ewen Cameron right Chief executive officer 2013 was a year of focus on new business for United.
Our agencies in the US saw strong client acquisition with wins of Hawaiian Airlines for Cole & Weber United in Seattle and strong growth of the Capitol One business in New York.
In Europe, Seora Rushmore weathered one of the regions worst economic climates and delivered a very strong year with major wins for Vodafone and Diageo, taking it into the top five agencies by billing in Spain.
In Italy, 1861 United grew new business from BNP Paribas and the prestigious Expo Milan 2015, while continuing its high-profile work for clients such as Sky and Vodafone.
In Scandinavia, BTS United won new assignments from Hertz andKLP Insurance, and in Benelux LDV United continued to grow its business with Opel and addednew assignments from Q8 Petroleum.
[New CEO] Matt will partner withme... to deliver on our mission ofoffering a vibrant micro network alternative The big news for United came near the end of theyear with the appointment of Matt Ryan as our new CEO.
Headquartered out of New York, Matt will partner with me to drive the profile ofNewYork as the hub of our micro network, andfrom there build a client base that will leverage the network to deliver on our mission of offering avibrant micro network alternative to the larger agencies.
62 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Advertising Bates CHI&Partners Report by David Mayo near right Chief executive officer, Asia and Johnny Hornby far right Chief executive officer Bates CHI&Partners launched in February 2013 across 14 offices in nine markets in Asia, following the joint venture between Bates Asia and CHI&Partners, the highly-respected UK agency, tocreate a nimbler, faster agency in Asia with acreative corridor from Shanghai to New York.
Our business focus in 2013 was simply on creativity and business development.
Using our business model of collaborating more and competing less, we promise Big Ideas for Ambitious Brands We installed fresh leadership in Shanghai, by assembling talent from the open market for Singapore, The Philippines and Hong Kong and specific client briefs, giving a bespoke approach welaunched a social and digital practice, hubbed tocreative ideas and a network to deliver.
From a new business perspective we started strongly, winning new multi-market relationships with ASUS, IHG, Diageo and Eva Air among others.
We also had a strong new business We went on to produce some of our best work for performance at market level as our these clients, which ran in over 90 countries around the world, establishing some strong creative 14 offices leveraged our new credentials in the process.
In fact, it was our strongest We also had a strong new business performance at market level as our 14 offices leveraged our new new business year for 15 years positioning.
In fact, it was our strongest new business year for 15 years.
As we rolled out the JV we took aggressive steps In 2013, we set out to achieve quality creative toincrease our profile and reputation at all the campaigns, more satisfied clients and a stronger new majorindustry events as well as collaborations with business performance.
In 2014, we aim to grow our sister companies The Futures Company and Ogilvy business further through global client development, & Mather, and affiliate Global Counsel.
regional client growth and by continuing our focus on creativity through collaboration.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 63 How were doing Advertising Commarco Report by Christian Tiedemann right Chief executive officer In 2013, under challenging market conditions in Germany, the Commarco Group has further strengthened its digital footprint: increasing digital revenue in deepblue: an international account win at KKLD: and the launch of a new Scholz & Friends Hamburg digital unit, one:zero.
We have invested in our content management profile and started a co-operation with sister company Hogarth Worldwide in Germany, offering our existing and potential clientsinternational creative asset management.
Our top creative flagship brand, Scholz & Friends, won two of the largest accounts tendered in 2013: the creative work for one major client aclient since 2011 was highly awarded, with two Effies and ranked No.
1 in the brand awareness ranking, leading campaign, in the Jahrbuch der Werbung [Advertising Yearbook].
The agency continues to be highly ranked by marketing decision makers in terms of strategy, creative and solutions.
Our agency Blumberry in Berlin created the campaign for Commarcos ability to create tailor-made the re-election of Angela Merkel, solutions for clients is well recognised in the industry.
With iPS we set up a BMW CRM and Chancellor of Germany salessupport unit in Munich.
RessourcenReich offerssales outsourcing and distribution services Our brands deepblue networks, United Visions forthe launchof new brands in Germany.
We and gkk DialogGroup are developing well.
Our havealso created aspecial unit for an international newly-launched agency Blumberry in Berlin created gardening client, integrating services across various the campaign for the re-election of Angela Merkel, communications disciplines.
Chancellor of Germany in September 2013.
64 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Media Investment Management GroupM Entertainment business also grew very strongly, especially in bringing new TV series to the market, Report by Irwin Gotlieb below both online and on conventional broadcast channels.
Global chairman Our agencies won more awards at Cannes than and anyother media holding company in 2013.
Dominic Proctor below, right As our market continues to consolidate, it is Global president crucial to have the right talent in place and deliver advantage to our agencies and their clients.
Indeed, 2013 was another strong one of our key strategic priorities is to continue to year for GroupM and bring in new talent from very diverse backgrounds ouragencies, which aswe grow and expand our services.
report on the following As the media business evolves, we continue pages.
The group exists todevelop and invest in technologies and data in to give our media conjunction with our data technology-reliant WPP agencies and theirclients colleagues.
This work will provide GroupM and our a major advantage agencies with increasingly differentiated capabilities.
inavery competitive We also continue to proactively shape and catalyze market that is seeing our future and that of the media industry to ensure therapid convergence of that it develops in a manner that is beneficial to mediawith technology ourclients and our stakeholders.
We consolidate those aspects of our business that benefit from scale trading, data and technology management, sports and entertainment, back office activity and product andpractice development.
As the media business evolves, wecontinue todevelop and invest in technologies and data in conjunction with our data technology-reliant WPPcolleagues In 2013, we made several acquisitions in growing areas of our business with a very heavy focus on digital media and developing markets.
Existing businesses such as Xaxis the worlds biggest audience buying company also entered these new markets in response to heavy client demand.
Our WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 65 How were doing Media Investment Management Maxus High points of the year was when this philosophy resonated with clients in successful pitches including Report by Vikram Sakhuja below LOral UK, Ireland and India, ABF in UK US and Worldwide chief executive officer Mexico, Jetstar across Asia, parts of the Nestle business in India, Bank of Montreal Canada, As we completed five years as a global network, Tesco Malaysia, Sigma Alimentos Mexico, Maxus had another stellar year on all counts.
Npower digital UK, Deloitte US, China Union RECMA named us the worlds fastest-growing Pay China and Kikkoman Europe.
media network fourth year running.
We added about 20% of our billings in new business.
We won an M&M Global Award, a Cannes We are agile, operate as a global Silver and a Cannes Young Lion Gold.
And we were network of local agencies, and astrong contributor toWPPs revenue growth.
What probably sets us apart is the way in which we work.
attempttoput data and creativity We are agile, operate as a global network of local onatechnology backbone agencies, and attempt to put data and creativity onatechnology backbone.
This is captured in ourphilosophy we call leaning into change.
In 2013, I moved from running GroupM South Asia to lead Maxus.
Our focus in 2013 was to buildsystems for scale while retaining the soul of astart-up.
And we added entrepreneurial muscle tonew business and marketing, set up EMEA as a region, built talent systems including performance management, succession and nurturing young talent, and set the base for creating the Maxus brand of client leadership by creating the role of a global chiefclient officer.
The plan for 2014 is to build on this momentum by unlocking value in our approach to new business, client management, growth markets and in gearing up our clients to operate in the real-time era.
These are exciting times indeed to be in media and in Maxus.
66 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Media Investment Management MediaCom Whilst proud of our achievements we are far fromcomplacent and remain fully focused on 2014.
Report by Stephen Allan below Responding to the increasing complexities and Worldwide chairman and chief executive officer silos of our industry, 2014 will see MediaCom evolve into a content and connections company underpinned by our MediaCom Beyond Advertising content team of 450 staff in 42 countries.
We will serve the most relevant content including advertising, brand content, events, partnerships, sport, social reputation and owned content through the most connected communications systems to ensure wedeliver our clients effective campaigns across paid, owned and earned media.
Responding to the increasing complexities and silos of our industry, 2014 will see MediaCom evolve into acontent and connections company 2013 was a strong year of progress for MediaCom.
United by our People first philosophy, our teams underpinned by our MediaCom around the world collaborated to win new Beyond Advertising content team assignments of over $2 billion annualised billings, including Sony Mobile and Electronics, Siemens, of450 staff in42 countries Symantec and FIA Formula E, and substantially extend our relationships with clients like GSK, Coca-Cola and Danone.
This success has We appointed Matthew Mee as our global strengthened our position as the worlds third chiefstrategy officer to lead this product evolution.
largest media agency and ranked us No.
1 in Toby Jenner, who took up the new role of global RECMAs Compitches.
chief business development and marketing officer We also established a series of new divisions will oversee the communication of our enhanced relaunching MediaCom Response, merging WPPs offer tonew and existing clients.
Banner Corp into MediaCom Banner and creating With the benefit of GroupMs scale, global chief MediaCom Beyond Borders to service international investment officer Dominic Guba will ensure our clients in the US.
Additionally, we expanded our teams deliver continued competitive advantage MediaCom Sport brand into Singapore, Russia forour clients marketing investment.
andAustralia, and signed deals for soccer legend Exciting times ahead!
Peltowork with P&G, Volkswagen and Subway.
These initiatives further strengthened our commitment to world-class work.
We topped the shortlist at the Global Festival of Media, won three Cannes Lions and Agency Network of the Year atthe M&M Global Awards for the fourth time infiveyears.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 67 How were doing Media Investment Management MEC Choreograph, a joint venture with Wunderman, joinscontent, data and media together into a Report by Charles Courtier below singleintegrated offer and is a first of its kind.
Chief executive officer Pitching and defending new business was a near permanent feature of the year.
We had some great multi-market successes: GE, Danone, Beiersdorf, Sony Electronics, Chanel as well as numerous localmarket life-changers like LOral in Canada andRenault in Turkey, for example.
An influx of market leaders, discipline leads, digital and strategic planners happened in all regions Our focus on talent has to be relentless.
With thecommunications industry changing at this pace, our need to develop our talent as well as bring innewskills into the organization is crucial.
An influxof market leaders, discipline leads, digital andstrategic planners happened in all regions.
Wedrove change at the top of the company too: notleast bringing in Carl Fremont as chief digital officer, from Digitas.
Looking ahead, disproportionate effort is behind leadership in digital and data.
Driving marketing solutions encompassing data, insights, technology and content is the goal.
We are brimming with confidence about the year 2013 brought twists and turns throughout the year.
No doubt 2014 will have its challenges, but While this business certainly gets more exciting, the year has certainly opened at a fast and furious itgets more challenging too.
MEC feels stronger than ever, especially year and we stuck well to our key priorities: growth whenwe are cranking at full speed.
ofour clients business, growth of our business And that, of course, is down to our people.
Their andgrowth of our talent.
hard work, loyalty and unswerving good grace make Strategic leadership, for our clients and our all of this happen.
industry, remains a core principle behind our efforts ininnovation.
We launched MEC Momentum, ournew approach to brand communications.
Its ground-breaking work centered on the purchase pathway and measures the influences throughout thewhole purchase journey.
Our recent launch of 68 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Media Investment Management Mindshare Report by Nick Emery right Chief executive officer Mindshare is the Media Network of the Year forbreaking the mould of the traditional agency structure and rebuilding its foundations for thefuture.
This was Campaign Asia Pacific inDecember summarising why Mindshare was theMedia Agency Network of the Year and it encapsulates our progress throughout 2013.
A year which also saw Mindshare break the $1 billion mark.
We set out to overhaul our approach and to become an adaptive, data-centric organisation, creating new media solutions by harnessing and talent from almost purely digital backgrounds consumer behaviour, optimising cross-channel achance to shape the future of Mindshare and the integration and adapting and refining marketing industry.
We also drove diversity and an ambitious plans in real-time.
digital agenda with new skill sets and talents.
Really this means creating new things, having fun We launched a host of initiatives including: doing it and ensuring its cost-effective.
Media is the apartnership with Geometry Global to target the most exciting playground to work in we sit at the rural and emerging-class consumer across Asia: a heart of all data, technology, content and retail its joint venture with Shazam around audio mapping: Arab Springs, WeChat and 21st Century Fox who aTwitter cross-platform research initiative with wouldnt want to be at the centre of this business?
Kantar and, most recently, our real-time adaptive marketing rooms, The Loop, in hubs across the world.
The Loop is different because its about Media is the most exciting cultural change not just data trawling.
It drives achange in working practices that in turn drives playground to work in we sit at the behavioural change, both for our clients consumer heart of all data, technology, content relations but also how we work across client agency networks, creating one focused team working and retail who wouldnt want to be adaptively, reacting live and seeing trends ahead atthe centre of this business?
We were rewarded both in terms of new business and with MENA, Asia and Latin America Agency We have a clear proposition to be our clients ofthe Year Awards, Cannes Gold, Effies across the leadbusiness partner based on the belief that world and the Goafest Grand Prix.
everything begins and ends in media and we drive 2014 will see us continuing to break moulds based change through an adaptive approach to marketing.
on our ethos of speed, provocation and teamwork, To deliver on our change agenda we brought in coupled with a culturally relevant and adaptive agenda, new leadership in China, Australia, Singapore, Los to ensure that Mindshare sits at the centre of the Angeles, Chicago, North America, Germany, the UK convergence of media, content, data and technology.
and Europe, giving some of our youngest successes WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 69 How were doing Media Investment Management tenthavenue Through our mobile media agency, Joule, we partnered with Candyspace as our strategic creative Report by Rupert Day below lead: distributing content on its own proprietary Chief executive officer technology to any digital device.
Candyspace is now aligning the creative executions across the entire digital world.
Not only PC, smartphone, game console and tablet, but also the wider world of digital out of home OOH, bringing content alive and connected.
Through Kinetic, we partnered with Gamaroff, which specializes in building OOH displays and events, creating excitement and engagement tothen deliver specific activation programs through socialmedia.
We are very excited by our acquisition of TMARC, tenthavenues first foray into Africa.
Based in South Africa, TMARC is a leading mobile activation company that delivers competitions and rewards viaits proprietary technology.
Working with South As the physical and digital worlds converge we Africas leading retailer and brands, TMARC is believe that tenthavenue is in a very strong position looking to expand its services across all of Africa.
to address this new challenge for brands.
In this new era of context, it is no longer enough to match an audience with efficiently bought media.
Its about We are very excited by our understanding consumer behaviour and mindsets.
acquisition of TMARC, tenthavenues Its about brands meeting people in the middle by providing user-centric content to deliver utility first foray into Africa through reward or entertainment.
It is the reintegration of creative and media in a way which is centred around the user, regardless of environment In order to have a better understanding of how and device.
users engage with content and the mobile Our ability to deliver this proposition in 2013 environment, we partnered with Mocean to create a was based upon a mixture of our own resources purely mobile-centric Adserving and Trading Solution, andcollaboration with others.
currently operational in France where Joule is now the We continue to embed our services in both WPP largest mobile media agency.
This solution gives much companies and other agencies to deliver specialist more insight into clients mobile campaigns than the services aligned to their overall strategies.
We grew traditional online solutions currently being adapted ourdirect client relationships with the likes of Unilever, for mobile.
In 2014, we aim to take this solution Tesco, Intercontinental Hotels, Vodafone, International across our other markets.
Airlines Group BA and Iberia and Air Canada.
In summary, three years in, tenthavenue is Companies within tenthavenue, such as Spafax aligning content with devices and users in the and Forward, continuously focus on developing environments we understand better than anyone content strategies and creating ongoing content else.
To deliver real utility to users, and performance forbrands in any and all environments.
