How we comply Other statutory information Substantial share ownership require the consent of the majority of the lenders if aproposed merger or consolidation of the Company As at 16 April 2014, the Company is aware of would alter its legal personality or identity.
thefollowing interest of 3% or more in the issued In general terms, awards granted under WPPs ordinary share capital: incentive plans will usually vest on a change ofcontrol, albeit on a pro-rated basis.
Where BlackRock Inc 4.8% awardsare subject to performance conditions, thoseconditions will still need to be met, also onapro-rated basis.
Certain incentive plans The disclosed interest refers to the respective allowthe Compensation Committee to require combined holdings of this entity and to interests outstanding awards to be exchanged for associated with it.
equivalentawards in the acquiring company.
The Company has not been notified of any other holdings of ordinary share capital of 3% or more.
Articles of Association Profits and dividends There are no restrictions on amending the Articles ofAssociation of the Company other than the need The profit before tax for the year was 1,295.8 to pass a special resolution of the share owners.
The directors declared a final dividend of 23.65p 2012: 19.71p pershare to be paid on 7 July 2014 to share owners Share capital on the register at 6 June 2014 which, together with the interim ordinary dividend of 10.56p 2012: The Companys authorised share capital consists 8.80p per share paid on 11 November 2013, makes solely of 1,750,000,000 ordinary 10 pence shares.
The Company operates an American Depositary Receipt program.
The rights and obligations relating to the ordinary share capital are outlined in the Change of control Articles of Association: there are no restrictions ontransfer, no restrictions on voting rights and All of our bonds except the $369 million 5.875% nosecurities carry special voting rights with bonds due June 2014 contain provisions which are regardto control of the Company.
triggered on a change of control of the Company.
At the Annual General Meeting on 12 June 2013, The holders of such bonds have the right to share owners passed resolutions authorising the repayment at par except for holders of our other Company, in accordance with its Articles of US$bonds where the holders have the right to Association, to allot shares up to a maximum redeem the bonds at 101% of par if the Company nominal amount of 42,819,206 of which isnon-investment grade at the time of the change 6,337,710 could be allotted for cash free of ofcontrol or becomes non-investment grade statutory pre-emption rights.
In the year under within120 days of the announcement of the review no shares were issued for cash free from changeof control.
Details of share capital In addition, the Group has a Revolving Credit movements are given in note 26 on pages 230 to 232.
Facility in the amount of $1,200 million and 475 million due November 2016, the terms of which 186 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we comply Other statutory information Authority for purchase of own shares toprepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting At the Annual General Meeting on 12 June 2013, Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS share owners passed a special resolution authorising and have also elected to prepare financial statements theCompany, in accordance with its Articles of for theCompany in accordance with UK accounting Association, to purchase up to 126,615,840 of its standards.
Company law requires the directors own shares in the market.
In the year under review, toprepare such financial statements in accordance 17,416,402ordinary shares of 10 pence each were withthe Companies Jersey Law 1991. purchased atan average price of 11.31 per share.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial Auditors performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, The directors will propose a resolution at the other events and conditions in accordance with the AnnualGeneral Meeting to re-appoint Deloitte definitions and recognition criteria for assets, LLPas auditors.
liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation Going concern ofFinancial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation The directors are required to consider whether it is will be achieved by compliance with all applicable appropriate to prepare the financial statements on IFRSs.
Directors are also required to: the basis that the Company and the Group are going properly select and apply accounting policies: concerns.
As part of its normal business practice, the present information, including accounting Group prepares annual and longer-term plans and policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, inreviewing this information and in particular the comparable and understandable information: three-year plan and budget the directors believe that provide additional disclosures, when compliance the Company and the Group have adequate resources with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient for the foreseeable future.
Therefore the Company to enable users to understand the impact of and the Group continue to adopt the going concern particular transactions, other events and conditions basis in preparing the financial statements.
on the entitys financial position and financial Further details of the Groups financial position performance: and and borrowing facilities are described in note 10 make an assessment of the Companys ability ofthe financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable Statement of directors responsibilities accuracy at any time the financial position of the inrespect of the preparation of Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking financialstatements reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of The directors are responsible for preparing the a Directors report and directors remuneration report.
financial statements in accordance with applicable The directors are responsible for the maintenance law and regulations.
The directors have elected and integrity of the Company website.
Jersey WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 187 How we comply Other statutory information legislation and UK regulation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors confirm that so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken, as a director, in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
In accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has established arrangements to evaluate whether the information presented in the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable: these are described onpage 126.
The Board considers the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for share owners to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The letters from the chairmen of the Nomination and Governance, Audit and Compensation Committees, the statements regarding directors responsibilities and statement of going concern set outabove and the directors remuneration and interests in the share capital of the Company set out on pages 121 to 165, are included in the Directors report, which also includes the sections Strategic report to share owners, Who runs WPP and Whatwe think.
By Order of the Board: Marie Capes Company Secretary 16 April 2014 188 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 189
