How were doing Specialist Communications Report by Mary-Ellen Howe below KimberlyChief operating officer Clark, Deloitte, Specialist Communications, North America Pfizer and and AstraZeneca, Laurence Mellman right with creative Chief operating officer strategy International Specialist Communications and production for some WPPs Specialist Communications division comprises of their individual business units with separate and distinct clients most marketing expertise by industry, audience segment significant ormedium.
Our clients benefit from the depth of internal-facing knowledge and strategic focus of these specialists: events.
theGroup benefits through the flexibility these Metro continued to provide technical event companies offer as partners for sister WPP companies production services for long-term clients including when serving clients integrated marketing needs.
Deloitte, Citi, RBS, Roche, Experian and Shell.
Our role in managing this portfolio is to help these Risk management specialist Mando continued companies grow on their own terms and to support toexpand its business in Europe with key campaigns co-operation opportunities across the Group.
for brands such as Powerade, Bose, Mondelz and Our report illustrates some of these companies GSK whilst maintaining a strong position in the UK.
and their capabilities and achievements during 2013.
Pace Communications digital and social media Post production company The Farm Group had services and video content capabilities continue to another busy and successful year in 2013.
Activity position the agency favourably.
The Florida divisions atits Soho sites in London remained very high exhibited strong growth in healthcare, education withaward-winning and high-profile output such andgaming, and resurging demand for residential asDownton Abbey, Brian Coxs Wonders of Life, real estate contributed to Green Advertisings success.
TheX Factor and Britains Got Talent.
The Los In the New York metropolitan area, clients K. Angeles operation continued to grow and worked Hovnanian and Robert Wood Johnson Medical onshows Center are continuing to develop as they plan including The significant expansions.
X Factor US, The Food Group expanded its reach to include Hotel Hell the growing North American organic and functional andJim food market, while continuing to serve the Hensons foodservice and retail sectors.
Creature Shop UK outsourced communications service provider Challenge.
EWA continued to focus on improving relationships US-based between clients and their customers, adding value corporate through the combination of expert communications events business strategy, insight and delivery techniques.
Key projects MJM created included adidas, the Liberal Democrats, the inspiration and Communications Workers Union and Merisant.
impact for BDG architecture design had a strong year top-tier clients in2013 working with existing clients such as EDF including Energy and BNY Mellon.
BDG was also particularly WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 85 How were doing Specialist Communications proud to be appointed to the roster of design agencies Since we made our initial investment in 2007, working for Skys property portfolio.
Scangroup has partnered with sister companies Grey, H K Strategies, JWT, Millward Brown, MediaCom and Ogilvy & Mather.
These Alongside collaboration with sister arrangements have allowed Scangroup to support amore diverse client base with a more diverse agencies, Scangroup will continue proposition, and have provided sister WPP toassess acquisition opportunities companies with a platform for growth in the region.
Our step up to majority shareholder will tobroaden both its service and create further opportunities for collaboration geographical offerings across Africa acrossthe WPP network.
Alongside collaboration with sister agencies, Scangroup will continue to assess acquisition At the end of 2013 we increased our interest in opportunities to broaden both its service and Scangroup in Africa to majority ownership with the geographical offerings across Africa.
company retaining its listing on the Nairobi Stock Exchange.
Scangroup offers a comprehensive and integrated range of advertising and communication services in the areas of traditional advertising, digital, media investment management, marketing consultancy, public relations and experiential marketing.
It employs over 790 people in its officesinKenya, Ghana, Nigeria, Rwanda, South Africa, Tanzania, and Uganda and it buys media inEthiopia, Rwanda, Burundi, Zambia, Malawi, Mozambique, Angola, Gabon, DRC and Mauritius.
While Scangroup operates as a holding company, thebusinesses operate separately with autonomous management structures, allowing for the independence and confidentiality required in handling diverse client projects.
86 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Specialist Communications AKQA AKQA won a highly coveted Apple Design Award for the stunning World Wildlife Together app.
We Report by Ajaz Ahmed below have been fortunate to have our work and thinking Founder and chief executive officer recognised with some of the industrys top awards.
The most prestigious of these is the Queens Award AKQA exists for Enterprise Innovation, the highest official for two reasons: recognition for UK businesses.
AKQA is honoured to help create tohave won this award in 2014. the future for our clients: andto inspire The work continues to do the excellent talking with the goal of elevating our leadership from our people.
clients brands, and their customers, Inthe last 12 to new places months our first full year with WPP its We dont take it for granted that to create genregood to have redefining work we are fortunate to have collaborative plenty of client relationships, the best talent and hard-working evidence of teams.
Our staff retention metrics are among the both.
Looking to the future, we have pitch success invested in a new AKQA Graduate Programme in rate of 90%, partnership with the worlds best universities.
We also achieved a 100% alsoencourage and celebrate international creative client retention of existing relationships.
talent with our Future Lions initiative at Cannes.
The work continues to do the talking with the Weare delighted that Google is our partner for goal of elevating our clients brands, and their the2014 competition.
Applying the latest Most of all we are inspired about where we technologies we created a world-first virtual reality aregoing to next when youre in the business car configuration experience that proved amassive ofcreating the future, theres limitless potential.
hit at the Tokyo Motor Show.
The Nike Training Club app achieved over 15 million downloads with more than 300 million workout minutes.
Two otherwise undiscovered footballers went on to graduate from The Nike Academy and are now destined to represent their countries at this years FIFA World Cup in Brazil.
The Fly Delta Mobile platform exceeded 10 million downloads and contributed to Delta moving from 10th position to No.
1 position in the The Wall Street Journal airline rankings league.
