How were doing WPP Digital Report by Mark Read right Chief executive officer WPP Digital had strong performance in 2013, both financially and strategically, supporting the Groups ever-greater focus on the application of technology and the growth inits digital business to 35% of its revenues today.
Our key priority areas within digital remain the same: mobile, e-commerce, content, data and analytics, and social, and we have made progress ineach of them.
24 7 Media, the marketing technology company, focused on providing new technology services to its fast-growing sister company, Xaxis, a company that was started by 24 7 Media in 2011.
A cutting-edge Trading Data Management Platform was implemented, providing a competitive buying advantage for Xaxis.
The Microsoft Advertising Exchange partnership, formed in 2012, delivered strong growth to 24 7s media business and, by year end, 24 7 had integrated over 60 technology companies into its technology stack.
In December 2013, 24 7 and Xaxis announced that they would merge and become one again under the Xaxis name, establishing the worlds largest programmatic media and technology platform, and confirming our original premise, when 24 7 Media was acquired, that the application of technology to the buy-side of digital media could bring substantial strategic and financial benefits to WPP and its clients.
Our key priority areas within digital remain the same: mobile, e-commerce, content, data and ability to win business at aglobal level with brands analytics, and social, and we have such as Gillette and Microsoft and, most significantly, made progress in each of them with Shell to become its Global Digital Agency of Record.
POSSIBLE continued to invest in developing innovative services, including its Emerging Platforms For POSSIBLE, 2013 marked a year of worldwide Practice.
This practice will focus on Amazon and collaboration and momentum as this global digital LinkedIn and help clients navigate the complex paths of agency built its culture and vision of delivering creative influence and purchase on the web.
Its growing office network supported its confirming this momentum, Advertising Age named 88 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing WPP Digital POSSIBLE as one of its top 10 agencies to watch profit, ending the year with 30 offices in 13 in2014.
New business wins and new assignments Digital advertising and marketing agency from existing clients also contributed.
The performance Rockfish also continued its growth streak in 2013, has been underpinned by strong interest amongst opening new offices in Atlanta, Portland and Chicago.
multinational clients in Hogarths innovative Through delivery of innovative work that combines technology and production systems that deliver strategic insight with technology expertise, Rockfish substantial savings in marketing implementation.
It received nearly 70 Inparticular, there has been growing interest in industry awards for its work, including OMMA doingdigital work more efficiently resulting in major Agency of the Year for Design 2013.
It changed the wins in large-scale, offshore digital production.
game for Walmarts suppliers and store managers Acceleration, a marketing technology consulting bycreating the technology behind Walmarts SPARC and systems integration company, brought its app, which gives suppliers real-time access to in-store expertise to a number of WPP clients.
Rockfish also continued to verygood growth in 2013 with major wins including innovate, launching Media Multiplyer, a proprietary Royal Caribbean, SABMiller and Vodacom Vodafone, rich-media technology for managing and delivering opening an office in Miami to support increasing digital advertising content in real-time.
Blue State Digital, our digital strategy agency, In January 2013, WPP Digital acquired Salmon, strengthened its leadership position as one of the an omni-channel commerce agency and Europes worlds best agencies for cultivating and mobilizing largest Websphere services business with over communities of supporters.
Eighty new people joined: 3billion in sales going through its sites annually.
six billion targeted emails were sent: $124million Salmon won major assignments from seven new was raised for causes and campaigns: 38 web platforms clients and was recognized with a number of awards, launched including Connect Ford, Michelle Bridges, including an IBM Beacon Award for Outstanding Malaria No More, Rockefeller Foundation: 100 Resilient Cities, People for Bikes : its technology arm launched Quick Donate through which causes raised $120 million by year end, increasingly using mobile David J. Moore below, left phones: and millions of actions were taken on behalf Chairman, Xaxis and president, WPP Digital of clients including Google, Ford, NAACP, Freedom Shane Atchison below, right to Marry, The Body Shop and the Coalition to Protect Chief executive officer, POSSIBLE Americas Health Care.
BSD received multiple awards, including two Webbys for its Human Rights Campaign website andBorn This Way Foundation website.
Johannes Leonardo, based in New York, developsimpactful campaigns around the world viaa creatively-ambitious culture of 51 people from 14 countries.
This digitally-fluent advertising agency combines big ideas with the ability to channel them via all earned and paid media.
It achieves big brand successes for clients such as Coca-Cola andGoogle and Mondelz.
Marketing implementation agency, Hogarth, continued to grow strongly in both revenue and WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 89 How were doing WPP Digital Smarter Commerce Solution, the PayPal Etail services offered by companies.
Our job is to help Awardsfor Best Large Multichannel Retailer Argos ourclients, both the traditional and the new ones, and Best Customer Experience Morrisons Cellar.
to manage the opportunities and threats inherent Ittook sixth place in the Econsultancy NMA UK inthistransition.
To do this, we need great people Top 100 Digital Agencies 2013, and was No.
2 and we are lucky that we have many of them and intheDesign and Build category.
that they did a fantastic job in 2013 for which wethankthem.
We are only part way through thedigital transformation that is changing our world and many analysts expect the next few years tobe even more innovative Some two years ago The Data Alliance was established to enable coordination of the Groups approach to data and greater connection of data across the Group, as well as external data partnerships.
It made great progress in 2013, signing new data partnerships with Twitter and FourthWall, consulting to a number of WPPs largest clients and helping theGroup to connect its various data sets toyield greater insights and better actions for clients.
As we look back on 2013, we can see excellent progress in delivering on our overall strategy and strategic priorities.
In addition to the acquisition ofSalmon and the organic developments above, wetook an investment in Fullscreen, a leading onlinevideo company and one of the top content producers on YouTube, by some way the webs largest video destination, and a 25% investment inMutual Mobile, a mobile product development agency, basedin Austin, Texas.
Looking forward into 2014 and beyond, the opportunities for WPP Digital companies remain substantial.
We are only part way through the digital transformation that is changing our world and many analysts expect the next few years to be even more innovative as an explosion of new digital devices support much greater investment in digital technologies, not just in marketing but built into the products and 90 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 91
