Who runs WPP Board of Directors Non-executive chairman Ruigang Li Member of the Compensation Committee and Philip Lader Nomination and Governance Committee Chairman of the Nomination Daniela Riccardi and Governance Committee Member of the Compensation Committee Jeffrey Rosen Chairman of the Compensation Committee Executive directors Member of the Audit Committee and Nomination and Governance Committee Sir Martin Sorrell Senior independent director Chief executive Nicole Seligman Paul Richardson Member of the Compensation Committee Finance director Hugo Shong Chairman of the Sustainability Committee Member of the Audit Committee, Compensation Mark Read Committee and Nomination and Governance Chief executive, WPP Digital Committee Timothy Shriver Member of the Compensation Committee and Non-executive directors Nomination and Governance Committee Sally Susman Roger Agnelli Member of the Nomination and Governance Member of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee Committee and Nomination and Governance Sol Trujillo Committee Member of the Audit Committee and Compensation Jacques Aigrain Committee Member of the Audit Committee and Compensation Committee Charlene Begley Members of the Advisory Board Member of the Audit Committee and Nomination and Governance Committee Jeremy Bullmore Colin Day John Jackson Chairman of the Audit Committee and member Bud Morten of the Compensation Committee Koichiro Naganuma Esther Dyson Member of the Nomination and John Quelch Governance Committee Richard Rivers Orit Gadiesh Cuneyd Zapsu Member of the Nomination and Governance Committee Dr John Hood Company Secretary Member of the Compensation Committee Marie Capes WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 113 Who runs WPP Board of Directors Board of Directors Mark Read Chief executive, WPP Digital Age 47 Mark Read was appointed a director in March 2005.
Philip Lader Non-executive chairman Age 68 He is chief executive of WPP Digital and was WPPs director of strategy from 2002 to 2011.
He is a Philip Lader was appointed chairman of WPP in director of CHI&Partners.
The US Ambassador to the Court of St Jamess between 1989 and 1995 in both parent company from 1997 to 2001, he previously served as a andoperating company roles.
Prior to rejoining member of the US Presidents Cabinet, White House WPPin 2002, he was a principal at the consultancy Deputy Chief of Staff and Deputy Director of the firm ofBooz-Allen & Hamilton and founded and Office of Management & Budget.
Before entering developed thecompany WebRewards in the UK.
government service, he was executive vice president He is a trustee of the Natural History Museum of the late Sir James Goldsmiths US holdings and Development Trust.
president of both a prominent American real estate mread@wpp.
com company and universities in the US and Australia.
Alawyer, he is also a senior advisor to Morgan Roger Agnelli Non-executive director Age 54 Stanley, a director of Marathon Oil, Rusal and AES Corporations, a trustee of RAND Corporation, the Roger Agnelli was appointed a non-executive Smithsonian Museum of American History and the director of WPP on 13 May 2013.
He is the founding Atlantic Council, and a member of the Council on partner and CEO of AGN Holding, a Brazilian Foreign Relations.
company focused on mining, logistics and bioenergy in Brazil, Latin America and Africa.
He is also the Sir Martin Sorrell Chief executive Age 69 chairman of B&A, a joint venture between BTG Pactual and AGN, focused on the exploration and Sir Martin Sorrell joined WPP in 1986 as a director, development of fertilizer, iron ore and copper assets.
becomingGroup chief executive in the same year.
He is He was CEO and president of VALE from July 2001 anon-executive director of Formula One and Alcoa Inc. to May 2011.
He was vice president of ANBID msorrell@wpp.
com Brazils National Association of Investment Banks and member of the International Advisory Paul Richardson Finance director Age 56 Committee of the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
He has served on the board of directors of Paul Richardson became Group finance director CPFL, Rio Grande Energia, Serra da Mesa Energia ofWPP in 1996 after four years with the Company and VCB Energia in Brazil and Duke Energy in the as director of treasury.
He is responsible for the US: in oil and gas, Petrobras and Suzano Groups worldwide functions in finance, information Petroqumica in Brazil and Spectra Energy in the US: technology, procurement, property, treasury, in steel, CSN and LATASA: in automotive and auto taxation, internal audit and sustainability.
parts, Mahle Metal Leve: in home appliances, He is a chartered accountant and fellow of the Brasmotor and in cable TV, UGB Participaes.
He is a nonSeptember 2010, he joined the International Business executive director of STW Communications Group Leaders Advisory Council IBLAC to the Mayor of Limited in Australia, which is a company associated Shanghai.
He has served on the International with the Group.
Advisory Council of South Africa to the President prichardson@wpp.
He has been a member of the board of directors of ABB Ltd since 2002 and of the 114 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Who runs WPP Board of Directors International Advisory Council to the President of onbusiness process excellence, simplification, Mozambique, Dr Armando Guebuza.
In addition, collaboration and security and compliance.
Over heis a member of Anadarkos Global Advisory hercareer at GE, she served as President and Chief Board and McKinsey International Advisory Executive Officer of GE Enterprise Solutions, GE Council.
He is a member of the International Expert Plastics, and GE Transportation.
In addition, she led Advisory Board of the Sultanate of Oman.
In Brazil, GEs Corporate Audit Staff and served as the Chief he is a member of the Strategic Advisory Council of Financial Officer for GE Transportation and GE FIESP Federation of Industries of the State of So Plastics Europe and India.
Ms Begley currently serves Paulo and honorary director of ACRJ Commercial as a non-executive director of NASDAQ OMX.
Ms Association of Rio fide Janeiro.
Begley was a director of Morpho Detection, Inc. and GE Fanuc JV.
She also served on the board of the Jacques Aigrain Non-executive director Age 59 National Association of Manufacturers and the Business Advisory Council at the University of Dr Jacques Aigrain was appointed a non-executive Vermont.
She was recognized as a Young Global director of WPP on 13 May 2013.
He is currently leader on the World Economic Forum and Fortunes chairman of LCH.
He was Most Powerful Women in Business.
Ms Begley CEO of Swiss Re from 2006 to 2009, and prior to graduated Magna Cum Laude from the University that, he spent 20 years with JP Morgan Chase in New ofVermont in 1988 with a B. S. Degree in Business York, London and Paris.
In addition, he is a nonAdministration.
executive director of London Stock Exchange Group Plc and a Supervisory Board Member of Lyondell Colin Day Non-executive director Age 59 Bassell NV, Deutsche Lufthansa AG and its subsidiary, Swiss International Airlines AG.
He is also Colin Day was appointed a non-executive director an advisory director of the Qatar Financial Centre ofWPP in July 2005.
He is the Chief Executive Authority and a Senior Advisor to Warburg Pincus.
ofEssentra plc and a non-executive director of Amec He is a dual French and Swiss citizen.
He holds a PhD and FM Global.
He was the group finance director of in Economics from Sorbonne University, and a MA ReckittBenckiser plc until April 2011, having been degree in Economics from Paris Dauphine University.
appointed to its board in September 2000.
Previously he has been group finance director of Aegis Group Charlene Begley Non-executive director Age 47 plc and held a number of senior finance positions with the ABB Group plc and fide La Rue Group plc.
Charlene T Begley was appointed a non-executive He was a non-executive director of Vero Group director of WPP on 1 December 2013.
Most recently, plcuntil 1998, Bell Group plc until 2004, Imperial Ms Begley served as a Senior Vice President of Tobacco plc until February 2007, easyJet plc General Electric Company and the Chief Executive untilSeptember 2005 and Cadbury plc until 2010.
Officer and President of GE Home & Business Solutions at General Electric Company.
In this Esther Dyson Non-executive director Age 62 role, she had responsibility for $9 billion of revenue with the GE Appliances, Lighting and Intelligent Esther Dyson was appointed a director of WPP Platforms businesses, as well as served as the in1999.
She is the founder of HICCup Health companys Chief Information Officer and led the Initiative Coordinating Council, hiccup.
co, anonSourcing Council and Corporate Leadership Staff.
profit dedicated to the production of health as As CIO, she managed a budget of $3.7 billion and opposed to care for the unhealthy.
In 2004, she led 10,000 IT professionals with a strong focus soldher business, EDventure Holdings, to CNET WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 115 Who runs WPP Board of Directors Networks, the US-based interactive media company Board for the British-American Business Council.
Sheleft CNET at the end of isthe Chairman of the International Business Leaders 2006 and now operates asan independent investor Advisory Council for the Mayor of Shanghai IBLAC and writer, again under thename EDventure.
She and sits on the International Advisory Board at HEC hasbeen highly influential for the past 30 years School of Management in France.
onthebasis of her insights into online information technology markets and their commercial social Dr John Hood Non-executive director Age 62 impact worldwide, including the emerging markets ofCentral & Eastern Europe, Asia and Africa.
Dr John Hood was appointed a director on Anactive investor as well as an analyst observer, 1January 2014.
An international education and sheparticipated in the sale of Flickr to Yahoo!, business leader, he was formerly Vice-Chancellor ofMedstory and Powerset to Microsoft, andof ofthe University of Oxford and of the University VizutoNielsen, among others.
She sits on the ofAuckland.
In his native New Zealand, he served boardsof Russias leading search company Yandex as Chairman of Tonkin & Taylor Ltd and as nonYNDX andoutsourcing company Luxoft LXFT, executive director of Fonterra Co-operative Group, and also ofnon-listed start-ups including 23andMe, ASB Bank Ltd, and other companies.
com, Meetup, NewspaperDirect Canada, serves as Chairman of URENCO Ltd and of Study PA Consulting UK, Voxiva US and XCOR Group Ltd, as a non-executive director of BG Group Aerospace US.
Her current investments include plc, as President of the Robertson Foundation and as Evernote, Gridpoint, LinkedIn, Nomanini, Omada Chairman of Rhodes Trust.
Dr Hood earned his Health, Space Adventures and Square.
She is also PhDin Civil Engineering from the University of active in public affairs and was founding chairman Auckland and then won a Rhodes Scholarship to ofICANN, the domain name policy agency, from Oxford, where he was awarded an MPhil in 1998 to 2000.
She currently sits on the board Management Studies.
oftheSunlight Foundation, which advocates transparency ingovernment, andwrites a monthly Ruigang Li Non-executive director Age 44 column forProjectSyndicate http: www.
org contributor esther-dyson which is Ruigang Li was appointed a director of WPP in distributedworldwide.
He is Founding Chairman of CMC Capital Partners CMC, Chinas first and most Orit Gadiesh Non-executive director Age 63 prestigious Media and Entertainment dedicated private equity fund.
Through Lis chairmanship, Orit Gadiesh was appointed a director in April CMCacquired the controlling stake of former News 2004.
She is chairman of Bain & Company Inc.
Corporations China assets Star China, together andaworld-renowned expert on management and with the management team.
CMC has also invested corporate strategy.
She holds an MBA from Harvard inOriental DreamWorks a joint venture with Business School, was a Baker Scholar and was also DreamWorks Animation: TVBC a joint venture with presented the Brown Award.
Ms Gadiesh is a member leading Chinese language TV content provider and of the Foundation Board for the World Economic broadcaster TVB, and Chinas largest TV shopping Forum as well as a member of the International company OCJ, all of which are of profound Business Council of the World Economic Forum.
She significance in China and beyond.
CMC also leads ison the Board of Directors of The Peres Institute for Chinas highly eye-catching urban leisure and Peace, sits on the International Advisory Board ofThe entertainment destination the Dream Center in Atlantic Council of the United States, and the Advisory Shanghai through a multi-party international 116 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Who runs WPP Board of Directors partnership.
Li is also the Chairman of Shanghai commercial matters.
She was a law clerk for US Media Group SMG, which he led as the CEO for Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall and was 10years and grew it into Chinas second largest media associate editorial page editor for the Asian Wall conglomerate with the most diversified media assets Street Journal.
She was a Magna Cum Laude ofnational reach.
graduate of both Harvard College and Harvard LawSchool.
Daniela Riccardi Non-executive director Age 54 Hugo Shong Non-executive director Age 58 Daniela Riccardi was appointed a director on 12 September 2013.
A prominent FMCG, retail-andHugo Shong was appointed a director on 13 May fashion products executive, she is Chief Executive 2013.
He is the executive vice president of Officer of Baccarat, the international luxury goods International Data Group IDG, a private technology company, and was Chief Executive Officer of Diesel media, research and events company, and president of Group, the innovative fashion business.
He joined IDG in 1991 as an executive at Procter & Gamble for 25 years, including associate to IDGs founder and chairman, Patrick J. service as President of Procter & Gamble Greater McGovern, for Asian business development after China, with 7,000 employees, and Vice Presidentworking for three years as a reporter and editor at General Manager for Eastern Europe & Russia.
Electronic Business and Electronic Business Asia MsRiccardi is a Magna Cum Laude graduate in magazine, where he launched over 40 magazines and Political Science and International Studies at Sapienza newspapers in Asian countries, such as PC World University of Rome and completed a Fellowship Vietnam, the Chinese editions of NetworkWorld, inMarketing at Yale University.
Electronic Products, Cosmopolitan, Harpers Bazaar, National Geographic, FHM and Mens Health.
In Jeffrey A. Rosen Non-executive director Age 66 1993, he helped IDG to set up the first technology venture fund in China, IDG Capital Partners, which Jeffrey Rosen was appointed a director of WPP now has $3.8 billion under management and an inDecember 2004.
He is a deputy chairman and investment portfolio including Baidu, Tencent QQ, managing director of Lazard with over 40 years Sohu, Ctrip and Soufun.
He currently serves on the experience in international investment banking and boards of China Jiuhao Health Industry Corp, which corporate finance.
He is a member of the Council focuses on health maintenance and retirement onForeign Relations and is President of the Board community projects in China, and Mei Ah ofTrustees of the International Center of Entertainment Group, an entertainment company Photography in New York.
with interests in television, film and theatre listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
Hugo has been a Nicole Seligman Non-executive director Age 58 member of the board of trustees of Boston University since 2005.
After completing his undergraduate Nicole Seligman was appointed a director on studies at Hunan University, he attended the Chinese 1January 2014.
A senior Sony executive since Academy of Social Sciences and earned a Master of 2001, she is Executive Vice President and General Science from Boston University in 1987.
He conducted Counsel of Sony Corporation and President of Sony graduate studies at the Fletcher School of Law and Corporation of America.
Previously, as a partner in Diplomacy and has also completed the Advanced the Washington law firm of Williams & Connolly, Management Program at Harvard Business School.
she counselled a wide range of clients, including major media companies, on complex litigation and WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 117 Who runs WPP Board of Directors Timothy A. Shriver Non-executive director Age 54 Sol Trujillo Non-executive director Age 62 Tim Shriver was appointed a director of WPP in Sol Trujillo was appointed a director of WPP in August 2007.
He is a social leader, educator, activist, October 2010.
He is an international business film producer and business entrepreneur.
As executive with three decades experience as CEO Chairman and CEO of Special Olympics, he serves oflarge market cap global companies in the US, nearly four million Special Olympic athletes in 180 theEU and Asia Pacific, including US West now countries all working to promote health, education, CenturyLink, Orange now France Telecom and and unity through the joy of sports.
Before joining Telstra, the Australian communications company.
Special Olympics in 1995, he was and remains a Adigital pioneer operating in the telecommunications, leading educator focusing on the social and emotional technology, and media space, he has been a long-time factors in learning.
He co-founded and currently champion of high-speed broadband and a pioneer chairs the Collaborative for Academic, Social and andinnovator of smartphone and the mobile internet Emotional Learning CASEL, the leading research to stimulate productivity and innovation across all organisation in the field of social and emotional sectors of the economy.
He has managed operations learning.
He is a member of the Council on Foreign inmore than 25 countries including developed and Relations.
He chairs the board of Lovin Scoopful a emerging markets from the EU and North America cause-related consumer products brand specialising toChina, South Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
inice cream that loves you as much as you love it.
Hecurrently sits on corporate boards in the US, EUand China including Western Union and Sally Susman Non-executive director Age 52 ProAmerica Bank in the US and in Asia, Silk Road Technologies in China, where he is Board chairman.
Sally Susman was appointed a director on 13 May In the public sector, Mr Trujillo served as trade policy 2013.
Sheis currently executive vice president, advisor to the Clinton and Bush administrations and Corporate Affairs for Pfizer, the worlds largest remains active on public policy issues related to biopharmaceutical company.
Sally also heads the immigration, trade, productivity and fiscal affairs.
firms corporate responsibility group and plays a key role in shaping policy initiatives.
Before joining Pfizer in 2007, she was EVP of Global Communications at Este Lauder, where she directed global corporate affairs strategy and served as a member of the Executive Committee.
She also held several senior corporate affairs posts at American Express, working in both London and the US.
She started her career in government service focused on international trade issues and her positions included Deputy Assistant Secretary for Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs in the US Department of Commerce.
She serves on the board of the International Rescue Committee and the US Department of States International Council on Womens Business Leadership.
Sally holds a BA in Government from Connecticut College in the US and has studied at theLondon School of Economics.
