How were doing Healthcare Communications Ogilvy CommonHealth Pacific region, rebranding as Ogilvy CommonHealth Asia Pacific, and ably led by Rohit Sahgal.
Worldwide In an ongoing effort to direct the future of healthcare marketing, OCHWW commanded the dais Report by Matt Giegerich below at many industry events in 2013.
We also published Chairman and chief executive officer widely on topics ranging from content strategy to marketing analytics, and our thought leaders penned As the world over 80 online articles on a variety of hot-topic issues.
continues to focus on In particular, the Ogilvy RedPort entitled Your health, improving the quality yourself addresses the topic of personalized health of healthcare while data and how health corporations and their brands lowering costs, can achieve better health outcomes through effective cultivating a more behavior-change programs: and the 2013 Healthcare engaged patient and Marketers Trend Report, developed in collaboration demanding more with Ogilvy PR and published in Medical Marketing accountability from & Media, defines the changing paradigm of the healthcare providers, UShealthcare industry by unveiling insights into its clear thatclients such topics as healthcare reform, Big Data and the need Ogilvy evolving regulatory environments.
CommonHealth Worldwides OCHWW global We will continue to strengthen the health behavior-change capabilities more than ever.
global connectivity of our network, By strengthening our digital, multi-channel and global offerings, we aim to help a more diverse base building even more integrated teams of health-oriented clients respond most effectively to and offerings to help our clients drive these trends.
Led by exceptional growth in our UK offices, healthy behavior change OCHWW had a strong year in 2013, fueled by new business wins and our ongoing focus on operational excellence.
The OCHWW brand continues to be 2013 was also yet another strong year in our inhigh demand: we participated in nearly 200 new quest to achieve the Twin Peaks of creativity and business pitches across the globe.
The global agency effectiveness: a total of 40 creative industry awards consolidation at Pfizer drove a large portion of our were won across the globe.
growth, adding several new assignments to our roster, We will continue to focus on diversifying our client which has a diverse array of health-oriented clients, roster, leveraging our connectivity to both Ogilvy & including a variety of WPP team accounts within Mather and WPP, and investing in the dynamic areas thebiopharmaceutical industry.
of our business, including digital and multi-channel Our global connectivity continues to be a marketing.
We will also continue to strengthen the strongdifferentiator.
Ogilvy CommonHealth in global connectivity of our network, building even Russia celebrated its first anniversary with a healthy more integrated teams and offerings to help our clients and growing client base.
We finalized our joint drive healthy behavior change in the continuously venture with Ogilvy Public Relations in the Asia evolving, but always vital healthcare ecosystem.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 81 How were doing Healthcare Communications ghg and created digital centers of excellence in order toincubate new communications platforms that Report by Lynn OConnor Vos below areinextricably linked to increasing healthcare Chief executive officer professional and consumer engagement, and therefore, improving health.
Additionally, we restructured our ghg marked its fifth year of consecutive worldwide global offices into EU and APAC centers of excellence, growth in 2013 with double-digit growth across our to better meet global client needs.
five US offices driven by the expansion of Todays challenges call for new strategies and assignments with current clients, and by maximizing different ways of thinking, and ghg goes beyond just arobust new business pipeline.
Our success was fueled participating in conversations about the future by by brand launches in oncology, womens health, actively investing in innovations that will improve vaccines, animal health and specialty care.
ghg healthcare communications for years to come.
We continued to broaden our client base to include afully are establishing partnerships to address our clients diversified portfolio of healthcare clients, andadded challenges, including: improving the physicians new multi-channel products and services to meet the workflow with electronic health records: impacting pressing needs of the changing healthcare market.
patient behavior through consumer health media: The healthcare landscape continues to evolve addressing health literacy, focused communication withhealth IT, mobile engagement, emerging market with women who are most often the key healthcare expansion and consolidation across health-delivery decision maker: and optimizing mobile technology systems, creating exciting new challenges and toachieve better health outcomes.
We continue to invest in digital continue to develop thought leadership that engages applications, data visualization and innovative patient healthcare influencers.
education programs to help our clients assist healthcare providers in delivering improved patient care.
To address the industrys need to respond to The healthcare landscape continues theAffordable Care Act, value-based pricing and toevolve with health IT, mobile thehealth outcomes-based engagement, emerging market model of care, expansionand consolidation across WG Consulting our EU health-delivery systems market-access division opened a ghg continued a strong tradition of philanthropy newoffice in in 2013 by contributing our insights, strategic the US.
We guidance and breakthrough creative to the Jed added senior Foundation, the Jerico Project and the Helen Keller executives in Foundation in the US.
We created a digital strategy digital, strategy, for INMED Partnerships for Children, and continued medical to support Text4Baby, the most successful mobile education health initiative in the US.
Globally, we developed andhealth award-winning creative for Australias Animal economics in Management in Rural and Remote Indigenous the US and EU, Communities AMRRIC.
82 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Healthcare Communications GCI Health In 2014, GCI Health continues to Report by Wendy Lund right focus on putting Chief executive officer patients first.
With access to more GCI Health, WPPs global specialty healthcare information than ever PRagency, drove continued momentum throughout before, patients are 2013, establishing a larger geographic footprint, now more empowered.
expanding key practice areas and growing For some time, we ouraccount base.
A key focus was continued have been shifting our collaboration with WPP client teams to develop traditional approaches andexecute integrated programming, with excellent of brandor diseaseresults.
We were also extremely honored this year state focus to one tobe named one of the Top Five Healthcare Agencies centered on patient inthe World by The Holmes Report.
In 2014, engagement and activation, and we continually ask ourvision continues to concentrate on being ourselves the important questions that will best ensure theNo.
that we stay on a path with thepatient at its core, while continuing to support critical scientific discoveries, commercially available treatments A key focus was continued andproviders and insurers.
collaboration with WPP client teams Sudler & Hennessey See report on page 58 todevelop and execute integrated programming, with excellent results To support the increasing demand for a global network, GCI Health opened its London office in 2013, bringing exceptional talent to our work outside the US.
This expansion allows us to better serve our growing global and European client base and further build on our agencys reputation for unsurpassed results, our emphasis on exemplary client service, unrivaled talent and forward-thinking capabilities.
As digital integration into traditional healthcare public relations becomes more essential, we broadened the strategic vision of GCI Healths digitaland social media offerings by enhancing ourproducts and services and expanding our focus on social and mobile engagement.
In adding a new digital lead, we are ensuring that our teams are ableto be at the forefront of these dynamic digital elements of healthcare communications.
