How were doing Data Investment Management Kantar insight skills to drive social policy.
Some companies, including our own, have extensive charitable giving Report by Eric Salama and pro bono programs, but we are lucky that we Chairman and chief executive officer can put our skills to work for the benefit of society inan even more extensive way and be paid for it!
Earlier this year I found myself in a room with In the past year alone, newly-acquired Benenson colleagues from Kantar and WPP, judging work Strategy Group has worked on a host of climate onahypothetical brief that had been given to 60 change projects and political campaigns.
Kantar students from the Blavatnik School of Government Media has been delivering daily media intelligence atthe University of Oxford.
The students were tothe EU and a host of government bodies across high-potential civil servants working in a variety Europe.
Kantar Health presented papers at ISPOR ofgovernment departments from over 40 countries on assessing the burden on care givers for patients from around the world.
As part of their course they with lung cancer and on chronic pulmonary disease had been working with us for a few days to understand in Russia.
TNS continued to be the EUs primary the role of insight and research in developing social partner for understanding citizens views on a range policy and the way that those insights get translated of subjects through the Eurobarometer work.
It is into creative work which changes behaviour and the also working with the German Federal Government ways in which that work can be evaluated.
Happily and other EU bodies in monitoring and supporting nine of those students will join a WPP company the development of lifelong education programs, forafurther internship later in the year.
withthe Lagos State Government to track citizen Reflecting on that experience and the discussion satisfaction with government services and in the around corporate social responsibility I was struck UKon a range of government programs such as the by how much and how often we use our research and British Crime Survey and the seminal Understanding Society.
IMRB is working with the Gates Foundation on message research and testing for its water sanitation and hygiene work in India and with the World Bank onevaluating technical assistance projects.
The Futures Company worked with Mind Trust to improve the transition of servicemen and women to civilian life and had the report debated inthe House of Lords.
It is not just that political andsocial work accounts for asubstantial percentage of our revenue and is an opportunity for our people to work on these kind of projects, but that increasingly there isoverlap between our Above, left to right: corporate and government work Eric Salama, CEO Kantar, Phil Smiley, CEO EMEA andASPAC Kantar Retail, in areas such as behaviour Thomas Puliyel, CEO IMRB, JoelBenenson, CEO Benenson Strategy Group WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 71 How were doing Data Investment Management change and how best to drive it.
It is no coincidence study on cultural traction: and the Kantar Retail that we have beenworking with a socially-responsible studies on how manufacturers and retailers perceive client suchas Unilever in its Millennium Villages each other in markets such as the US and China and project inEthiopia and Kenya to help change washing thestrength of digital brands in retail.
All these behaviour, or in the UK to help understand how enhance ourunderstanding of attitudes and families are tackling issues around sustainability.
behaviour in acorporate context but also help The work we do for social-related projects indeveloping abetter understanding of purchase benefits from the way we run the business and decisions in the context of social issues such as ourfocus on thought leadership.
We are showcasing Added Value, IMRB and TNS won Research the best of allthis work to great effect via our recentlyAgency of the Year in Hong Kong, India and the UK launched insights sites from which journalists and respectively, Kantar Worldpanel was voted as one of commentators are encouraged to re-use our data.
the best places to work in markets asdiverse as the UK, Ireland, France, Spain, Mexico andMillward Brown received similar accolades in Mexico and Our deep-seated commitment Australia.
This is a testament to our management toinnovation and creativity helps teams in those countries and helps us get the best people in the industry working on our clients allof our clients corporate and business.
We published many path-breaking studies societal alike including: the Millward Brown BrandZ studies globally and in markets such as China and India: theKantar Worldpanel study on which brands are Equally, our deep-seated commitment to innovation most bought around the world: the Added Value and creativity helps all of our clients corporate and societal alike and 2013 was a terrificyear in developing and rolling out impactful innovations.
Millward Brown has pioneered the widespread use of facial coding in understanding emotional responses to communication and advertising.
Our growing use of mobiles and tablets tocollect data enables us to work more effectively and efficiently in developing markets and rural situations.
Our growing ability to combine purchase data from Kantar Worldpanel and Shopcom with media data from Kantar Media andMillward Brown enables us tounderstand the impact of media on consumption and enables clients to optimise media campaigns.
And Above, left to right: we have pioneered ways of taking Lynnette Cooke, CEO Kantar Health, David Day, CEO Lightspeed Research, segmentations from existing work Richard Ingleton, CEO TNS, Steve Pattinson, CEO Americas Kantar Retail 72 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Data Investment Management Below, left to right: Our partnerships with Josep Montserrat, CEO Kantar Worldpanel, Will Galgey, CEO The Futures companies such as Twitter and the Company, Bart Michels, CEO Added Value, Andy Brown, CEO Kantar Media, social media capabilities that are Travyn Rhall, CEO Millward Brown represented by CIC, Fisheye and Visible Technologies enable clients to understand how their brands are being talked about in realtime, while enhancing our ability to help clients predict consumer behaviour better and with shorter turnaround times.
We continue to put increasing emphasis onhowwe deliver our work, not just what we deliver.
The partnerships and emphasis ondata visualisation have continued apace e. g. .
com andenable us and our immediate clients tohave greater impact in the organisations inwhichthey work and to spur their colleagues tomore action.
The lines between corporate and mapping them onto larger databases, enabling and societal work are becoming increasingly blurred.
companies such as GroupM and Wunderman to plan Our ability to doeach well enhances the other: our media and CRM campaigns in innovative ways.
All our innovation agenda benefits both.
companies have automated some of their solutions to As one of our Futures Company directors, enable a wider range of clients to self-service costAndrewCurry, said in his award-winning Admap effectively and make use of our IP while we continue paper which was published in June 2013: The toshorten and automate our questionnaires to enable concept of businesses purely chasing shareholder clients toengage better with consumers and benefit value is a relatively recent and flawed one.
Those from norms which we have built up around the world.
thathave a social purpose stand out more, engender loyalty and focus on the long-term health of the business.
Our people should feel proud of the Our growing use of mobiles usesto which their skills are put and we feel proudofthem.
andtablets tocollect data enables usto work more effectively and efficiently in developing markets andrural situations WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 73
