16 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance Good results with notable progress.
United Kingdom Key performance indicators 2013 2012 Change Financial metrics Revenue 900.3m 859.9m 4.7% Operating profit 56.6m 51.6m 9.7% Operating margin 6.3% 6.0% 0.3pp Work in hand 52.3% 55.8% -3.5pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 9,374 8,924 5.0% Average staff numbers for the year 9,129 9,260 -1.4% Work in hand excludes the UK highways services business in both years.
9,374 People employed in the United Kingdom 900.3m Revenue WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews 17 Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers 5% 1 0% - 1% 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 Revenue by sector Revenue by client type Roads 29% Public sector: local government 24% Rail inc mass transit 23% Public sector: national government 25% Defence and security 13% Regulated 24% Water and environment 10% Private sector 27% Aerospace and aviation 8% Education 3% Buildings 3% Urban development 3% Other 8% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 1,051.2 983.5 926.5 859.9 900.3 68.2 77.3 61.4 51.6 56.6 12,015 10,905 10,119 9,260 9,129 Reviews 18 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued United Kingdom Performance We are seeing good opportunities in Operations Our UK regional performance has been UK infrastructure markets as the UK Rail strong across our businesses in the Government seeks to stimulate the We have commenced work on the two rail financial year to March 2013, delivering an economy with its commitment to signalling frameworks we were awarded in improved margin of 6.3% 2012: 6.0%, infrastructure spend and through rail January 2012 for the Sussex Wessex and which represents a second half margin of and water regulatory spend.
We have Kent Anglia areas.
Both revenue and operating profit an ongoing focus on driving operational to other awards in year, including the are ahead of the 2011 12 financial year efficiency through cost reductions Wolverhampton, East Sussex and Farnham with steady headcount growth, closing and supplementing skills with niche signalling schemes.
We continue our work at 9,374 at the end of March.
The fall in acquisitions where appropriate.
We on the Cardiff Area re-signalling scheme average headcount is due to the prior year will invest in developing our people, and engineering design work on the disposal of our UK asset management focusing on quality, technical excellence Country South section of High Speed 2. business.
We see multiple opportunities and innovation.
for our broad multidisciplinary offering, The UKs electrification programme with momentum building across a number In addition, our defence, security and is expected to present a substantial of markets providing good growth aerospace markets are strong and provide opportunity for our rail business.
good diversity to our infrastructure recently secured work in partnership with exposure.
Parsons Brinckerhoff on the Great Western Business model electrification and Cumbernauld section We are primarily focused on the UK Our programme of focusing on operational of Edinburgh to Glasgow Improvement market, where we plan, design and enable excellence has improved the underlying Programme alongside Carillion.
our clients capital programmes in and processes of the business, improving around the built environment.
We are business efficiency and project delivery, In partnership with Network Rail, Laing a technical consultancy, providing advice ensuring increased time to focus on our ORourke and Volker Rail we have secured and engineering design together with clients needs.
Our continued attention a position on Network Rails new flagship project management skills for public and to leveraging skills and capability from a alliance, the Stratford Area Improvement private sector clients.
Our multidisciplinary variety of industry sectors and professional Programme with a capital cost of skills allow us to draw on expertise across disciplines provides a strong and unique approximately 230m over a four year the business to deliver complex projects selling proposition to our clients.
in the UK and to support other regional businesses.
Business drivers Our rail business has a strong work in hand The economic environment significantly position as we enter the new financial Strategy affects the opportunities available to our year, reflecting these recent contract wins.
In February 2013, in line with our strategy business.
Our diversified portfolio provides of portfolio optimisation, we announced resilience to market fluctuations as does Highways and transportation the proposed sale of our UK highways the fact that a number of our markets In February 2013 we announced the services business, which employs around remain well funded.
Added resilience is proposed sale of our UK highways services 1,200 staff, to Skanska.
The disposal is brought to our UK business by its ongoing business of around 1,200 staff.
This expected to complete in the summer support of projects in other regions, disposal, which is in line with our strategy for an initial cash consideration of 16m, together with the increasing use of our of optimising our portfolio of businesses, together with a further 2m subject to Indian operations in Bangalore and Delhi is expected to complete in the summer.
the future performance of the business.
to provide flexibility of delivery and access The exceptional gross profit on the to high quality, lower cost resources.
Our design consulting business, employing disposal of this business, of around 15m, We assess risks across all our businesses around 950 staff, is retained as a core will be reported in the year to March and this is explained in more detail in part of our UK business, together with 2014.
Related transaction and the risk section of the Business Review our activities within the M25 Connect restructuring costs of 3.8m have been on pages 40-43.
Plus consortium providing operational reported in the year to March 2013. maintenance and design for the upgrade of significant additional sections of the M25, Londons orbital motorway.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews 19 We are building positive momentum and starting to see growth opportunities return www.
com investor-relations Our consultancy business had a notable Design and engineering Management consulting success with the award of the Wiltshire Building on our success on the London Our management consulting business County Council consultancy contract, 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games, has performed well in the year.
We have which commenced in December 2012. we are now overseeing the technical continued our security and intelligence This supplements other framework wins transformation of the Queen Elizabeth work for central government, as well as already underway for the South Wales Olympic Park from Games venue into supporting BAAs IT outsourcing contract Trunk Road Agent and Surrey County an exciting new visitor destination and in partnership with Capgemini, leveraging Council.
We continue to provide government and industry with Water and environment Work in other targeted sectors sees us excellent practical capability to run the full Our water and environment business delivering innovative design solutions lifecycle of IT related project changes from has performed well during the year.
The for a changing educational landscape: specification and business case, through five year regulatory Asset Management expanding our healthcare portfolio project and change management to Plan AMP5 framework contracts we through specialist dementia care design: assured benefit realisation.
have with a number of the UK water helping to develop plans for a multi companies are providing strong workload runway hub airport in the South East: Elsewhere in the UK, as reported in May volumes as their capital investment and continued involvement in Crossrail.
2012, the Group completed the sale of its programmes progress.
We are supporting non-controlling interest in RMPA Holdings a number of water companies as they We are currently working alongside Limited which delivered the Colchester prepare for the AMP6 regulatory architects Pascall Watson and Zaha Garrison PFI project for a net consideration investment period and have recently been Hadid Architects to undertake a feasibility of 14.4m.
The pre-tax profit on sale of appointed by Thames Water to its 12 year, study for a Thames island airport.
7.6m does not appear in the segmental capital delivery water framework contract operating profit in the preceding summary which is expected to deliver 3bn of Defence, aerospace and table.
Also excluded is a pension schemes during AMP6.
This early communications curtailment gain arising in the Atkins contractor involvement provides greater Our defence, aerospace and section of the Railways Pension Scheme continuity of workload between the communications business has had of 4.3m, more details of which can be AMP cycles.
Our geotechnical, environmental and The aerospace sector is seeing good Outlook planning businesses continue to support growth in Europe, where we were We expect the current momentum in our large projects such as the environmental appointed as a tier 1 supplier to Airbus UK business to continue into the new impact assessments for the Rural North EADS, and also in North America where financial year, recognising that the full section of High Speed 2. we have recently opened an office in year performance in terms of both Seattle to focus on building a relationship headcount and revenue growth will be Faithful Gould with Boeing.
We have a strong pipeline influenced by the sale of the UK highways Faithful Gould continues to perform well, of aerospace work as we look into the services business, expected to complete with good growth in the energy sector, new financial year.
Secured work in hand of and we have been appointed by the local 52.3% 2012: 55.8% of next years authority controlled Scape company as We are currently evaluating our strategy budgeted revenue is lower than 2012 the lead professional consultant managing in relation to the proposed Defence reflecting the completion of our Olympics a national framework covering services Acquisition Reform.
However, work in hand remains including asset management, surveying our work at the AWE continues.
healthy and gives us confidence for the and design services.
Security, cyber security and communications are an increasing focus for governments and private sector clients and we are well placed, in conjunction with our management consulting capabilities, to leverage our often unique skills and capabilities within both the UK and the Middle East.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews
