20 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued A difficult year against a backdrop of challenging market conditions.
North America Key performance indicators 2013 2012 Change Financial metrics Revenue 389.7m 421.9m -7.6% Operating profit 15.3m 21.2m -27.8% Operating margin 3.9% 5.0% -1.1pp Work in hand 61.0% 59.5% 1.5pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 3,039 3,255 -6.6% Average staff numbers for the year 3,091 3,314 -6.7% 3,039 People employed in North America 389.7m Revenue WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews 21 Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers - 8% - 28% - 7% 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 Revenue by sector Revenue by client type Roads 38% Public sector: local government 57% Water and environment 19% Public sector: national government 10% Buildings 9% Private sector 33% Aerospace and aviation 6% Urban development 3% Defence and security 3% Other 22% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 58.1 55.0 279.2 421.9 389.7 3.8 3.4 13.8 21.2 15.3 605 533 1,858 3,314 3,091 Reviews 22 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued North America Performance Strategy Operations Our North American business had a Our strategy in the region is consistent Consultancy difficult year with a reduced profit of with the Groups strategy of combining Highways and transportation 15.3m 2012: 21.2m as a consequence technical excellence with regional The highways and transportation business of ongoing losses on legacy contracts multidisciplinary capability delivered has performed well.
In the latter part of in our Peter Brown construction through our network of local offices.
the year, we won three new contracts to management at risk business, which We serve a range of public and private oversee transport solutions for highways reported a loss for the year of 6.5m.
sector clients and expect to tighten our authorities in Florida, California and Texas, Aside from these losses our consultancy focus on the energy, water resources, underlining our status as one of the and Faithful Gould businesses in North transportation, federal facilities and cities worlds leading consultants in this field.
America reported a profit of 21.8m markets while expanding our presence We have served as programme manager despite experiencing soft market in Texas, California and the north eastern or engineering consultant for more than conditions in the first half of the year United States.
We see tremendous 30 toll or public-sector highway agencies and suffering a number of project delays opportunities to offer a wider suite of in the US, and over the years have and uncertainty as a consequence of services to clients through synergies provided toll related services for capital the US presidential election.
The second between the various Atkins businesses improvements exceeding 16bn.
half of the year improved with a full in North America.
year consultancy margin of 6.0% In Californias San Francisco Bay area, 2012: 6.6%.
Overall headcount closed In addition, our growth in the North we will serve as the Metropolitan the year at 3,039 2012: 3,255.
American market will be supported by Transportation Commissions MTC toll increasing the use of expert technical system manager for the Regional Express Business model resources from across the Group.
Lane Network electronic toll system.
We are primarily focused on the North The five year contract requires us to American market where we plan, Business drivers provide strategic advice, develop system design and enable our clients capital The majority of North Americas projects requirements and support the programmes.
We operate from over are funded in part or in whole with procurement of a system integrator.
107 locations in 29 states plus Puerto federal funds, either through a state or The first phase of the MTC Program Rico, Trinidad and Canada.
This allows local government agency or directly by will create 76 lane miles of new express us to draw on expertise from across the federal agencies.
Publicly funded projects toll lanes that are due to open to traffic region to deliver complex projects in provide greater stability than privately in 2015.
North America and to provide specialist funded projects, which tend to have skills from within North America to funding fluctuations directly correlating In Texas, Atkins has been awarded the strengthen the Groups offering in to financial market conditions.
However, General Engineering Consultant GEC other segments.
publicly funded projects tend to be contract to provide the North Texas awarded more slowly or are delayed due Tollway Authority with annual asset We currently focus on multidisciplinary to protracted negotiations within the inspection services, independent review design and engineering consultancy agencies and or due to intense political and certifications of the engineering services in highways and transportation, scrutiny.
financial programme and construction water and environment and infrastructure fund payments.
Aspects of our federal work, where we are contracted to assist with disaster These appointments demonstrate Atkins response and emergency management, scope of expertise and in depth can be unpredictable in nature and knowledge of emerging trends in toll timing, as these projects arise as a technology and toll operations including consequence of natural disasters.
all-electronic tolling, video tolling, open road tolling, customer service centre operations and express managed lanes.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews 23 There are tremendous opportunities to offer a wider suite of services through synergies between the various Atkins businesses Business review.
Pages 14-35 In aviation, we continue projects such Peter Brown as the planning of the new terminal at As previously reported, our Peter Brown New Orleans Louis Armstrong International construction management at risk business Airport.
We are also expanding our of 56 people is making steady progress on aviation and rail and transit capabilities the close out of problem legacy contracts.
in North America by leveraging Group However, there have been further costs expertise to broaden our service offering, in the second half of the year resulting while at the same time continuing to in a full year loss of 6.5m.
support Group activities in other regions.
We have reviewed the carrying value of Infrastructure and environment intangible assets held in relation to the Our water and environment business had Peter Brown business and have concluded a poor first half and a challenging second these should be written down to zero.
However, we did see More details can be found in note 16 improvement in the water resources, on page 136. energy and coastal markets during the year.
Going forward, we see opportunities Risks for market share growth in Texas and There have been no developments with California.
regard to the longstanding and previously reported Department of Justice and Elsewhere our infrastructure business Securities and Exchange Commission grew work in hand significantly towards enquiries relating to potential Foreign the end of the year, due to a large year Corrupt Practices Act violations by The end distribution of federal funds to PBSJ Corporation prior to its acquisition support planning, asset management and by the Group.
We assess risks across all water related infrastructure projects for our businesses and this is explained in the US military.
more detail in the risk section of the Business Review on pages 40-43.
Faithful Gould Our Faithful Gould business of 550 staff Outlook which provides project management and While some uncertainty surrounding the cost control services has seen growth timing of infrastructure funding remains, during the year following improvement the financial outlook for the North in the private sector market.
This is American business indicates the typified by our support to GSK on its opportunity for slow, but continual relocation to a new SMART working site improvement.
Work in hand at the year in Philadelphias Navy Yard.
end stands at 61.0% of next years budgeted revenue 2012: 59.5%.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews
