10 Introduction Our Strategy Profitable growth, shareholder value.
Our vision What we do We aim to be the worlds best Plan infrastructure consultancy.
We plan every aspect of our clients projects, from cost and risk planning, feasibility studies and logistics to impact We define infrastructure as assessments and stakeholder engagement activity.
the systems that are vital for any nation or communitys productivity and development, including transportation, utilities, water, energy, large-scale built environments and information communications and defence and security systems.
Design Atkins designs intellectual capital such as management systems and business processes.
We also design physical structures such as office towers, educational and medical facilities, transportation infrastructure and advanced technology systems such as biometric scanners and superfast broadband networks.
Enable Our clients trust us with the management of projects, people and issues, relying on us to see that deadlines are met, costs are controlled and success is achieved.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Introduction 11 Our strategy Our priorities Our overall objective for 1.
Operational excellence shareholder value is simple: We are driving operational performance across the Group.
Our operational excellence to generate a margin above 8% programme is focused on improving operating margins and cash flow through, for example, increased staff utilisation and more efficient and effective billing and cash across all of our businesses and collection processes.
regions over the medium term.
Our strategy is to focus on growth and, selectively, to increase our geographic footprint through targeted international expansion, while continuing to deliver improved financial performance in all our markets and geographies.
Portfolio optimisation To deliver this we will continue to pursue vigorously operational We continue to focus the Group on higher growth, higher margin activities.
Following the sale of our UK asset management business in 2011 we have signed an agreement excellence, portfolio optimisation to sell our UK highways services business and have completed the disposal of our and targeted sector, as well non-controlling interest in RMPA Holdings Limited.
Sector and regional focus A number of our existing sectors and regions have attractive growth prospects.
Those on which we place a particular focus evolve over time, but currently Energy remains a key area for investment, along with aerospace and defence and security.
We have added regional focus to our strategy as we seek to expand our market facing offering in geographic areas where we already have a presence, for example in Asia Pacific.
We will redirect and leverage resources and technical capabilities to address these areas.
Acquisitions will be considered to supplement organic growth as we look to balance our client and sector mix.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Introduction 12 Introduction Our Strategy continued Sector and regional focus Our Energy business is an international provider of high end design Energy and engineering for the oil and gas, nuclear and power sectors.
At Atkins we have been involved in the energy sector for four decades.
We deliver unique engineering solutions to our clients which draws on this experience, blended with state of the art analysis and design techniques.
Aerospace is a technically dynamic, international sector.
Aerospace Environmental sustainability, ageing fleets, air traffic growth and safety are all challenges driving the sector to push the boundaries of aerospace engineering.
Atkins has been delivering high quality aerospace engineering solutions for over 15 years.
We offer broad capability, extensive experience and technical excellence to clients that shape the aerospace industry.
Atkins is a major supplier of services to the defence and security Defence sector.
We have a strong track record of delivering complex and Security transformation programmes of national significance to defence and security clients.
Our consultancy services incorporate all aspects from masterplanning and concept design to defence and security strategies, full design capability and implementation support and assurance.
We provide engineering, planning, urban design, architectural Asia Pacific services and rail design in the Asia Pacific region.
Atkins experience in Hong Kong dates back to 1973.
Today we have offices located across Hong Kong, China, Singapore, Malaysia, India and Australia.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Introduction 13 We aim to deliver on our strategic objectives by focusing on operational excellence, portfolio optimisation and targeted sector and regional expansion www.
com investor-relations Segment position Future performance A combination of our technical We have a well managed UK excellence and outstanding organisation and the right As the market leader in the UK we expect regional and segmental to continue to make progress.
The market leadership to deliver our remains relatively subdued but our capabilities enables us to growth strategy.
capabilities in a number of areas and the continue to deliver good pre-emptive positioning of our businesses We will capitalise on results despite the challenging to address ongoing market challenges growing organically and should allow modest growth in the economic environment in coming years.
through targeted acquisitions a number of our markets.
to drive our Groups future performance.
North America In North America, there appear to be limited near term catalysts for market improvement.
Our new leadership in the region should allow us to approach the current market issues with renewed vigour as we lay the foundations for longer term growth.
Middle East The Middle East offers significant project opportunities with our primary focus on areas of high essential infrastructure spend, mainly in the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Asia Pacific and Europe The Asia Pacific region has been identified for further investment and will gain additional focus as we move forward.
In Europe we continue to have a good position in Scandinavia.
Energy In our Energy business, the markets remain buoyant and we will continue to invest for growth both organically and by selected acquisitions.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Introduction
