60 Governance The Companys articles of Directors Report association may be viewed at: www.
com investors constitution WS Atkins plc is the ultimate holding Additional information required under Indemnification of and insurance company of a group of companies the Act, the LRs and or the DTRs to cover for directors and officers that plans, designs and enables capital be disclosed in the directors annual Directors and officers of the Company programmes that resolve complex management report is included within and its subsidiaries benefit from directors challenges in the built and natural this report, the sections noted above and officers liability insurance cover in environment.
or is incorporated into this report by respect of legal actions brought against reference, where it can be found in them.
In addition, directors of the The Companies Act 2006 the Act and the following additional sections: Company are indemnified in accordance the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules with article 138 of the Companys articles Corporate Governance Report and Disclosure and Transparency Rules of association to the maximum extent pages 64 to 75 the LRs and DTRs respectively require permitted by law.
Prior to the adoption of Remuneration Report pages 76 to 96 the directors to set out in the annual new articles of association by shareholders management report that accompanies the on 3 September 2008, all directors in Principal subsidiary undertakings and Financial Statements and the independent appointment on that date had separate the countries in which they operate auditors report together the Annual deeds of indemnity.
These indemnities, note 40 to the Financial Statements Report a fair review of the business which still remain in force, are available page 159 of the Group during the financial year for inspection by shareholders at the Profit on disposal of businesses ended 31 March 2013.
Companys registered office during non-controlling interests note 9 to normal business hours and will be the Financial Statements page 130 This review is required to include a full available for inspection at the AGM.
description of the Groups principal The Annual Report will be laid before activities, business, performance, Neither the insurance nor the indemnities shareholders at the annual general significant contracts, likely future provide cover where the relevant director meeting AGM to be held at The Lincoln developments and principal risks and or officer has acted fraudulently or Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London, uncertainties known as a Business dishonestly.
Details of the business to be Articles of association considered at the AGM, together with an The information that fulfils the Business The Companys articles of association explanation of each of the resolutions, are Review requirements is incorporated set out the Companys internal regulation set out in the separate Notice of Meeting.
into this report by reference and can and cover such matters as the rights be found in the following sections: of shareholders, the appointment and Directors removal of directors, the power to issue Chairmans Statement pages 6 and 7 The names and biographies of those and buy back shares and the conduct of persons serving as directors of the Chief Executive Officers Statement Board and general meetings.
A copy of Company as at the date of this report pages 8 and 9 the Companys articles of association is are incorporated into this report by available on the Groups website or on Our Strategy pages 10 to 13 reference and can be found in the Board request from the company secretary.
Business Review pages 14 to 39 of Directors section pages 58 and 59.
Amendments to the articles of association Principal risks and uncertainties must be approved by at least 75% of Under the Companys articles of pages 40 to 43 those voting in person or by proxy at association all directors must retire at the a general meeting of the Company.
Human Resources Review first AGM following their appointment pages 44 to 49 by the Board and may offer themselves In accordance with the Companys articles for election by shareholders.
In line with Corporate Responsibility Review of association, directors can be appointed the requirements of the UK Corporate pages 50 to 57 or removed by the Board or by Governance Code, which has applied shareholders in general meeting.
Subject Financial instruments and financial risk to the Company since 1 April 2011, to the provisions of relevant legislation, management note 2 to the Financial all directors will retire at the AGM and, the Companys articles of association and Statements page 116. being eligible, will offer themselves for any directions given by a special resolution re-election.
The Board considers that the of the shareholders, the Board of directors performance of each of the directors may exercise all the powers of the continues to be effective and that each of Company and may delegate authorities them demonstrates a strong commitment to committees and management as it sees to their role.
Details of the main committees of the Board are contained in the Corporate Governance Report pages 64 to 75 and on the Groups website.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 61 Research and development From 1 April 2011 until 25 June 2011, The rights and obligations attaching to the The Group develops and delivers the affiliated PACs were funded partly Companys ordinary shares are contained innovative technical solutions to its clients, by contributions from the acquired in the Companys articles of association.
the costs of which are expensed to the companies and partly by employee In summary, the ordinary shares and ADSs income statement.
Donations made via the allow holders to receive dividends and to enhanced tax relief for these costs in PACs were the only donations made by exercise one vote on a poll per ordinary certain territories.
the acquired companies in the financial share for every holder present in person year ended 31 March 2012.
Since or by proxy at general meetings of the Suppliers 25 June 2011, the PACs have been Company.
Shares held in treasury are The Groups policy is to agree terms and funded solely by employee contributions.
not entitled to vote or receive dividends.
conditions for its business transactions There are no restrictions on the transfer with suppliers, to ensure that suppliers From 1 April 2012, we introduced a policy or sale of ordinary shares or ADSs and are made aware of the agreed terms of making corporate political donations no requirements for prior approval of and conditions and to endeavour to abide only on the following basis: any transfers, except as described below.
by these terms and conditions, subject Under the Companys articles of directly to non-partisan ballot initiatives to the supplier meeting its obligations.
association, the directors have the power supporting infrastructure development to suspend voting rights and the right to and maintenance No one supplier arrangement is receive dividends in respect of ordinary to individual candidates and political considered to be essential to the business shares and to refuse to register a transfer parties only via the affiliated PACs, of the Group.
of ordinary shares in circumstances where funded entirely by employee the holder of those shares fails to comply contributions.
The Company, as a holding company, with a notice issued under section 793 did not have any amounts owing to trade of the Act.
The directors also have the During the year ended 31 March 2013, creditors as at 31 March 2013. power to refuse to register any transfer corporate political donations in the of certificated shares that does not satisfy US of $18,800 11,894 were made In the UK, the Group is now an approved the conditions set out in the articles of 2012: $4,320 2,837 restated.
In signatory of the Prompt Payment Code.
addition, the affiliated PACs continued This evidences a commitment to pay to make donations funded entirely suppliers on time and in line with the Shares acquired through Atkins employee by employee contributions.
agreed terms, having clear processes share schemes rank equally with all in place for suppliers and resolving other ordinary shares in issue and have Charitable donations disputes as quickly as possible.
The trustees of the During the year, the Group made detailed information, including Companys employee benefit trusts EBTs charitable donations of 139,311 2012: contact details, can be found on have waived the rights of the EBTs to 135,764 restated.
The beneficiaries the Prompt Payment Code website: receive dividends on shares they hold, of these donations were local charities www.
with one EBT fully waiving this right and serving the communities in which the another waiving the right to dividends in Group operates or charities working in Political donations and expenditure excess of 0.01p per share.
In addition areas relevant to the Groups activities.
The Group made no political donations neither of the trustees of the EBTs The Group intends to continue its focus and incurred no political expenditure exercises their right to vote in respect of on supporting local charities in the current in the UK or European Union during such shares.
Shares held in trust on behalf financial year.
the year ended 31 March 2013 of participants in the Atkins Share 31 March 2012: nil.
Incentive Plan are voted by the trustee, Shares Capita IRG Trustees Limited, as directed Share capital On 1 October 2010 the Group completed by plan participants.
Details of share As at the date of this report, the the acquisition of The PBSJ Corporation based payments, including information Companys share capital consists of and its subsidiaries the acquired regarding the shares held by the EBTs, 104,451,799 issued and fully paid ordinary companies.
On acquisition, the acquired can be found in note 33 to the Financial shares each with a nominal value of 0.5p, companies had, in accordance with Statements page 153. listed on the London Stock Exchange, relevant US Federal and state election and American Depositary Shares ADSs.
laws, historically made political donations At the AGM held in 2012 shareholders Shares may be held in certificated or in the US both directly and to affiliated granted authority for the directors to allot uncertificated form.
Further details of the US state and Federal political action relevant securities up to approximately Companys authorised and issued share committees PACs.
one third of the issued share capital and capital, including changes during the year, a further one third in connection with can be found in note 32 to the Financial an offer by way of a rights issue.
The Statements page 152. directors intend to seek shareholder approval for an equivalent authority at this years AGM, details of which are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 62 Governance Directors Report continued The Company is not aware of any Significant shareholders Directors statement of responsibility agreements between shareholders that As at the year end and the date of this The directors are responsible for preparing might result in the restriction of transfer Annual Report, the Company had been the Annual Report, the Remuneration or voting rights in relation to the shares notified of holdings of 3% or more of the Report and the Financial Statements in held by such shareholders.
total voting rights attaching to its issued accordance with applicable law and share capital as detailed in table 1. regulations.
Share purchases At the AGM held in 2012, the Company Change of control Company law requires the directors to was granted authority by shareholders No agreement with a director or prepare financial statements for each to purchase up to 10,011,000 ordinary employee of the Company provides financial year.
The directors have prepared shares, representing approximately 10% for compensation for loss of office the Group and Company Financial of the Companys ordinary share capital or employment whether through Statements in accordance with applicable as at 13 June 2012.
No ordinary shares resignation, purported redundancy law and International Financial Reporting were purchased pursuant to this authority or otherwise that occurs as a result Standards IFRSs as adopted by the during the year ended 31 March 2013 of a change of control.
Under company law the or to the date of this Annual Report.
This directors must not approve the Financial authority will expire at the forthcoming All of the Companys employee share Statements unless they are satisfied that AGM and the Company will seek schemes contain provisions relating they give a true and fair view of the state shareholder approval for an equivalent to a change of control of the Company.
of affairs of the Company and the Group authority such authority being in Under these provisions, a change of and of the profit or loss of the Company accordance with current best practice control would normally be a vesting and the Group for that period.
event, facilitating the exercise of options or transfer of allocations subject to any In preparing the Financial Statements, 4,341,000 ordinary shares of 0.5p each, relevant performance conditions being the directors are required to: representing approximately 4.2% of the satisfied.
select suitable accounting policies Companys issued share capital, were and then apply them consistently held in treasury the treasury shares The Company is not a party to any other make judgements and accounting throughout the year and to the date of significant agreements that take effect, estimates that are reasonable and this Annual Report following a historic alter or terminate upon a change of prudent share buyback programme.
control other than its funding facilities, which provide that in such a situation the state whether applicable IFRSs as Company may be unable to draw down adopted by the European Union have any further amounts under the facilities been followed, subject to any material and or that they may be cancelled.
departures disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements Table 1: Holdings of 3% or more of the total voting rights attached to the prepare the Financial Statements on Companys issued share capital the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the At 12 June 2013 At 31 March 2013 Group and the Company will continue Percentage Percentage in business.
Number and percentage of voting rights per last notification received by the Company.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 63 Cautionary statement The directors are responsible for keeping Going concern Under the Companies Act 2006, a companys adequate accounting records that are The directors have a reasonable directors report is required, among other matters, sufficient to show and explain the expectation that the Company and to contain a fair review by the directors of the companys and, if applicable, groups business Companys transactions and disclose the Group have adequate resources to through a balanced and comprehensive analysis with reasonable accuracy at any time the continue in operational existence for of the development and performance of the business financial position of the Company and the foreseeable future and therefore of the company and group and the position of the the Group and that enable them to ensure continue to adopt the going concern basis company and group at the year end, consistent with the size and complexity of the business.
that the Financial Statements and the in preparing the Financial Statements.
Remuneration Report comply with the The directors report set out above, including the Act and, as regards the Group Financial Disclosure of audit information Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executive Officers Statement, Our Strategy, the Business Review, Statements, Article 4 of the International The directors confirm that, as at the date the Human Resources Review, the Corporate Accounting Standard Regulation.
They this Annual Report was approved, so far Responsibility Review, the Corporate Governance are also responsible for safeguarding the as each director is aware there is no Report, the Remuneration Report and certain notes to the accounts incorporated into it by reference assets of the Company and the Group relevant audit information of which the together, the Directors Report, has been prepared and hence for taking reasonable steps Companys auditor is unaware and that only for the shareholders of the Company as a whole for the prevention and detection of fraud he or she has taken all the steps that he and its sole purpose and use is to assist shareholders to exercise their governance rights.
In particular, the and other irregularities.
or she ought to have taken as a director Directors Report has not been audited or otherwise in order to make himself or herself aware independently verified and no warranty is given as The directors are responsible for the of any relevant audit information and to its accuracy or completeness other than any such warranty which is mandatorily implied by statute.
maintenance and integrity of the to establish that the Companys auditor The Company and its directors and the Groups corporate and financial information is aware of that information.
employees are not responsible for any other purpose included on the Companys website.
or use or to any other person in relation to the Legislation in the UK governing the Independent auditor Directors Report.
preparation and dissemination of financial The Companys independent auditor, The Directors Report contains indications of likely statements may differ from legislation  LLP, has future developments and other forward looking in other jurisdictions.
expressed its willingness to continue statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, among other things, the economic and business in office and resolutions for its circumstances occurring from time to time in the Each of the directors, whose names and reappointment and to authorise the countries, sectors and business segments in which functions are listed in this Annual Report directors to determine its remuneration the Group operates.
These factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Principal risks pages 58 and 59, confirms that, to the will be proposed at the forthcoming and uncertainties pages 40 to 43.
These and other best of his her knowledge: AGM.
factors could adversely affect the Groups results, strategy and prospects.
Forward looking statements the Directors Report contained in the involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
They Approved by the Board and signed on Annual Report includes a fair review of relate to events and or depend on circumstances its behalf by the development and performance in the future which could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those currently of the business and the position of the expected.
No obligation is assumed to update any Helen Baker Group, together with a description of forward looking statements, whether as a result Acting Company Secretary the principal risks and uncertainties that of new information, future events or otherwise.
12 June 2013 it faces the Group Financial Statements, which WS Atkins plc, Woodcote Grove, have been prepared in accordance Ashley Road, Epsom, Surrey, KT18 5BW, with IFRSs as adopted by the European England Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and Registered in England and Wales profit or loss of the Group.
1885586 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance
