32 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued Our Energy business continues to perform well with revenue up more than 18% year on year.
Energy Key performance indicators 2013 2012 Change Financial metrics Revenue 151.9m 128.4m 18.3% Operating profit 13.8m 11.4m 21.1% Operating margin 9.1% 8.9% 0.2pp Work in hand 33.4% 32.4% 1.0pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 1,376 1,182 16.4% Average staff numbers for the year 1,307 1,095 19.4% 1,376 People employed in Energy 151.9m Revenue WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews 33 Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers 18% 21% 19% 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 Revenue by sector Revenue by client type Oil and gas 54% Regulated 44% Nuclear 35% Private sector 56% Power inc renewables 11% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 72.4 82.0 98.6 128.4 151.9 7.8 8.4 8.5 11.4 13.8 716 805 970 1,095 1,307 Reviews 34 Reviews Business Review Segmental performance continued Energy Performance Business drivers Operations Our Energy business continues to perform Our business is underpinned by the global Nuclear well in buoyant markets across all sectors.
growth in energy requirements as many Our nuclear business remains busy on Revenue was up 18% year on year and countries struggle with increasing demand existing nuclear generation, new build staff numbers increased to 1,376, an and an imperative to decarbonise to and decommissioning work, continuing increase of 16% over the year.
Growth mitigate the effects of climate change.
to build on our 40 years of operational has been helped by successful integration experience of UK nuclear facilities.
of previous acquisitions and partnering High oil prices drive the demand to arrangements.
The margin of 9.1% keep existing energy production and In February we joined EDF Energys UK reflects ongoing investment in the distribution facilities operating longer, Strategic Supply Chain Partnership to strategic growth of this sector through drawing on our safety and integrity provide additional expert engineering acquisitions and joint ventures.
At the same time, with the support as the company seeks to extend industry seeking to maximise more the life of its existing nuclear Advanced Business model challenging oil reserves, such as marginal Gas-cooled Reactor fleet.
This was The Energy business operates worldwide and deepwater fields, there is a continued a natural extension of our existing in several home markets, competing increase in demand for our advanced relationship which has seen us provide both in its own right and through several engineering skills.
engineering, safety and environmental joint ventures, against a wide range of services on the existing UK fleet for over competition from large multinational In nuclear we continue to see a similar 30 years.
engineering consultancies to specialist focus on keeping existing facilities niche players.
operating safely for longer, with an In September 2012 we announced the ongoing requirement for technical support formation of a joint venture with AREVA, Strategy around nuclear decommissioning.
In a global leader in nuclear energy, to We remain focused on nuclear, oil and addition, many countries around the compete for projects in the UK nuclear gas, conventional power generation and world are still planning to build new fuel management and decommissioning renewables.
In these industries we are nuclear power plants as part of their sector.
applying our high end multidisciplinary long term strategy for decarbonisation.
engineering skills to assure the integrity Our skills are in high demand across the The internationalisation of our nuclear and safety of existing operational facilities entire nuclear lifecycle.
business continues with the formation as well as in the design of new facilities.
in November 2012 of a strategic alliance We assess risks across all of our businesses with US based Merrick & Company and We continue to look at investment and this is explained in more detail in the Nuclear Safety Associates NSA to serve opportunities, selectively expanding our risk section of the Business Review on North Americas nuclear market.
geographic footprint and service offering pages 40-43.
The risks identified as through organic growth, as well as being most pertinent to this business The continued success of our n. triple.
a extending and creating new partnering are safety and environmental risks and joint venture, addressing the international arrangements and targeting acquisitions the reputational risk associated with the nuclear new build market with French in our core disciplines in regions where highly regulated areas within which engineering consultancy Assystem, is we are underrepresented.
evidenced by ongoing workload in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and South We have also identified that our plans Africa.
We extended the alliance last year for growth are potentially affected by to support aspects of EDF Energys nuclear the availability of skills.
To mitigate this new build aspirations in the UK.
risk we continue to invest in our in-house training academy that now provides Our role as architect engineer, as part externally recognised courses.
This year of the Engage consortium, continues on we welcomed more than 500 people the 15bn International Thermonuclear on these courses.
Experimental Reactor ITER programme which is the next step in a global research and development programme to harness nuclear fusion as a commercially viable source of electricity.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews 35 Our business continues to perform well across all sectors, and we are well positioned in growth markets www.
com investor-relations Oil and gas Underpinned by strong client relationships, Marine renewables Our oil and gas business has shown in particular with BP and Shell, our We remain very active in the offshore continued growth in revenues and Houston and Calgary operations continue renewables sector, supporting a number headcount.
Progress in line with our to develop.
In the Middle East there is a of framework contracts in the UK with a strategy to secure long term framework significant flow of engineering and design range of developers.
We recently secured agreements for both consultancy and work for local clients.
a further contract with DONG Energy design services is providing a solid base to undertake the detailed design of the load of work and further cementing the Our work on LNG projects in Singapore, offshore substations for the extension strong relationships we enjoy with Poland and Australias largest to the Walney offshore wind farm in the our clients.
development, Ichthys, continues as well UKs Irish Sea.
This project win cements as our design contract for an onshore our position as one of the leading British In addition to our existing major gas processing plant for Block 60 in the engineering and design consultancies in framework agreements with BP, Chevron, Sultanate of Oman.
Talisman and Apache we have established similar long term agreements with Nexen, Power Outlook Statoil and Maersk.
In March we added In the UK our power business continues The outlook for our Energy business a framework covering all of our service its work as lead technical provider to both remains very good.
We are well positioned offerings to BPs UK offshore assets.
the Drax and Eggborough power stations in growth markets and have work in hand Significantly, we were recently selected to and has an increasing role in biomass ahead of last year at 33.4% of budgeted provide technical and safety engineering projects.
We continue our long term revenue 2012: 32.4%, which will services to Shells onshore and offshore support of National Grid in its complex underpin further headcount growth in assets worldwide under a new four year construction programme.
Atkins has worked with Shell in the North In early 2013, Atkins was selected by Sea, USA, Africa, Canada and Western Energos to help deliver a large-scale Australia including safety assessments and energy from waste EfW facility as part risk management services on the ground of Viridor and Glasgow City Councils breaking Prelude floating Liquefied 146m Glasgow Recycling and Renewable Natural Gas fLNG project.
This new contract adds to our portfolio of providing high We are securing an increasing volume end technical support to large-scale of multidisciplinary design work.
examples, we continue to strengthen our long term relationships with Premier Oil We have recently been appointed by the with our work on the Solan project and UK Government Department of Energy with Apache in delivering the Front End and Climate Change DECC in three Engineering Design FEED services to technical advisory roles, strengthening support the Varanus Island Compression our position at the heart of emerging Project in North West Australia.
We are providing technical support to the DECC A significant part of our focus has been Energy Storage competition, developing on difficult or marginal field developments, a report into deep geothermal energy where our strong technical skills have resource.
We have also been appointed supported the development of new as technical advisor to the Carbon concepts in floating production, storage Capture and Storage commercialisation and offloading facilities.
completed projects for the Chevron Alder high pressure, high temperature HPHT field and are delivering similar work for Maersk.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews
