44 Reviews Human Resources Review Our peoples individual talent and collective expertise help us to stand out from our competitors.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews 45 Overview We track our progress in filling vacancies We want more young people to consider As a professional services company, our across the Group.
At year end, 19% of a career in engineering so we are peoples talent, energy and willingness open positions were at offer stage, 54% targeting a graduate intake of 500 to go above and beyond for our clients had identified candidates and were at worldwide for 2013.
The significant and our company are true differentiators interview stage and the remaining 27% number of places on offer reflects our for Atkins.
Their individual talent and were at sourcing stage where we were continued confidence in our ability to collective expertise help us to stand out seeking candidates.
offer talented graduates a rewarding from our competitors.
We continue to be one of the In conjunction with growing our talent biggest and most popular recruiters of Making Atkins a great place to work base in local markets, we have had newly graduated engineers in the UK and is therefore central to our shareholder a consistent number of international have again been voted the most popular proposition.
We must continue to attract assignments across the Group, which graduate recruiter in the construction, and retain talented staff and provide supplement skills not available locally with civil engineering and surveying sector, them with opportunities for professional specific technical knowledge or resource based on a survey of 23,000 students.
development and growth if we are the delivery of large projects.
We also to meet the infrastructure challenges recognise that international mobility is We have also increased our intake of of tomorrow.
a stretching experience for our employees.
apprentices in the UK, recognising that this is an increasingly attractive entry route To help us achieve this, our Human for young people.
We are targeting Resources performance is measured via a further 25% increase in new apprentices a structured process of business reviews in 2013 14. that evaluate metrics such as headcount, Figure 1: FTE headcount growth retention and employee engagement.
This process also includes a broader 18,000 review of the future skills and resourcing 17,800 needed to address changing client and 17,600 market requirements.
17,400 17,200 Headcount 17,000 Underlying headcount increased by approximately 500 people to 17,899 16,800 during the year and is an encouraging 16,600 measure of business performance.
There 16,400 was a rise in the UK and in Asia Pacific 16,200 and Europe and we have been particularly Apr 12 May 12 Jun 12 Jul 12 Aug 12 Sep 12 Oct 12 Nov 12 Dec 12 Jan 13 Feb 13 Mar 13 encouraged by increases in our Energy Atkins Group business 16%.
This segment experienced impressive organic growth resulting from improved staff retention and extra recruitment activities.
The increases in headcount were partly offset by a reduction in North America as the region continues to focus on operational efficiency and productivity.
Vacancy levels have remained relatively flat from the beginning of the year, with vacancies of just over 2,000 at the end of March 2013.
Whilst annual vacancies have remained stable, monthly vacancy numbers have fluctuated in line with the phasing of projects.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews 46 Reviews Human Resources Review continued Figure 2: Worldwide experienced hire vacancies Engagement It is essential that we maintain regular 2,400 communication with staff and we do this 2,200 by uploading organisational information, project features and success stories to our 2,000 intranet, through regular chief executive officer letters to all staff and via online 1,800 presentations and management briefings.
Following the announcement of the 1,600 Groups full and half year results, we issue 1,400 updates on the Groups performance via presentations from our chief executive 1,200 officer and Group finance director, which Apr 12 May 12 Jun 12 Jul 12 Aug 12 Sep 12 Oct 12 Nov 12 Dec 12 Jan 13 Feb 13 Mar 13 are posted on our intranet.
They are also Global hire vacancies available in transcript form and as recorded telephone messages.
In addition, Retention We measure our retention of experienced the chief executive officer and Group Staff retention remained stable during employees using a stability index.
This finance director conduct pre and post the year and staff turnover remains at calculates the number of employees with results briefing teleconferences with relatively low levels in most regions.
one or more years service as a percentage our worldwide management team.
Our Turnover by region was: of the number employed 12 months ago.
Twitter feed and Facebook updates also The stability index for each region and for Year Year offer instant access to news and events the Group was: ended ended across Atkins.
31 March 31 March Year Year Business area 2013 2012 ended ended During the year, our work on the London 31 March 31 March UK 8.6% 9.2% 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games was Business area 2013 2012 North America 10.1% 8.7% a huge source of pride for our people and UK 89.5% 85.0% Middle East 13.2% 11.1% our regular series of news articles, events North America 72.6% 75.0% Asia Pacific 15.9% 17.5% and publications helped them feel Middle East 72.6% 79.3% engaged in the experience.
We hope to and Europe Asia Pacific 83.5% 82.7% create the same sense of pride as we hold Energy 14.3% 16.8% our 75th anniversary celebrations this year.
and Europe Group total 10.6% 10.6% Energy 84.4% 88.9% To monitor employee engagement, each The reduction in turnover in Asia Pacific Group total 82.9% 80.1% year we ask our staff around the world to and Europe is particularly encouraging, complete our Viewpoint survey.
Our as is the decrease in turnover in our The Group index has risen to 82.9% 2012 13 results were positive and showed Energy business.
The increase in turnover 2012: 80.1% and remains within our improvement across a majority of areas.
in the Middle East reflects growing desired range of between 75% and 85%.
Our overall employee engagement score demand in certain markets within the rose by 3% to 67%, which is well ahead region, most notably Qatar.
We also track feedback from colleagues of the professional services sector who have left the Group in certain benchmark.
Of those leavers who completed our questionnaire 86% stated that they would work for Atkins again.
86% of leavers also indicated that they would recommend Atkins as a place to work.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews 47 Making Atkins a great place to work is central to our shareholder proposition, and to our ability to meet the infrastructure challenges of tomorrow www.
com investor-relations The engagement model measures our The results also indicate where we need Investment in people peoples alignment relationship with to improve to make Atkins an even better To achieve our vision to be the worlds management, involvement relationship place to work.
best infrastructure consultancy we with their jobs and loyalty relationship need to develop the capabilities and with the organisation.
The results against Over the coming year, we will continue performance of our people.
The Groups this model, with comparisons to the our commitment to increasing annual training spend of over 17m was 2011 12 survey, are shown below.
collaboration across the Group, improving up from the previous year, reflecting our knowledge sharing and our approach an increased investment in growth areas The Employee Engagement scorecard to individual performance, development and in developing line management shows the percentage of respondents and careers.
ticking strongly agree agree against a number of key engagement questions.
As further recognition of the support Technical development is also central to These scores can also be measured against we receive from our employees, we have our learning and development strategy, the Global Sector Norm shown in brackets reclaimed our place among The Sunday representing around 65% of all training alongside each engagement score.
Times Top 25 Best Big Companies to Work activity.
We are using our Network Chairs For we were ranked at 23, having missed to drive technical excellence across key The results show that our people care out in the previous year.
We will continue skills areas.
Through this network we about the success of Atkins, feel proud to use the feedback from this survey, introduced the Atkins design principles, to work for us and have a clear alongside the Viewpoint results, to sustain a framework for delivering the best understanding of how their role an ongoing dialogue with our teams possible design solutions to our clients.
contributes to meeting our clients needs.
through which we can continuously These principles were explained via improve our employee engagement.
a series of webinars that employees from all parts of the Group participated in.
Employee Engagement scorecard Alignment Involvement Loyalty 2011 2012 Norm 2011 2012 Norm 2011 2012 Norm 2011 2012 Norm 2012 2012 2012 2012 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 64 67 58 63 66 57 67 69 61 63 68 57 Reviews 48 Reviews Human Resources Review continued In January 2013 we worked with the Reward We have maintained our focus on the University of Oxford Sad Business School Pay levels remained flat in some of our management of our historic defined to introduce a new Group leadership markets.
However, pay pressure in other benefit pension liabilities and we are development programme.
It aims to sectors, and in relation to selected skill giving equal priority to ensuring that enhance strategic alignment, innovation sets, means that we need to target salary members of our plans save appropriately and leadership through change.
We also increases to attract and retain staff and for their retirement.
In the UK, new maintained our investment in a range of stay cost competitive.
Wage inflation investment platform for defined senior management development and across the Group for the year was just contribution members of the Atkins career development programmes across above 3%, with significant variation Pension Plan was launched in the summer the Group.
This supported the transition to a range of revised investment choices We are encouraging young people to To inform the salary review and other for members.
Members were informed consider a career in engineering and reward decisions, we conduct about the transition through a design through our support for a number comprehensive annual benchmarking comprehensive communications of events.
We attended the Big Bang Fair studies across our regions UK, North campaign, which encouraged them to in London this year, which attracted over America, Middle East, Asia Pacific and review their investments in the context 50,000 young people aged 7 to 19, Europe.
We use the data to improve of their personal circumstances and decide engaging with them through our the competitiveness of our remuneration whether to make any changes to how engineering in everyday life exhibition.
packages and to help line managers their pension fund was invested.
We were with pay decisions.
encouraged by the level of engagement Over the coming year we are investing that the campaign generated, with 54% in My Career, a programme that focuses Approximately 1,000 senior leaders of members actively making a decision on the performance and development worldwide participate in our executive about their investment choices.
It will start with the bonus scheme EBS.
The EBS incentivises implementation of an online performance the delivery of above average financial A significant amount of work has and development review system, making results and exceptional individual also been done to prepare for the it easier for staff to record their objectives, performance by rewarding the implementation of new pension legislation achievements and development activities.
achievement of stretching profit targets in the UK that requires employers to Overall, My Career aims to help our and personal objectives.
Following a automatically enrol all workers into people make the most of their talent.
review of the scheme we have introduced a qualifying pension scheme.
This has a cash performance measure for our most affected approximately 1,000 employees senior participants.
This reflects the and contractors who had previously strategic focus within the Group.
Further chosen not to join the scheme.
details of this measure are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report page 83.
Employee share ownership is encouraged A discretionary bonus scheme covers the across the Group to align the interests of wider Atkins population.
We expect to our employees and our shareholders and pay a bonus to around one third of staff, to enable our employees to share in the recognising individual contribution and success of the company.
operate a share incentive plan SIP that provides a tax efficient mechanism for employees to become shareholders.
Approximately 12% of eligible employees participate in the SIP.
In 2012, we also secured approval from shareholders to broaden the availability of all employee share plans outside the UK and will be prioritising the jurisdictions where we have the greatest concentration of people and where share schemes are prevalent in the market.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews 49 Over the year, female representaion at senior level increased from 11.3% to 12.4% www.
com investor-relations Diversity To help us achieve this aim, more than We are committed to building a diverse 80 women have participated in our organisation to maximise the skills womens career development programme available to us in the geographies and and we have reaffirmed our commitment markets in which we operate.
Policies to providing further support during have been adopted to ensure this the coming year.
Diversity training is commitment is implemented from the now included in many of our leadership point of recruitment and continues programmes and in nominating throughout an individuals employment candidates for these programmes we with the Group.
Employees are provided ensure that a high proportion of female with the opportunity to develop to their colleagues attend.
We have also made full potential regardless of sex, race, significant changes to the operation age, religion or belief, disability, sexual of our selection and promotion panels, orientation, gender identity, marriage ensuring that we draw from the widest and civil partner status, pregnancy, possible talent pool to select high parental obligations or background, calibre recruits.
subject to the laws of the jurisdictions in which we work.
Our womens professional network in the UK, established last year, has continued The Group encourages recruitment, to meet quarterly and debate issues such training, career development and as career development and mentoring.
promotion on the basis of aptitude and In North America, a diversity leadership ability, without regard to disability.
Participants We are also committed to retaining and have developed an implementation plan retraining as necessary employees who to drive increased representation of become disabled during the course of women and minorities at senior levels.
A worldwide womens leadership council has also been established across Atkins This year we have focused on gender so that the most senior women in the diversity recognising that, in common organisation can guide others and act with many engineering and science-based as role models.
organisations, women are underrepresented, particularly in senior management positions.
We have set a short term target of increasing female representation at a senior level the top 1,000 in the Group to 15% by 31 March 2015 as a first step towards our longer term aspiration of a more balanced organisation.
Over the year, female representation at a senior level increased from 11.3% to 12.4%.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reviews
