58 Governance Board of Directors Allan Cook CBE Prof Dr Uwe Krueger Heath Drewett Alun Griffiths Admiral the Lord Fiona Clutterbuck Joanne Curin Dr Raj Rajagopal Rodney Slater Boyce KG GCB OBE DL Chairman Chief executive Group finance Group HR director Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive officer director director director director director director Prof Dr Uwe Krueger is Heath Drewett is a Alun Griffiths Fiona Clutterbuck has Joanne Curin is a Dr Raj Rajagopal held A lawyer by profession, Background Allan Cook is a chartered Lord Boyce had a engineer with more than a physicist who studied graduate in mathematics joined Atkins in 1986 distinguished career in substantial experience chartered accountant several positions at BOC Rodney Slater is currently and experience at the University of from Peterhouse, and was appointed Group in all areas of corporate and has a broad range of Edwards before being a partner at law firm 30 years international the Royal Navy and the experience in the Frankfurt, graduating with Cambridge.
He started his HR Director in 2003.
Ministry of Defence that finance, including a international experience appointed chief executive, Patton Boggs LLP, where a PhD in complex system career at Price Waterhouse He has a background particular focus on the gained during her career a position he held until he is a leader of its automotive, aerospace culminated in his and defence industries.
He has spent the where he qualified as in human resources becoming First Sea Lord, financial institutions as a senior finance November 2006.
He was transportation practice, majority of his career a chartered accountant.
management and sector, gained during executive for large-scale an executive director of working on projects He was chief executive professional head of the of Cobham PLC until the leading engineering and management consultancy.
Royal Navy, in 1998 and 15 years at Hill Samuel organisations in a diverse the BOC Group plc until related to transportation end of December 2009. consulting organisations He held a variety of senior He has worked in then Chief of Defence and HSBC and seven years range of sectors including November 2006. infrastructure.
Prior to this he held senior in North America, Europe, finance and corporate a number of business Staff, professional head at ABN AMRO.
She has property and construction, roles at GEC-Marconi, the Middle East and Asia development roles at management and of the Armed Forces, from a LLB Hons from the ports, shipping and He was awarded an He was the secretary BAE Systems and Hughes Pacific.
British Airways plc BA corporate roles, 2001 to 2003.
He was University of London and logistics, oil and gas, honorary doctor of science of transportation under Aircraft.
and The Morgan Crucible including HR strategy elevated to the peerage qualified as a barrister pulp and paper and degree by Cranfield president Bill Clinton He began his career at Company plc.
in 2003, was appointed in 1980. engineering technologies.
University in 2004 and the between 1997 and 2001.
He was awarded a CBE international strategy seven years in BAs finance Lord Warden and Admiral Institution of Engineering He served as administrator in the Queens New Years consulting firm team, latterly holding the In his management of the Cinque Ports and She has worked for global and Technologys IET of the United States Honours list in 2008 for A T Kearney, followed position of head of consultancy career, he Constable of Dover Castle businesses based in the IEE Eric Mensforth Federal Highway services to the defence by leadership positions business performance.
Between 2004 UK, New Zealand and International Gold Medal Administration from 1993 and aerospace industries at Hochtief AG, an of projects in the and 2010 he was a Australia and more recent for outstanding to 1996 and was assistant and is a fellow of the international provider areas of restructuring, non-executive director public company roles have contribution to attorney general for the Royal Academy of of construction services.
organisational of VT Group plc.
been as Finance Director manufacturing technology State of Arkansas earlier Engineering.
development and for Lend Lease Corporation and management in 2003. in his career.
In his More recently he was privatisation in the UK and P&O.
tenure as secretary of chief executive officer of and worldwide.
He is an He is a fellow of the Royal transportation, one of his Swiss company Oerlikon.
economics graduate and Academy of Engineering, notable achievements was He joined Atkins from a fellow of the Chartered the IET, the Institution the successful passing of Texas Pacific Group and Institute of Personnel of Mechanical Engineers, the Transportation Equity Cleantech Switzerland.
the Chartered Institute Act for the 21st Century.
of Management and the Institute of Directors.
Non-executive director, Executive director, June 2009 March 2007 Non-executive director, March 2007 February 2009 June 2008 September 2011 Date of September 2009 June 2011 May 2004 appointment s Chairman, February Chief executive officer, Senior independent 2010 August 2011 director, June 2009 Chairman, SELEX ES Ltd Board member, None Non-executive director, Chairman of the Head of Strategy, Director, DeepOcean Non-executive director, Partner, Patton Boggs External Chairman, Finmeccanica ONTEX S. A. Zele, UKRC Community advisory board, D Group Corporate Development Group Holding BV Bodycote plc LLP Washington DC, appointments UK Limited Belgium Interest Company, Advisory Group and Communications, Netherlands Non-executive director, USA Deputy chairman, Board member, trading as WISE Appointments on a Phoenix Group e2v Technologies plc Non-executive Marshall of Cambridge SUSI Partners AG Women in science number of charities, Non-executive director, Non-executive director, Verizon Holdings Limited Zurich, Switzerland and engineering including: Chairman, The Paragon Group director, Spirax-Sarco Communications, Inc.
Member of the Royal National Lifeboat of Companies PLC Engineering plc USA Non-executive operating executive Institution: Chairman, Chairman, HHV Pumps Non-executive director, director, The McLean board, J. F. Lehman & The HMS Victory Private Ltd India Kansas City Southern Partnership Ltd Company New York, Preservation Company Chairman, The University USA USA of Manchester I3 Limited Non-executive director, Chairman, UK Trade & Member of the Advisory Transurban Group Investments Advanced Board, Centre for Australia Engineering Sector Business Research of Advisory Board Cambridge University Chairman, the Sector Skills Council for Science, Engineering and Manufacturing Technologies Alliance SEMTA Chairman, the UK Governments Skills & Jobs Retention Group Director, Baker Dearing Educational Trust Chairman, Nomination None None None Nomination Committee Audit Committee Chairman, Audit Chairman, Nomination Committee Committee Committee Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Remuneration Remuneration membership Committee Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 59 Allan Cook CBE Prof Dr Uwe Krueger Heath Drewett Alun Griffiths Admiral the Lord Fiona Clutterbuck Joanne Curin Dr Raj Rajagopal Rodney Slater Boyce KG GCB OBE DL Chairman Chief executive Group finance Group HR director Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive officer director director director director director director Prof Dr Uwe Krueger is Heath Drewett is a Alun Griffiths Fiona Clutterbuck has Joanne Curin is a Dr Raj Rajagopal held A lawyer by profession, Background Allan Cook is a chartered Lord Boyce had a engineer with more than a physicist who studied graduate in mathematics joined Atkins in 1986 distinguished career in substantial experience chartered accountant several positions at BOC Rodney Slater is currently and experience at the University of from Peterhouse, and was appointed Group in all areas of corporate and has a broad range of Edwards before being a partner at law firm 30 years international the Royal Navy and the experience in the Frankfurt, graduating with Cambridge.
Member of the Royal National Lifeboat of Companies PLC Engineering plc USA Non-executive operating executive Institution: Chairman, Chairman, HHV Pumps Non-executive director, director, The McLean board, J. F. Lehman & The HMS Victory Private Ltd India Kansas City Southern Partnership Ltd Company New York, Preservation Company Chairman, The University USA USA of Manchester I3 Limited Non-executive director, Chairman, UK Trade & Member of the Advisory Transurban Group Investments Advanced Board, Centre for Australia Engineering Sector Business Research of Advisory Board Cambridge University Chairman, the Sector Skills Council for Science, Engineering and Manufacturing Technologies Alliance SEMTA Chairman, the UK Governments Skills & Jobs Retention Group Director, Baker Dearing Educational Trust Chairman, Nomination None None None Nomination Committee Audit Committee Chairman, Audit Chairman, Nomination Committee Committee Committee Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Remuneration Remuneration membership Committee Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance
