Directors report Report on the affairs of the Group Details of employee share schemes are set The Directors present their annual report Directors and their interests out in note 32. on the affairs of the Group together with the The Directors who served throughout financial statements and auditors report for the year, and subsequent to the year No person has any special rights of control the year ended 31 December 2013.
The end, were as follows: over the Companys share capital and all corporate governance statement set out issued shares are fully paid.
Ian Dinwoodie Chief Executive on pages 37 to 68 forms part of this report.
With regard to the appointment and Alex Bevis Finance Director and An indication of likely future developments replacement of Directors, the Company Company Secretary in the business of the Company and details is governed by its Articles of Association, of research and development activities are Richard Barham Sales and Marketing the UK Corporate Governance Code, the included in the strategic report.
The Groups Director Companies Act and related legislation.
policies relating to equality, diversity and The Articles themselves may be amended Ramon Borrell Research and employee consultation can be found in the by Special Resolution of the shareholders.
Development Director Corporate social responsibility section of The powers of Directors are described the strategic report on page 26.
Ted Wiggans Operations and Quality in the Main Board terms of reference, Director The Greenhouse gas emissions statement copies of which are available on request, can be found on page 28. and the Corporate Governance Statement Phil Lawler Chairman on page 42.
Capital structure Robin Williams Senior Independent Details of the issued share capital, Treasury Director together with details of the movements The Groups policy enables it to use financial David Cheesman Non-Executive Director in the Companys issued share capital instruments to hedge foreign currency during the year, are shown in note 25.
The main trading currency of the Edmund Creutzmann Chief Technical Company has one class of ordinary shares Group is UK pounds.
The Groups use of Officer to be appointed 1 April 2014 which carries no right to fixed income.
Each financial instruments and the related risks Brief biographical descriptions of the share carries the right to one vote at general are discussed further in notes 19, 20 Directors are set out on page 31.
Full details meetings of the Company.
and 23. of their interests in shares of the Company There are no specific restrictions on the size At the 2013 AGM held on 16 May 2013, and its subsidiary undertakings are included of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, the Companys shareholders granted the in the Directors remuneration report on which are both governed by the general Company authority to make one or more pages 44 to 67. provisions of the Articles of Association and market purchases within the meaning of The interests of the Directors in the shares prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of the Company and its subsidiaries all of aware of any agreements between holders of ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital which are beneficial as at 31 December of the Companys shares that may result in of the Company.
2013 are as follows: restrictions on the transfer of securities or The Company did not purchase any shares on voting rights.
for cancellation or to be held as treasury in 2013 or 2012.
32 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholdings in the Company Number of Number of ordinary shares ordinary shares of 10p each of 10p each 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Ian Dinwoodie 57,449 207,449 Alex Bevis 41,661 32,737 Richard Barham 6,634 6,000 Ramon Borrell 178,851 168,717 Ted Wiggans 4,634 2,000 Phil Lawler 101,430 101,430 Robin Williams David Cheesman There have been no changes in the Directors interests in shares of the Company between 31 December 2013 and 17 March 2014.
Directors interests in options over shares in the Company are shown in the Directors remuneration report.
Directors liabilities The Company has granted an indemnity to all of its Directors against liability in respect of any potential proceedings that may be brought by third parties, subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act 2006.
Such qualifying third party indemnity provision remains in force as at the date of approving the Directors report.
Share capital As at 31 December 2013 the Company had been notified in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following material interests in its share capital: Number Percentage of ordinary of issued shares held share capital Schroder Investment Management 16,720,108 22.0% BlackRock 9,175,746 12.1% AXA Framlington Investment Managers 8,009,823 10.6% Legal & General Investment Management 5,185,285 6.8% Standard Life Investments 3,510,365 4.6% Baillie Gifford 2,564,746 3.4% Aviva Investors 2,316,747 3.1% On 7 February 2014, the Company received a notification from BlackRock, Inc. pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, advising that their interests in the total voting rights of the Company were 8,177,650 ordinary shares, being 10.78% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares at the date of the notification.
com 33 Directors report Report on the affairs of the Group continued Resolution 13 contains the advisory options to subscribe for ordinary shares Annual General Meeting resolution relating to the Directors outstanding at 31 December 2013 would The notice convening the AGM is set out remuneration report, and Resolution 14 represent 5% of the reduced issued on pages 114 to 116.
Resolutions 1 to 14 contains the binding resolution in relation ordinary share capital.
set out in the notice of the meeting deal with to the Directors remuneration policy.
the ordinary business to be transacted at Power to issue securities the meeting.
The special business at the The Directors remuneration policy sets out Resolution 16 meeting to be transacted at the meeting the Companys future policy on Directors Under the Companies Act 2006 the is set out in Resolutions 15-17. remuneration.
If Resolution 14 is approved, Directors of the Company may only allot the effective date of the remuneration policy Re-election of Directors shares whether for cash or otherwise will be the date of the AGM.
with the authority of shareholders given Resolutions 5-12 at a general meeting of the Company.
In The Companys Articles of Association Authority to purchase own shares accordance with institutional guidelines, require the Directors to retire by rotation Resolution 15 under Resolution 16, to be proposed at least once every three years, with It is proposed by Resolution 15, by Special as an Ordinary Resolution, authority is the number to retire by rotation at each Resolution, to authorise the Company sought to allot shares: AGM being the number nearest to but not generally and unconditionally to purchase exceeding one-third of the Board.
However, its own shares at a price of not less than the i in relation to a pre-emptive rights issue the UK Corporate Governance Code par value of the shares and not more than only, up to an aggregate nominal amount provides that all directors of FTSE 350 the higher of: i 5% above the average of the of 5,073,117.73, which represented companies should be subject to re-election middle market quotations of the shares as two-thirds of the Companys ordinary by their shareholders every year.
In derived from the London Stock Exchange share capital as at 18 March 2014, and accordance with this provision of the Daily Official List for the five dealing days ii in any other case, up to an aggregate UK Corporate Governance Code and in immediately preceding the day on which nominal amount of 2,536,558.87, keeping with the Boards aim of following the purchase is made: and ii the amount which represented one third of the best corporate governance practice, the stipulated by article 5 1 of the Buy-back Companys ordinary share capital Board has decided that all Directors and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each as at 18 March 2014. should retire at each AGM.
case exclusive of any expenses payable The Directors do not currently have an by the Company.
Directors remuneration report intention to exercise the authority.
Resolutions 13 and 14 The authority will be for a maximum of Resolution 17 These Resolutions seek shareholder 14.9% of the Companys issued share This resolution, to be proposed as a Special approval for the Directors remuneration capital and will expire at the earlier of the Resolution, will give the Directors power to report, which includes the Directors next AGM of the Company or within 15 allot shares: remuneration policy.
The Directors months from the date of the passing of this remuneration report can be found resolution.
The Directors currently have no i up to an aggregate nominal amount on pages 44 to 67 inclusive of the intention to exercise the authority and will of 5,073,117.73 representing annual report and accounts.
only purchase shares if it is in the best approximately 66% of the Companys interests of shareholders as a whole.
issued share capital on an offer to New regulations came into force on 1 existing shareholders on a pre-emptive October 2013 in this area, which require The total number of options to subscribe basis subject to any adjustments, the Company to offer shareholders: i an for ordinary shares outstanding at 31 such as for fractional entitlements annual advisory vote on the implementation December 2013 including options awarded and overseas shareholders, as the of the Companys existing remuneration under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Directors see fit, and policy, which is set out in the Directors which may be satisfied by the subscription ii for cash up to a maximum aggregate remuneration report: and ii a binding of new shares was 3,237,052.
This nominal value of 380,483.83, vote on the Companys forward-looking represents 4% of the issued ordinary share representing 5% of the ordinary share Directors remuneration policy, at least capital at that date.
If Xaar plc was to buy capital of the Company as at 18 March every three years.
back the maximum number of ordinary 2014, otherwise than in connection with shares permitted pursuant to the passing an offer to existing shareholders.
of this resolution, then the total number of 34 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements voting rights either by proxy notice or The Directors do not currently have an Significant interests present in person or by proxy in relation to intention to exercise any power given to Directors interests in the share capital of resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
All them by shareholders to allot shares for the Company are shown in the table on proxy votes are counted and the numbers cash on a non pre-emptive basis and, in page 33.
Major interests i. e. those greater for, against or withheld in relation to each any event, the Directors do not intend to than 3% of which the Company has been resolution are made available at the AGM allot any shares for cash on a non prenotified are shown on page 33. and are published on the Companys emptive basis if such allotment would Company share schemes website after the meeting.
No person exceed the limits established by the The Xaar plc ESOP Trust holds 1.9% of the holds securities carrying special rights guidance published by the investment issued share capital of the Company in trust committees of the ABI and the NAPF.
with regard to control of the Company.
for the benefit of employees of the Group The authorities contained in Resolutions 16 Restrictions and their dependants.
The voting rights in and 17 will expire no later than 15 months There are no restrictions on the transfer of relation to these shares are exercised by after the passing of those resolutions.
ordinary shares in the Company other than: the Trustees.
Additional information certain restrictions may from time to Change of control time be imposed by laws and regulations for shareholders The Company is not party to any for example, insider trading laws and The following provides the additional agreements which take effect, alter market requirements relating to close information required for shareholders or terminate upon a change of control periods, and as a result of the implementation of the of the Company following a takeover pursuant to the Listing Rules of the FCA Takeovers Directive into UK law.
There are no agreements between the whereby all employees of the Company Company and its Directors or employees The structure of the Companys issued require the approval of the Company to providing for compensation for loss of share capital is shown in note 25. deal in the Companys securities.
office or employment whether through The Company is not aware of any resignation, purported redundancy The Companys Articles of Association may agreements between shareholders that or otherwise that occurs because only be amended by a Special Resolution may result in restrictions on the transfer of a takeover bid.
Depending on the at a general meeting of the shareholders.
of securities and or voting rights.
achievement of performance conditions, Directors are reappointed by Ordinary share-based payment arrangements Resolution at a general meeting of The Directors are authorised to issue and may vest on change of control but the shareholders.
allot shares and to undertake purchases this is subject to the approval and of the Companys shares.
Appropriate Appointment of Directors exercise of the discretion of the resolutions to renew these authorities are The Board can appoint a Director but Remuneration Committee.
proposed to be passed at the AGM as anyone so appointed must be elected by detailed above and notice of which is on an Ordinary Resolution at the next general pages 114 to 116. meeting.
All Directors are required to submit themselves for reappointment every year Ordinary shares at the AGM.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held and, on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The notice of the AGM on pages 114 to 116 specifies deadlines for exercising www.
com 35 Directors report Report on the affairs of the Group continued Going concern Auditor The Groups business activities, together Deloitte LLP have expressed their with the factors likely to affect its future willingness to continue in office as auditor development, performance and position and a resolution to reappoint them will be are set out in the strategic report on pages proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Notes 19, 20 and 23 include a Directors statement as to description of the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing disclosure of information to auditor its capital: its financial risk management The Directors who were members of the objectives: details of its financial instruments Board at the time of approving the Directors and hedging activities: and its exposure to report are listed on page 32. credit risk and liquidity risk.
Having made enquiries of fellow Directors, The Group has considerable financial each of these Directors confirm that: resources and through a diverse customer to the best of each Directors knowledge base is exposed not only to the Western and belief, there is no information relevant economies but also China, India and Latin to the preparation of their report of which America.
As a consequence, the Directors the Groups auditor is unaware, and believe that the Group is well placed to each Director has taken all the steps manage its business risks successfully.
a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant After making enquiries, the Directors have audit information and to establish a reasonable expectation that the Group that the Groups auditor is aware has adequate resources to continue in of that information.
operational existence for the foreseeable future, based on the Groups forecasts and This confirmation is given and should projections for the next four years, taking be interpreted in accordance with account of reasonably possible changes in the provisions of section 418 of the trading performance.
For this reason, we Companies Act 2006. continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
36 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
