Market overview The digital inkjet opportunity 2 3 trillion m 2 Over 3 trillion m of material is printed, patterned, decorated or finished each year thats roughly equivalent to the surface area of India.
The pace of inkjets adoption and the rate it Most things we come into displaces existing technologies is driven by contact with on a daily basis some key factors, including cost, speed and are patterned, decorated, printed image quality, which must be met in order or finished in some way.
In fact, for the adoption to take place.
Because of even after excluding printing these characteristics the adoption of inkjet has typically occurred through waves of in the office or the home, over 2 conversion in distinct market segments, 3 trillion m of material is printed, as the developing technology meets the patterned, decorated or finished individual conversion requirements of each year thats roughly equivalent particular applications.
to the surface area of India.
Xaar, a world leader in industrial inkjet, has successfully developed digital technology These items can be broadly split into and manufactured and sold inkjet products, four areas: products, packaging, promotion predominantly printheads, into a number of and publishing.
The printhead is the heart of the like ceramic tiles and laminate flooring.
digital process, depositing fluids, including Packaging includes labels on bottles and inks and coatings, in precisely the right bar codes on boxes.
Promotion includes quantity and in the right place on the advertising banners and posters.
Publishing 97% substrate, without even touching includes books and newspapers.
Around 97% of production the surface.
processes used in the Perhaps surprisingly around 97% To date Xaar has driven, and benefited manufacture of these of production processes used in the from, waves of conversion in two particular items still use traditional manufacture of these items still use analogue technology.
applications: outdoor advertising including traditional analogue technology.
Analogue billboards, posters and banners and sometimes referred to as fixed image ceramic tile decoration, which have both solutions can be very effective when adopted digital inkjet technology.
These two the same image is replicated many, many applications presently use inkjet to annually times.
However, where frequent changes 2 produce over 7 billion m, but represent are required or run lengths are shorter, 2 only 0.2% of the 3 trillion m entire global Products includes things like then digital also known as variable image ceramic tiles and laminate flooring.
processes can provide significant cost Packaging includes labels on and inventory reduction whilst improving Xaars challenge is to expand its existing bottles and bar codes on boxes.
digital inkjet printhead technology into new Promotion includes advertising markets and to develop new technology to banners and posters.
Publishing Over the last 20 years digital imaging includes books and newspapers.
maximise the opportunity that exists from technologies, including digital inkjet, have the conversion of much larger applications emerged for applying images, patterns to digital inkjet.
or finishes in more efficient, flexible and cost-effective ways.
Because of its ability Looking forward, the opportunities for digital to work with a variety of jetting fluids and print continue to develop, with industry substrates, and in difficult environments, forecasts projecting that the conversion to inkjet has the unique ability to potentially digital over the next 10 years is expected replace all current printing techniques.
to be twice that seen over the last 20 years.
2 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2 7bn m The graphics and ceramics sectors presently use inkjet to annually 2 produce over 7 billion m of products.
20 years Over the last 20 years digital imaging technologies, including digital inkjet, have emerged for applying images, patterns or finishes in more efficient, flexible and cost-effective ways.
The printhead is the heart of the digital print process.
Xaars challenge is to expand its existing digital inkjet printhead technology into new markets and to develop new technology to maximise the opportunity that exists from the conversion of much larger applications to digital inkjet.
Xaar, a world leader in inkjet, has successfully developed digital technology and manufactured and sold inkjet products, predominantly printheads, into a number of sectors.
To date, only 3% of the commercial and industrial print market has converted to digital printing, including 1% to digital inkjet.
