Developing new products and new technology We manage our product development programmes Products developed to date use our patented Xaar bulk across three horizons: short term by delivering updates piezo technology.
Our thin film piezo programme is at an and improvements: medium term by developing new early development stage but is on track with the first products or derivatives using existing technologies: product launch targeted in late 2016.
This technology and longer term through research and development will enable us to target a wider range of applications.
Inkjet is a heavily patented area and managing our IP is Over the short to medium term to create and maintain critical to our success, both in terms of protecting our competitive advantage it is critical that we continue to position and avoiding infringing other parties, IP.
Our improve existing products as well as developing new technology is protected by over 500 patents to date.
Over the medium to long term to access a We allocate significant resources to research and greater proportion of the enormous industrial print development to enable the successful completion market we must continue to develop new technology of programmes which will generate future sales.
which can open up new opportunities for the application of digital inkjet in established analogue markets.
We develop and maintain the different sets of skills and processes needed to successfully execute the programmes in each of the three horizons, and we balance our programme portfolio to achieve short, medium and long term objectives targeted at achieving sustained profitable growth.
12 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Progress in 2013 During 2013 we have worked on making our worldleading Xaar 1001 product even better, and this culminated in the launch of the 1002 in early 2014 which delivers even higher print quality and unrivalled reliability.
We have also continued to work on development of the Xaar 501 product, which is targeted to build back our position in Graphic Arts.
This product will commence sampling to customers during the first half of 2014.
Our new gigabit ethernet based electronic driver sub-system named XPM was also developed during 2013, offering customers significantly increased data transfer rates and memory for data intensive applications.
The first units are presently in field trial with commercial shipments expected to commence in H1 2014.
Our thin film programme aims to open up more of the existing analogue market to Xaar through the development of a solution which offers a generational shift in performance.
In December 2013 an internal technology demonstration was successfully delivered by the R&D team, and although there is a long way to go on this challenging programme, progress is encouraging and remains on track versus our expectations.
Also during 2013 the base concept design has been completed for a jetting structure capable of firing droplets 10,000 times larger than those normally used in the imaging decoration process.
This structure will be market tested during 2014 in applications requiring significantly higher drop weights and film thicknesses than standard.
In 2013 we increased our investment in R&D by 105% versus 2012 to 16.4 million, which represented 12% of revenue.
com 13 Building the eco-system To successfully penetrate a market, an eco-system of suppliers to deliver a robust and attractive total solution technical and commercial partnerships must be formed to the end user.
We operate an open ink policy so that to drive and support market conversion.
our customers can choose the ink supplier that best suits them and their application.
In addition, we work in Xaars direct customers are OEMs, who manufacture partnership with the worlds leading ink manufacturers equipment for patterning, decorating, finishing or printing to develop and approve a wide range of inks which are products in a number of different market sectors.
optimised for our printheads and the end application.
We provide our OEM partners with the know-how and ability to incorporate our innovative range of printheads, Given the complexity of the final integrated solution, systems components, and electronics into their it is typical that our partners development cycles are equipment to increase the value and functionality of measured in years rather than months, with successful their own products, and minimise the time required solutions then benefiting from long commercial to bring products to market.
To support these developments we deploy sales and technical support staff globally ensuring a In addition to our close engagement with OEMs we local presence in each of the key geographical regions.
also actively partner and co-develop with fluid suppliers, hardware and software integrators, and substrate 14 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Progress in 2013 We continue to work with the leading OEMs in our target sectors as well as the appropriate fluid suppliers, hardware and software integrators, and substrate suppliers in order to deliver a robust and attractive total solution to the end user.
The selection of Xaar by multiple OEMs for the direct-to-shape programmes is a strong indication of our position as market leader in the development of new applications.
Across all markets and applications Xaar now has approaching 250 active eco-system partners.
com 15 Converting multiple markets The markets and applications that use Xaars printheads To date we have focused on three main sectors: can be diverse but can be grouped to have similar Industrial, which covers ceramics, decorative laminates characteristics and general imaging requirements.
and advanced additive manufacturing: Packaging, which includes product labelling, direct-to-shape Xaars products are designed to provide benefits printing directly onto bottles and containers and coding across multiple applications.
This strategy means we and marking printing bar codes and data : and Graphic can offer solutions across multiple applications through Arts, which includes wide-format graphics typically efficiency in development and implementation.
We also outdoor advertising, posters and banners, commercial continuously enhance product performance which print, and varnishing.
The wide-format graphics sector allows our OEMs to take advantage of upgrades with was the first to adopt industrial inkjet and is, therefore, minimal changes at the system level.
The ceramics market has been moving into digital inkjet decoration over the last ten The Xaar 1001, with its high resolution greyscale years.
However, the pace of change accelerated variable drop size and TF Technology fluid significantly after the Xaar 1001 was launched in 2007. recirculation, ensures an exceptional quality of print in one single pass of the substrate under the printhead, which maximises productivity and delivers significant quality and cost advantages over traditional analogue methods in ceramics and other industrial applications.
Although the Xaar 1001 is the market-leading printhead in the ceramics sector, it is also used for printing primary labels, decorative laminates and packaging.
16 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Progress in 2013 The market-leading Xaar 1001 has continued to make progress in 2013 through multiple applications.
Following the success of the product in European ceramic tile manufacturing from 2010 onwards, the Xaar 1001 has been quickly adopted as the solution of choice for ceramic tile decoration in China, the largest producer and consumer of ceramic tiles with c. 45% of the worlds volume.
Success in the digital decoration of ceramic tiles has uncovered the potential for digital inkjet to provide benefits in other areas of the ceramic tile manufacturing process, such as glaze, structure, and finishing effects.
Whilst some of these areas may be serviced by the Xaar 1001 technology, it is likely that new technology may be required to address the balance of those opportunities.
The Xaar 1001 has also made further progress in packaging applications, with five major OEMs delivering leading edge digital presses to the label market in 2013 and four OEMs demonstrating the potential of direct-toshape technology solutions for the first time in public.
The first digital inkjet decorative laminate lines were installed during 2013, again based on the Xaar 1001.
It is expected that after a successful evaluation phase this technology will gain incremental adoption in this market.
The advanced additive manufacturing development programmes which use the Xaar 1001 range from semiconductors through solar cells to display screens.
com 17 Enhancing our capability In order to successfully develop new products Our state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities are 2 and new technology, and to sustain or grow sales located in Huntingdon, UK 5,000 m and Jrflla, 2 into multiple end markets, we must constantly Sweden 7,000 m. Manufacturing is cleanroom develop our capability in terms of our human and based with 24 7 demands for complex facilities other resources, specifically both our R&D and requirements including climate control, gases manufacturing capacity and capability, and the and chemicals.
The cleanrooms contain islands structure of our organisation.
of processing automation, with custom made or specially modified processing and test equipment.
The success of our business depends on our people Operation is multi-shift and runs with small so we recruit only the best.
We offer competitive processing windows and micron scale tolerances.
salary and benefits packages as well as share Production involves multiple non-reworkable incentive plans and our employees benefit from processing steps, resulting in a highly sensitive extensive training and development opportunities.
cumulative yield: unit cost and throughput are We aim to build long term relationships with all our highly dependent upon yield.
employees by helping them grow and develop and by making Xaar a great place to work and a great Manufacturing is capital intensive: at 31 December Company to be involved with.
The result sees our 2013 we had already invested over 40 million in our employees staying with us for longer and developing Huntingdon facility since it opened in 2006, and we a key understanding of the business.
This makes will be investing a further 20 million before the end sense for our people, our customers and our of 2014.
Capacity must be planned in advance: shareholders we know that employees who increments are on a 12 month lead time.
are engaged with our business deliver better solutions, leading to increased employee satisfaction and increased sales.
18 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Progress in 2013 As noted throughout this report our investment in headcount grew strongly in 2013, with headcount up 43% year on year, closing 2013 at just short of 800 employees.
We continue to develop our induction programme and the training and development opportunities on offer to our staff.
Our efforts to provide competitive benefit and reward packages, to communicate regularly with all staff and to issue clear and fair policies have paid dividends in terms of employee engagement and low absence rates.
In 2012 we completed an 18 month, 22 million expansion programme in our Huntingdon facility to support the success of our technology in the ceramic tile application.
Following the rapid acceleration of the adoption of our technology in China ceramic tile production in quarter four 2012 and early 2013, we began a programme to further increase capacity at the Huntingdon site to ensure that growth over the next few years would not be restricted by the availability of production capability.
We are investing around 30 million in total during 2013 and the first half of 2014 to grow capacity c. 75% above the level delivered by the expansion programme which completed in 2012.
R&D facility space including both laboratories and design development space was increased in the year 2 by 2,500 m, and Xaar now occupies three buildings on the prestigious Cambridge Science Park.
