Board of Directors Dedicated board with a clear vision 1 4 7 2 5 8 3 6 30 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 1.
David Cheesman Chairman Research and Development Director Non-Executive Director Age 65 Age 50 Age 70 Phil has extensive experience of high Ramon joined Xaar in August 2007.
He had David joined Xaar in July 2011.
He started with previously been Programme Manager and an electrical engineering degree from City co-founding a software business and technology Strategy Director in the large University before qualifying as a Chartered subsequently spent 18 years until 2002 at format printing division of Hewlett Packard, Engineer with UKAEA.
He was a senior Hewlett Packard in various senior positions, where he spent 13 years in Barcelona, engineer with Honeywell, Chief Engineer at most recently as Chairman and Managing Spain, all of them in R&D.
He was trained CASE Ltd, Technical Operations Director at Director of Hewlett Packard, UK and Ireland.
as an industrial engineer and has a Masters Univac, Vice President International with Since leaving Hewlett Packard, he has been degree in Mechanical Engineering, a Prime Computer Inc. and CEO of Dowty Chairman of both public companies as well Masters in Automotive Business and Information Systems Ltd.
He then joined as a number of technology companies, Technology, and an Executive Certificate the venture capital industry in 1989 and was backed by private equity and venture capital from MIT-Sloan.
Ramon was Vice President head of the High Technology Investment investors.
and Secretary of the Board of Directors of Unit at 3i, a Partner in TriTech Investments, the Imaging Science and Technology and then spent 12 years as a General 2.
Ian Dinwoodie Society from 2005 to 2010.
He has held Chief Executive many directorships on investee companies 5.
Ted Wiggans in the electronics, telecommunications and Age 53 Operations and Quality Director advanced materials sectors.
He was Ian joined Xaar in September 2001 as recently a Non-Executive Director of LSI Group Operations Director and was Age 58 Lasers Ltd, Celoxica plc, Inca Digital Ltd, appointed Chief Executive in July 2003.
Ted joined Xaar in January 2011, with over and K2 Optronics Inc. With over 30 years experience in high 30 years experience in high technology technology industries, he has held a variety operations.
Robin Williams of roles in engineering, quality assurance Xaar he was Chief Operating Officer at Senior Independent Director and operations within the semiconductor, Cambridge Semiconductor Ltd CamSemi.
electronics and electronic imaging sectors.
Before joining CamSemi in 2006, he was Age 56 Previous companies include Ferranti Operations Director at Zetex Semiconductors Robin joined Xaar in March 2010.
He Electronics, Digital Equipment Corporation, with overall responsibility for its multi-site, obtained an Engineering degree from and Crosfield Electronics.
Immediately prior multi-national manufacturing activities and a Oxford before qualifying as a Chartered to joining Xaar, he held the position of global team of 500.
In addition, he has held Accountant with Peat Marwick Mitchell.
director of manufacturing for Fujifilm senior-level manufacturing, engineering and He spent ten years as a corporate advisor Electronic Imaging Ltd. quality roles with Motorola and Philips.
He is before co-founding Britton Group plc in a Chartered Engineer and a member of the 1992.
As CEO of Britton, he grew the 3.
Alex Bevis Manufacturing Industries Division Board of business to 250 million revenues within Finance Director and the IMechE.
six years, before selling to a competitor.
He was then an Executive Director of Hepworth Company Secretary 6.
Richard Barham plc, with a leading role in the rationalisation Age 38 Sales and Marketing Director and subsequent sale of the group.
He has Alex joined Xaar in February 2011 after ten subsequently held various public and private Age 52 years at CSR plc Cambridge Silicon Radio.
company directorships across a range of Richard joined Xaar in March 2012, and was He held a variety of key finance roles at industries including business services, previously Vice President of Inkjet at Agfa CSR, supporting the growth of the business healthcare, outsourcing, contracting, and Graphics N. V. He brings over 25 years of including the IPO in 2004 and multiple manufacturing.
Robin is currently Chairman international sales and marketing expertise acquisitions.
He was most recently of NHS Professionals Ltd, and a Nonacross many sectors of the imaging and employed as Vice President of Finance.
Executive Director of AH Worth & Company printing industries and has held senior He qualified as a Chartered Accountant Ltd, and Baronsmead VCT 4 plc.
management positions at Agfa, including with Deloitte prior to joining CSR in 2000.
VP Research & Development, VP Global Marketing and Product Development and VP Commercial Printing.
