s e r u t S c e a l f l s u n a M Business model Creating sustainable value Xaar is the worlds leading supplier of industrial printheads.
The core business is the design, manufacture, marketing and sale of printheads and associated products, and Xaar also receives licensee royalty income from the legacy licensing model.
Xaar designs Xaar manufactures Xaar invests a substantial proportion Xaar manufactures its printheads in of sales 12% in 2013 in R&D to remain Huntingdon, UK and Jrflla, Sweden.
a world leader in inkjet technology.
The Huntingdon plant produces the Xaar 1 001 product range whilst the plant Xaars innovative products are used in in Sweden produces the popular Xaar a range of print applications including 1 28 printhead for the wide-format wide-format graphics, ceramics, labels, graphics market.
packaging, coding and marking, and decorative laminates.
In 2013 a programme began to further increase capacity in Huntingdon by 75% Xaar has around 500 patents and patent during 2013-2014.
The Huntingdon plant applications and continues to add to its headcount significantly increased during Intellectual Property IP portfolio.
2013, with engineering and production During 2013 we increased the R&D staff numbers growing by 57%, to headcount by 64%.
Our HQ is based support the demand for our products.
in the prestigious Cambridge Science Park, Cambridge, UK which is also where our R&D is located, over three sites.
Xaar sells Xaar sells to OEMs around the world through its regional sales offices and Xaar markets Xaar-approved distributors.
Xaars highly Xaar offers a wide range of industrial skilled application engineers offer the inkjet printheads which are designed and highest level of technical support to assist produced to meet the customer-driven OEMs in the successful design, build, requirements of a range of manufacturing commissioning, and ongoing maintenance applications.
Primary markets include of printing systems.
Europe and Asia graphics, labels, packaging, outer case are the primary location of OEMs.
10 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 s M n a g r i k s e e t D s Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our Strategy to drive the development of Xaar technology into selected multiple applications and industries, delivering sustainable profitable growth.
Risk Governance Remuneration Key performance indicators The risk management policy Details of the effective governance The Directors remuneration report The key performance indicators and principal risks and of the Company can be found in sets out the policies and practices KPIs relating to our strategy are uncertainties are discussed the Governance section of this on executive remuneration.
set out on pages 20 and 21. on pages 24 and 25. annual report.
Read more page 24 Read more page 37 Read more page 44 Read more page 20 Developing new products and new technology Read more page 12 Building the eco-system Read more page 14 Converting multiple markets Read more page 16 Enhancing our capability Read more page 18 www.
