STRATEGIC REPORT ExEcutivE committEE objEctivEs The Executive Committee sets annual objectives which focus on deliverables in support of delivery of both short-term results and the overall long-term strategy.
Performance against the 2013 objectives is discussed below.
Recognising the strong momentum in delivery of the strategy, the objectives for 2014 remain unchanged.
See the Group Strategic Framework on pages 7 and 8 See the Groups Key Performance Indicators on pages 26 to 28 2013 objective 2013 performance 2014 objective 1 Underlying earnings per share was above threshold, but below target.
Meet 2014 financial Financial 2 3 Order intake was on target.
Net cash debt was above target, but targets pErFormancE below stretch.
Meet 2013 financial targets See Annual remuneration report on page 94 1 Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and non-recurring items see note 8 tothe Group accounts.
2 Including share of equity accounted investments.
See page 12 for more information 3 See note 10 to the Group accounts.
2013 objective 2013 performance 2014 objective The Group continued to deliver on its commitments to its customers with Continued focus on customEr Focus good programme execution reflected in an overall improvement in outturn improving customer and programmE margin across its major programmes.
satisfaction and programme execution ExEcution Continued focus on improving customer satisfaction and programme execution See pages 10 and 11 for more information 2013 objective 2013 performance 2014 objective Group targets for safety and environment were met.
All Executive Progress towards rEsponsiblE Committee members met their individual targets for diversity and recognised leading bEhaviour inclusion.
positions Progress towards recognised See Annual remuneration report on page 94 leading positions See page 13 for more information 2013 objective 2013 performance 2014 objective Strategy workshops and supporting materials have been rolled out to Inspire and engage our EngagEmEnt employees across the businesses during the year to help employees people to deliver Inspire and engage our people torecognise their role in delivering the Groups strategic objectives.
success to deliver success See page 114 for more information 24 BAE SyStEmS ANNUAl REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT 2013 objective 2013 performance 2014 objective The business achieved important contract wins in strategically important Be agile, sustain ElEctronic areas, including in the electronic warfare and commercial aircraft revenues and deliver systEms electronics markets, and on the US Armys Joint Effects Targeting System strong bottom line programme.
Return on sales was maintained around 14%.
performance Be agile, sustain revenues and deliver strong bottom line performance See pages 38 to 42 for more information 2013 objective 2013 performance 2014 objective Whilst the Intelligence & Security business was significantly impacted Enhance and grow our cybEr & byUS budget pressures and the partial government shutdown, it has positions in cyber, intElligEncE continued to build a leadership position in activity-based intelligence and intelligence and security was awarded a three-year follow-on contract to the Counter-Improvised Enhance and grow our Explosive Device programme.
Applied Intelligence has been awarded positions in cyber, intelligence strategically important contracts, including with Vodafone for secure and security mobile services and with the Foreign & Commonwealth Office for managed IT services.
The Applied Intelligence order backlog grew by 60%in 2013.
See pages 43 to 47 for more information 2013 objective 2013 performance 2014 objective In land & Armaments, cost reduction actions continued and return on Drive value from our platForms & sales increased to 9.3%.
There was a production order from the US Army landportfolio and deliver sErvicEs us on Paladin Integrated Management and export awards for BvS10 vehicles sustainable, profitable and M113 upgrades.
Support Solutions won multi-year contracts in the growth in the services Drive value from our US for munitions facilities management and support to ballistic missiles.
sector land portfolio and deliver A letter of Agreement for upgrades and systems integration on F-16 aircraft sustainable, profitable growth for South Korea was finalised.
Performance was impacted by USbudget in the services sector pressures, as well as charges taken on the Radford Army Ammunition Plant contract, commercial shipbuilding activity and not being awarded See pages 48 to 52 for follow-on options on the US Navy aircraft maintenance contract.
more information 2013 objective 2013 performance 2014 objective Strong programme performance delivered a return on sales of 12.8%.
In Deliver sustainably platForms & air, work progressed on the Omani Typhoon and Hawk aircraft contract, profitable through-life sErvicEs uK and the first Typhoon Tranche 3 aircraft was delivered to the Royal Air businesses in the air, Force.
In maritime, the business reached agreement in principle with the maritime, combat Deliver sustainably profitable UKs Ministry of Defence on the restructuring of the UK naval ships vehicles and munitions through-life businesses in the business.
Good progress was made on the Type 26 frigate and sectors air, maritime and combat Successor submarine design contracts.
vehicles sectors See pages 53 to 57 for more information 2013 objective 2013 performance 2014 objective In Saudi Arabia, on the Salam Typhoon programme, aircraft deliveries Grow our Platforms & platForms & resumed, afive-year support contract for 1.8bn was received and price Services International sErvicEs escalation terms were agreed.
On the Saudi British Defence Co-operation business Programme, 1.5bn of orders were received for Tornado upgrades and intErnational weapons procurement.
In Australia, good progress was made on the Grow our Platforms & Services landing Helicopter Dock programme and additional blocks were contracted International business on the Air Warfare Destroyer programme.
The business was also awarded a five-year contract to continue to support Royal Australian Air Force Hawk aircraft.
See pages 58 to 61 for more information BAE SyStEmS ANNUAl REPORT 2013 25
