Governance GOVERNANCE BOARd Of diRECtORs Chairman Executive directors Skills and experience: Appointed to the Board on 1February 2014 as president and Chief executive officer ofBAe Systems, Inc. following the retirement oflindaHudson, Jerry DeMuro is an experienced USexecutive who has worked in the national security, technology and aerospace industry for over 30 years.
Most recently he served as executive vice president and corporate vice president of General Dynamics Information Systems and Technology Group, leading adiverse portfolio focused on secure mobile communication systems, information technology solutions and mission support services, and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems.
Sir Roger Carr Chairman Ian King Chief executive earlier in his career, he spent almost a decade as an Appointed to the Board: 2013 Appointed to the Board: 2007 acquisition official at the US Department of Defense.
Nationality: British Nationality: British Committee membership: Non-executive Directors Fees Committee Skills and experience: Appointed to the Board on Skills and experience: Appointed as Chief executive 1october 2013 as Chairman designate, Sir Roger in2008 having been originally appointed to the Board succeeded Sir Richard olver as Chairman on as Chief operating officer, UK and Rest of the World.
He was chairman of the Board of He was previously Group Managing Director of the Centrica plc from 2004 until he stepped down from Companys Customer Solutions & Support business that role on 31 December 2013.
He has previously and, prior to that, Group Strategy and planning held a number of senior appointments including Director.
prior to the BAe MeS merger he was chairman of Cadbury plc, Thames Water plc and Chiefexecutive of Alenia Marconi Systems, having Mitchells & Butlers plc, and president of the previously served as Finance Director of Marconi Confederation of British Industry.
career, he has served on a number of external Other appointments: Non-executive director and Senior committees, including the Higgs Committee on Independent Director of Rotork p. l. c. Corporate Governance and Business for New europe.
Peter Lynas Group Finance Director Committee membership: Non-executive Directors Fees Other appointments: He remains deputy chairman and Committee senior independent director of the Court of the Bank of Appointed to the Board: 2011 england and is a member of the UK prime Ministers Nationality: British Business Advisory Group.
He is also a senior adviser to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and a trustee of the Skills and experience: peter lynas, a qualified landau Forte Charitable Trust.
He is a fellow of the accountant, was appointed to the Board as Group Royal Society for the encouragement of Arts, Finance Director in 2011.
He previously served for Manufactures and Commerce, and a visiting fellow anumber of years as Director, Financial Control, tothe Said Business School, oxford.
He joined GeC-Marconi in 1985 having previously worked for other companies in the Committee membership: Chairman of the Nominations UK and europe.
After progressing through a number Committee and the Non-executive Directors Fees ofpositions he was appointed Finance Director of Committee GeCs Marconi electronic Systems business, which was subsequently acquired by British Aerospace in Jerry Demuro president and Chief executive officer of 1999 to become BAe Systems.
Appointed to the Board: 2014 Nationality: US BAE SyStEmS ANNUAl RepoRT 2013 67 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECtORS Non-executive directors Skills and experience: Chris Grigg was appointed to Other past appointments: Non-executive director of theBoard as a non-executive director on 1 July 2013. edwards Group limited, Mot Hennessy SNC and He is Chief executive of The British land Company plC Scottish power plc and has more than 30 years experience in the Committee membership: Chairman of the Audit financial and real estate industries in a range of Committee, and member of the Nominations leadership roles.
prior to joining British land as its Committee and Remuneration Committee Chief executive in 2009, he was an executive with Barclays Bank and previously spent over 20 years atGoldman Sachs where he rose to the position ofpartner.
Committee membership: Remuneration Committee Paul Anderson Non-executive director Appointed to the Board: 2009 Nationality: US Skills and experience: paul Anderson has extensive global business experience in the energy and mining Carl Symon Non-executive director sectors.
He spent more than 20 years in two spells atDuke energy Corporation and its predecessor Appointed to the Board: 2008 companies, culminating in his appointment as Chairman, president and Chief executive officer.
Nationality: British US Hewas subsequently Chairman of Spectra energy Paula Rosput Reynolds Non-executive director Skills and experience: Carl Symon has an extensive Corporation until 2009 and in the intervening period background in global business operations and heserved as Managing Director and Chief executive Appointed to the Board: 2011 management, retiring in 2001 after a long career at officer of BHp and, subsequently, of the newly merged IBM during which he held senior executive positions BHp Billiton.
Nationality: US inthe US, Canada, latin America, Asia and europe, Other appointments: Non-executive director of Bp p. l. c. Skills and experience: paula Rosput Reynolds is including that of Chairman and Chief executive officer Chiefexecutive officer and president of the business of IBM UK.
Other past appointments: Non-executive director of advisory group, preferWest, llC.
She had previously BHp Billiton plc, Qantas Airways limited and Spectra Other appointments: Non-executive director of Thomas spent over 20 years in the energy sector in a variety energy Corporation Cook Group plc ofoperational roles, culminating in her appointment aspresident and Chief executive officer of AGl Committee membership: Chairman of the Corporate Other past appointments: Non-executive director of Resources in 2002.
She subsequently served as Responsibility Committee and member of the BTGroup plc, Rexam plC and Rolls-Royce Group plc, president and Chief executive officer of Safeco Nominations Committee and Chairman of HMV Group plc Corporation, an insurance company located in Seattle, Washington, until its acquisition by liberty Mutual Committee membership: Chairman of the Group in 2008.
She was then appointed as Vice Remuneration Committee Chairman and Chief Restructuring officer of American International Group, Inc. AIG from october 2008 to September 2009, overseeing AIGs divestiture of assets and serving as chief liaison with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Other appointments: Non-executive director of Delta Airlines, Inc. Anadarko petroleum Corporation and TransCanada Corporation Other past appointments: Non-executive director of Harriet Green OBE Non-executive director Coca-Cola enterprises, Inc. and Air products and Appointed to the Board: 2010 Chemicals, Inc. Ian tyler Non-executive director Nationality: British Committee membership: Audit Committee Appointed to the Board: 2013 Skills and experience: Appointed as Chief executive officer and executive director of Thomas Cook Group Nationality: British plc in 2012.
She was previously Chief executive officer Skills and experience: Ian Tyler was appointed to the and executive director of premier Farnell plc, a leading, Board as a non-executive director on 8 May 2013. high service, multi-channel technology distribution Heserved as Chief executive of Balfour Beatty plc group.
Harriet Green has significant global business fora period of eight years stepping down from that experience having run volume distribution businesses position in 2013.
A Chartered Accountant, he joined in four continents for premier Farnell and volume Balfour Beatty as Finance Director in 1996 having distributor, Arrow electronics, Inc. She is a member spent his earlier career in a variety of finance roles.
ofthe UK prime Ministers Business Advisory Group.
Other appointments: Chairman of Bovis Homes Group Other appointments: Non-executive director of emerson plC and Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and a electric Co. Nick Rose Non-executive director and Senior non-executive director of Cairn energy plC and Independent Director Committee membership: Corporate Responsibility Cable&Wireless Communications plc Committee Appointed to the Board: 2010 Other past appointments: Non-executive director of Nationality: British VTGroup plc Skills and experience: Nick Rose held the position of Committee membership: Audit Committee and Chief Financial officer of Diageo plc for over ten years Corporate Responsibility Committee until october 2010 where, in addition to his finance responsibilities, he was also responsible for supply, procurement, strategy and IT on a global basis.
His Company Secretary financial experience has encompassed a number of David Parkes roles since joining Diageos predecessor company, Grand Metropolitan, in 1992, including group treasurer and group controller, having spent his earlier career with Ford Finance.
He assumed the chairmanship of Chris Grigg Non-executive director the Companys Audit Committee in 2011 and was appointed as the Companys Senior Independent Appointed to the Board: 2013 Director in January 2013.
Nationality: British Other appointments: Chairman of Williams Grand prix Holdings plC.
Non-executive director of BT Group plc 68 BAE SyStEmS ANNUAl RepoRT 2013
