STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT group Strategic fraMeWorK The Group Strategic Framework illustrates the different elements and actionsrequired to deliver sustained growth and achieve our vision to bethepremier globaldefence, aerospace and security company.
Our Vision is to be the premier global defence, aerospace and security company Our Mission is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value through our commitment to Total Performance Customer Focus | Programme Execution | Financial Performance | Responsible Behaviour Our Values are Trusted, Innovative and Bold Our Strategy Support our customers in safeguarding their vital interests Inspire and develop our people to drive our success Drive shareholder value by improving financial performance and competitive positions across the business Strategic Actions Grow our Cyber, Drive value Improve pro t and Grow Electronic Increase our cash generation Intelligence Systems from our Platform international and Security and Services business business positions Integrated Business Plans See Executive Committee objectives on page 24 BAE SyStEmS AnnuAL REPoRT 2013 7 S STR tRA ATE tEG GIC IC R REP EPO OR RT t GROUP StRAtEGIC FRAmEWORK The key elements of the Group Strategic Framework are explained below.
Consistent with the strong momentum BAE Systems has built over recent years, the Group Strategic Framework remains unchanged for 2014.
Our Vision our Vision provides a clear definition of the future we are striving to achieve, which drives us to go above and beyond and outperform the competition.
Our mission our Mission describes our overall goal and the philosophy behind our activities, which is key to achieving our Vision.
Total Performance is demonstrated in every aspect of the way we do business.
Our Values our Values enable us to achieve a culture of Total Performance.
Living these shared values by delivering on our commitments, creating leading-edge solutions and taking Delivery of the strategy the initiative, underpins how we deliver our strategy.
is supported by the Groups business model which is detailed on pages 9 to 19 and brought to life with examples Our Strategy of the strategy in action.
our Strategy defines the direction and shape of the Group over the long term.
This enables us to prioritise resources and remain agile to adapt to changes in this challenging environment.
Strategic Actions our Strategic Actions are the five key focus areas that will enable the business to meet our objectives and deliver against the overall strategy.
Integrated Business Plans our Integrated Business Plans translate our overarching strategy into operational plans that are delivered through the lines of business.
