STRATEGIC REPORT SeGmental performance The Group has five principal reporting segments which align with the Groups strategic direction.
2 Comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted customer orders.
3 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items see page 33.
4 net cash inflow outflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets contributed to Trust.
6 Including share of equity accounted investments order backlog and before the elimination of intra-group order backlog.
7 The appropriate work share of the Saudi Aircraft Acquisition under the Saudi British Defence Co-operation programme, Saudi Typhoon Aircraft and Saudi Typhoon Support contracts is reported within platforms & Services uK.
36 BAE SySTEmS AnnuAl REpORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT 2,5, 6 2,5, 6 Order backlog by reporting segment % Top 15 programmes in order backlog % 1 1 2 2 3 5 4 3 4 1 Electronic Systems 8 1 Platforms & Services US 4 2 Cyber & Intelligence 2 2 Platforms & Services UK 37 3 Platforms & Services US 17 3 Platforms & Services International 13 4 Platforms & Services UK 46 4 Remaining order backlog 46 5 Platforms & Services International 27 2,5, 6 54% of the order backlog is represented by the Groups top 15 programmes, with the remaining 46% 1,2 The Group has a 42.7bn order backlog.
spread across the five principal reporting segments.
2,5, 6 Top 15 programmes in order backlog summary Platforms & Services US Programme Description End user munitions Acquisition Supply Solution Capability provision and manufacture of general munitions British Army Paladin Integrated management PIm low-Rate Initial production of 18.5 vehicle sets, comprising 19 pIM uS Army howitzers and 18 pIM Carrier Ammunition Tracked vehicles Norway CV90 Armoured Combat Vehicles Supply of 144 new and 103 upgraded CV90 armoured combat vehicles norwegian Army Platforms & Services UK Programme Description End user Queen Elizabeth Class Aircraft Carriers Design and manufacture of two 65,000 tonne aircraft carriers Royal navy Astute Class Submarines Design and manufacture of seven nuclear-powered attack submarines Royal navy Successor Submarine Design of nuclear-powered submarine to carry the uKs nuclear deterrent Royal navy Typhoon Tranche 3A Aircraft Manufacture of 88 Typhoon combat aircraft Air forces of the uK, Germany, Italy and Spain Typhoon Tranche 2 Aircraft Manufacture of 236 Typhoon combat aircraft Air forces of the uK, Germany, Italy and Spain Oman Typhoon and Hawk Aircraft Supply of 12 Typhoon and eight Hawk aircraft and in-service support Royal Air Force of Oman Availability Transformation Tornado Availability service for Tornado aircraft, including maintenance, support Royal Air Force Aircraft Contract ATTAC andtraining Platforms & Services International Programme Description End user Saudi British Defence Co-operation provision of support to operational capability, including the provision Royal Saudi Air Force 7 Programme oftraining aircraft, manpower, logistics and training 7 Saudi Typhoon Aircraft Supply of 72 Typhoon combat aircraft Royal Saudi Air Force 7 Saudi Typhoon Support Availability contract for Typhoon aircraft, including maintenance, support Royal Saudi Air Force and training Landing Helicopter Dock Design, production and supply of two 27,000 tonne amphibious landing Royal Australian navy Helicopter Dock ships Aster Phase 3 Full-scale production of Aster 15 and 30 missiles French, Italian and Royal navies, French Air Force and Italian Army BAE SySTEmS AnnuAl REpORT 2013 37 STRATEGIC REPORT ElEctronic systEms 1 Electronic Systems, with 12,500 employees, comprises theUS and UK-based electronics activities, including electronic warfare systems and electro-optical sensors, military and commercial digital engine and flight controls, next-generation military communications systems and data links, persistent surveillance capabilities, and hybrid electric drive systems.
2013 EXEcUtiVE committEE oBJEctiVE Electronic Combat Be agile, sustain revenues and deliver strong bottom lineperformance Under Foreign Military Sale contracts totalling over $0.9bn 0.5bn, the kEy charactEristics Digital Electronic Warfare System n Broad base of programmes, with more than 5,000 active contracts DEWS will be installed on 84 new F-15 aircraft with upgrades to 70 n No programme greater than 5% of sales existing F-15 aircraft for the Royal n Cutting-edge technology and capabilities, with significant levels of research Saudi Air Force.
The Group continues anddevelopment invested in the business to pursue other export opportunities for the DEWS suite, which provides n 21% of total sales are to commercial customers advanced radar warning and countermeasure capabilities, improved situational awareness, offensive targeting support and self-protection.
38 BAE SySTEmS ANNUAl REpoRT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Sales analysis: activity % Sales analysis: defence and commercial % Progress on sustainability 1 1 Recordable Accident Rate 21% 5 2 Major injuries 2 Energy 4 3 Water 1 Electronic Combat 23 1 Defence 79 Waste 2 Survivability & Targeting 19 2 Commercial 21 3 Communications & Control 21 4 Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance ISR 17 5 Commercial Aircraft electronics HybriDrive propulsion 20 2013 2012 2011 1 KpI Funded order intake 2,697m 2,540m 2,620m 1,4 order backlog 3.7bn 3.6bn 3.6bn 1 Sales KpI 2,466m 2,507m 2,645m 2 KpI Underlying EBITA 346m 356m 386m Return on sales 14.0% 14.2% 14.6% 3 Cash inflow KpI 235m 256m 268m Financial kEy points 1,4 n 6% like-for-like increase in order backlog 1 n Sales reduced by 2%, with growth in the commercial business mitigating the defence decline n Return on sales maintained at around 14% opErational kEy points n Maintained a leadership position in the electronic warfare market, with strong performance on  F-35 lightning II n Won a development contract on the US Armys Joint Effects Targeting System programme n Strengthened position in the Identification Friend or Foe market n Strengthened position in the high-growth commercial aircraft electronics market n Not selected on the US Armys next-generation Mid-tier Networking Vehicular Radio programme 5 n 0.2bn of research and development expenditure in 2013 sUstainaBility kEy points n Increase in Recordable Accident Rate primarily due to an increase in outside slips, trips or falls n Reduced energy and water usage, and quantity of waste produced 1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items see page 33.
3 Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets contributed to Trust.
4 Comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted customer orders.
5 Includes both Group-funded and customer-funded expenditure.
BAE SySTEmS ANNUAl REpoRT 2013 39 STRATEGIC REPORT ELECTRONIC SySTEmS Survivability & Targeting BAE Systems was awarded a contract to support the US Armys Joint Effects Targeting System programme based on the HAMMER precision targeting system, which has been designed to enhance soldiers ability to rapidly identify, precisely locate and accurately mark targets for Global positioning System-guided and laser-guided munitions in all weather and lighting conditions.
Survivability & Targeting Financial performance Operational performance Electronic Systems continues to execute Despite US budget pressures, order Electronic Combat its$38m 23m technology development 1,4 backlog of 3.7bn was up from the start Electronic Systems maintains its leadership contract in a competition to provide the ofthe year, benefiting from production awards position in the US electronic warfare market.
Common Infrared Countermeasures capability on the Terminal High-Altitude Area Defence Under the flight test programme for the for the US Army, meeting or exceeding every programme.
electronic warfare suite on the F-35 lightning programme milestone.
The programme is now II programme, initial design verification testing 1 Sales compared with 2012 decreased by in a government-led test phase.
of the system was completed.
The production lRIp lot 6 deliveries continued The Advanced precision Kill Weapon System commercial areas of the business amount throughout the year and initial lot 7 deliveries continues to demonstrate its versatility, to21%, having seen sales growth in the year commenced.
The business was awarded completing qualification and successful of 8%.
This helped to offset some of the anot-to-exceed contract of $143m 86m testing on almost a dozen fixed and rotary pressures on the defence side, which forlRIp lot 8. wing platforms for the US armed forces.
The reducedby 5% in the year.
business continues to execute its $69m Under contracts totalling over $0.9bn 0.5bn, 42m Full-Rate production contract.
More The return on sales achieved was 14.0% the Digital Electronic Warfare System DEWS than 2,000 systems have been delivered, with 2012 14.2%.
programme execution will be installed on 84 new F-15 aircraft with continued positive feedback from performance remained strong, with good risk retirement upgrades to 70 existing F-15 aircraft for the in theatre.
and in-year benefit from continued cost Royal Saudi Air Force.
Initial flight testing reduction actions.
The business continues The Terminal High-Altitude Area Defence 3 2 to pursue other export opportunities for the Cash flow conversion of underlying EBITA programme provides a transportable, rapidly DEWS suite.
fortheyear was 68%, but excluding pension deployable, ground-based capability to deficit funding, that conversion rate was 89%.
intercept and destroy ballistic missiles inside The business was successful in demonstrating or outside the atmosphere during their final thelong-Range Anti-Ship Missile lRASM phase of flight.
BAE Systems has received prototype in a direct-hit live missile shot test orders of $340m 205m in combined US under a joint programme of the Defense government and Foreign Military Sales to the Advanced Research projects Agency and the United Arab Emirates.
offering capabilities not available in current cruise missile systems, BAE Systems was awarded a $15m 9m lRASM is a next-generation, anti-ship missile contract to support the US Armys Joint for which the business provides a radio Effects Targeting System programme in March frequency sensor used for targeting.
lRASM with its HAMMER precision targeting is being developed as an advanced prototype system, which has been designed to enhance for rapid transition to the US Navys offensive soldiers ability to rapidly identify, precisely Anti-Surface Weapon programme.
locate and accurately mark targets for Global positioning System-guided and laser-guided BAE Systems was not awarded thetechnology munitions in all weather and lighting development contract for the Next-Generation conditions.
The contract initiates athree-year Jammer.
engineering and manufacturing development phase, and is a key win that advances BAESystems market leadership inprecision targeting systems.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
40 BAE SySTEmS ANNUAl REpoRT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Communications & Control The business supplies Active Inceptors for the F-35 lightningII which are the pilot interface inthe cockpit, providing tactile feedback through the stick and throttle.
Commercial Aircraft electronics The business is well positioned, with robust growth forecast in commercial aviation and related products and services in an industry expected to grow by 5% annually over the next decade.
Itsposition with Boeing was enhanced with wins on the 737 MAX andby joining the partnering for Success initiative that will re-inforce its standing as a preferred supplier to Boeing.
Communications & Control In 2013, BAE Systems achieved a cumulative The F-35 lightning II programme continues equivalent of 7,000 years in space across its tobe a key platform for the Groups avionics three generations of space computers.
The products with deliveries on plan for the third-generation RAD750 computer has now activeinceptor and vehicle management been launched on more than 35 satellites systems.
The US Air Force has discontinued supporting civil, national and commercial second sourcing efforts for the advanced missions.
The business is continuing to helmet system that was being provided by innovate in the space processing market BAESystems.
withthe development of its next-generation space computer.
BAE Systems was not selected on the US Armys next-generation Mid-tier Networking The business continues to provide Signal Vehicular Radio competition.
Intelligence SIGINT capability for the US Armyand Special operations Command.
Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance These programmes are based on the Groups ISR S-3000 family of SIGINT systems and have The business continues to provide Airborne successfully deployed with multiple customers.
Surveillance capability for the US Air Force and US Army.
These key programmes are Commercial Aircraft electronics based on two wide-area, high-resolution The business continues to expand its market imaging sensor systems, the Airborne Wide opportunities for Full Authority Digital Engine Area persistent Surveillance System, which Controls FADEC.
FADEC Alliance, a joint has been operational for more than 16,000 venture between FADEC International, the hours in theatre, and the Autonomous Groups joint venture with Sagem, and GE Real-time Ground Ubiquitous Surveillance Aviation, delivered the leap FADEC and Imaging System.
successfully completed testing on GEs passport 20 engine.
Entry into service of The business is providing state-of-the-art thepassport engine, which will power processing capabilities to Boeing for the Bombardiers Global 7000 and 8000 jets, USNavys p-8A poseidon programme, which isscheduled for 2016.
The leap FADEC has entered Full-Rate production.
Sixteen willbe used on the Boeing 737 MAX and production mission computer and display Airbus A320neo.
systems have been delivered to the US Navy.
Following successful first flights of Embraers Eight systems have been delivered to the mid-size business jet, legacy, and Bombardiers Indian Navy, the first international customer.
CSeries regional aircraft, enabled by several In the Identification Friend or Foe market, flight control subsystems provided by BAESystems has been awarded a $34m BAESystems, efforts are now focused on 21m contract to provide its enhanced both aircraft entering full revenue service.
Combined Interrogator Transponder system tothe US Air Force and participating European air force partners.
Deliveries of the Reduced Size Transponder have been completed for the US Navys Triton System Design and Development programme and BAESystems isnow under contract for low-Rate Initial production.
BAE SySTEmS ANNUAl REpoRT 2013 41 STRATEGIC REPORT ELECTRONIC SySTEmS HybriDrive propulsion BAE Systems has delivered 4,200 HybriDrive propulsion systems since 2004 through six bus manufacturers, which are now in service with more than 80 operators.
BAE Systems is a supplier on the Boeing Sustainability performance Looking forward 737MAX, notably with the fly-by-wire spoiler Safety Efforts to reduce the US governments budget controls.
Contracts awarded to the Group The business experienced a 21% increase deficit are expected to continue to impact have a total potential value of $1bn 0.6bn inthe Recordable Accident Rate, which was government spend.
A bipartisan budget over the life of the aircraft programme.
driven largely by an increase in outside slips, proposal was approved in December 2013 trips or falls.
Safety remains a key value and that mitigates the full impact of the Sequester The business has opened a new office in the business continues to maintain long-term for 2014 and 2015.
The Group expects lower Shanghai which will enable it to expand its injury rates better than benchmarked defence spending than previously programmed, commercial aftermarket presence in China, world-class companies.
Updated ergonomics but the cuts are not expected to be as whilst strengthening existing and developing and injury illness prevention plans were rolled significant or indiscriminate as they would new partnerships with in-country suppliers out in 2013. have been under Sequestration.
Diversity and inclusion Whilst further funding reductions and the HybriDrive propulsion The business supported US-wide diversity resultant slow down or cancellation of Dijon, France, a new customer for the andinclusion activities, including inclusive ongoingand new programmes could impact business, has taken delivery of 102 buses leadership training, the launch of employee the business, Electronic Systems continues from Iveco powered by HybriDrive propulsion resource groups, and introducing diverse tobe well-positioned to address the changing systems, making it the largest hybrid fleet in candidate shortlists and interview panels for US Department of Defense priorities with its mainland Europe.
King County Metro, Seattle, executive roles.
leadership involvement and balanced portfolio of programmes and Washington, purchased 120 New Flyer buses multiple activities within the business have customers, and its sustained emphasis on powered by HybriDrive Series-E systems, the advanced the diversity maturity level in 2013. cost reduction and research and development.
countys latest hybrid product, to add to its existing HybriDrive-powered fleet.
Environment The business expects to benefit from its BAE Systems, partnering with the City of incumbent positions and ability to provide Austin, Texas, installed a new water treatment capability upgrades on platforms.
The process which uses water from a local waste business anticipates increased activity on water treatment plant to run the sites chilled international defence programmes and water condenser systems, rather than potable continued growth in the commercial water.
The process is expected to save the aviationmarket.
business $65,000 per year and reduce annual potable water consumption in the drought-ridden region by an estimated ten million gallons.
Engagement In addition to its successful quarterly one Team Award programme, Electronic Systems introduced a special employee recognition award this year, the pathFinder award.
The one Team Award recognises teams for exemplifying one or more of five imperatives demonstrated through end-user impact: community focus: technology innovation: collaboration: best practices: and overall value to the business.
The quarterly pathFinder award recognises those teams orindividuals whose innovative contributions helped to lead the way and grow the business.
For Group sustainability performance, see Sustainability section on pages 112 to 119 42 BAE SySTEmS ANNUAl REpoRT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT StRAtEGIC REPORt Cyber & intelligenCe 1 Cyber & Intelligence, with 7,700 employees, comprises the US-based Intelligence & Security business and UK-headquartered Applied Intelligence formerly BAE Systems Detica business, and covers the Groups cyber, secure government, and commercial and financial security activities.
2013 eXeCUtiVe COMMittee ObJeCtiVe Applied Intelligence Enhance and grow our positions in cyber, intelligence and security Detica MobileProtect is a carriergrade cloudbased service for key CharaCteristiCs enterprises and governments who Intelligence & Security Applied Intelligence need to secure smart devices.
Using n Delivers realtime threat assessments n Delivers solutions which protect and Applied Intelligences unique global that rapidly inform critical security enhance clients operations across cleaning hubs, the service scans actions.
The business is a leading theareas of cyber security, financial inbound and outbound traffic with provider of specialised security and crime, communications intelligence minimal effect on network speed.
intelligence operational support and anddigital transformation Itfilters traffic, scans for malware solutions in the US n Portfolio of solutions which help and known security threats, and n Delivers automated, efficient and governments and commercial blocks inappropriate, insecure or reliableintelligence processing, data enterprises to address threats to illegal content.
management systems and imagery national security, detect sophisticated mapping tools for the US intelligence cyber attacks, counteract fraud, anddefence communities safeguard mobile communications, manage risk, ensure compliance and n Delivers costeffective IT solutions that derive insight from data solve complex problems of collaboration and security for the US national security n Provides managed services to help community clients optimise and protect both mobile and fixed data networks 1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
BAE SyStEmS AnnUAl REPoRT 2013 43 StRAtEGIC REPORt CyBER & INtELLIGENCE Sales analysis: activity % Sales analysis: government and commercial % Progress on sustainability 1 1 Recordable Accident Rate 17% 5 2 Major injuries 4 2 Energy 3 Water 1 Global Analysis and Operations 23 1 Government 88 Waste 2 GEOINT-ISR 22 2 Commercial 12 3 IT Solutions 29 4 Applied Intelligence government 14 5 Applied Intelligence commercial 12 2013 2012 2011 1 KPI Funded order intake 1,247m 1,454m 1,443m 1,4 order backlog 0.7bn 1.0bn 1.1bn 1 Sales KPI 1,243m 1,402m 1,399m 2 KPI Underlying EBITA 115m 124m 136m Return on sales 9.3% 8.8% 9.7% 3 Cash inflow KPI 118m 113m 123m FinanCial key pOints 1,4 1 n order backlog reduced by 24% reflecting delayed awards in the US business.
order backlog in Applied Intelligence increased by 60% 1 n Sales reduced by 11% reflecting an 18% decrease in Intelligence & Security and a 9% increase in Applied Intelligence n Return on sales of 9.3% includes continued high levels of spend to support organic growth in Applied Intelligence OperatiOnal key pOints Intelligence & Security n Awarded a threeyear followon contract to the CounterImprovised Explosive Device programme n Maintained a leadership position in activitybased intelligence n Continued to invest in differentiating technologies to support a bid pipeline of $2.4bn 1.4bn at the end of2013 n US business significantly impacted by US budget pressures and partial government shutdown Applied Intelligence n named as cyber security partner to Vodafone for provision of secure mobile services n Achieved launch of new product for detection of sophisticated cyber threats, CyberReveal, adopted by one major investment bank n A number of important customer wins for netReveal onDemand services n Awarded framework contracts for IT services to the Foreign & Commonwealth office and network Rail n Awarded integrated cyber security services contracts to three Middle Eastern countries sUstainability key pOints n Reduced Recordable Accident Rate by 17% n Reduced energy and water usage, and quantity of waste produced 1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding nonrecurring items see page 33.
3 net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets contributed to Trust.
44 BAE SyStEmS AnnUAl REPoRT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GEOINt-ISR In continuation of its leadership position in activitybased intelligence, in october, the business received authorisation to proceed on an Engineering Change Proposal that will include analytics automation for complex mission problems across the intelligence community.
Global Analysis and Operations The business is executing the Combat Intelligence Augmentation Teams contract, a followon contract to the CounterImprovised Explosive Device programme.
The business provides almost 300 securitycleared intelligence analysts.
In August, the $450m 272m Financial performance Operational performance CounterImprovised Explosive Device 1,4 order backlog reduced to 0.7bn 2012 Intelligence & Security programme ended and the followon 1.0bn.
The US business continued to be The USbased Intelligence & Security programme, Combat Intelligence Augmentation impacted by budgetinduced delays to award business delivers a broad range of solutions Teams, began.
orders on the new programme decisions of competitive bids.
At 31 December and services, including systems development, totalling approximately $150m 91m are 2013, there were some $2.4bn 1.4bn of IT, cyber operations and intelligence analysis expected over the next three years.
The competitive bids of which more than half were to enable the US military and government business continues to provide almost 300 overdue against decision timescales.
In torecognise, manage and defeat threats.
securitycleared intelligence analysts working addition, some $320m 193m of backlog Thebusiness is structured into three key alongside forward deployed US defence has been removed following customer business areas that provide specific domain personnel in Afghanistan.
descoping across a large number of expertise, whilst working closely together to 1 programmes.
Bycontrast, order backlog provide enterprisewide support to a range GEOINT-ISR Geospatial Intelligence inthe Applied Intelligence business grew ofcustomers and key agencies in the Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance by60%.
intelligence, defence, homeland security develops and supports software systems and andcivilian markets.
mission applications for geospatial tasking, 1 Sales in the year reduced by 11% to including data collection, processing, 1,243m 2012 1,402m.
The US business The business has been impacted by exploitation and dissemination, as well as saw an 18% decrease, including the reduction uncertainty in future programme budget mission planning, Intelligence, Surveillance from the CounterImprovised Explosive Device levels, driven first by Sequestration and then and Reconnaissance ISR, precision programme, and the impacts from budget by the partial US government shutdown in targeting, and command and control for the reductions were experienced more quickly october, which had greater impacts on US defence and intelligence communities.
than expected, with competitive award services and support programmes.
Some decisions continuing to be delayed.
Growth customers have chosen to reduce contractor In october, the business received inthe Applied Intelligence business was volumes significantly on existing programmes, authorisation to proceed on a $16m 10m at9%.
delay award activity on pending programmes M151 Engineering Change Proposal ECP or simply cancel others.
The level of impact thatcontinues its leadership in activitybased The return on sales achieved of 9.3% has been much higher than anticipated.
The scope of the ECP includes 20128.8% includes the continued organic analytics automation for complex mission investment in the Applied Intelligence Global Analysis and Operations provides problems across the intelligence community.
business in support of targeted future growth missionenabled analytic solutions and support in commercial and international markets.
to operations across the US homeland In September, the business was awarded the security, law enforcement, defence, intelligence first ECP on the Mobility Air Force Automated 3 2 Cash flow conversion of underlying EBITA and counterintelligence communities.
Flight Planning Service programme to develop forthe year was at 103%.
and sustain a new air vehicle flight planning The business won all task orders competed and route optimisation capability for the inthe market for Full Motion Video Analysis USAir Forces Tanker Airlift Control Center during the year and continues to execute under the $62m 37m contract awarded in awarded contracts, which are worth over April.
The ECP focuses on the Aero Advisory $400m 242m, with over 300 analysts notification Tool capability in support of the supporting mission critical activities.
AirForces transition to a consolidated mission planning architecture.
BAE SyStEmS AnnUAl REPoRT 2013 45 StRAtEGIC REPORt CyBER & INtELLIGENCE It Solutions Based on strong performance providing virtual desktop infrastructure and secure access capabilities, work increased on the nextGeneration Desktop Environment programme for the US Defense Intelligence Agency by providing global networking solutions in US Korea Command and US Africa Command.
Managed security services continue to gain IT Solutions develops, deploys and maintains In January 2013, the business was awarded traction, with the business named as official mission applications focused on information a$127m 77m contract to support the US cyber security partner to Mclaren in April.
sharing, knowledge management and national Security Agencys High Performance InDecember, the business won new cyber enhanced enterprise mission IT solutions Computing Infrastructure Group with security and services contracts totalling forthe US federal, civilian and defence architecture, installation and administration 48m in the Middle East.
The business for a complex networking environment alsoprovides analytics, cyber analysis and supporting multiple network enclaves and Financial Crime realtime network forensics.
Under the The business continues to provide enterprise contract, both server and desktop computer Work increased on the $70m 42m risk, fraud and compliance solutions support will be provided to more than 3,000 nextGeneration Desktop Environment internationally.
programme for the US Defense Intelligence netReveal has been selected by CAnATICS Agency by providing global networking Applied Intelligence formerly BAESystems Canadian national Insurance Crime Services solutions in US Korea Command and US Detica to provide a fiveyear managed analytics Africa Command, based on virtual desktop The business continues to grow through service to detect auto insurance claims fraud.
infrastructure and  selling its portfolio of products and services It has been selected as preferred vendor by access.
todomestic and international governments, an Eastern European government to detect financial institutions, communications service on the Solutions for the Information tax fraud and noncompliance, and has been providers, energy and utility operators and Technology Enterprise Indefinite Delivery, selected by HMRC to extend its risk and fraud other commercial enterprises.
Indefinite Quantity contract, with task orders system to cover VAT repayment transactional worth $344m 208m, the business has The business is demonstrating its ability fraud.
The business has also broadened its transitioned the customer from a costly towin large, multiyear contracts.
It has offering to tackle emerging risks, such as regional support model to an efficient extended its portfolio of products and unauthorised trading, including a significant enterprise support model.
Through the services, and is responding to demand for sale to the investment banking division of a implementation of the Global Enterprise solutions which combine capabilities from major global banking group.
other customer operation Center, the business has enabled across its portfolio, where client requirements wins during the year include Commerzbank the US Defense Intelligence Agency to provide are converging.
Market awareness and and Home Trust, contributing to a total order reliable, costeffective and highly secure IT recognition continue to grow, evidenced intake of 102m.
services to over 50,000 Department of through a number of industry analyst and Communications Solutions Defense personnel worldwide with no impact association awards during the year.
The The business is a provider of endtoend to mission.
business has opened a Global Delivery Centre communications intelligence solutions in Malaysia to augment capability alongside internationally.
It is addressing changes in Under the $0.5bn 0.3bn Centralized existing centres in the UK and Poland.
market conditions which presented operational operations, Maintenance and Management Cyber Security challenges in 2013.
However, in 2014, it is Information Technology Indefinite Delivery, new additions to the product portfolio in 2013 pursuing opportunities in the Middle East and Indefinite Quantity contract, the business have included: CyberReveal, an advanced Asia Pacific regions and, in late 2013, won wonatask order to provide 24 7 monitoring cyber threat monitoring solution, already sold strategically important deals with both support for the Federal Emergency to a major global financial institution: governments and communications service Management Agency Security operations MobileProtect, a cloudbased service for providers in Europe and north America.
The award brings total task orders securing smart mobile devices, launched under the contract to over $110m 66m alongside a fiveyear strategic partnership andmaintains BAE Systems position as the with Vodafone: and IndustrialProtect, a largest provider of IT services on the contract.
militarygrade solution to protect organisations industrial control systems.
MobileProtect subscribers are expected toexceed 100,000 during 2014.
46 BAE SyStEmS AnnUAl REPoRT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Applied Intelligence IndustrialProtect Applied Intelligence has launched IndustrialProtect to the market.
The militarygrade solution isdesigned to protect the industrial control systems of organisations, such as power plants, oilrefineries or automated manufacturing plants, from cyber attack, allowing them to modernise their legacy systems as well as improving their security.
UK Services Sustainability performance Looking forward The consulting, systems integration and Safety Efforts to reduce the US governments budget managed services business had a successful The Intelligence & Security business deficit are expected to continue to impact year.
It signed a framework contract with the experienced a decrease in its injury rates as government spend.
A bipartisan budget Foreign & Commonwealth office FCo to aresult of direct leadership engagement and proposal was approved in December 2013 deliver service management integration active employee involvement.
that mitigates the full impact of the Sequester services across the FCos global ITestate, for 2014 and 2015.
The Group expects lower worth around 40m over a fiveyear period.
Diversity and inclusion defence spending than previously programmed, The business also signed a framework Applied Intelligence has increasingly focused but the cuts are not expected to be as agreement with network Rail to provide on diversity and inclusion to understand, and significant or indiscriminate as they would ITsolutions and systems integration over raise awareness of, the merits of a genuinely have been under Sequestration.
diverse team and inclusive working environment.
one example is the introduction The US market continues to experience The business continues to expand its of diverse panels for employment interviews.
Customers relationships with communications service willcontinue to look for opportunities to providers, including Vodafone and EE, Environment achieve efficiencies in IT services through providing solutions from across its portfolio.
Intelligence & Security has four lEED consolidation and cloud computing, areas leadership in Energy and Environmental inwhich the US business has deep domain Design US Green Building Council sites and expertise and experience.
Big data continues has implemented water reduction measures to pose a challenge for the US government at three facilities.
The business also removed and commercial businesses, which also hundreds of desktop printers across its US provides an opportunity for growth.
locations to reduce costs related to paper, ink and maintenance.
Intelligence & Security is wellpositioned topursue opportunities in cyber, special Engagement operations and Intelligence, Surveillance Intelligence & Security launched an internal andReconnaissance, which remain priority skills and training programme for employees.
other avenues for growth The business benefits from this investment by exist across the intelligence analysis ensuring employees have the skills necessary spectrum.
The US business is also exploring to solve customers toughest challenges.
international opportunities where its IT, cyber Around 70 different courses were offered in and analysis capabilities can be implemented 2013 with nearly 2,000 employees completing by governments or in commercial markets.
Applied Intelligence expects continued growth Applied Intelligence conducted an awareness both in the UK and internationally, with campaign in September focused on improving increasing demand from government and understanding about health issues faced by commercial sector customers for products individuals within the business, including and services which protect and enhance stroke, muscular dystrophy, diabetes and operations in the areas of cyber security, cystic fibrosis.
financial crime, communications intelligence and digital transformation.
For Group sustainability performance, see Sustainability section on pages 112 to 119 BAE SyStEmS AnnUAl REPoRT 2013 47 StRAtEGIC REPORt Platforms & services Us Platforms & Services US, with 19,200 1 employees, comprises the USheadquartered Land & Armaments business, with operations in the US, UK, Swedenand South Africa, and the USbased services and sustainment activities, including ship repairand munitions services.
2013 eXecUtive committee oBJective Infrastructure services Drive value from our land portfolio and deliver sustainable, profitable growth in the The Group continues as an industry services sector leader in managing government-owned and contractor-operated munitions key characteristics sites for the US military.
BAE Systems Land & Armaments Support Solutions has been the operating contractor of n Tracked combat vehicles n US naval ship repair and modernisation the Holston Army Ammunition Plant n Artillery and naval weapons n Complex infrastructure services and since 1999, developing innovative operations support products, such as IMX-101, which n Ammunition and new directed the US Army approved as the first weapontechnologies n Aircraft sustainment and modernisation safe and effective replacement to n Support and sustainment of original TNT in artillery.
n Commercial shipbuilding equipment manufacturer platforms n Soldier survivability products 48 BAE SyStEmS ANNUAl REPoRT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Sales analysis: activity % Sales analysis: platforms and services % Progress on sustainability 1 1 6 Recordable Accident Rate 3% Major injuries 2 5 2 Energy 3 4 Water 1 Tracked combat vehicles 28 1 Military & Technical Services 77 Waste 2 Tactical wheeled vehicles 6 2 Platforms 23 3 Artillery munitions 19 4 Ship repair 22 5 Other support services 22 6 Protection Systems 3 2013 2012 2011 1 KPI Funded order intake 3,421m 5,010m 5,077m 1,4 order backlog 7.4bn 8.4bn 8.7bn 1 Sales KPI 4,196m 4,539m 5,305m 2 KPI Underlying EBITA 265m 394m 478m Return on sales 6.3% 8.7% 9.0% 3 Cash inflow KPI 192m 314m 410m financial key Points 1 n Sales reduced by 17% in land & Armaments and increased by 2% in Support Solutions n Return on sales increased to 9.3% in land & Armaments and reduced to 3.0% in Support Solutions oPerational key Points Land & Armaments n Strong operational performance n Continued focus on cost reduction actions n Contract for low-Rate Initial Production received on the Paladin Integrated Management programme n Integration work ceased on Caiman Multi-Terrain Vehicles and Sealy, Texas, facility to close in 2014 Support Solutions n Performance impacted by charges taken on the Radford Army Ammunition Plant contract, commercial  not being awarded follow-on options on the US Navy aircraft maintenance contract n Follow-on awards on US munitions facilities management contracts n Significant multi-year contracts to support ballistic missiles in the US n letter of Agreement finalised for upgrades and systems integration for South Korean F-16 aircraft sUstainaBility key Points n Reduced Recordable Accident Rate by 3% n Reduced energy and water usage, and quantity of waste produced 1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
BAE SyStEmS ANNUAl REPoRT 2013 49 StRAtEGIC REPORt PLAtFORmS & SERVICES US US Combat Vehicles In october, the business was awarded a contract for the low-Rate Initial Production of the Paladin Integrated Management PIM 155mm self-propelled howitzer system.
The PIM is a significant upgrade of the M109A6 Paladin self-propelled howitzer, restoring space, weight, power and cooling, whilst providing growth potential for emerging technologies.
Weapon Systems BAE Systems was awarded a contract to develop the Electromagnetic Railgun, which is a revolutionary, long-range weapon technology that uses high-power electromagnetic energy instead of explosive chemical propellants to launch hypervelocity projectiles.
In addition, a charge of $30m 19m has Throughfuture options, the US Army intends Financial performance been taken against cost overruns on to purchase a total of 66.5 vehicle sets, plus 1,4 order backlog was 7.4bn 2012 8.4bn.
spares, kits and technical documentation for 1,4 Atland & Armaments, order backlog a total contract value of $688m 416m.
3 reduced to 4.3bn 2012 5.1bn reflecting operating cash flow reduced to 192m 3 trading onM777 and long-term UK munitions 2012 314m.
Cash flow conversion of During 2013, land & Armaments continued 2 contracts.
Disappointingly, the CV90 prospect underlying EBITA, excluding pension deficit tostreamline its US business.
The sale of in Canadawas cancelled by the customer and funding, was 86% and 68% atland & theCommercial Armored Vehicles business no procurement decision has yet been taken Armaments and Support Solutions, completed in February and the Fayette, 3 by the Indian authorities with regard to the respectively.
operating cash flow in Support Pennsylvania, facility closed in December.
At Solutions was impacted by short-term US Whilst land & Armaments remains a 1,4 Support Solutions, order backlog reduced government payment delays.
committed member of the lockheed Martin to3.1bn 2012 3.3bn as the five-year ship Joint light Tactical Vehicle JlTV programme, Operational performance repair Multi-Ship, Multi-option contracts are in August, the business received a notice of traded through.
Land & Armaments termination for convenience from the US US Combat Vehicles 1 In aggregate, sales were 4.2bn 2012 government, ceasing all integration work on Despite significant down-sizing and ongoing 4.5bn, representing a like-for-like reduction Caiman Multi-Terrain Vehicles.
Following this uncertainties in the US market, the business 1 of 5%.
At land & Armaments, sales declined notice, the business announced closure of has continued to maintain key industrial base by 10% on a like-for-like basis, taking into theSealy, Texas, facility by the end of June capabilities based on the US Armys stated account exchange translation, the impact 2014.
Work under the JlTV programme is in requirements at the Bradley production line oflast years business disposals and the the process of transitioning to the York, inYork, Pennsylvania.
In addition todomestic transfer of the Combat Vehicles UK business Pennsylvania, facility.
Bradley reset and conversion programmes, 1 to Platforms & Services UK.
The sales the business continues to make progress in Weapon Systems reduction was largely from completion of securing international business, primarily in the The business was awarded a $40m 24m contracts for Mine Resistant Ambush Middle East.
In November, land & Armaments contract to produce vertical launching system Protected vehicle upgrades and lower signed a joint venture agreement to pursue canisters for the US Navy.
If all options under Bradleyreset work.
In the Support Solutions Bradley opportunities inSaudi Arabia.
1 the contract are exercised, the total value business, sales were 2% higher than in could exceed $400m 242m.
The business benefited from higher Although uncertainty remains with respect to volumes in the ship repair and munitions the future of the US Armys Ground Combat The business secured a $57m 34m facilities management businesses.
Vehicle programme, the business continues contract with the Royal Malaysian Navy for to support the US Army and execute its sixnaval guns that will equip the countrys 2 Underlying EBITA was 265m 2012 394m.
technology maturation and risk reduction second-generation patrol vessels, littoral Return on sales reduced to 6.3% 2012 8.7%.
The Hybrid Electric Drive system Combat Ships.
Return on sales at land & Armaments of successfully completed 2,000 miles of 9.3% 2012 8.6% benefited from ongoing The first five pre-serial Archer artillery systems testingfour months ahead of schedule.
cost reduction actions and good programme were delivered to the Swedish Defence execution, and includes the charge taken for In october, the Paladin Integrated Materiel Administration FMV.
In December, the closure of the wheeled vehicle facility at Management PIM programme received a Norway announced its intent to end its Sealy.
Return on sales at Support Solutions $195m 118m contract to begin low-Rate co-operation with Sweden on the Archer of3.0% 2012 8.8% includes a charge of Initial Production.
BAE Systems remains committed to $46m 29m taken against overhead BAESystems will produce 18.5 vehicle sets, the programme and continues to work with its under-absorption relating to 2013 and future comprising 19 PIM howitzers and 18 PIM customer, the FMV, to deliver the system to years as the business seeks to restructure Carrier Ammunition Tracked vehicles.
the Radford Army Ammunition Plant contract.
50 BAE SyStEmS ANNUAl REPoRT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Ship repair and commercial shipbuilding The US-based ship repair business continues to serve the US Navy as a leading provider of non-nuclear ship repair, maintenance and modernisation services.
Concurrently, the business continues to grow its commercial shipbuilding operations, with a diverse US customer base including offshore energy support vessels, oil exploration and transport vessels, cargo ships, vessels supporting dredging operations, cruise ships and international carriers.
BAE Systems Hgglunds BAE Systems Hgglunds is to supply an additional 102 BvS10 armoured all-terrain vehicles to the Swedish Ministry of Defence.
This award follows the2012 contract for delivery of 48 BvS10 vehicles.
Multiple variants, including troop carrier, command vehicle, ambulance and logistic carrier vehicle, will beused by the Swedish Army.
The business continues to manage the BAE Systems Hgglunds Munitions operations of the Holston Army Ammunition The business continues to have success A pricing proposal for the next five years Plant in the US.
In March, the US Army withits CV90 programme.
Work on the 2018 to 2022 of the Munitions Acquisition awarded an Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite $750m 453m contract for the Norwegian Supply Solution partnering agreement was Quantity contract valued at up to $780m Army remains on schedule, with delivery of submitted to the UK Ministry of Defence in 471m over five years to operate and pre-series vehicles in February 2013 and September.
orders totalling 105m were manage the Holston Army Ammunition Plant, series manufacture starting in September.
received from the UK Ministry of Defence, as well as purchase explosives from theplant.
ACV90 vehicle was delivered to the Danish USNavy, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Army to participate in a competitive evaluation government and the French Ministry South Korea down-selected BAESystems to meetthe requirement for future armoured ofDefence in the year.
toupgrade avionics and electronic systems, personnel vehicles.
The business signed a The Munitions business will be reported in the as well as perform systems integration for teaming agreement in May with Polish Defence financial results of the Platforms & Services itsfleet of more than 130 F-16 aircraft.
The Holdings to offer a new family of armoured UK reporting segment from 1 January 2014.
US Congressional Notification process was vehicles based on CV90 technology.
completed with the letter of Acceptance put Support Solutions In December, the business was notified of the in place in December.
Whilst strategic contracts were won during Canadian governments decision to cancel its theperiod, the US-based services businesses In August, BAE Systems was awarded an proposed Close Combat Vehicle programme.
were impacted materially by budget eight-year, $534m 323m contract from In December, the Swedish government uncertainties and operational challenges.
theUS Air Force to maintain the readiness exercised its option to buy 102 more There were operational challenges in ofMinuteman III intercontinental ballistic BvS10all-terrain vehicles in an order worth commercial shipbuilding and on start-up missiles in the US.
The Group will provide approximately $120m 72m.
This order activity on the Radford Army Ammunition Plant systems engineering, integration, testing, follows its January 2012 purchase of 48 contract.
In addition, the business was not logistics and other services to support the BvS10 vehicles that are under delivery to awarded follow-on options under theUS Navy missile, ground and launch systems for 450 theSwedish Army.
training aircraft maintenance and logistics deployed missiles.
In December, the US Navy support contract, under which work continued awarded BAE Systems a three-year, $171m FNSS until 1 December.
103m contract to continue providing FNSS, BAE Systems Turkish joint venture, engineering and integration support to The conditional Worker Adjustment and continues to produce and upgrade tracked TridentII D-5 submarine-launched ballistic Retraining Notification WARN Act notices and wheeled military vehicles for international missiles.
issued in February to nearly 3,600 ship repair customers.
employees were largely mitigated by the The US Army awarded Support Systems Production has commenced under the funding legislation passed in March.
Associates, Inc. with BAE Systems as a $559m 338m programme to produce subcontractor, the logistics Support Facilities 2598x8 wheeled armoured vehicles for the The US-based ship repair business achieved Management Activity contract to provide Royal Malaysian Army and the first vehicles its commitments under Multi-Ship, Multi-option flexible, timely and cost-effective facilities, were delivered in 2013. contract vehicles with the US Navy, receiving personnel and expertise to support aircraft orders totalling $1.2bn 0.7bn for the repair, modifications andother support services.
In December, FNSS received a $360m maintenance and modernisation of various 217m contract from the land forces of a vessels during the year.
In protection systems, BAE Systems Middle Eastern country for the upgrade of producedits one millionth combat helmet M113 tracked armoured personnel carriers.
BAE Systems continues to co-operate with since the 1980s.
A $28m 17m order from The business is pursuing other armoured ongoing government investigations regarding the US Marine Corps for the production of vehicle prospects elsewhere in the region.
the employee fatality at the Mobile, Alabama, lightweight combat helmets was received shipyard that occurred on 4 April when the inFebruary 2013.
Carnival Triumph cruise ship came free from its moorings during unexpected severe weather.
BAE SyStEmS ANNUAl REPoRT 2013 51 StRAtEGIC REPORt PLAtFORmS & SERVICES US In october, the business was awarded a Sustainability performance Looking forward $60m 36m order from the US Defense Safety Efforts to reduce the US governments budget logistics Agency to produce additional tactical In April, Support Solutions held its first deficit are expected to continue to impact vests equipped with body armour and SafetyStand Down, engaging more than government spend.
A bipartisan budget incorporating a number of benefits for the 12,000 employees across the business proposal was approved in December 2013 soldier, including a 10% weight reduction in ininteractive discussions regarding that mitigates the full impact of the Sequester the armour system.
The employee response for 2014 and 2015.
The Group expects lower was positive, with more than 200 suggestions defence spending than previously programmed, In the maritime defence solutions business, for improvement implemented across the but the cuts are not expected to be as BAE Systems was awarded an $80m organisation.
The success of these activities significant or indiscriminate as they would 48m contract to continue providing is reflected in a 7% reduction in the have been under Sequestration.
systems engineering and other technical Recordable Accident Rate.
services to support the operational readiness In the near term, land & Armaments of US Navy submarine torpedoes and other Diversity and inclusion continues to operate in a challenging weapons systems.
land & Armaments has made progress in environment.
To remain viable in the future, bringing diversity and inclusion awareness the business is investing to protect franchise Under the Concepts and operations for Space toits employees.
The Diversity & Inclusion programmes, including Bradley modernisation and Missile Defence Integration Capabilities Council, Multi-Cultural Network, Womens and the CV90family, and establish new contract, the business was awarded an $85m leadership Network and the formation of franchise programmes, such as Paladin 51m, two-year extension to continue its numerous Employee Resource Groups have Integrated Management.
In addition, the support of the US Army in providing services fostered awareness, respect and inclusion business continues to offer export products for developing and understanding missile across the organisation.
In addition to the tointernational markets and invest in new defence methods and technologies.
annual Diversity & Inclusion Conference, technology fast lanes, such as directed these groups hosted many open forums, energy weapons and hybrid electric drives conferences and workshops that provided forcombat vehicles.
The business continues adeeper understanding about the diversity todrive rationalisation efforts to maximise that exists in the workforce.
Environment Whilst potential cancellations and delays in The ship repair business in Norfolk, Virginia, new programmes could affect the business, has been certified by the Virginia Department Support Solutions may be able to offset the of Environmental Quality as an Extraordinary impact through additional opportunities to Environmental Enterprise for its leadership sustain and modernise existing platforms.
and commitment to environmental stewardship.
Engagement land & Armaments leadership has put significant emphasis on retaining and attracting key talent within the organisation, as well as communicating more frequently and in more transparent ways with employees.
In 2013, the president of the business instituted a bi-annual State of the Sector address.
Participation in the employee engagement survey of 76% represented anincrease from 58% in 2012.
For Group sustainability performance, see Sustainability section on pages 112 to 119 52 BAE SyStEmS ANNUAl REPoRT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT StRAtEGIC REPORt Platforms & services UK Platforms & Services UK, with 28,300 1 employees, comprises the Groups UK-based air, maritime, combat vehicle, munitions and certain shared services activities.
2013 eXecUtive committee oBJective Maritime Deliver sustainably profitable through-life businesses in the air, maritime and combat The third of seven Astute Class vehicles sectors submarines, Artful, a 7,400 tonne, 97-metre long, nuclear-powered Key characteristics attack submarine, was officially Military Air & Information Maritime named in September and is expected n Multi-year through-life programmes n Maritime capabilities include design, to be launched in early 2014 for build, integration and commissioning, n Military aircraft capabilities include further tests and commissioning.
in-service support and training for design, development, manufacture, Theprogramme supports thousands navalships, submarines, radar and in-service support and training for of small and medium-size enterprises combat management systems, and combat and trainer aircraft, and in the supply chain.
underwater systems designand development of UnmannedAir Systems Combat Vehicles UK n Design, build, demonstration and n Defence information systems, such through-life support of armoured vehicles asthe Falcon secure deployable communication system Munitions n Managed solutions for aircraft support n Design, test, qualification, production, services and engineering supply and through-life support of general munitions and the cased telescopic ammunition system 1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
BAE SyStEMS AnnUAl RepoRT 2013 53 StRAtEGIC REPORt PLAtFORMS & SERVICES UK Sales analysis: activity % Sales analysis: platforms and services % Progress on sustainability 3 1 1 Recordable Accident Rate 43% Major injuries Energy 2 2 Water 1 Military Air & Information 63 1 Military & Technical Services 32 Waste 2 Maritime 34 2 Platforms 68 3 Combat Vehicles UK 3 1 2013 2012 2011 2 KpI Funded order intake 5,979m 8,160m 4,355m 2 order backlog 20.3bn 21.3bn 18.7bn 2 Sales KpI 6,890m 5,717m 6,258m 3 KpI Underlying eBITA 879m 695m 658m Return on sales 12.8% 12.2% 10.5% 4 Cash inflow KpI 59m 1,717m 69m financial Key Points 2 n Sales increased by 21% on resumption of Salam Typhoon aircraft deliveries and trading of price escalation n Return on sales of 12.8% benefited from the trading of price escalation and strong programme execution 4 n operating cash flow reflects the utilisation of advances and provisions oPerational Key Points n 34 Typhoon Tranche 2 and the first Tranche 3 aircraft delivered to the european partner nations n First Hawk jets delivered to the Indian navy n naval sector restructuring agreement reached with the UK Ministry of Defence n Two Khareef Class corvettes for the Royal navy of oman achieved interim acceptance n Sixth and final Type 45 destroyer accepted off-contract n Third and final offshore patrol Vessel delivered to the Brazilian navy n 0.1bn of funding for ongoing design and development of the Royal navys Successor submarine n Increased funding for the fifth, sixth and seventh Astute Class submarines sUstainaBility Key Points n Reduced Recordable Accident Rate by 43% n Reduced energy and water usage, and quantity of waste produced 1 Re-presented on classification of the Regional Aircraft line of business as a continuing operation see note 7 to the Group accounts.
2 Including share of equity accounted investments.
3 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense eBITA excluding non-recurring items see page 33.
4 net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets contributed to Trust.
54 BAE SyStEMS AnnUAl RepoRT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Military Air & Information Work is progressing on the contract received from the Sultanate of oman to purchase 12Typhoon and eight Hawk trainer aircraft at the end of 2012.
As well as supplying aircraft, BAeSystems will provide in-service support to the Royal Air Force of omans operational activities.
Working with UK industry partners and Financial performance Operational performance theMinistry of Defence, BAe Systems has 2 order backlog reduced to 20.3bn 2012 Military Air & Information designed and built a stealthy unmanned 21.3bn on trading of aircraft deliveries In the year, deliveries of Typhoon Tranche 2 combat air vehicle demonstrator named under the contracts for european and Saudi aircraft to the four partner nations totalled Taranis.
The aircraft made its maiden flight Typhoon aircraft and the Indian Hawk contract.
34, bringing the total number of Tranche 2 inAugust 2013 and has undertaken a aircraft delivered to 203 of the contracted 2 The years sales of 6.9bn 2012 5.7bn numberof successful trial flights.
Sixteen Tranche 3 front fuselage were 21% higher than 2012, benefiting from sub-assemblies were manufactured in the progress continued, to plan, on the joint the ten aircraft deliveries made on the Salam year and the first Tranche 3 aircraft was BAeSystems and Dassault Aviation Future Typhoon programme and trading of the price delivered to the Royal Air Force RAF.
Combat Air System demonstration escalation.
There were no Salam aircraft programme preparation contract to mature deliveries made in 2012.
Initial mobilisation under the omani Typhoon and demonstrate critical technology and and Hawk aircraft contract, awarded in operational aspects for an Unmanned The return on sales of 12.8% 2012 12.2% December 2012, has commenced with the CombatAir System.
was strong, benefiting from not only the first aircraft deliveries scheduled for 2017. trading of the Salam Typhoon price escalation, In January 2014, it was announced that but also another year of strong programme The business continues to support its UK and therewould be further joint UK French Future execution and risk reduction across the european customers Typhoon and Tornado Combat Air System technology development business.
aircraft and their operational commitments.
under a two-year feasibility study worth 120m.
The business supports its UK customer 4 There was a cash inflow of 59m 2012 through availability-based service contracts.
In the defence information domain, final 1,717m in the year reflecting the consumption deliveries of the Falcon secure deployable of customer advances on the omani Typhoon on the F-35 lightning II programme, the communication system for the British Army and Hawk programme, the european Typhoon business has continued to deliver aircraft and RAF were completed in 2013, and the contract and the Saudi training aircraft fuselages for the sixth low-Rate Initial business continues to provide support for contract.
In addition, provisions were utilised production lRIp contract, delivering 26 thesystem.
against costs incurred on rationalisation, on aircraft sets to lockheed Martin in 2013. the oman offshore patrol Vessel programme production for the seventh lRIp contract In the Regional Aircraft business, engineering and for the Trinidad and Tobago termination hascommenced.
A bid proposalfor lRIp 8 revenues have remained under pressure settlement payment.
has been submitted andnegotiations have reflecting the current trading conditions.
has been offset by a good performance within the support business.
Support continues to be provided to users ofHawk trainer aircraft around the world.
The Indian navy has received its first five Hawk aircraft from Hindustan Aeronautics limited, built under the Batch 2 licence for 57 aircraft.
Commercial discussions continue on the proposal for an additional 20 Hawk aircraft.
A response to the competitive proposal to supply eight Hawk trainer aircraft, support and training to poland was submitted in november.
Following evaluation by the polish Ministry of Defence, the Group has been informed that it will not be down-selected for the next phase of this competition.
BAE SyStEMS AnnUAl RepoRT 2013 55 StRAtEGIC REPORt PLAtFORMS & SERVICES UK Maritime In november, the Ministry of Defence announced that it planned to acquire three offshore patrolVessels opVs for the Royal navy based on the Amazonas Class opVs delivered to Brazil.
The ships will sustain key shipbuilding skills in the UKs warship-building industry.
progress continues on the Khareef Class Maritime Cumulative savings of 457m have been corvettes for oman, with the first two ships Following detailed discussions about how best reported to the Ministry of Defence against achieving interim acceptance in 2013 and to sustain the long-term capability to deliver commitments made under the Terms of thefinal ship scheduled for interim complex warships, BAe Systems has proposed Business Agreement ToBA, which remains acceptance in 2014. and agreed with the UK Ministry of Defence ahead of target.
The agreements announced that Glasgow would be the most effective in november, together with the anticipated The Warship Support Modernisation Initiative location for the manufacture of the future contract for the design and manufacture of contract, for delivery of services at portsmouth Type 26 frigates.
Subject to consultation with the Type 26, will progressively replace the naval Base, was extended for one year in trade union and employee representatives, ToBA.
April, while discussions continue on the new the Group announced in november that it progress continues on assembly of the first Maritime Support Delivery Framework.
proposes to consolidate its shipbuilding aircraft carrier, HMS Queen elizabeth, whilst operations in Glasgow and that shipbuilding The Advanced Radar Target Indication block build for the second ship, HMS prince operations at portsmouth will cease in the Situational Awareness navigation ARTISAn ofWales, is underway.
BAe Systems, with second half of 2014.
Consultation has 3D radar programme continues towards full theother participants in the Aircraft Carrier commenced on a total employee reduction of qualification, with the first of class now fitted Alliance, announced in november that it up to 1,775, including up to 940 in portsmouth to HMS Iron Duke, a Type 23 frigate, and hadagreed changes to the contract to in 2014 and up to 835 across Filton, Glasgow further installations underway in line with accommodate both programme changes and Rosyth, progressively through to 2016. theproduction plan.
Under the The relevant cost of the restructuring will be newtarget cost arrangements, the industrial The Maritime Composite Training System, a borne by the Ministry of Defence.
participants fee includes a 50:50 risk share shore-based warfare operator training solution A significant reduction in workload will follow arrangement providing greater cost for the Royal navy, has now achieved full the peak of activity on the aircraft carrier performance incentives.
Training has been programme, the six Type 45 destroyers and delivered to over 2,000 personnel and to HMS Duncan, the sixth and final Type 45 two export contracts.
The anticipated Type 26 warfare teams from every major warship.
destroyer, was accepted by the Ministry of programme will, in future years, address Defence in March.
The Type 45 support HMS Astute and HMS Ambush, the first and some of that workload reduction.
In the contract met all ship deployment dates in second of class attack submarines for the interim period, a proposed contract for the theyear.
Royal navy, achieved operational handover manufacture of three offshore patrol Vessels in2013.
Artful, the third of class, is planned was announced in november, which, as well The assessment phase contract for the Type to launch in 2014, and a further 441m of as providing interim shipbuilding workload, will 26 is proceeding and there are now over 600 orders have been secured for Boats 5, 6 provide additional capability for the Royal navy employees working on the contract, which will and7.
and sustain key shipbuilding skills.
complete in 2014. progress continues on the design and Following the agreement in December 2011 development phase of the Successor for the sale of offshore patrol Vessels to the submarine programme, the replacement to Brazilian navy, the third and final vessel was the Vanguard Class fleet.
over 1,300 people delivered on schedule in June.
are now employed on this programme.
56 BAE SyStEMS AnnUAl RepoRT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Munitions As part of the Munitions Acquisition Supply Solution partnering agreement, the Group has invested in a number of facility improvements across the Munitions business, including new plant and processes at its Radway Green site, which will help to save money for its customers and reduce carbon emissions.
The site is Munitions centre of excellence for the design, manufacture, proofing and supply of small arms ammunition.
Combat Vehicles UK The Terrier combat engineer vehicle was declared in service by the Ministry of Defence in April.
It is the first UK combat vehicle to enter service designed with an integrated electronic architecture which facilitates drive-by-wire and remote control.
Combat Vehicles UK Sustainability performance Looking forward The Terrier combat engineer vehicle was Safety platforms & Services UK has a strong order declared in service by the Ministry of Defence naval Ships and Maritime Services both backlog of long-term committed programmes in April, with 43 of the 60 contracted vehicles picked up International Safety Awards during and an enduring support business.
Final vehicle deliveries are 2013 from the British Safety Council, which expected during the first half of 2014.
In Military Air & Information, sales are isa reflection of a collective commitment to underpinned by combat aircraft production on high standards of safety.
The newcastle facility will close in the second Typhoon and F-35 lightning II, and in-service half of 2014 following completion of final Diversity and inclusion support for existing and legacy combat and vehicle deliveries.
BAe Systems in the UK works in partnership Hawk trainer aircraft.
There are a number with opportunity now, the gender campaign ofsignificant opportunities to secure future Munitions from Business in the Community.
The Typhoon export contracts, including to Saudi The Munitions business will be reported in the campaigns three priorities are a better gender Arabia, Malaysia and Bahrain.
financial results of the platforms & Services balance for leadership progression: unbiased UK reporting segment from 1 January 2014.
In Maritime, sales are underpinned by the recognition and reward for all: and agile work The business is reported in platforms & Queen elizabeth Class aircraft carrier and cultures that are fit for the future.
This supports Services US in 2013.
Astute Class submarine manufacturing the Groups diversity and inclusion strategic programmes, the Warship Support goals, including strengthening its competitive Modernisation Initiative contract, and the position as an attractive employer.
design and future manufacture of the Environment Successor submarine and Type 26 frigate.
At Military Air & Informations Warton and Support of these platforms and Type 45, Samlesbury sites in the UK, a campaign together with their associated command toreduce energy usage and minimise andcombat systems, is expected to provide environmental impacts used floor art to sustainable business in technical services getthe message across to employees.
Spray-painted with biodegradable chalk, the In Combat Vehicles UK, following completion innovative artworks highlighted how much of deliveries on the Terrier programme, sales gasand electricity the business uses and are expected to be derived from through-life encouraged employees to think about how support of legacy platforms.
they could help to reduce energy consumption.
The Munitions business is underpinned by Engagement the15-year Munitions Acquisition Supply Mental health conditions cost UK employers Solution partnering agreement with the UK billions of pounds each year.
Fear of stigma Ministry of Defence, together with a number and discrimination can also make people with ofinternational contracts and potential mental health conditions unwilling to disclose opportunities.
their illness and thus prevent them from being adequately supported at work.
Military Air & Information won a Gold BAe Systems Chairmans Award for the work it has done in developing asuite of tools, self-help material, website content and support to improve the way it deals with mental health issues.
For Group sustainability performance, see Sustainability section on pages 112 to 119 BAE SyStEMS AnnUAl RepoRT 2013 57 StRAtEGIC REPORt Platforms & services international Platforms & Services International, with 1 14,600 employees, comprises the Groups businesses in Saudi Arabia, Australia, India andOman, together with its 37.5% interest inthe pan-European MBDA joint venture.
2013 eXecUtive committee oBJective Saudi Arabia Grow our platforms & Services International business In June, BAe Systems received a follow-on order for support on the Key characteristics Salam Typhoon programme covering Saudi Arabia India a five-year period to the end of 2017. n long-term contracts from the Royal n long-standing military aircraft At the end of December, the Royal Saudi Air Force for equipment, training relationships Saudi Air Force fleet had flown a total and support, including Salam Typhoon Oman of over 9,000 hours.
aircraft n In-service base across air, land n Support to the Royal Saudi navy andmaritime products minehunter programme MBDA Australia n pan-european guided weapons n Strategic capability and sustainment jointventure provider to the Australian Defence Force n Delivering defence contracts across theair, land, maritime and electronics domains 58 BAE SyStEMS AnnUAl RepoRT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Sales analysis: activity % Sales analysis: platforms and services % Progress on sustainability 1 1 Recordable Accident Rate 22% 3 Major injuries Energy 2 2 Water 1 Saudi Arabia 60 1 Military & Technical Services 61 Waste 2 Australia 21 2 Platforms 39 3 Other 19 2013 2012 2011 1 KpI Funded order intake 7,221m 5,266m 3,319m 1 order backlog 12.3bn 9.3bn 8.3bn 1 Sales KpI 4,063m 4,071m 3,794m 2 KpI Underlying eBITA 429m 417m 449m Return on sales 10.6% 10.2% 11.8% 3 Cash outflow inflow KpI 189 m 506m 80m financial Key Points 1 n order backlog increased by 32% on multi-year support awards and weapons procurement in Saudi Arabia 3 n operating cash outflow of 189m on utilisation of customer advances and pending receipt of Salam settlementproceeds oPerational Key Points n Salam Typhoon price escalation negotiations concluded n Resumption of Typhoon aircraft deliveries to Saudi Arabia under the Salam programme n Five-year, 1.8bn output-based Salam Typhoon support contract received n 1.5bn of orders received for Tornado aircraft upgrades and weapons procurement under the Saudi British DefenceCo-operation programme n Integration and trials of the first landing Helicopter Dock lHD in Australia ongoing n Second lHD hull arrived in Australia for consolidation to commence in the first quarter of 2014 n Five-year, A$342m 185m support contract for Royal Australian Air Force Hawk training aircraft received n MBDA secured significant contracts with its UK and French government customers sUstainaBility Key Points n Reduced Recordable Accident Rate by 22% n Reduced energy and water usage, and quantity of waste produced 1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense eBITA excluding non-recurring items see page 33.
3 net cash outflow inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments, and assets contributed to Trust.
BAE SyStEMS AnnUAl RepoRT 2013 59 StRAtEGIC REPORt PLAtFORMS & SERVICES INtERNAtIONAL Australia In 2013, a new training facility was opened for future crews of the two landing Helicopter Docks currently under construction by BAe Systems.
The ships are the largest ever to be built for the Royal Australian navy.
A 4,000 square metre warehouse has been transformed into a purpose-built, state-of-the-art base.
Saudi Arabia Under the Tornado Sustainment programme, weapon deliveries were completed in 2013. orders worth 1.5bn for the upgrade of Tornado aircraft and additional weapons procurement werereceived under theprogramme.
Under the initial AnZAC frigate anti-ship Discussions on Typhoon price escalation Financial performance missile defence system contract awarded reached agreement with the Saudi Arabian 1 order backlog has increased to 12.3bn in2004, the operational trials process was government.
2012 9.3bn following awards in Saudi concluded on HMAS perth.
Under the Arabia for five years of support on Typhoon Under the Saudi British Defence Co-operation follow-on contract awarded in 2012, the and further weapons packages on Tornado, programme SBDCp, the business continues second frigate, HMAS Arunta, is continuing together with renewal of the Australian Hawk to support the operational capability of both itsrefurbishment and construction to fit the support programme.
the RSAF and Royal Saudi naval Forces new masts and systems, and the third frigate, RSnF.
Under a 1.6bn contract awarded 1 HMAS AnZAC, is progressing through its own Sales of 4.1bn were almost unchanged in2012 to upgrade the RSAFs aircrew refurbishment and upgrade programme.
The deferred trading arising from training aircraft, the production of Hawk the Salam price escalation and increased The business was awarded a five-year, andpilatus pC-21 training aircraft continues levels of support for Typhoon aircraft now in A$342m 185m contract, with options to to programme.
Under contracts totalling service were offset by reductions in the extend through to 2026, to continue to 3.4bnawarded in 2012 for support to the Australian business as the landing Helicopter support the Royal Australian Air Force Hawk RSAF to the end of 2016, the first graduation Dock build programme ramps down.
ceremony of cadets from the King Faisal Air 2 Academy took place in May.
Underlying eBITA of 429m 2012 417m The first upgraded Ap-3C orion maritime generated a return on sales of 10.6% surveillance aircraft to be fitted with a new Weapon deliveries were completed and orders 201210.2%.
electronic Support Measures system was worth 1.5bn for the upgrade of Tornado delivered in november, marking a significant 3 The operating cash outflow reflects the aircraft and additional weapons procurement milestone in the delivery of the project to the utilisation of advances received in 2012 on were received.
the Saudi Tornado upgrade programme.
Work was completed on the first ship re-fit Tigerair Australia awarded BAe Systems a onthe RSnF minehunter mid-life update Operational performance five-year contract to provide base maintenance programme.
The ship was accepted back into Saudi Arabia services for its fleet of Airbus A320 aircraft.
the RSnF fleet during the second half of 2013 Through the entry into service of Typhoon and The business continues to examine and the second ship has entered the update the continued development of the in-country opportunities to expand further its commercial programme.
industrial base, the Group remains committed aviation maintenance footprint in Australia.
to developing a greater indigenous capability Australia The business incurred operating losses on in Saudi Arabia.
Consolidation of the first of two landing the Jp 2008 phase 3F programme which Helicopter Docks lHD was completed at the provides strategic and tactical satellite on the Salam Typhoon programme, UK final Williamstown shipyard following the arrival of communications capabilities to support assembly of 72 Typhoon aircraft continues.
the hull from subcontractor navantia in Spain.
Aircraft deliveries re-commenced in April.
At Integration and test of the ships systems and 31 December 2013, 34 aircraft had been The business was not down-selected for the the initial stages of ship acceptance trials are delivered to the customer.
Work is progressing Defence logistics Transformation programme.
Consolidation of the second lHD to schedule on the provision of a multi-role hull will begin inMelbourne in the first quarter India capability for the aircraft.
In April, the business opened a new The business sold its 26% shareholding in simulation and training facility in Sydney for A five-year, 1.8bn output-based contract was Defence land Systems India to Mahindra & training future lHD crew.
received to support the Royal Saudi Air Force Mahindra, the holder of the other 74% of the RSAF Typhoon aircraft as they progressively shares in the joint venture.
Under the Air Warfare Destroyer programme, enter into service.
In addition, a four-year all 11 hull blocks have been accepted by the In March, the US government issued a letter contract to deliver scheduled maintenance customer and nine delivered.
Seven additional of Acceptance to the Indian government under and upgrade to 30 Typhoon aircraft by the blocks have now been contracted for A$69m the US Foreign Military Sales FMS process endof 2017 was received.
for the supply of 145 M777 howitzers to the 1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
60 BAE SyStEMS AnnUAl RepoRT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT India India is the largest operator of the Hawk Advanced Jet Trainer with 123 aircraft ordered to date, of which over 70 have been delivered to the Indian Air Force.
In 2013, the Indian navy received the first of 17 Hawk trainer aircraft.
MBDA In 2013, the Royal navy of oman conducted an operational naval Vl MICA missile firing from the AlShamikh offshore patrol Vessel constructed by BAeSystems.
The missile successfully intercepted and destroyed the target at very low altitude.
The Indian government has yet The Mustakbal Management Development Sustainability performance toprogress the M777 FMS case through all programme provides leadership development Safety levels of its procurement process.
As a result and management qualifications preparing Two employee-driven initiatives highlight the of this and with no other new orders for high-potential employees for executive roles positive changes in Australias safety culture M777, in october, the business took the within the business.
In 2013, 13 employees and performance that contributed to a 29% decision to suspend M777 manufacture were enrolled onto the programme.
reduction in the Recordable Accident Rate inBarrow-in-Furness, UK.
The first was the introduction For Group sustainability performance, see ofaircraft protective edge padding and use Sustainability section on pages 112 to 119 A fixed-price proposal has been submitted ofbump caps across the aerospace business.
toHindustan Aeronautics limited HAl for Looking forward The second involved the development of a athird batch of Hawk trainer aircraft for safety device for handling cut steel in shipyards.
theIndian Air Force and discussions with In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the Group HAlcontinue.
expects to sustain its long-term presence Diversity and inclusion through delivering current programmes and In 2011, the Saudi business opened a Whilst the Indian government deemed industrialisation, and developing new femalebusiness support centre employing Dassault to be the lowest priced compliant business in support of the Saudi military locally-recruited Saudi national women for the bidder in the Medium Multi-Role Combat andparamilitary forces.
Thebusiness plans to increase the Aircraft competition, contract negotiations number ofSaudifemale employees in 2014.
In Australia, the change of government that began in early 2012 have not been following a federal election in September is concluded.
The Group continues to monitor In 2013, the Indian business was recognised not anticipated to affect materially the future the competition and stands ready to support by the Indian national Human Resource outlook for defence spending.
The new the Indian governments procurement process.
Development network as exhibiting best administration has committed to the release practice in its programme to support career Oman of a revised white paper and to make, within development for female employees.
Following the signature of the contract to 18 months of the election, the decisions supply 12 Typhoon and eight Hawk aircraft in necessary to ensure that Australia has no Environment 2012, initial mobilisation has commenced.
The Group is The Australian business has implemented The business continues to focus on continuing to explore and secure opportunities initiatives to improve energy efficiency.
At a strengthening its close relationship with the in adjacent markets, particularly in the oil and programme office in Cairns, a 7% reduction Royal oman Air Force, navy and Army, and gas industry in Western Australia.
inelectricity consumption was observed in toaddress their future requirements.
2013 after implementing initiatives, including In India, aircraft and artillery opportunities installing improved temperature controls to MBDA continue to be pursued.
reduce the use of air conditioning.
Similarly, Following publication of the 2013 livre Blanc atthe Williamtown fast jet maintenance base, in France, a 433m 360m contract was In oman, following signature of the Typhoon an 8% reduction in electricity consumption was secured from the French customer for the and Hawk contract in 2012, the Group will observed in 2013 following improvements, work with the customer to strengthen further development and production of the Missile including modifications to the air conditioning its close ties and to address their future Milieu fide Trame system.
theUK and French governments signed an agreement worth 500m 416m for the Engagement MBDA continues to build on the effective joint development and production of the BAe Systems Saudi Arabia increased further partnerships it has established with its MBDA Future Anti-Ship Guided Weapon the Saudisation of its workforce in 2013, domestic customers and is actively pursuing Anti-navire lger FASGW-Anl missile for achieving a level of 62%.
Initiatives in this asignificant number of export opportunities.
area were recognised by an award from the Saudi Ministry of labour.
In export markets, significant orders have been awarded in the Middle east and Far east.
MBDA continues to support the various aircraft procurement campaigns around the world and is well placed to respond to any associated weapon requirements.
