DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER STATUTORY AND REGULATORY INFORMATION Profit forecast Company registration Taxation In its half-year results announcement on BAE Systems plc is registered in England and The Groups tax strategy is to: 1August 2013, the Group made the following Wales with the registered number 1470151. ensure compliance with all applicable tax statement, which is regarded as a profit laws and regulations: and Directors forecast for the purposes of the Financial The current directors who served during the Services Authoritys Listing Rule 9.2.
18 manage the Groups tax expense in a way 2013 financial year are listed on pages 67 andwhich replaced the profit forecast made that is consistent with its values and its and 68.
Of those directors, Ian Tyler was in the Groups full-year results announcement legal obligations in all relevant jurisdictions.
appointed to the Board on 8 May 2013, on 21February 2013 and in the Annual ChrisGrigg on 1 July 2013 and Sir Roger Carr The Group seeks to build constructive working Report 2012 : on 1October 2013.
Sir Peter Mason and relationships with tax authorities while LeeMcIntire served as directors during the In aggregate, including both the benefit following a policy of open disclosure in order period, with Sir Peter Mason retiring from the fromthe share repurchase programme and to achieve early agreement and certainty in Board on 8 May 2013 and Lee McIntire downside arising from reductions to US relation to its tax affairs.
Whilst the Group resigning from the Board on 20 August 2013. defence budgets, double-digit growth in aims to maximise the tax efficiency of its Sir Richard Olver and Linda Hudson also underlying earnings per share is anticipated business transactions, it does not use served as directors during the period until for 2013.
This outlook assumes the structures in its tax planning that are against their retirement from the Board on 1 February satisfactory conclusion to Salam pricing the spirit of the law and actively considers the 2014.
In addition, Jerry DeMuro joined the negotiations this year.
implications of any planning for the Groups Board on 1 February 2014. wider corporate reputation.
Arms length Underlying earnings per share was 38.7p in principles are applied in the pricing of all Dividend 2012 as re-presented on classification of the intra-group transactions of goods and An interim dividend of 8.0p per share was Regional Aircraft line of business as a services in accordance with Organisation for paid on 2 December 2013.
The directors continuing operation and restated on adoption Economic Co-operation and Development propose a final dividend of 12.1p per ordinary of the revised International Accounting guidelines.
Where appropriate, the Group share.
Subject to shareholder approval, the Standard 19, Employee Benefits.
In 2013, engages with governments to help shape final dividend will be paid on 2 June 2014 underlying earnings per share was 42.0p.
proposed legislation and tax policy.
The Group toshareholders on the share register on Financial instruments endorses the statement of tax principles 22April 2014.
The Group uses financial instruments for issued by the Confederation of British Industry riskmanagement purposes.
The Groups Annual General Meeting AGM in May 2013 http: www.
uk objectives and policies relating to financial The Companys AGM will be held on 7 May media 2051390 statement of principles.
risk management are summarised below 2014.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting BAE Systems operates internationally and is andset out in more detail in note 28 to the is enclosed with this Annual Report and subject to tax in many different jurisdictions.
Group accounts on pages 175 and 176. details the resolutions to be proposed at The Group employs professional tax themeeting.
Interest rate risk managers and takes appropriate advice from Certain information in the Strategic Report The Groups objective is to manage its reputable professional firms.
The Group is Particulars of important events affecting exposure to interest rate fluctuations on routinely subject to tax audits and reviews theGroup which have occurred since borrowings through varying the proportion which can take a considerable period of time 31December 2013 and an indication of offixed rate debt relative to floating rate to conclude.
Provision is made for known likelyfuture developments in the business debtwith derivative instruments, mainly issues based on managements interpretation ofthe Group are set out in the Strategic interest rate swaps.
of country-specific legislation and the likely Report on pages 6 to 65. outcome of negotiations or litigation.
The Liquidity risk assessment and management of tax risks are Office of Fair Trading undertakings The Groups objective is to maintain adequate regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee.
As a consequence of the merger between undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
British Aerospace and the former Marconi Political donations Credit risk Electronic Systems businesses in 1999, No political donations were made in 2013.
The Groups objective is to monitor and theCompany gave certain undertakings to control counterparty credit risk and credit limit Issued share capital theSecretary of State for Trade and Industry utilisation.
The Group adopts a conservative As at 31 December 2013, BAE Systems now the Secretary of State for Business, approach to the investment of its surplus cash.
issued share capital of 88,404,817 Innovation and Skills.
In February 2007, comprised 3,536,192,674 ordinary shares theCompany was released from the majority The Group has material receivables duefrom of2.5p each and one Special Share of 1. ofthese undertakings and the remainder the UK, US and Saudi Arabian governments havebeen superseded and varied by a new where credit risk is not considered an issue.
Share buyback set of undertakings.
Compliance with the During the year, 51,595,000 ordinary shares of Currency risk undertakings is monitored by a compliance 2.5p each were repurchased under the buyback In order to protect itself against currency officer.
Further information regarding the programme announced on 21 February 2013 fluctuations, the Groups policy is to hedge undertakings and the contact details of and such repurchased shares have been allmaterial firm transactional exposures.
thecompliance officer may be obtained cancelled.
The total consideration for the through the Company Secretary at the purchase of the shares, including commission Companys registered office or through and stamp duty, was 212,359,150. theCompanys website.
120 BAE SySTEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Directors rePort DIRECTORS REPORT directors may require of the authority of the Treasury shares Companys Articles of Association, on a return signatory of the declaration: and iii such As at 1 January 2013, the number of shares of capital on a winding-up, holders of ordinary evidence or information if any as to the held in treasury totalled 336,813,996 shares are entitled, after repayment of the 1 matters referred to in the declaration as havinga total nominal value of 8,420,350 Special Share, to participate in such a return.
thedirectors consider appropriate: and representing 9.4% of the Companys There are no redemption rights in relation to called upshare capital at 1 January 2013. the ordinary shares.
the directors may, in their absolute During 2013, the Company used 9,169,044 Rights and obligations of the Special Share discretion, refuse to register any transfer treasury shares having a total nominal value The Special Share is held on behalf of the ofshares which are not fully paid up of 229,226 and representing 0.3% of the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation butnot so as to prevent dealings in listed Companys called up share capital at and Skills the Special Shareholder.
Certain shares from taking place : 31December 2013 to satisfy awards under provisions of the Companys Articles of the Free and Matching elements of the the directors may also refuse to register any Association cannot be amended without the ShareIncentive Plan 5,337,173 shares instrument of transfer of shares unless the consent of the Special Shareholder.
These inaggregate, awards vested under the instrument of transfer is in respect of only provisions include the requirement that no Performance Share Plan 364,445 shares one class of share and it is lodged at the foreign person, or foreign persons acting in and the Restricted Share Plan 1,809,975 place where the register of members is concert, can have more than a 15% voting shares, and options exercised under the kept, accompanied by a relevant certificate interest in the Company, the requirement that Executive Share Option Plan 1,657,451 or such other evidence as the directors may the majority of the directors are British, and shares.
The treasury shares utilised in reasonably require to show the right of the the requirement that the Chief Executive and respect of the Share Incentive Plan, the transferor to make the transfer: any executive Chairman are British.
Performance Share Plan and the Restricted the directors may refuse to register an Share Plan were disposed of by the Company The holder of the Special Share is entitled allotment or transfer of shares in favour for nil consideration.
The 1,657,451 shares toattend a general meeting, but the Special ofmore than four persons jointly: disposed of by the Company in respect of the Share carries no right to vote or any other Executive Share Option Plan were disposed of rights at any such meeting, other than to where a shareholder has failed to provide by the Company for an aggregate consideration speak in relation to any business in respect the Company with certain information of 3,928,802.
As at 31 December 2013, ofthe Special Share.
Subject to the relevant relating to their interest in shares, the thenumber of shares held in treasury totalled statutory provisions and the Companys directors can, in certain circumstances, 327,644,952 having a total nominal value Articles of Association, on a return of capital refuse to register a transfer of such shares: of8,191,124 and representing 9.3% of on a winding-up, the holder of the Special certain restrictions may from time to time theCompanys called up share capital at Share shall be entitled to repayment of the be imposed by laws and regulations for 31December 2013.
1capital paid up on the Special Share in example, insider trading laws : priority to any repayment of capital to any The rights to treasury shares are restricted in other members.
restrictions may be imposed pursuant to accordance with the Companies Act and, in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services particular, the voting rights attaching to these The holder of the Special Share has the right Authority whereby certain of the Groups shares are automatically suspended.
to require the Company to redeem the Special employees require the Companys approval Share at par or convert the Special Share into Rights and obligations of ordinary shares to deal in shares: and one ordinary share at any time.
On a show of hands at a general meeting awards of shares made under the every holder of ordinary shares present in Restrictions on transfer of securities Companys Share Incentive Plan are subject person and entitled to vote shall have one The restrictions on the transfer of shares in to restrictions on the transfer of shares vote, and every proxy entitled to vote shall the Company are as follows: prior to vesting.
have one vote unless the proxy is appointed the Special Share may only be issued to, by more than one member in which case the The Company is not aware of any held by and transferred to the Special proxy has one vote for and one vote against arrangements between its shareholders that Shareholder or his successor or nominee: ifthe proxy has been instructed by one or may result in restrictions on the transfer of more members to vote for the resolution and the directors shall not register any allotment shares and or voting rights.
by one or more members to vote against the or transfer of any shares to a foreign person, resolution: or if the proxy has been instructed or foreign persons acting in concert, who by one or more shareholders to vote either for atthe time have more than a 15% voting or against a resolution and by one or more of interest in the Company, or who would, those shareholders to use his discretion how following such allotment or transfer, have to vote.
On a poll, every member present in such an interest: person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall the directors shall not register any person have one vote for every ordinary share held.
as a holder of any shares unless they have Subject to the relevant statutory provisions received: i a declaration stating that upon and the Companys Articles of Association, registration, the share s will not be held by holders of ordinary shares are entitled to a foreign persons or that upon registration dividend where declared or paid out of profits the share s will be held by a foreign person available for such purposes.
Subject to the or persons: ii such evidence if any as the relevant statutory provisions and the BAE SySTEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 121 DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER STATUTORy AND REGULATORy INFORMATION mayby ordinary resolution from time to time Significant direct and indirect holders 2014.
A special resolution will be proposed vary the minimum number of directors.
ofsecurities atthe 2014 AGM to renew the Companys As at 19 February 2014, the Company had authority to acquire its own shares.
At each AGM of the Company, any director been advised of the following significant direct who was elected or last re-elected at or before At the 2013 AGM, the directors were given and indirect interests in the issued ordinary the AGM held in the third calendar year before thepower to issue new shares up to a share capital of the Company: the then current calendar year must retire by nominal amount of 27,047,828.
This power rotation and such further directors must retire will expire on the earlier of the conclusion of Percentage Name of shareholder notified by rotation so that in total one-third of the the 2014 AGM or 30 June 2014.
Accordingly, directors retire by rotation each year.
A retiring a resolution will be proposed at the 2014 AXA S. A. and its group of companies 5.00% director is eligible for re-election.
It is the AGM to renew the Companys authority to Barclays PLC 3.98% Boards intention that all directors will stand issue further new shares.
At the 2013 AGM, for election or re-election in 2014 in the directors were also given the power to The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 4.06% compliance with the UK Corporate issue new issue shares up to a further Franklin Resources Inc. and affiliates 4.92% Governance Code.
nominal amount of 27,047,828 in connection with an offer by way of a rights Invesco Limited 13.02% Amendment of the Companys Articles issue.
This authority too will expire on the Silchester International Investors LLP 3.01% ofAssociation earlier of the conclusion of the 2014 AGM The Companys Articles of Association may or30 June 2014, and a resolution will be Exercise of rights of shares in employee only be amended by a special resolution at a proposed at the 2014 AGM to renew this share schemes general meeting of shareholders.
The Trustees of the employee trusts do rights are varied, such amendments must be notseek to exercise voting rights on shares approved by the members of each class of Conflicts of interest held in the employee trusts other than on shares separately.
As permitted under the Companies Act 2006, thedirection of the underlying beneficiaries.
the Companys Articles of Association contain In addition, certain provisions of the Articles No voting rights are exercised in relation to provisions which enable the Board to authorise of Association cannot be amended without shares unallocated to individual beneficiaries.
conflicts or potential conflicts that individual the consent of the Special Shareholder.
Restrictions on voting deadlines Theseprovisions include the requirement that The notice of any general meeting shall no foreign person, or foreign persons acting To avoid potential conflicts of interest the specify the deadline for exercising voting inconcert, can have more than a 15% voting Board requires the Nominations Committee rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to interest in the Company, the requirement that tocheck that any individuals it nominates for vote in relation to resolutions to be proposed the majority of the directors are British, and appointment to the Board are free of potential at the general meeting.
The number of proxy the requirement that the Chief Executive and conflicts.
In addition, the Boards procedures votes for, against or withheld in respect of any executive Chairman are British.
and the induction programme for new each resolution are publicised on the directors emphasise a directors personal Powers of the directors Companys website after the meeting.
responsibility for complying with the duties The directors are responsible for the relating to conflicts of interest.
The procedure Appointment and replacement of directors management of the business of the Company adopted by the Board for the authorisation Subject to certain nationality requirements and may exercise all powers of the Company ofconflicts reminds directors of the need to mentioned below, the Company may by subject to applicable legislation and consider their duties as directors and not ordinary resolution appoint any person to regulation, and the Articles of Association.
grant an authorisation unless they believe, beadirector.
ingood faith, that this would be likely to At the 2013 AGM, the directors were given The majority of directors holding office must promote the success of the Company.
As thepower to buy back a maximum number of be British.
Otherwise, the directors who are required by law, the potentially conflicted 324,606,396 ordinary shares at a minimum not British shall vacate office in such order director cannot vote on an authorisation price of 2.5p each.
The maximum price was that those who have been in office for the resolution or be counted in the quorum.
the higher of i an amount equal to 105% of shortest period since their appointment shall Anyauthorisation granted may be terminated the average of the middle market quotations vacate their office first, unless all of the at any time and the director is informed of of the Companys ordinary shares as derived directors otherwise agree among themselves.
theobligation to inform the Company without from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official delay should there be any material change in Any director who holds the office of either List for the five business days immediately the nature of the conflict or potential conflict Chairman in an executive capacity or Chief preceding the day on which such ordinary so authorised.
The Nominations Committee Executive shall also be British.
shares are contracted to be purchased, has been asked to review on an annual basis and ii the higher of the price of the last The Company must have six directors holding any authorisations granted and to make independent trade and the highest current office at all times.
If the number is reduced recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
independent bid on the London Stock tobelow six, then such number of persons Exchange as stipulated in Article 5 1 of shall be appointed as directors as soon as theBuy-back and Stabilisation Regulation.
isreasonably practicable to reinstate the This power will expire at the earlier of the number of directors to six.
The Company conclusion of the 2014 AGM or 30 June 122 BAE SySTEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Directors rePort DIRECTORS REPORT Systems Munitions Limited would be Directors indemnities The Company and EADS have agreed that if contrary to the defence, national security The Company has entered into deeds of Finmeccanica acquires a controlling interest ornational interest of the UK, then the indemnity with all its current directors and inthe Company, EADS will increase its change of control shall not proceed until those persons who were directors for any shareholding in MBDA to 50% by agreement with the UK MoD is established.
partof 2013 which are qualifying indemnity purchasing the appropriate number of In the event that there is a change of provisions for the purpose of the Companies shares in MBDA atfair market value.
control of BAE Systems Global Combat Act 2006.
The Company, BAE Systems, Inc. Systems Munitions Limited, notwithstanding The directors of BAE Systems Pension Funds BAESystems Holdings Limited and the objection of the UK MoD on such Trustees Limited, BAE Systems 2000 Pension BAESystems Holdings Inc. entered into grounds, the UK MoD may, having followed Plan Trustees Limited, BAE Systems Executive aSpecial Security Agreement dated the dispute resolution process, terminate Pension Scheme Trustees Limited and Alvis 8November 2010 with the US Department the MASS agreement for default.
Pension Scheme Trustees Limited benefit from of Defense regarding the management of indemnities in the governing documentation BAE Systems, Inc. in order to comply with In November 2012, BAESystems Marine ofthe BAE Systems Pension Scheme, the the US governments national security Limited entered into a contract with the BAE Systems 2000 Pension Plan, the requirements.
In the event of a change MoD for the design, construction, testing BAESystems Executive Pension Scheme ofcontrol of the Company, the Agreement and commissioning of Boat 4 of the Astute andthe Alvis Pension Scheme, respectively, maybe terminated or altered by the US Class programme the Agreement.
Where which are qualifying indemnity provisions for Department of Defense.
the MoD considers that a proposed change the purpose of the Companies Act 2006. of control of BAESystems Marine Limited In July 2009, BVT Surface Fleet Limited would be contrary to the defence, national All such indemnity provisions are in force as now BAE Systems Surface Ships Limited security or national interest of the UK, then at the date of this Directors Report.
and the UK Ministry of Defence MoD the change of control shall not proceed until entered into a definitive Terms of Business agreement is established with the MoD.
In Change of control significant agreements Agreement ToBA which sets out a 15-year the event that there is a change ofcontrol The following significant agreements contain partnering arrangement, including lead of BAESystems Marine Limited, provisions entitling the counterparties to roles for the BVT business ondefined notwithstanding the objection of the MoD exercise termination, alteration or other surface shipbuilding and support on such grounds, the MoD shall be entitled similar rights in the event of a change of programmes.
Where the MoD considers to terminate the Agreement immediately.
control of the Company: that a proposed change of control of BAESystems Surface Ships Limited would In addition, the Companys share plans The Group has entered into a 2bn be contrary to the defence, national security contain provisions as a result of which options Revolving Credit Facility dated 12 December or national interest of the UK, then the and awards may vest and become exercisable 2013 which provides that, in the event of change of control shall not proceed until on a change of control of the Company in achange of control of the Company, the agreement with the MoD is established.
In accordance with the rules of the plans.
lenders are entitled to renegotiate terms, the event that there is a change of control orif no agreement is reached on negotiated Auditors of BAE Systems Surface Ships Limited, terms within a certain period, to call for the KPMG LLP have indicated their willingness to notwithstanding the objection of the MoD repayment or cancellation of the facility.
be appointed as the auditors for the Company on such grounds, the MoD shall be entitled The Revolving Credit Facility was undrawn and a resolution proposing their appointment to terminate the ToBA immediately without as at 31 December 2013. will be put to the AGM.
The Company has entered into a Restated Statement of directors responsibilities in On 6 November 2013, BAE Systems and Amended Shareholders Agreement respect of the Annual Report and financial andthe MoD entered into a non-binding with European Aeronautic Defence and statements Commercial Principles Agreement which Space Company EADS N. V. EADS and The directors are responsible for preparing setout a programme for the entering into Finmeccanica S. p. A. Finmeccanica relating theAnnual Report, and the Group and parent offuture contracts which would result in the to MBDA S. A. S. dated 18 December 2001 company financial statements in accordance progressive amendment and termination as amended.
In the event that control of with applicable law and regulations.
These future contracts have the Company passes to certain specified notyet been entered into.
third-party acquirors, the agreement allows Company law requires the directors to prepare EADS and Finmeccanica to exercise an Group and parent company financial statements In August 2008, BAE Systems Land option to terminate certain executive for each financial year.
Under that law they Systems Munitions & Ordnance Limited management level nomination and voting arerequired to prepare the Group financial now BAE Systems Global Combat Systems rights, and certain shareholder information statements in accordance with International Munitions Limited and the UK MoD entered rights of the Company in relation to the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as into a 15-year partnering agreement for the MBDA joint venture.
Following the exercise adopted by the EU and applicable law, and provision of ammunition to UK Forces the of this option, the Company would have have elected to prepare the parent company Munitions Acquisition Supply Solution theright to require the other shareholders financial statements in accordance with UK MASS partnering agreement.
Where the to purchase its interest in MBDA at fair accounting standards and applicable law UK MoD considers that a proposed change market value.
of control of BAE Systems Global Combat BAE SySTEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 123 DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER STATUTORy AND REGULATORy INFORMATION Under company law the directors must not Statement of disclosure of information Responsibility statement of the approve the financial statements unless they toauditors directors in respect of the Annual are satisfied that they give a true and fair view The directors who held office at the date Report and financial statements of the state of affairs of the Group and parent ofapproval of this Directors Report confirm Each of the directors listed below confirms company, and of their profit or loss for that that, so far as they are each aware, there that to the best of their knowledge: period.
In preparing each of the Group and isno relevant audit information of which the parent company financial statements, the Companys auditors are unaware: and each the financial statements, prepared in directors are required to: director has taken all the steps that he she accordance with the applicable set of ought to have taken to make himself herself select suitable accounting policies and accounting standards, give a true and fair aware of any relevant audit information and thenapply them consistently: viewof the assets, liabilities, financial toestablish that the Companys auditors are position and profit or loss of the Company, aware of that information.
make judgements and estimates that and the undertakings included in the arereasonable and prudent: On behalf of the Board consolidation taken as a whole: and for the Group financial statements, the Strategic Report and Directors Report, statewhether they have been prepared taken together, include a fair review ofthe inaccordance with IFRSs as adopted by David Parkes, Company Secretary development and performance of the theEU: 19 February 2014 business, and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the for the parent company financial statements, consolidation taken as a whole, together state whether applicable UK accounting with a description of the principal risks and standards have been followed, subject to uncertainties that they face.
any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial In addition, each of the directors considers statements: and thatthe Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and prepare the financial statements on the provides the information necessary for going concern basis unless it is inappropriate shareholders to assess the Companys to presume that the Group and the parent performance, business model and strategy.
company will continue in business.
Sir Roger Carr Chairman The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient Ian King Chief Executive to show and explain the parent companys Jerry DeMuro President and Chief transactions, and disclose with reasonable Executive Officer of accuracy at any time the financial position of BAESystems, Inc. the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply Peter Lynas Group Finance Director with the Companies Act 2006.
They have Paul Anderson Non-executive director general responsibility for taking such steps asare reasonably open to them to safeguard Harriet Green Non-executive director the assets of the Group, and to prevent and Chris Grigg Non-executive director detect fraud and other irregularities.
Paula Rosput Non-executive director Under applicable law and regulations, the Reynolds directors are also responsible for preparing Nick Rose Non-executive director astrategic report, directors report, directors remuneration report and corporate governance Carl Symon Non-executive director statement that comply with that law and Ian Tyler Non-executive director thoseregulations.
The directors are responsible for the On behalf of the Board maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK Sir Roger Carr, Chairman governing the preparation and dissemination 19 February 2014 of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
