STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT BuSineSS Model BAE Systems is a global defence, aerospace and security company, delivering awide range of products and services for air, land and naval forces, as well as advanced electronics, security, information technology and support services.
TheGroups business model focuses not just on what it does, but how it does it.
deliVering SuStainaBle groWth in Shareholder Value through total perforMance cuStoMer prograMMe financial reSponSiBle focuS eXecution perforMance BehaViour Page 10 Page 11 Page 12 Page 13 See Chief Executives review section on pages 20 to 23 Multiple MarKetS Page 14 outStanding capaBilitieS Page 16 deliVering SuStainaBility Page 18 Strong goVernance Page 19 References to the business model throughout the Annual Report BAE SyStEmS AnnuAL REPoRT 2013 9 cuStoMer focuS See Segmental performance section on pages 36 to 61 What iS it?
BAE Systems is a leading provider The Groups priority to its customers is to understand their evolving needs and expectations, ofcommercial aircraft Full Authority and deliver on its commitments throughout the life of its products and services.
Digital Engine Controls FADEC through its FADEC International joint What are Bae SySteMS Key StrengthS?
venture with Sagem, and continues n Broad customer base and long-standing relationships with the governments of the uS, to provide cutting-edge technology for uK, Saudi Arabia and Australia.
commercial jet engine applications, n Responsiveness to urgent operational requirements.
including for the CFM 56 family of n Focused investment in research and development and substantial intellectual property.
Building on many years experience and reflecting the strong hoW doeS thiS help to create Value?
customer focus embedded in the Delivering on commitments and performance also increases the likelihood of further business, BAE Systems, as a tenured opportunities on future programmes.
partner in the FADEC Alliance, has hoW iS it MeaSured?
been selected to provide the FADEC for the next-generation CFM Leap See the Customer Focus Key Performance Indicator on page 28 engine powering the Airbus A320neo and Boeing 737 MAX.
Image: One of our employees at FortWayne, Indiana, US 10 BAE SyStEmS AnnuAL REPoRT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT prograMMe eXecution See Segmental performance section on pages 36 to 61 What iS it?
HMS Queen Elizabeth and HMS The Groups performance is dependent on the successful execution of its projects.
It is Prince of Wales are two aircraft important that the Group wins contracts for high-quality new programmes, and delivers on carriers currently under construction those programmes within tight tolerances of quality, time and cost.
by the Aircraft Carrier Alliance, a unique partnering relationship What are Bae SySteMS Key StrengthS?
between BAE Systems, Thales, n Talented, diverse and skilled workforce.
Babcock and the uK Ministry of n Breadth of technological capability.
Effective programme n World-class project management processes, including Lifecycle Management, regular execution is key to the successful contract reviews and early identification of programme risk.
Each n Robust and effective supplier management.
65,000 tonne carrier will provide the armed forces with a four acre military hoW doeS thiS help to create Value?
operating base that can be deployed Control of costs and schedule throughout the lifecycle of programmes maximises returns worldwide and will be versatile for the Group.
enough to be used for operations ranging from supporting war efforts hoW iS it MeaSured?
See the Programme Execution Key Performance Indicator on page 28 Image: The Queen Elizabeth Carrier at Rosyth Dockyard, Fife, UK BAE SyStEmS AnnuAL REPoRT 2013 11 financial perforMance See Group financial performance section on pages 32 to 35 What iS it?
under the 2009 Typhoon Tranche 3A The Group sets challenging financial targets through its Integrated Business Planning contract, a total of 88 aircraft have process to maximise financial performance and drive long-term shareholder value.
been ordered for the four European partner nations Germany, Italy, What are Bae SySteMS Key StrengthS?
Tranche 3 n Robust procedures for risk management and internal control.
capability includes over 350 modified n Long-term strategy and five-year plan reviewed and updated annually.
parts designed, engineered and n Regular reviews of performance relative to the Integrated Business Plan.
assembled ready to incorporate the n Business portfolio subject to regular strategic review.
most advanced capability enhancements, including provision n A clear capital allocation policy, consistent with sustaining an investment grade forconformal fuel tanks and extra creditrating.
electrical power and cooling to cater hoW doeS thiS help to create Value?
for an E-Scan radar, which will Achievement of financial targets underpins the Groups strategy and delivers returns enhance performance, reliability and toshareholders.
availability whilst delivering lower support costs.
See the Financial Performance Key Performance Indicators on pages 26 and 27 Image: Typhoon production at Warton Aerodrome, Lancashire, UK 12 BAE SyStEmS AnnuAL REPoRT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT reSponSiBle BehaViour See Sustainability summary section on pages 62 and 63 What iS it?
BAE Systems places great Responsible Behaviour is fundamental to the business.
The Groups Code of Conduct importance on the way it conducts provides guidance on the principles and standards of business conduct expected of all business and continues to reinforce employees.
Together with the Groups Responsible Trading Principles, the Code of Conduct a culture of responsible behaviour.
underpins the Groups business activities.
The Group has established a network of Ethics officers to support What are Bae SySteMS Key StrengthS?
employees who may have concerns n A culture of integrity.
In 2013, over 40% of n Robust Code of Conduct and Responsible Trading Principles.
ethics issues raised were through n A global ethics helpline to provide employees with guidance and a means to raise discussions with Ethics officers.
n Robust assurance processes, compliance systems, support and training.
hoW doeS thiS help to create Value?
Responsible business practices underpin the Groups ability to operate and its business reputation, and support employees in making the right decisions to drive business performance.
Image: One of our employees at the See Responsible Behaviour Key Performance Indicator on page 28, and ethics, safety, North Ryde site, New South Wales, diversity and inclusion, and environmental metrics on pages 112 to 117 Australia BAE SyStEmS AnnuAL REPoRT 2013 13 Multiple Markets See Chief Executives review section on pages 20 to 23 BAE Systems is a global business with positions across four principal markets anda track record of success in international markets.
Market overview BAE Systems has a broad geographic base with business operations in four principal markets around the world, in the US, the UK, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia.
These markets are identified as having a significant and sustained commitment to defence and security.
They are countries that welcome foreign investment to develop and sustain a domestic defence industrial capability, building long-term and trusted customer relationships.
BAE Systems has a strong international market presence with well-established Principal markets relationships across the globe, supported Sales of ces byregional sales offices.
Accessible global defence markets BAE Systems global defence market position The Groups strategy continues to focus Top ten global defence markets accessible Top ten global defence contractors revenue onthe importance of winning international for business by the Group $bn $bn business, where growth markets remain.
Success in these international defence, US Lockheed Martin aerospace and security markets is evident 679.8 44.9 inthe significant order intake in markets Japan Boeing outside the US and UK.
67.1 31.4 UK BAE Systems 60.6 26.8 France Raytheon 51.3 22.7 India General Dynamics 44.1 21.0 Germany Northrop Grumman 41.2 20.6 Saudi Arabia EADS 35.9 14.9 Brazil Finmeccanica 30.6 12.5 Australia United Technologies 30.0 12.1 South Korea L-3 Communications 29.5 10.8 Principal markets Source: Janes Defence Budgets Source: Defense News based on 2012 revenues based on 2012 total defence expenditure 14 BAE SyStEMS ANNUAl REpoRT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 Sales by principal market % BAE Systems is an established part of the defence industrial capability in the US, the 1 UK, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia, where its principal operations are based.
5 The Groups global footprint and strong track record in export sales provides ongoing 4 opportunities across international markets.
What are bae systeMs key streNgths?
n Established customer base and relationships.
n In-depth knowledge and experience of working in international markets.
3 2 hoW does this help to create value?
With near-term budget pressures in some markets, the Groups broad geographic base provides a resilient business portfolio.
1 US 37 lasting relationships with customers not only mean the Group has clear sight of value 2 UK 26 generation in the long term, but also the ability to recognise evolving requirements for 3 Saudi Arabia 20 programme and capability developments.
4 Australia 5 hoW is it Measured?
5 Other international 12 order intake and sales by market, with a focus on non-UK US order intake 6 Xxxxxx [x] US 31,500 1 BAE Systems is a top ten US defence contractor, employees offering a balanced portfolio of products and services indefence, aerospace and security domains, including top 10 the operational support of equipment used around US defence contractor theworld by US forces and their allies.
UK 33,300 1 BAE Systems plays a vital role in the UKs defence employees capabilities across air, maritime and land domains, including military and technical service contracts.
NuMber 1 BAESystems also plays a key role in security and supplier to the UK Ministry of Defence intelligence with customers in both government and commercial markets.
International 19,800 1 In international markets, including the Kingdom of Saudi employees Arabia and Australia, the Group isseeing good growth in order intake, leading to anticipated growth in international 9.3bN 1 sales.
In 2013, non-UK US order intake was 9.3bn, 1 non-UK US order intake in 2013 building on the 11.2bn booked in 2012.
NuMber 1 In Saudi Arabia, BAE Systems supports the operational in-country defence supplier in Saudi Arabia capability of the Royal Saudi air and naval forces, and is andAustralia investing in the development of Saudi defence capabilities.
In Australia, BAE Systems supplies leading capability across air defence, land combat systems, naval systems and security.
Indias growing defence and security market offers opportunities for BAE Systems, particularly in the land and air sectors.
The Group continues to focus on growing order intake and developing in-country relationships.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
BAE SyStEMS ANNUAl REpoRT 2013 15 outstaNdiNg capabilities See Segmental performance section on pages 36 to 61 Applied Intelligence formerly BAESystems Detica has launched its defence-grade cyber security product, CyberReveal, to the commercial market.
CyberReveal electroNic cyber & isan analytics and investigation systeMs iNtelligeNce product that gives companies the intelligence they need to protect their See pages 38 to 42 See pages 43 to 47 sensitive commercial information.
Electronic Systems has advanced technology, Cyber & Intelligence comprises  electronics capabilities with a focused intelligence-based services, and large portfolio of annually-funded contracts, government and commercial cyber security and significant Group-funded research and activities.
development invested in the business.
Intelligence & Security delivers a broad range Electronic Combat combines the Electronic of services, including systems development, protection, Electronic Warfare and Electronic IT, cyber operations and intelligence analysis Attack product lines, and provides a depth to enable the US military and government to ofcapability in integrated electromagnetic recognise, manage and defeat threats.
Global Analysis and Operations provides Survivability & targeting includes situational mission-enabled analytic solutions and awareness, targeting and survivability support to operations across the homeland systems, such as electro-optic sensor security, law enforcement, defence, products, guidance systems, handheld intelligence and counter-intelligence targeting and infrared countermeasures communities.
systems for soldiers and vehicles.
GEOINTISR develops and supports software Communications & Control has a strong systems and mission applications for footing in radio frequency communication geospatial tasking for the US defence and anddatalinks, and provides military aircraft intelligence communities.
controls and displays, together with IT Solutions develops, deploys and maintains platformintegration capabilities.
mission applications focused on information Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance sharing, knowledge management and ISR addresses the market for airborne enhanced enterprise mission IT solutions persistent surveillance, identification systems, forfederal, civilian and defence intelligence signals intelligence and space products.
Commercial Aircraft electronics addresses Applied Intelligence collects, manages and the commercial aircraft electronics market, exploits information to enable government including fly-by-wire flight controls, full and commercial clients to reveal intelligence, authority digital engine controls, cockpit maintain security, optimise performance controls, head-up displays, cabin andmanage risk.
Alongside its secure management systems and power government-focused activities, the business management systems.
is a supplier of information assurance products and services to the financial HybriDrive propulsion delivers power and services and telecommunications sectors.
energy management solutions, including primary operations are in the UK, Denmark, vehicle hybrid drive systems.
16 BAE SyStEMS ANNUAl REpoRT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT Sales by reporting segment % The Group has five principal reporting segments which align with the Groups 1 strategicdirection.
2 What are Bae SyStemS key StrengthS?
n Geographically diverse and targeted portfolio of businesses.
5 3 n Balanced portfolio of products and services, including key intellectual property and focused investment in research and development.
n Group-wide mandated processes and an Operational Framework see page 19.
4 hoW doeS thiS help to create value?
The reporting segments allow focus on areas of expertise and recognise the growth areasof electronic systems and cyber and intelligence, increasing exports of products 1 Electronic Systems 13 andservices, the significant services element of the business and the Groups geographic 2 Cyber & Intelligence 7 spread.
Transfer of best practice across businesses, within national security constraints, 3 Platforms & Services US 22 allows the Group to leverage appropriate skills and capabilities to meet the requirements of customers.
4 Platforms & Services UK 36 hoW iS it meaSured?
5 Platforms & Services International 22 Sales by reporting segment Including share of equity accounted investments.
platformS & platformS & platformS & ServiceS ServiceS uS ServiceS uk international See pages 48 to 52 See pages 53 to 57 See pages 58 to 61 Platforms & Services US comprises the Platforms & Services UK is the focus for the Platforms & Services International Land & Armaments business, which includes Groups UK prime contracting platform and comprises businesses in Saudi Arabia, a range of funded development activity and systems integration contracts, with a large Australia, India and Oman, as well as a fixed-price production and services order backlog of multi-year development, 37.5%shareholding in MBDA.
contracts, and the US-based Support production and services contracts.
In Saudi Arabia, the business provides Solutions business, whichincludes services, operational capability support to the Military Air & Information includes sustainment and systems integration countrys air and naval forces on UK Saudi programmes for the production of Typhoon activities which may be contracted over  contracts.
combat and Hawk trainer aircraft, F-35 multi-year arrangements.
Contracts include multi-year and fixed-price Lightning II sub-assembly manufacture, agreements, such as the Saudi British Land & Armaments is engaged in the support for Typhoon, Tornado and Hawk Defence Co-operation Programme.
design, development, production, support aircraft, and development of next-generation and upgrade of armoured combat vehicles, Unmanned Air Systems and defence In Australia, the business delivers production, artillery systems, naval guns, missile information systems.
The Regional Aircraft upgrade and support programmes for the launchers and munitions.
business provides managed solutions for Australian government across the air, aircraft support services and engineering.
US Combat Vehicles focuses on the tracked maritime and land domains.
Services and amphibious vehicles markets, servicing Maritime programmes include the contracts include the provision of support both US and international customers.
manufacture of two new Queen Elizabeth and upgrades.
Platforms contracts include Class aircraft carriers and Astute Class naval ships, such as the Landing Helicopter Weapon Systems focuses on naval weapons, submarines for the Royal Navy, the design Dock programme for the Navy.
Contracts are munitions and artillery markets, servicing US, ofthe Successor submarine and Type 26 often multi-year and fixed price.
Products frigate, and in-service support.
include naval gun systems, artillery systems, In India, the Group continues to develop its munitions and missile launchers.
Combat Vehicles UK is the UK-based 40% software joint venture, BAeHAL, and armoured vehicle and support services build on its long-standing relationship with BAE Systems Hgglunds focuses on the business.
The principal programme is Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, which is tracked vehicle market for Swedish and forthedesign and manufacture of manufacturing Hawk aircraft under licence international customers.
FNSS, BAE Systems Turkish joint venture, The business is developing its position in produces and upgrades tracked and wheeled Munitions focuses on the design, Oman, building on a long history of military vehicles for international customers.
development and manufacture of a relationships with the Omani armed forces, comprehensive range of products, servicing with resulting orders placed with the Support Solutions is a major supplier of ship its main customer, the UK Ministry of relevantreporting segments.
repair services to the US Navy and complex Defence, as well as international customers.
munitions facilities management for the MBDA is a leading global guided weapons The business is the principal supplier of Holston and Radford facilities.
munitions to the British armed forces.
activities in the US include fixed and rotary wing aircraft support services.
BAE SyStEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 17 Delivering SuStainability See Sustainability summary section on pages 62 and 63 What iS it?
the future workplace is likely to require BAe Systems manages the current impacts of its operations and products, and workers with a breadth, depth and mix anticipates the future global business environment to ensure that it has processes in of skills.
BAeSystems is one of the place to support the continued operation of the business.
largest employers of apprentices in the manufacturing and engineering What are bae SyStemS key StrengthS?
sector in the uK with 387 recruited n Robust standards of workplace and product safety.
during 2013 and a target to recruit n A strong commitment to creating an inclusive workplace, where a diverse range of more than 500 for 2014. the talented employees with broad skill sets and capabilities can deliver against global standards achieved by apprentices customer requirements.
are extremely high as demonstrated n programmes to manage the environmental impacts of the Groups operations and by pav Bhogal who picked up the products.
2013 Best Apprentice of the Year prize and Joanne Sharples who won hoW DoeS thiS help to create value?
an award for outstanding leadership By managing the areas that have the most potential to affect the continued operation of at the new talent Awards run by the the business, the Group is able to protect its operations and reputation.
Image: One of our apprentices at the See safety, diversity and inclusion, and environmental metrics on pages 114 to 117 Maritime Submarines site in Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria, UK 18 BAE SyStEmS AnnuAl RepoRt 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT Strong governance See Governance summary section on pages 64 and 65 the Board is responsible for the good governance of the Company.
It sets the strategy, Operational Framework a stable provides leadership to put this into effect, supervises management and reports to foundation from which to deliver shareholders on its stewardship of the Company.
the Board is formed of executive and strategy and performance independent non-executive directors, with non-executives comprising the majority of Board the operational Framework is a appointments.
the Board is led by a non-executive Chairman who is responsible for the document that sets out how leadership of the Board and its effectiveness.
the Chief executive is responsible for the business is done across leadership, and the operational and performance management of the Company consistent BAeSystems.
Reviewed on an with the strategy and business plan agreed by the Board.
annual basis by the Board, it is based on principles of good the Company was compliant with the provisions of the uK Corporate Governance Code governance and details the values, throughout 2013. policies and processes that are mandated across the Group, and how the Board delegates authority.
the Board and its committees review From left to right: compliance with the requirements of paul Anderson, paula Rosput Reynolds, Carl Symon, peter lynas, Ian tyler, Ian King, the operational Framework on a Sir Roger Carr, Jerry DeMuro, ChrisGrigg, Harriet Green oBe, nick Rose regular basis.
