38 HEalTH aNd SafETy THE Way WE WOrk to measure progress against the Zero The reach of BalfourBeatty In 2013, we set new and Harm Roadmap and GSPs gap analysis spans many countries, cultures challenging requirements performed early in the year.
served as a discussion forum for concerns around meeting specific requirements It is therefore key that we operate We launched our Zero Harm Roadmap and established a process to review that charts the Health and Safety H&S to high ethical and professional H&S annual action plans by which each maturity from a level of minimum standards regardless oflocation.
successive level of H&S performance expectation in 2013 to one of Health and will be achieved.
Alongside the Our approach to sustainability Roadmap we introduced our Global Safety In 2014 and beyond, our Zero Harm goals isbroad and reflects a Principles GSPs, a set of rules that of zero fatalities, zero disabling injuries, convictionthat sustainability define the way we work, developed as zero injuries to members of the public a result of investigations into serious strategy should be central and zero new cases of long term harm incidents across the business.
Each of to health, will remain.
As we head into to how we run the business.
our business areas has developed plans 2014, we are renewing our focus on the to improve safety in these key areas.
elimination of fatal risks and increasing the level of personal accountability for safety.
Read more about our GSPs online Our overall Group performance once again Despite the overall improvement, there improved in 2013. were, unfortunately, five work related fatalities during 2013 across our Group the Group Accident two in the UK, two in Germany and one Frequency Rate AFR in our joint venture business in Hong Improved by 19% down to 0.13 from Kong.
81% of our businesses killed were employed by sub contractors.
recorded an improved or zero AFR for 2013.
In 2013, there were also three non-work related fatalities.
Every fatal accident is subject to a thorough 19% investigation and a detailed review by the Chief Executive and his executive team.
2013 0.13 Lessons learned are shared across the 2012 0.16 Group to help improve future performance and prevent it happening again.
2011 0.17 As a result of workplace injuries, our workers lost 5,996 days during 2013.
This Major injuries is an improvement on 2012 6,342 and a 130 major injuries were reported in 2013. significant 35% reduction on 2011 9,218.
This is a 29% improvement on 2012 and According to incident data collated and a31% improvement on 2011.
Of those prepared by ENCORD European Network major injuries reported two were of Construction Companies, these classified as permanently disabling figures represent some of the lowest compared to one in2012.
levels of absence due to workplace injuries compared to our competitors across Europe.
3,273 total injuries were 29% sustained by our workforce in 2013 which is 15% less than 2012 3,845.
2013 130 From 2014, we have replaced Accident 2012 184 Frequency Rate AFR with Lost Time 2011 189 Injury Rate LTIR as our primary lagging indicator of H&S performance.
LTIR Injuries to the public includes all lost time injuries and injuries There were 110 injuries to members of resulting in restricted duty and transfers.
As such, this universally recognised the public in 2013, a reduction of 4%.
measure, is a better indicator towards our goal of Zero Harm.
For future comparison our LTIR in 2013 was 0.23 compared to 4% 0.26 in 2012 and 0.29 in 2011.
2013 110 During 2013, 12 Chief Executive reviews were held covering each business area 2012 115 and joint venture business.
These intensive 2011 127 reviews allowed Andrew McNaughton Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 39 ETHICS aNd valUES As ever, we continue to emphasise the We have continued to importance of promoting our Ethics embed our ethics, values and awarded Helpline and other channels by which compliance programme across employees, sub contractors and suppliers, Best Supplier and others can raise concerns about the business, building on the Code of Conduct possible unethical conduct.
We have sound foundations developed witnessed a stabilisation in the number by the Red Flag Group, over the previous three years of such cases over the last two years, describing our Code as andfocusing in areas where but we still receive what we consider one of the most cutting to be a healthy number, indicating that edge, innovative and we believe we are most at risk.
people continue to share our commitment complete codes out Through our ongoing cycle of corruption to upholding our Code of Conduct.
there today risk assessments, training, reviews of We treat each case sensitively and financial and commercial activities and investigate it thoroughly.
audits of our anti corruption procedures Since we launched the Code of Conduct we have focused on assessing how well training, 90% of our office based embedded our programmes are.
employees have completed module 1 number of ethics helpline cases Human rights have rapidly increased in and 84% have completed module 2. prevalence and are emerging as a new Unfortunately we do not always get this ethical risk priority.
We have previously acknowledged 276 rightsprimarily as an extension of our using the services of the Consulting determination not only to treat our 2013 276 Association up until 2009 to carry out employees with respect but also to obtain reference checks blacklisting on 2012 273 assurance about ethics in our supply employees in the construction industry.
Wherever we work in the world 2011 280 Itshould not have happened and we have we ensure we do not exploit anyone and apologised to the workers and families we will refuse to work with any individual number of ethics helpline cases who may have been adversely affected or organisation that fails to uphold these excluding hR grievances over the years by this.
Intrinsic to our values is our belief in upholding the fundamental rights For Balfour Beatty, this is an historic issue.
and freedoms of individuals set out in Following the receipt of the Information the United Nations Universal Declaration 205 Commissioners Enforcement Notice of Human Rights.
in2009, we took steps to address the 2013 205 shortcomings revealed in our data One of the features of 2013 has been 2012 221 protection practices, which included the gradual increase in the number and theintroduction of a Group wide data rigour of questions from clients seeking 2011 232 protection policy and a revised ethical assurance about our ethics and values Code of Conduct, both introduced in 2009. and, specifically, our anti bribery since its inception the number of compliance programme.
Similarly, we Balfour Beatty is one of eight UK office based employees to have continue to work with our own supply construction companies which have joined completed Code of Conduct module 1 chain to embed a shared commitment to together to establish The Construction ethical business conduct, helped by our Workers Compensation Scheme to Code of Conduct for our sub contractors, compensate workers whose names were 90% suppliers and partners.
on the Consulting Association database.
The scheme is expected to launch in 2014.
It is important to do more than just have a since its inception the number of Code of Conduct.
We also need to ensure office based employees to have it is properly embedded throughout the completed Code of Conduct module 2 organisation and that we work with partners and suppliers who have similar values.
We have an extensive programme of compliance internally and it is pleasing 84% to note that during the year, the Red Flag Group awarded us Best Supplier Code of Conduct, describing our Code as one of the most cutting edge, innovative and complete codes out there today.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 40 the WAy We WoRK ContInueD pEOplE being the EMEA based Company with In 2013, the Group has sought the Best Global Mobility Programme tomaintain its commitment to in the Industrial Energy Sector.
The development, career progression Times Company also won the silver award with the Most Effective Relocation and active talent management Management Strategy 2013.
Balfour Top 100 across its global workforce of Beatty had 136 international assignees approximately 40,000 employees.
We regained our at the start of 2013, with a further 120 position as one of the expatriate assignees during the course The reduction in workforce numbers UKs leading graduate of the year and a further 70 employees from approximately 50,000 employees employers in the who either redeployed internationally reported in 2012 is largely related to the Times Top 100 on an immediate local basis or were divestment of WorkPlace in December localised during the year.
By continuing to invest in the capabilities and leadership of our people, We also joined other UK employers in we continue to both enhance the quality the 5% Club to create momentum for of services we deliver to our clients and graduate and apprentice recruitment Across our entire workforce, our female communities and promote the Group as and development, by committing to 5% employees account for 22% 2012: 23%, an employer of choice so we attract of our workforce to structured training 2011: 25% a modest reduction, despite and retain the best people in our sectors.
schemes in the next five years.
To meet the divestment of WorkPlace which this commitment, we will be reporting had a disproportionately higher female Comprehensive training and people progress towards this goal in future employee population.
However, within development programmes are embedded Annual Reports against the 2014 senior management, this figure is 12.9% within each business area and country, starting point set out below: 2012: 12.3%, 2011: 12.6%.
Whilst there as appropriate, to ensure close and timely are many commendable actions taking alignment to the specific demands and Graduates 428 place across the Group in this area, there challenges of our respective global Represents graduates recruited remains considerable work to be done markets.
These are also conducted within over the last three years on a to achieve our aspirational best in class the context of a Groupwide Organisation graduate training programme.
We have developed a Diversity and People Review OPR to ensure 125were hired in the UK in Action Plan, integrated into our consistency of methodology and visibility 2013as part of a global graduate Sustainability Roadmap, which includes to talent, succession planning and career hiring population of 428 29.2%.
multiple activities to improve the mix opportunity across the Group.
The OPR of our workforce at all levels, including Apprentices 258 also enables the centralised and focused proactive recruitment measures, development of key leadership talent.
sponsored students 46 unconscious bias training, leadership total structured trainees in uK 724 During 2013, we continued to run a development participation and the small number of centrally sponsored total uK workforce 21,729 establishment of affinity networks development programmes.
% structured trainees 3.3% programme, the Advanced Management Programme, is designed to support the Female employees across The Group has improved in its transition of participants to leadership entire workforce commitment to diversity and inclusion, positions and to enable them to network maintaining our Bronze rating in the UK 2013 22% and share knowledge with others Opportunity Now and Race for from across the business and different Opportunity gender and racial diversity 2012 23% functional activities.
This was expanded in assessment ratings.
We were also 2011 25% 2013 to include unconscious bias training commended for our leadership to enhance our commitment to diversity commitment to diversity and the content We regained our position as one of the and inclusion amongst our leaders.
of our Group diversity strategy and action UKs leading Graduate Employers in the plans.
In 2013, of the 125 graduates Our agility in deploying talent and Times Top 100 and were recognised as recruited in the UK, 22% were women experience to develop infrastructure one of the leading construction companies and 18% from an ethnic minority opportunities across multiple geographies to work for by the Job Crowd whilst our background, compared with 101 recruited is a key differentiator and Balfour Beatty US construction business was recognised in 2012 of whom 21% were women and received the gold award from the Forum by Fortune magazine as one of the best 15% from an ethnic minority background.
for Expat Management in recognition of companies to work for for a fourth consecutive year.
Male Female total % male % female PLC board 8 2 10 80 20 Directors of subsidiaries 423 42 465 91 9 1 senior Management 163 24 187 87 13 2 Group 30,117 8,495 38,612 78 22 1 Members of Group Head Office and Divisional Senior Leadership teams.
com ar2013 41 ENvIrONMENTal pErfOrMaNCE team secured a renewed commission scope 1 & 2 carbon intensity At the beginning of the year for sustainability advisory services to the Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions we revisited our sustainability California High Speed Rail Programme intensity has reduced by 12% tonnes strategy and aligned it more thisyear.
CO e m. 2 closely with the long term goals scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions of the business, namely to be Since establishing our baseline in 2010, 12% client focused, embedded in we have reduced our overall scope 1 1 and2 emissions by 31,459 tonnes of the local community, efficient, 2013 35.6 CO equivalent CO e by 7%.
2012 40.4 Our CO e emissions m turnover dropped 2 The leading position we now occupy in 2011 42.7 from 42.4 tonnes of CO e m to 35.6 2 sustainability strategy and performance tonnes of CO e m since 2010.
2 isa consequence of a concerted effort CDP todevelop knowledge and practice in all In the UK, our Scope 1 and 2 emissions Our score in the most widely used global our businesses over the past seven years.
have come down from 264,343 tonnes sustainability index, measuring carbon Inmost markets we are a recognised of CO e in 2010 to 192,231 tonnes of 2 performance and environmental sustainability leader and valued adviser CO e in 2013.
2 governance has increased since 2012 toour clients.
Our 2015 goal is to achieve a minimum This position is reflected in our Carbon reduction of 20% of our Scope 1 and 2 Disclosure project CDP score of 87 100, emissions against a 2010 baseline.
12% which places us second in our sector.
These targets will mean reduced Wewere also rated Gold in the BitC operating costs for our businesses and 2013 87 100 index.
The quality of our reporting was therefore improved value to our clients 2012 78 100 once again recognised by the Building and shareholders.
Public Trust Awards FTSE 250 2011 78 100 Additionally, a number of our clients have Sustainability Report Award where expressed an intention to prequalify we were Highly Commended.
Water intensity contractors on the basis of their carbon Since improving our approach to More importantly, this leading position performance in the future.
monitoring water we have seen a small, is reflected in the performance we have Gammon, our joint venture in Hong Kong improvement in our water intensity delivered along key dimensions of accounts for approximately 22% of our 3 m m in the areas of our business sustainability such as carbon, waste Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
In2013, it where we monitor this.
andlocal employment for our clients.
became the first construction company in Hong Kong to implement ISO14064-1, standards the international standard for quantifying Sustainability is an integral part of modern 3% and reporting greenhouse gas GHG infrastructure projects: our public sector emissions, and to have its Scope 1 and 2 clients require conformance to standards 2013 339 GHGs independently verified.
This such as BREEAM, LEED and CEEQUAL 2012 348 verification was carried out by SGS.
and these are also a key consideration for planning authorities.
Sustainability 2011 307 Further information on the measures we is allowing us to enrich the dialogue we have taken to reduce our CO emissions 2 have with our clients.
Our knowledge can be found online.
Waste intensity allows us to help them achieve the Improvements in our reporting and the balfourbeatty.
com efficient required standards efficiently and to introduction of new projects have led to incorporate features that enhance the 1 Scope 1 emissions include those resulting from an increase of our waste intensity tonnes whole life performance of their projects.
the combustion of the fuel and operation of of waste sent to landfill m in the areas facilities, Scope 2 emissions result from the Sustainability advisory services enhance of our business where we monitor this.
purchase of electricity, heat, steam and cooling our programme management offering.
The full descriptions can be found within our reporting guidelines found at Forexample the Parsons Brinckerhoff www.
com ar2013 42 the WAy We WoRK ContInueD ENvIrONMENTal pErfOrMaNCE TaXaTION CONTINUEd GhG reporting and assurance Our tax strategy, approved by the Our greenhouse gas GHG emissions Board, is to sustainably minimise arereported in accordance with the our tax cost whilst complying UKGovernments GHG reporting 4 requirements covering all six Kyoto gases.
In doing so, we environmental incidents We use the operational control approach resulting in enforcement ensure we act in accordance under the GHG Protocol Corporate actions andfines with our ethics, values and Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition to report emissions from compliance programme.
We our operations around the world.
This always consider the financial includes assets that are otherwise not and reputational risk arising from referred to across the rest of the financial our management of tax issues, statements.
We developed reporting guidance specific to our business for the with the aim of maximising long calculation of GHG emissions which can term shareholder value.
The level of assurance provided for be found online.
We have determined a limited assurance engagement is and reported the emissions we are We have an open, honest and positive substantially lower than a reasonable responsible for within this boundary working relationship with HMRC and are assurance engagement.
In order to reach anddo not believe there are any material committed to prompt disclosure and their opinion, KPMG LLP performed a omissions.
We use the UK Governments transparency in all tax matters.
Where range of procedures which included carbon conversion factors that were disputes arise with tax authorities with interviews with management, examination updated in 2013 to calculate our regard to the interpretation and application of reporting processes and documentation, emissions into equivalent tonnes of tax law, we are committed to as well as selected data testing at an of carbon dioxide CO e. addressing the matter promptly and 2 operating company and Head Office level.
resolving it with the tax authority in an We have incorporated landlord A summary of the work they performed is open and constructive manner.
emissions data for the properties we included within their assurance opinion.
rent or lease where we are not the The Group makes a major contribution Non financial performance information, utility bill payer tomeet the new GHG tothe tax revenues of governments from GHG quantification in particular, is subject reporting requirements.
We have also its activities in over 80 countries in which to more inherent limitations than financial incorporated emissions data for Parsons we operate.
For example, the Groups information.
It is important to read the Brinckerhoff North America and Indonesia UKtax contribution extends significantly selected GHG performance information in the 2013 data set: these were not beyond corporate tax, where the size of contained within the Annual Report and reportedpreviously.
our workforce means we not only collect Accounts 2013 in the context of KPMG verylarge amounts of income tax, but We have restated our Scope 2 emissions LLPs full limited assurance opinion.
alsopay over 100 million in employers to account for the Governments changes Our reporting guidelines for the selected national insurance contributions in a to electricity conversion factors ie the GHG performance data are available typical year.
removal of the grid rolling average and on our website.
updated our emissions data for 2010, balfourbeatty.
com reporting 2011, and 2012 as a result.
environmental protection We engaged KPMG LLP to undertake Against a backdrop of tighter global a limited assurance engagement, environmental legislation, we had just four reporting to Balfour Beatty only, using environmental incidents 2012: 4, 2011: 6 the International Standard on Assurance resulting in enforcement action and Engagements ISAE 3410: Assurance fines totalling 13,260 2012: 66,800, Engagements on Greenhouse Gas 2011: 18,800.
Statements and ISAE 3000: Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits 7,000 or Reviews of Historical Financial Information over the selected greenhouse over 7,000 hours gas GHG performance data that have of volunteering by been marked in this report with the our US teams symbol see table on page 41.
KPMG LLP has provided an unqualified opinion in relation to the selected GHG performance data and their full assurance opinion is available in the sustainability section of our website.
Read more online Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 43 CONNECTING WITH OUr COMMUNITIES Our US construction business, has Our business helps build healthy adopted the Balfour Beatty Spirit communities and we strive to programme which has contributed over achieve this as well through US$1.4 million to a variety of charitable causes.
Examples of our charitable the community engagement projects include: programmes we support.
building or refurbishing more than 65 Through the Balfour Beatty Charitable 383,100 houses for elderly low income residents Trust, we work in partnership with contribution by the of Dallas through the Hearts & Hammers charitable partners in the UK and support, BalfourBeatty Charitable programme an 18 year commitment through funding and volunteering effort, Trust in 2013 specific projects which are targeted at donating pro bono construction services improving the employability and to build the Castle of Miracles and other employment opportunities of young facilities at Give Kids the World Village in disadvantaged people.
We also believe Orlando, Florida, this provides seriously that participation in sport has an important provided by the Company, our Trust has ill children and their families with a well role to play in helping build self-confidence, contributed over 2 million, as well as deserved escape and a week of fun team skills and healthy lifestyles.
having been instrumental in organising in Disney theme parks in-kind support, including employee With unemployment amongst young building school playgrounds for disabled volunteering.
people at such high levels in many of our children in Charlotte, North Carolina.
markets, this theme particularly resonates Outside the UK, our businesses and In South Africa, we have been examining with us and with our employees.
We have employees participate in a wide range of how we can work more strategically and the opportunity to help nurture the next community-led activities, contributing long term with social enterprises, charities generation of workers, not only for their both financially and through volunteering.
and schools and have provided financial own health and well-being, but also more In the US, we have developed our support to help with food and shelter for broadly, for the wider economy and our Community Involvement Challenge, which poor, homeless and unemployed mothers sectors, in particular.
provides employees of Parsons and their children.
In Australia, we have In the UK, through our charitable trust, we Brinckerhoff with the opportunity to take been helping to maintain essential have built strong relationships with Action part in a friendly but competitive challenge infrastructure in remote aboriginal for Children, the Coram Foundation and to create community engagement events communities and have provided essential the Princes Trust and, in addition from outside the workplace.
Not only does this training in carrying out day-to-day tasks 2013, with a new partner, Barnardos.
help teamwork but, in 2013, over 7,000 like cleaning solar panels and checking hours of volunteering effort and over 220 fuel levels.
Since 2009, via a mix of employee pints of blood have been donated by staff.
fundraising and core financial support Balfour Beatty has been the lead sponsor of the London Youth Games since 2008.
During this period, participation in the Games has multiplied fourfold.
For our business it brings multiple benefits including engaging our employees who volunteer at the Games, supporting government relations, helping client relationships and supporting the communities around London where weoperate.
Despite the adverse economic conditions which have existed over recent years andwhich inevitably has led to variable contribution levels, we are enormously GET INTO & THE prINCES TrUST proud of the way our employees have continued to engage with and support In 2013, we provided 11 young unemployed Londoners with a step ourcore charitable programmes.
up on the career ladder through the Princes Trusts Get into construction programme.
Get into provides young disadvantaged people with the skills and confidence they need to find a job.
Since 2009, we have supported more than 200 young people across the UK Our 2013 Strategic Report, from through work placements on Get into.
This is the fourth of 18 courses pages 1 to 43, was approved by planned and we remain committed to sharing our knowledge and expertise theBoard on 5 March 2014. with young people to help them get into work and develop their careers.
Andrew Mcnaughton SUSTaINaBIlITy Healthy Communities Chief Executive balfourbeatty.
com sustainability Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
