46 CHaIrMaN aNd EXECUTIvE dIrECTOrS BOard Of dIrECTOrS steVe MARshALL AnDReW MCnAuGhton non-executive Chairman Chief executive Age 57.
Appointed to the Board as andChairman in May 2008.
He is ChiefOperating Officer in 2009, he non-executive chairman of Wincanton plc additionally assumed the role of Deputy and Biffa Group Holdings Limited, and Chief Executive in 2012 and was appointed anon-executive director of Halma p. l. c. Chief Executive in March 2013.
He joined Heis a former chairman of Delta, Torex Balfour Beatty in 1997, having spent Retail and Queens Moat Houses.
He was 12years with the Kier Group, and held the chief executive of Thorn and of Railtrack position of managing director of Balfour Group, having also served as group Beatty Civil Engineering from 2004 to 2007, finance director at each company.
His when he became Group managing director earlier career included a wide range of with responsibility for civil engineering corporate and operational roles at Grand inthe UK and the Groups interests in Metropolitan, Black & Decker, BOC theMiddle East.
He is a Fellow of the andBurton Group.
He is a Fellow of the Institution of Civil Engineers, a Liveryman Chartered Institute of Management in the Worshipful Company of Engineers Accountants and a member of its and a vice-president of the Institution of governing council.
In January 2014, he was appointed a Business Ambassador by 2 3 4 theUK Government, to promote British infrastructure capabilitiesglobally.
3 5 6 DunCAn MAGRAth PeteR ZInKIn Chief Financial officer Planning and Development Director Age 49.
Appointed to the Board in 2008.
Joined the Group in 1981 and He joined Balfour Beatty in 2006 as became Planning and Development deputy finance director from Exel.
He Director in 1991 after a series of senior spent 13 years at Exel in a number of positions in the finance function.
He senior finance roles in both the UK and isresponsible for the Groups merger, US, latterly as director of investor relations acquisition and divestment activities Board Committees Colour Code: and financial strategy.
Prior to this he aswell as the development of Group worked at Price Waterhouse.
Previously, he worked at the 1 Audit, Risk & Assurance non-executive director of Brammer plc London Business School and UMIST.
2 Business Practices and a Fellow of the Institute of Heis a governor of Birkbeck, University CharteredAccountants.
3 Nomination 4 Remuneration 5 6 5 6 5 Group Tender and Investment 6 Finance and General Purposes Chair Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 47 NON-EXECUTIvE dIrECTOrS RoBeRt AMen IAIn FeRGuson CBe MAuReen KeMPston DARKes non-executive Director senior Independent Director non-executive Director Age 64.
Until 2009, he was chairman and chief Until 2009, he was chief executive of Shejoined General Motors Corporation in executive officer of International Flavors Tate& Lyle.
Prior to joining Tate & Lyle 1975 and held a number of progressively &Fragrances Inc IFF.
Prior to joining in2003, he spent 26 years at Unilever senior roles during her time with the IFFin 2006, he spent over 25 years at in a succession of roles culminating in business, culminating in her appointment International Paper in a succession of his appointment as senior vice-president, as group vice-president for General roles culminating in his appointment as corporate development.
He is Motors Latin America, Africa and Middle president and member of the board.
non-executive chairman of Berendsen plc East operations.
She retired from General Hewas also a director of Wyeth, the US andStobart Group Limited and a Motors in 2009.
She has a portfolio of pharmaceutical and healthcare company, non-executive director of Greggs plc.
non-executive directorships including until its acquisition by Pfizer in October He is also chairman of Wilton Park, Brookfield Asset Management, Canadian 2009.
He is a non-executive director anindependent and non-profit making National Railways, Enbridge Inc and Irving ofNew Page Corporation, a US Executive Agency of the British Foreign Oil Company.
She is a member of the manufacturer of coated papers, and and Commonwealth Office and lead Canadian Governments Science, currently serves as an  director at the Department Technology and Innovation Council.
residence at Columbia Business School.
for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.
2 3 4 He was formerly a non-executive director 1 2 3 of Sygen International.
2 3 4 BeLInDA RIChARDs GRAhAM RoBeRts BILL thoMAs non-executive Director non-executive Director non-executive Director Age 55.
Until 2010, she is chief executive of Assura Group, a UK 1September 2013.
Until 2009, he was wasglobal head of Deloittes Merger primary healthcare property company senior vice-president and general manager, Integration and Separation Advisory andwas formerly finance director of The Europe, the Middle East and Africa of Services business, a business she started British Land Company between 2002 and Hewlett-Packard.
Prior to this, heheld a and successfully grew.
Prior to that, he spent eight years at succession of senior roles at Electronic was vice-president of Cap Gemini, Ernst & Andersen, latterly as a partner specialising Data Systems EDS, culminating in his Youngs Post-Acquisition Integration and in the real estate and government services appointment as executive vice-president Separation Services business, and was sectors.
He is a Fellow of the Institute for EDS Europe, the Middle East and previously at KPMG.
She is currently a ofChartered Accountants.
He is currently a non-executive non-executive director of Grainger plc, director of The Co-operative Bank plc, GFI 1 3 4 Resolution Limited and Friends Life Software SARL and Xchanging plc.
He is Limited and a member of the advisory also chairman ofthe international advisory council of the Centre for the Study of board of Cranfield School of Management Financial Innovation.
and a member of the advisory board of Leeds University Business School.
1 2 3 1 2 3 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
