48 dIrECTOrS rEpOrT Balfour Beatty Governance Framework Compliance with the Code The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the BoARD the Code is the standard applying to good corporate governance practice in the Group strategy UK and the Financial Conduct Authority Annual budgets and financial reporting requires listed companies to disclose whether they have complied with the Interim and final dividends provisions of the Code throughout the Major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure financial year.
Financial and human resources The Company has complied with the requirements of the Code throughout the Values and ethical standards accounting period, other than in respect Risk management and assurance ofthe effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing procedures which is kept under review by the Business Practices Committee and not by the Audit, Risk & Assurance Committee.
The principal reason for this is that the Business Practices Committee, in particular, focuses on the Companys business conduct, its ethics and AuDIt, RIsK & AssuRAnCe noMInAtIon CoMMIttee values, ensuring that procedures exist for CoMMIttee employees to raise concerns in confidence Structure and composition of Board and is an integral element in its overall Financial statements Appointment of non-executive remit.
However, the Audit, Risk & Financial controls Directors Assurance Committee is kept informed External audit Succession planning and talent ofany allegations of fraud or poor financial Internal audit management controls and internal audit participates in Risk management and assurance investigations into such claims and reports to that Committee on the outcome.
Directors independence At its Board meeting in March 2014, Read more on p55 Read more on p58 aspart of its annual audit of corporate governance, the Board considered the independence of the non-executive ReMuneRAtIon CoMMIttee BusIness PRACtICes Directors against the criteria specified CoMMIttee Remuneration strategy and policies inthe Code and determined that each Remuneration packages Corporate values, ethics and Code ofthem continues to be independent.
Incentive plans of Conduct the Board Health and safety The Board currently comprises 10 Stakeholder management Directors, of whom seven, including Sustainability theChairman, are non-executive.
Whistleblowing Detailsof the changes during the year Community engagement canbe found under the heading Boardcomposition below.
Read more on p58 Read more on p60 Board composition The names of the Directors at the year end are shown on pages 46 and 47 GRouP tenDeR AnD FInAnCe AnD GeneRAL together with brief biographical details.
InVestMent CoMMIttee PuRPoses CoMMIttee Full details of Directors service Major contract approvals Banking facilities and other agreements, emoluments and share Acquisitions and disposals treasury matters interests are shown in the Remuneration Capital expenditure Share options Report starting on page 68.
Belinda Richards and Bill Thomas were appointed as non-executive Directors on 1September 2013.
Ian Tyler, Hubertus Krossa and Mike Donovan retired from theBoard on 31 March, 16 May and 1October respectively.
Mr Tyler remained Read more on p61 Read more on p61 as an employee until 30 April 2013.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 49 Each of the Directors brings skills and Matters reserved for the Board objectives and review management experience which enhance the quality of The Board is collectively responsible for performance debate in the boardroom and provides the success of the Company and has a setting the Companys values and guidance.
The Directors believe that the formal schedule of matters reserved for ethical standards Board continues to include an appropriate its decision which includes the matters balance of skills and retains the ability to summarised below: approving policies and systems for provide effective leadership.
Having said riskmanagement and assurance.
determining the Groups strategic this, there is a need to introduce further direction The Board reviewed its list of reserved sector specific experience amongst the matters, most recently, at its meeting in non-executive Directors and the Board approving annual budgets and financial March 2014.
The terms of reference of willbe considering how it might best reporting, including the annual and theBoard and the Board Committees are address this over the coming months.
half-year results and interim available on request fromthe Company There are, however, areas where the management statements Secretary and are also displayed on the non-executive Directors, in particular, approving interim, and recommending Companys website.
Descriptions ofthe bring with them a wealth of insight and, final, dividends specific responsibilities which have been although not exhaustive, some of delegated to the Chief Executive and to theirmost significant strengths are approving major acquisitions, disposals the principal Board Committees are also highlighted below.
and capital expenditure provided on page 50 and pages 55 to 61. ensuring the necessary financial and Read more online in our Investors section human resources are in place to achieve Board balance Board tenure Board geography Board diversity 1 Chairman 1 1 02 years 3 1 UK 8 1 Male 80 2 Executive Directors 3 2 24 years 1 2 Americas 2 2 Female 20 3 Non-executive Directors 6 3 46 years 4 4 6 years 2 1 1 1 1 2 4 2 2 2 3 3 non-executive Directors significant strengths Operating Financial Strategic performance Mergers and Business management development and delivery acquisitions integration and planning Sector specific Robert Amen Iain Ferguson Maureen Kempston Darkes Steve Marshall Belinda Richards Graham Roberts Bill Thomas Experience of Risk international Health management Stakeholder Ethics, values markets and safety and assurance HR management engagement and culture Robert Amen Iain Ferguson Maureen Kempston Darkes Steve Marshall Belinda Richards Graham Roberts Bill Thomas Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 50 DIReCtoRs RePoRt ContInueD Chairman and Chief Executive Objective setting for the senior Board meetings The two roles are complementary.
management team Procedures for Board meetings remain TheChairman is responsible for managing largely unchanged from previous years.
Organisational structure, succession the business of the Board, whilst the The Company Secretary is responsible and talent management Chief Executive actually runs the foradvising the Board on appropriate business.
Asthe senior executive officer Major capital expenditure prioritisation governance matters and for ensuring of the Company, the Chief Executive is and allocation of resources goodinformation flow and that Board responsible to the Chairman and Board procedures are properly followed.
He also Consideration of acquisitions, disposals fordirecting and prioritising the profitable provides updates on legal matters of and financing operation and development of the Group.
relevance to the Group and is available The Chairman and Chief Executive keep Stakeholder management.
toindividual Directors for advice on each other appropriately informed on the Boardprocedures.
Senior Independent Director others current activities.
As Senior Independent Director, 2013 meeting programme Specifically, their roles comprise IainFergusons principal responsibilities In 2013, in part due to the difficult trading theprincipal responsibilities in the are to ensure that the views of the other conditions encountered in the early part of sections following: non-executive Directors are properly the year, the Board met on 13 occasions.
considered and to provide an additional All these meetings, except one, were held Chairmans responsibilities communication channel between the at the Companys head office in London.
Ensuring effective strategic planning is non-executive Directors and the The Board also visited the headquarters undertaken by the executive Directors shareholders and other stakeholders, ofInfrastructure Investments and Ensuring corporate governance is asrequired.
Mr Ferguson meets with the participated in a comprehensive briefing properly maintained other non-executive Directors without the on the case for disposal of hospital and Chairman or executive Directors being school PPP investments in 2013 and a Formally appraising the performance present at least once a year.
detailed consideration of the divisions ofthe Chief Executive and reviewing wider portfolio.
with the Chief Executive his views Directors interests onthe performance of the other No Director had any material interest in Each Board meeting normally lasts four executive Directors any contract of significance with the tofive hours but can be longer.
Group during the period under review.
Providing leadership to the Board On the evening preceding a Board TheDirectors have put in place meeting, the Directors generally meet for Acting as senior ambassador for procedures to ensure the Board dinner and sometimes take the opportunity theCompany collectively, and the Directors individually, to discuss predetermined developmental comply with the disclosure requirements Considering Board balance, composition themes, led by one of the executive on conflicts of interest set out in the and succession Directors, other senior managers or a Companies Act 2006.
At its meeting each specialist external speaker.
For example, Ensuring the smooth operation of the January, a formal declaration of interests in2013, one of the themes focused on Board and its Committees is reviewed by the Board.
One of the dinners each Providing effective communication The interests of Directors in the share year is attended by the Chairman and the between the Board and its shareholders.
capital of the Company and its subsidiary non-executive Directors only, whilst a undertakings and their interests under second includes the Chief Executive, but Steve Marshall spends an average of thelong term incentive scheme the none of the other executive Directors.
twodays a week on Company business.
Performance Share Plan, the Deferred TheBoard is satisfied that his role as Each Board meeting addresses key Bonus Plan, the Share Incentive Plan and non-executive chairman of two other strategic topics for the Group which share options are set out in the tables in companies, and his other business and enable the Directors to engage in detailed the Remuneration Report commencing charitable commitments, can be reviews.
The Board also considers at each onpage 68. accommodated without hindering his of its meetings monthly updates from the ability to carry out his duties as Chairman.
Directors indemnities Chief Executive and the Chief Financial The Company grants an indemnity to all Officer.
Regular reports are also provided Chief Executives responsibilities ofits Directors to the extent permitted on health, safety and environment, Strategy development and the bylaw.
These indemnities are uncapped operational performance, corporate stewardship of physical, financial and inrelation to losses and liabilities which communications, risk management and human resources Directors may incur to third parties in assurance, investor relations and any legal Group operational and financial thecourse of acting as a Director of the issues.
At each meeting, the chairs of the performance Company, or in any office where such various Board Committees provide a duties are performed at the request of the summary of the discussions held at the Executive leadership Board, or as a result of their appointment preceding Committee meeting and the Health, safety and environmental as Directors.
performance Corporate values and ethics Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 51 2013 Board topics The following topics were also addressed by the Board during 2013 under each of the themes shown.
For clarity, a synopsis of certain of the topics has been included as well.
The Board specifically addressed the Chief Executives objectives for 2013 which identified those key tasks over and above his normal responsibilities, which include ensuring that the Group achieves its overall budget performance.
This was of particular relevance in light of Andrew McNaughtons promotion.
Where appropriate, each of the objectives had identified milestones and each one was integral in moving the organisation forward along its stated path.
Specific objectives included the development of the market sector structure and market entry strategies, the pursuit of the four principal efficiency projects across the rEplaCING OvErHEad pOWErlINES Group, the disposal of the Mainland arOUNd THE GlOBE European rail business and the continued Our international overhead line teams have been continuing to work on major development and progress of the Zero projects in Australia and Hong Kong during 2013.
In Australia, our joint venture Harm safety programme.
with United Group Limited, has been undertaking a 60 million replacement As mentioned above, the Board met an of over 100km of overhead transmission line on behalf of Powerlink unprecedented 13 times during 2013 Queensland.
In Hong Kong, our joint venture Gammon Construction is driven by: reinforcing, refurbishing and upgrading 500km of overhead transmission line to protect against typhoon weather conditions.
Our dedicated training facility the operational delivery and financial in the Philippines has helped invest in the skills and expertise of local people.
performance issues which had emerged and culminated in the trading update SUSTaINaBIlITy Profitable Markets inApril balfourbeatty.
com power the disposal of Balfour Beatty WorkPlace.
After ensuring that suitable stabilisation Operational performance Infrastructure fund the infrastructure measures had been put in place in Health and safety performance across fund enables the Group to utilise a Construction Services UK where the the Group and the status of the Zero combination of infrastructure asset issues had arisen, the Directors Harm programme knowledge, skills and experience to concentrated on monitoring progress earn a superior return on capital, as well against the performance improvement Efficiency programme reviews of each as advisory fees.
The Board received plan which had been drawn up by the of the four principal cost reduction and progress updates on how this business divisional management team.
efficiency programmes and monitoring was progressing including information their progress against predetermined Finance on investments made in the year.
measures and milestones Budgets 2013 and 2014 HR Business reviews operating Annual and half-year results including Transition to new Chief Executive performance against budget and pre-close statements strategic plan, risks and opportunities People planning, talent and succession Dividend strategy and matters such as health and management review of detailed safety, people development and divisional management succession Financing capacity and options future sustainability, including: plans, the encouragement of crosscash needs of the Group and approval International Middle East, India, divisional and cross-geographical moves of both a US private placement and an Brazil, Australia and diversity and inclusion policies and issue of convertible bonds in 2013 Construction Services UK practices across the Group, including Trading updates.
performance and plan of action associated action plans Construction Services US Organisational structure Professional Services Rail Pensions.
Infrastructure Investments Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 52 DIReCtoRs RePoRt ContInueD Strategy Mergers, acquisitions and divestments Risk Group strategy development and Acquisition reviews covering the period Risk management review Australia structuring options development of from 2000 to 2012.
This incorporated a and New Zealand.
the business model to help differentiate detailed analysis of the Parsons For 2014, the Board is scheduled to meet and enable the organisation to operate Brinckerhoff acquisition in 2009 and eight times.
One meeting will focus on as a connected services group as the crucially, the lessons learned from each the development of the strategic plan.
most effective way to deliver greater of these acquisitions Atleast one meeting will be held outside value to our clients, to improve Disposal of Balfour Beatty WorkPlace London at one of the Groups business operating performance and cost units and one meeting will be held effectiveness and enhance shareholder Approval of Infrastructure Investment overseas, most likely in the US, to link value.
Consideration was given to the asset disposals in 2013: with our businesses in this geography.
shape of the operating model and how Tameside and Salford Hospitals the Group might best develop the core Four Midlands-based schools projects UK and US markets and strengthen the Carlisle Northern Development business in other specific geographies Routeand A30 A35 roads partial equity disposal Rail strategy and business review.
2013 Board and Board Committee meetings Details of the number of meetings and attendance at the Board meetings and meetings of the Audit, Risk & Assurance, Business Practices, Nomination and Remuneration Committees during the year are set out in the following table: Audit, Risk & Audit, Risk & Assurance Name of Director Board Assurance Sub-Committee Business Practices Nomination Remuneration Robert Amen 13 13 4 4 4 4 3 3 1 1 Mike Donovan to 1 October 2013 9 12 3 3 3 3 2 2 0 1 Iain Ferguson 11 13 2 3 1 1 3 3 Maureen Kempston Darkes 11 13 3 4 3 3 1 1 0 0 Hubertus Krossa to 16 May 2013 7 8 2 2 1 1 2 2 Duncan Magrath 13 13 Steve Marshall 12 13 3 3 1 1 3 3 Andrew McNaughton 13 13 1 1 Belinda Richards from 1 September 2013 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 Graham Roberts 13 13 4 4 4 4 1 1 3 3 Bill Thomas from 1 September 2013 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 Ian Tyler to 31 March 2013 3 3 Peter Zinkin 13 13 The number shown in brackets is the total number of meetings the Director could attend during the year including as a result of changes to Committee memberships.
Non-attendance at meetings was due to illness or prior business commitments.
In each case, where the Directors have not been able to attend a Board or Committee meeting, they have reviewed the papers circulated for that meeting and provided their comments directly to the Chairman, or the Committee chair, as appropriate.
Any Director who is not a Committee member has an open invitation to attend any Committee meeting and a number of the Directors took this opportunity during the year.
For example, Messrs Marshall, Magrath and McNaughton each attended all the Audit, Risk & Assurance Committee meetings in 2013, including Sub-Committee meetings, whilst Mr Ferguson attended three Sub-Committee meetings.
TheBusiness Practices Committee was also attended on each occasion by Mr McNaughton.
Further information about the work of each of the Boards Committees may be found on pages 55 to 61.
com ar2013 53 Board development During 2013, the non-executive Directors Owing to the increased Board meeting Induction visited three projects in the UK where they commitment in 2013, as well as additional Directors undertake a thorough induction received detailed briefings and met with meetings of the Audit, Risk & Assurance programme and receive a range of senior management and project personnel: Committee and separate business information about the Company when strategy working group sessions, the power transmission project in Kent they join the Board, including access to number of visits organised for the CanterburySellinge overhead line the Board portal, which includes Balfour non-executive Directors was reduced.
refurbishment scheme Beattys Code of Conduct, processes In 2014, three visits are planned for fordealing in Balfour Beatty shares and student accommodation thenon-executive Directors which will Boardprocedures, as well as the minutes Kings Cross, London concentrate, as in previous years, on key and papers of past Board and Board Crossrail Whitechapel, London.
The first visit has been Committee meetings.
In addition, they organised and will focus on Construction also take part in a series of one-to-one Services UK.
One of the three visits meetings with other members of the in2014 will be to the US.
Board and senior executives which include briefings on the Companys business strategy, financial procedures, business development, legal and other key issues.
In the case of Ms Richards and Mr Thomas, this process commenced immediately on their appointment on 1 September 2013 and was substantially completed by the end of the year.
In addition to meeting theUK-based divisional CEOs, both non-executive Directors have met with the CEOs of Professional Services and Construction Services US in the UK.
Itisour intention to organise visits for both MsRichards and Mr Thomas to theUS in 2014, when any remaining segments of their induction programme will be completed.
Professional development In discussion with the Directors and Company Secretary, each year the Chairman determines whether there are any specific training needs identified by the Directors, which can be addressed either by the topic being included at a future Board meeting or on a one-to-one basis.
Directors are also enrolled in theDeloitte Academy, a seminar-led programme for directors ofUKlisted companies, which provides regular updates throughout the year onthe principal governance and other matters ofwhich directors of a listed company should be fully aware.
The Directors induction programme also provides the foundation for continuing professional development.
This takes USING BIM TECHNOlOGy TO dElIvEr place throughout the year by way of a series of internal and external updates, a kEy CENTral lONdON lOCaTION including visits to operating companies Our UK construction business was awarded a 87 million contract to tomeet local management and visits to construct 260,000 square feet of new commercial and retail space Balfour Beatty projects, both in the UK across two eight storey blocks in central London.
We are using 4D and overseas.
Building Information Modelling BIM technology to mitigate potential risks and disruption to the public and other stakeholders.
com stjames Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 54 DIReCtoRs RePoRt ContInueD Board evaluation Performance management Allocation Introduction Knowledge of corporate culture and Balance of formal and informal time In keeping with the Code, the Board context Provision of time for priorities receives external evaluations, normally Assessment of executive motivation, Balance of presentation and debate every three years, with internal performance and remuneration Availability of induction and training evaluations in the intervening two years.
Quality of executive succession programmes.
Prior to 2013, the last external evaluation planning and leadership development The conclusions reached were more was carried out in 2010.
Effectiveness of the Remuneration qualitative than quantitative and based on a Committee.
For 2014, the evaluation will be conducted careful analysis of the Boards approach to its using internal resources, the output from work, its contribution to the success of the Board environment which will be reported in 2015.
Company and its preparation for the future.
Culture During the review, evidence was garnered Board culture, dynamics, values 2013 evaluation from in depth interviews with each of the andconduct The Board appointed Boardroom Review Directors and other senior management Quality of debate and decision making to conduct its evaluation in 2013.
This was personnel and from the observation of the Opportunity and ability to contribute, conducted between January and March reviewer of the conduct of the Board and individually and collectively 2013 and the scope of the evaluation is Board Committees and the presentation Balance of constructive challenge shown below.
the work of the Board The principal themes ensuing from the Composition Strategy and operations evaluation in 2013 are set out below: Board size, composition, tenure and Understanding of the Boards role independence Strengths Quality of strategic process Non-executive Director succession Individual contribution, current Board Knowledge of operations and the planning composition and strong chairmanship external landscape Effectiveness of the Nomination Positive strategic outcomes and Consideration of stakeholder views, Committee thoughtful consideration of including shareholders.
Effectiveness of the Chairman, shareholdersviews Risk and control Committee chairs and Directors.
Historical financial reporting, the Quality of financial information development of KPIs and effective the Boards use of time Efficacy of internal and external Audit, Risk & Assurance and Business Planning auditfunctions Practices Committees Diligence of executive and nonEffectiveness of the Audit, Risk & Constructive executive culture, a executive Directors preparation Assurance Committee practical Remuneration Committee Quality of information and the Oversight of risk and effectiveness of andwell conducted Chief Executive timeliness of papers the Business Practices Committee succession process Schedule of Board and Committee Interaction with advisers.
Thoughtful calendars, agenda and meetings Boardsupport.
hoWeVeR the FoLLoWInG Key AReAs oF FoCus WeRe IDentIFIeD FoR 2013 evolution of The Board has been refreshed in 2013 with the recruitment of two new non-executive Directors, including Board culture asecond female Director.
Both the new non-executive Directors bring with them a proven track record in and future professional services, which will boost the Boards overall sector specific experience.
Further strengthening composition of the sector specific experience will be addressed during 2014.
The appointment of the new Chief Executive in 2013 afforded a valuable opportunity to effect structural and cultural changes within the organisation.
A strong relationship exists between the Chairman and the Chief Executive and there is a constructive level of non-executive Director oversight.
Development In response to todays rapidly changing environment and new business model, more time has and will be spent on competitors and clients.
A re-definition of the Groups value proposition has been included as part of the strategy ofcompetitive review.
There has been greater challenge on the divisional landscape, market trends and expectations.
The identification benchmarking ofbetter benchmarking processes and evolving client needs are both areas being pursued through 2014.
Improvements The Chief Financial Officer and the Audit, Risk & Assurance Committee have worked hardto provide reliable historical financial reporting and the development of KPIs has beenhelpful.
Through the work which has been to forecasting, undertaken in Construction Services UK, with managements focus on both leading and lagging indicators, the oversight forecasting has been high on the Boards agenda and will continue to be so through 2014. ofrisk and the internal audit The Audit, Risk & Assurance Committee has conducted a series of risk management deep dives across a function number of the divisions.
There will be a continuing focus on developing robust processes that capture critical risks and provide perspectives from divisional executives on key and emerging risks, potential options and responses.
The Committee has also undertaken a review of the long term development of the internal audit function, theconclusions of which are being implemented during 2014.
com ar2013 55 aUdIT, rISk & aSSUraNCE COMMITTEE assess the independence, objectivity The Committee also received a and effectiveness of the external auditor presentation from the UK governmental and develop and implement policy on department responsible on the threats the engagement of the external auditor ofcyber security and considered the to supply non-audit services proposals which had been made to mitigate against these risks.
Messrs review the integrity of the statement Marshall and Roberts also participated inthe Annual Report on fair, balanced in a survey on cyber security issued by and understandable required under the the UK Government.
Response to CsuK operational issues Graham Roberts, a Fellow of the Institute The Committee established a Subof Chartered Accountants and a former Committee in May, chaired by Mr Roberts partner at Andersen and finance director Meetings in 2013: 4, and comprising non-executive Directors, of The British Land Company, has been plus 4 Sub-Committee meetings to monitor and oversee the performance identified by the Board as having recent of Construction Services UK and the plan and relevant financial experience.
Minutes Members of action which the divisional management of Committee meetings are circulated Graham Roberts chair team had devised to deliver the required toall Board members.
Robert Amen operational and financial performance in Belinda Richards Partners from the external auditor, 2013.
In addition, the Sub-Committee also Bill Thomas theHeads of Group Risk Management reviewed the remit and structure of the and Assurance and Internal Audit, and internal audit function including its annual Former members theChief Financial Officer regularly plan.
The Sub-Committee met on four retired in the year attendeach meeting.
In addition, any separate occasions and received detailed Mike Donovan independent non-executive Director briefings on each occasion from senior Hubertus Krossa whois not a Committee member has an management in Construction Services UK.
open invitation to attend meetings.
The Responsibilities Committee also invites other executives Fair, balanced and understandable Financial statements from within the Group to participate With the introduction of the Companies Financial controls inCommittee discussions.
Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors External audit Report Regulations 2013, the Board has Internal audit summary of activities in 2013 been particularly mindful of the need to Risk management and assurance In 2013, the Committees work provide a balanced and comprehensive programme focused on a number of analysis of the Companys development significant issues and other accounting and performance during the year and the The terms of reference for the Committee judgements where the Committee position at the year end.
The Audit, Risk are based on the Guidance on Audit believed the highest level of judgement & Assurance Committee has assisted Committees issued by the Financial was required and with the highest inachieving this objective by reviewing Reporting Council.
The main responsibilities potential impact on the Groups financial proposals for the internal procedures to of the Audit, Risk & Assurance Committee statements.
Further information is set out beapplied in preparing the Annual Report are summarised below: on page 56.
The Committees standing and the verification process.
The agenda items comprised reports on: monitor the integrity of the financial Committee received a briefing on the statements of the Group and any formal approach proposed by management and accounting, financial and regulatory announcements relating to the Groups members received drafts of the Annual issues financial performance Report for comment earlier than had been review of non-audit work carried out the case in previous years, as have all the review the Groups internal controls bythe external auditors, and their fees Directors more generally.
The content has established to identify, assess, manage also been shared at an earlier stage with risk management activities and monitor risks, and receive reports external auditors and other external andcompliance from management on the effectiveness advisers in order that they can help of the systems they have established implementation of and progress against identify whether there are any material and the conclusions of any testing the Group assurance plan.
inconsistencies between the strategic carried out by the internal audit function report, the other narrative sections and The Committee thoroughly reviews these and external auditor the financial statements.
reports at each of its meetings and is able monitor and review the effectiveness to question management at both Group of the internal audit function including and divisional levels to gain any further its work programme insight into the issues addressed in these reports.
As well as the standing agenda make recommendations to the Board items, the Committee also reviewed in relation to the appointment of the comprehensive papers on major litigation external auditor and approve the and tax, in the latter case, approving how remuneration and terms of engagement the Groups tax strategy should evolve.
of the external auditor Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 56 DIReCtoRs RePoRt ContInueD aUdIT, rISk & aSSUraNCE COMMITTEE CONTINUEd significant issues and other accounting judgements In forming its view of the significant issues and accounting judgements for the year ended 31 December 2013, the Committee tookinto consideration the views of management and the external auditor through a combination of written reports and discussion.
Onpage 55 attention is drawn to the action taken by the Committee following the trading update in April 2013 and the focus on Construction Services UK.
Inaddition, the following significant issues and judgements were carefully considered: Revenue and Given the nature of the Groups operations these elements are central to how the Group values the work it has margin carried out.
Having reviewed detailed reports and met with management, the Committee considered those recognition contract and commercial issues where there was exposure to both revenue and margin recognition risks.
The Committee received a report from management showing the outcomes of earlier projects which enabled the Committee to gain an overall impression on whether management was being overly optimistic or pessimistic inits conclusions.
As a key area of audit focus the Committee also received a detailed written report from the external auditor setting out the results of its work in relation to key contract judgements.
Carrying value The judgement largely relates to the assumptions underlying the value in use of the cash generating units, of goodwill primarily the achievement of the three year strategic plan and the macro economic assumptions such as discount rates underpinning the valuation process.
The Committee received reports from management andother outlining the basis of the assumptions used.
The strategic plan was approved by the Board.
In addition, intangibles theexternal auditor provided detailed written reports to the Committee in this area.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the impairment assessment of the European Rail businesses carried out by management and concluded that an impairment charge of 38m should be recorded in relation to Rail Germany.
Accounting for For a disposal, the Committee considers the judgement around whether a business should be treated as held acquisitions for sale and classified as a discontinued operation.
In doing so it reviews managements position and the Group and disposals strategy and evaluates the likelihood that the business will be disposed of within a 12 month period and whether itconstitutes a separate major line of business.
There were no acquisitions in 2013.
Going concern In order to satisfy itself that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future and that there are no material uncertainties that could lead to significant doubt as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, the Committee considered the Groups cash position both existing and projected, bank facilities and covenants including bonding lines and the borrowing powers allowed under the Companys Articles of Association.
The Committee subsequently recommended to the Board the adoption of the going concern statement for inclusion in the Annual Report.
nonThe key judgement is whether the items being considered relate to the underlying trading or not and whether underlying they have been presented in accordance with the Groups accounting policy in this area.
The Committee items conducted an in-depth review of each of the non-underlying items receiving written reports from management and the external auditor as to their quantum and nature.
Specifically, the Committee reviewed the curtailment charge arising in the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund, the restructuring of a number of the Groups businesses andthe European Rail and Balfour Beatty WorkPlace disposals.
Provisions The Committee reviewed the significant judgements relating to provisions, including litigation and other risks.
The Committee received detailed reports, including relevant legal advice.
Retirement The key judgement relates to the assumptions underlying the valuation of the retirement benefit obligation.
benefits TheCommittee received reports from management outlining the assumptions used, including input from the Groups actuaries, in particular in relation to discount rates, inflation and mortality which were evaluated against external benchmarks and, in relation to which, the external auditor also provided reports.
Deferred tax The Groups strategic plan is reviewed together with considerations on future profitability to evaluate the assets judgement that it is probable the deferred tax assets are recoverable.
Taking into account the past, the Committee has to assess how credible the future view of the business is through its strategic plan.
Directors The Committee assessed the methodology used to value the assets in terms of the discount rate applied.
valuation of PPP Italso critically appraised the output of the Directors valuation exercise.
concessions Areas of focus in 2014 In 2014, the Committee will continue to address the topics on its standing agenda and will also continue to undertake reviews of the risk management and assurance practices across the Group on a rolling programme.
A fifth meeting will be organised specifically to focus on the risk management agenda itself.
The Committee will also continue to receive training in order to broaden and refresh the skills and knowledge of its members.
com ar2013 57 Risk management and internal control and level ofauthority required before Instrument 2008 made by the The Groups risk management and internal theexternal auditor can be considered  Board of the control systems and processes were toundertake such services.
subjected to close scrutiny following the within such analysis is consideration of External auditor rotation discovery of the operational delivery thecost and efficiency benefits as well Audit partners have been rotated every issues in Construction Services UK in asthe real or perceived threats to five years.
Further details on the review of auditorindependence.
in 2010 and the audit engagement theeffectiveness of the system of risk There is no inconsistency between the partnerchanged in 2011.
Deloittes management and internal control are Financial Reporting Councils ethical firstaudit report for the Company was provided on pages 62 to 64. standards and the Companys policy.
completed in 2003 and there has not been a tender for external audit services in the Internal auditor effectiveness In 2013, the external auditor was intervening period.
The Committee reviews the appointed to carry out various non-audit effectivenessof internal audit on an related work, including corporate finance A number of circumstances would lead ongoing basis.
This is achieved, in part, services for reasons of commercial toconsideration being given to carrying byreviewing and discussing the reports confidentiality and efficiency as well as out an audit tender review.
For example: presented to it at each meeting setting taxadvice and compliance services in in circumstances where the external outthe departments work and findings, Australia, Europe, South Africa and the US.
auditors performance had been called but also through a formal annual The Committee considers that the into question, or where, through the assessment.
An independent periodic Company receives particular benefits, audit partner rotation process, no review of internal audit, as well as a including those relating to cost, quality and suitable replacement had been identified thorough self-assessment scorecard consistency, from the advice provided by drawn up in accordance with best practice where value for money considerations its external auditor, given its wide and guidelines, also helps contribute to the had arisen detailed knowledge of the Group and its Committees evaluation.
There can also where there was a real or perceived external auditor independence besavings in management time and threat to independence andeffectiveness accelerated delivery of work in situations where conflict of interests had The Committee carries out a formal where rapid turnaround is required.
The beenidentified review each year to assess the majority of non-audit related work 71% by independence andeffectiveness of the value was carried out using the services where issues had been raised about external auditor, Deloitte LLP.
The of major international audit firms other audit quality by a regulator.
Committee has recommended that the than Deloitte.
The UK Competition Commissions Board proposes to shareholders that Annual assessment of the decision following its enquiry into the Deloitte LLP continues asthe Companys audit processes statutory audit market was published in external auditor, having satisfied itself In addition to receiving written reports October 2013.
This will lead to FTSE 350 ofDeloittes independence.
In reaching from the auditors both internal and companies having to put their statutory itsconclusion, theCommittee took into external andmanagement, the audit engagement out to tender not less consideration the following matters: Committee also conducted separate frequently than every 10 years.
The UK Non-audit work private meetings with the auditors and Corporate Governance Code is also The objective set out in the Companys with management.
These provide the expected to be amended to reflect this policy is to ensure that the external auditor opportunity for open dialogue and decision by the Commission.
With this is not placed in a position where its feedback on the audit process, the inmind, the existing lead engagement independence is, or might be seen to be, responsiveness of management and the partners final year of engagement, which compromised.
Under no circumstances effectiveness of individual internal and commenced in 2011, will be for the year will any assignment be given to the external audit teams.
For audit external auditor, when the result is that: relationships, where the last tender was A detailed assessment of the external before 1 January 2005, the audit should as part of the statutory audit, it audit process and the effectiveness of be put out to tender within two years isrequired to report directly on theexternal auditor, together with any ofthe end of the current audit partners non-audit work identified improvement recommendations five-year engagement period.
On this is prepared each year.
Each division and it makes management decisions basis, the Group audit would need to operating company within the Group is onbehalf of the Group beput out to tender by the end of 2017. required to evaluate the performance of it acts as advocate for the Group the assigned external audit team and to However, the Committees current compare that performance against the intention is to tender the audit earlier than the level of non-audit fees is such, previous year.
formally required so as to coincide with relative to audit fees, as to raise the last year of the current audit partners concerns about its ability to form The external auditors annual transparency engagement.
The tender process itself objective judgements.
report for the year ended 31 May 2013 would then take place during the second was reviewed.
This was prepared in The Companys policy identifies the half of 2015 for approval at the 2016 AGM accordance with the provisions of the various types of non-audit services and and would be effective for the year ending Statutory Auditors Transparency determines the analysis to be undertaken 31December 2016.
com ar2013 58 DIReCtoRs RePoRt ContInueD NOMINaTION rEMUNEraTION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE summary of activities in 2013 In 2013, the Committees work programme entailed recommending to theBoard the appointment of two new non-executive Directors in place of the retiring Hubertus Krossa and Mike Donovan as non-executive Directors.
In seeking suitable candidates for the non-executive Director vacancies, KornFerry, an external executive search agency, was engaged.
The Committee identified the competences sought and Meetings in 2013: 1 Meetings in 2013: 3 the required experience, and the agency prepared a shortlist of potential candidates Members Members who were interviewed by members of the Steve Marshall chair Iain Ferguson chair Committee and by the executive Directors.
Robert Amen Maureen Kempston Darkes Key determinants in the selection of Iain Ferguson Steve Marshall Belinda Richards and Bill Thomas were Maureen Kempston Darkes Graham Roberts the enormous strengths they would bring Andrew McNaughton Former members in change management and B2B client Belinda Richards retired in the year focus whilst also having significant Graham Roberts Hubertus Krossa experience in building businesses Bill Thomas inaninternational and professional Responsibilities Former members servicesenvironment.
Remuneration strategy and policies retired in the year The executive search agency appointed Remuneration packages Mike Donovan for the recruitment of the non-executive Incentive plans Hubertus Krossa Directors has no other connections with Ian Tyler Balfour Beatty.
Responsibilities Areas of focus in 2014 Structure and composition of Board In 2014, the Committee will monitor the Appointment of non-executive appropriateness of the composition of Directors theBoard and make recommendations Succession planning and talent concerning the need for the introduction management of non-executive Directors to refresh the Board.
It is accepted that enhancing thesector specific experience of the non-executive Directors, which commenced in 2013, should be continued.
The implications of the business strategy on senior executive recruitment and theimpact on the Groups succession planning are also areas which the Ensuring the current Committee will keep under review remuneration policy and duringthe year.
the appropriateness of Succession planning the short and long term across the Group and incentive arrangements the composition of the properly meet the needs Board specifically will of the organisation, be the key areas of remains high on the focus in 2014.
com ar2013 59 summary of activities in 2013 Aconsultation exercise was undertaken Further information about the work of the In 2013, the Committees work with major shareholders which culminated Committee during the financial year is set programme comprised the following with their broad agreement of the out in the Remuneration Report starting principal topics: proposals, further details of which are on page 68. included in the Remuneration Report Bonus payments Areas of focus in 2014 on pages 68 to 84.
In common with previous years, the In 2014, the Remuneration Committee Committee determined that it would be The Committee also reflected on the willundertake a formal review of the appropriate to take into account certain capand collar restriction applied to PPP existing remuneration policy and the other matters in assessing profit before asset disposals -20% of budgeted sales appropriateness of the short and long tax PBT, namely: i the impact of value and agreed to include an additional term incentive arrangements to properly acquisitions and disposals ii the allowance which could be attributed for meet the needs of the Company, as it application of a constant exchange rate bonus calculation purposes.
implements the next phase of its business and iii the impact of PPP asset disposals.
If changes are considered The Committee approved, after necessary, the Committee will consult 2012 annual bonus payment date consultation with major shareholders, with shareholders ahead of the AGM The Committee sought views on the aspecial incentive for the Chief Financial in2015.
practices of other companies in response Officer CFO under the PSP, details of to the reduction in the top rate of income which are included in the Remuneration Remuneration Report p68 tax from 6 April 2013.
The Committee Report on page 79.
Performance concluded that no deferral of the 2012 conditions were set.
The reason for the annual bonus was justified.
The release special incentive award was to recognise date of maturing share awards under the the work which the CFO would undertake Deferred Bonus Plan was maintained in 2013 in relation to cost control, asset atthe normal maturity date.
disposals and the change tothe business mix, whilst working alongside the new 2010 PSP performance conditions Chief Executive.
The EPS growth calculation was below the minimum level of achievement and Executive Directors salary review the TSR measure showed Balfour Beatty The Committee did not sanction any at a position between 11 and 12 when salary increases in 2013 for the executive compared against the remaining 21 peer Directors, other than in relation to companies, which meant there would be MrMcNaughton, who was appointed no vesting of the 2010 Performance Share Chief Executive on 31 March.
The Committee Remuneration policy and long term required a consistent approach to be incentive plan review applied when calculating TSR and, The Committee decided not to embark because of the proximity to the median ona remuneration policy and long term level, commissioned an external review by incentive review in 2013, preferring the Committees remuneration advisers, instead to maintain for the executive to ensure the components of the TSR Directors the two TSR measures for calculation were appropriate and being the PSP in 2014. applied correctly.
2013 AGM and BIS reporting 2013 annual bonus and PSP structure requirements and targets The Committee had reflected on the The Committee considered the proposals significantly lower vote in favour of the which had emerged following discussions Remuneration Report at the AGM in 2013, between the Committee chair and the which it concluded could be attributed Committees remuneration advisers largely to investors concerns around the concerning possible changes to the financial performance of the Group structure of the annual bonus and long following the operational issues in term incentive plan PSP, whilst the Construction Services UK, rather than organisation was in transition, and as specific issues with the remuneration management moved forward with the policy, which had only recently been implementation of the new business reviewed by major shareholders.
Minor changes to the of the new UK Department for Business, remuneration policy emerged as a Innovation & Skills BIS reporting consequence of applying certain requirements, the Committee also adjustments to the performance metrics undertook a detailed analysis of the for the annual bonus and the PSP, structure and content of the 2012 including the adoption of TSR only Remuneration Report to understand the measures for PSP awards made in 2013. scale of any changes required in 2013 to satisfy the new BIS reporting requirements.
com ar2013 60 DIReCtoRs RePoRt ContInueD BUSINESS praCTICES COMMITTEE summary of activities in 2013 and compliance programme had become The Committee focuses significant well embedded across the organisation, attention on health and safety, values, the Committee emphasised that work ethics and compliance and sustainability.
would still need to be done to similarly The Committee also addresses the embed the Code and processes in joint Groups Code of Conduct and the training ventures.
Progress would be monitored which ensures that the Groups business through 2014. principles are properly embedded A series of investigations into throughout the business.
The Committee whistleblowing claims had been carried also has responsibility for reviewing out through 2013 which were reviewed contract commission arrangements.
The external monitors In addition to the standing agenda items, report on Parsons Brinckerhoffs own Meetings in 2013: 3 the following principal topics were compliance programme was thoroughly considered at Committee meetings during reviewed and the Committee noted Members the year.
theaim to continue to strengthen this Maureen Kempston Darkes chair programme.
The Committee will keep Health and safety Robert Amen progress under observation.
The Committee reviewed the annual Iain Ferguson independent audit regime comparing The self-assessment ethics and Steve Marshall Balfour Beatty against its industry compliance dashboard, which would Belinda Richards peers.
This focuses on health and safety forman integral element of the year-end Bill Thomas performance by sector and by geography compliance reports, was reviewed.
Former members and provides a truer comparator The 2013 action plan was monitored.
retired in the year ofperformance than a broad Thestrengthening of the ethics and Mike Donovan chair benchmarking index.
compliance programme in emerging Hubertus Krossa On the Zero Harm programme, the territories will feature on the Committees emphasis has moved away from risk agenda in 2014.
This will be carried out in Responsibilities mitigation to one of prevention.
The conjunction with the values programme Corporate values, ethics and Committee did not focus on lagging with the intention of embedding the Code of Conduct indicators but on a series of leading Codeof Conduct requirements within Health and safety indicators aimed at driving cultural change each of the businesses in these Stakeholder management throughout the organisation.
Sustainability Committee acknowledged that difficulties Whistleblowing People arose because of the temporary nature of Community engagement The Committee completed a review of many of the work sites with contractors theGroup diversity strategy and action on site for short periods and with high plans and the current positioning in turnover rates.
The Committee monitored relation to gender diversity across the the programme and milestones which workforce.
The Committee will continue had been set.
to monitor progress in 2014 against the The Committee considered fatality measurements which have been identified reviews, discussing in detail the emerging and formally incorporated into the themes around supervision, Sustainability Roadmap.
The Committee communications and remote working.
will also be keen to see how the diversity and inclusion programme is being The Global Safety Principles were expanded in 2014 to incorporate wider reviewed by the Committee in conjunction This Committee is diversity including race, disability and age.
As well as its been conducted for each business unit Areas of focus in 2014 reputational risk and a heat map prepared.
Action plans will In 2014, the Committee will continue continue to be reviewed by the Committee.
responsibilities, 2014 will tofocus on the key reputational risk areasof health and safety, ethics and also see its scope widen The Zero Harm Roadmap will be kept compliance, and sustainability and will under review during 2014 so that the to include other business monitor progress against the various Committee can monitor progress against practice areas.
action plans under each category the plan and a mid-year assessment will referenced above.
The Committee will be conducted.
also work with management on other Ethics, values and compliance business practice areas which have a The Committee conducted a review of meaningful impact on the future success thecompliance officer function across of the Group, including supply chain and theGroup and risk assessment and client relationship management.
Although the Code of Conduct and the accompanying ethics Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 61 GrOUp TENdEr aNd fINaNCE aNd GENEral INvESTMENT COMMITTEE pUrpOSES COMMITTEE The Committee is chaired by the Chief Meetings in 2013: Numerous Executive, or in his absence by the Chief Financial Officer.
Its main purpose is to Members review all major proposed tenders with Andrew McNaughton chair projected values above specified levels.
Duncan Magrath The Committee also has authority to Peter Zinkin approve capital expenditure applications and any proposed acquisitions or Former member disposals up to certain specified limits retired in the year determined by the Board.
For example, Ian Tyler chair currently the Committees terms of Responsibilities reference require contracts for Banking facilities and other treasury construction or services in the UK of Meetings in 2013: Numerous matters avalue exceeding 100 million to be Share options submitted for review, whilst other limits Members vary according to geography and nature Andrew McNaughton chair ofthe contract.
Any Director may convene Duncan Magrath The Committee is chaired by the Chief a meeting of the Committee to discuss Peter Zinkin Executive, or in his absence by one of any of the tender reviews in more detail.
Kevin Craven theother executive Directors.
Its principal Nick Flew purpose is to approve various routine An audit was carried out this year on how Mark Layman banking and treasury matters, grants and robustly the appraisal processes were Sandip Mahajan exercises of employee share options and being applied within selected divisions on John Moore other matters relating to share capital.
projects which did not normally require Brian Osborne Asummary of the business conducted at prior Committee approval.
Whilst minor George Pierson the meetings is provided to all Directors.
adjustments were recommended Nick Pollard following the reviews, the overall appraisal Ian Rylatt processes undertaken bythose divisions Steve Tarr were judged by management to be both Chris Vaughan comprehensive and robust.
Former members Minutes of Committee meetings are retired in the year made available to all Directors.
Ian Tyler chair Manfred Leger Mike Peasland Robert Van Cleave Responsibilities Major contract approvals Acquisitions and disposals Capital expenditure The Committee will continue to ensure internal approval processes are appropriate for major projects and capital expenditure.
com ar2013 62 DIReCtoRs RePoRt ContInueD Risk management and internal control Risk management Effective risk management underpins the delivery of our objectives.
It is essential to protecting our reputation and generating sustainable shareholder value.
We aim to identify key risks at an early stage and develop actions to eliminate them or mitigate their impact and likelihood to an acceptable level.
For more information refer to pages 20 to 23.
Risk management processes are embedded throughout the Group at all levels and form an integral part of day-to-day business activity.
They help management to identify and understand the risks they face in delivering business objectives and the status of the key controls in place for managing those risks.
Roles and responsibilities The Board is responsible for our system of risk management and internal control.
It sets the Groups appetite for risk in pursuit of its strategic objectives, and the level of risk that can be taken by Group, divisional and business unit management without specific Board approval.
Group policies and delegated authority levels set by the Board provide the means by which risks are reviewed and escalated to the appropriate level within the Group, up to and including the Board, for consideration and approval.
The roles and responsibilities of the Board, its Committees, and divisional and business unit management are set out below.
Board Responsible for the Groups systems of Issues and reviews Group risk risk management and internal control managementpolicy Determines Group appetite for risk in Annually reviews effectiveness of Group risk achieving its strategic objectives management and internal control systems Reviews the Groups key risks and riskresponses Audit, Risk & Assurance Regularly reviews the effectiveness of Group Receives regular reports on internal and Committee internal controls, including systems to external audit and other assurance activities identify, assess, manage and monitor risks Annually assesses Group risk management and internal control systems Business Practices Reviews Group management of non-financial Receives regular reports on implementation Committee risks such as health and safety, sustainability, of Group policies and procedures on employee engagement, values, ethics non-financial risks andcompliance Reviews effectiveness of the Groups helpline and other channels for raising concerns about Code of Conduct breaches Group Tender and Reviews and approves tenders and Critically appraises significant tender Investment Committee investments, triggered by certain financial proposals and investment divestment thresholds or other risk factors opportunities, with a specific focus on risk 2.
Group management Strategic leadership Strategic plan and annual budget process Responsible for ensuring that the Groups Reviews risk management and assurance riskmanagement policy is implemented activities and processes andembedded Monthly quarterly finance and Ensures appropriate actions are taken to performancereviews manage strategic risks and other key risks 3.
Divisional Responsible for risk management and internal Reviews key risks and mitigation management control systems within their division plansmonthly Ensures that business units responsibilities Reviews and challenges business unit are discharged assurance plans Reviews results of assurance activities Escalates key risks to Group management and the Board 4. Business unit Maintains an effective system of risk Maintains and regularly reviews project, management management and internal control within their functional and strategic risk registers business unit and projects Reviews mitigation plans Plans, executes and reports on assuranceactivities Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 63 Risk management process Such an approach is underpinned by a paper prepared by management on Our risk management policy requires that ourGroup values and carefully balanced the nature, extent and mitigation of all divisions and those business units incentives.
Examples of this approach significant risks and on the systems within them identify and assess the risks areour health and safety, commercial ofinternal controls.
to which they are exposed and which management, procurement, Central to the Groups systems of internal could impact their ability to deliver their, financialcontrol and ethics and control are its processes and framework and the Groups, objectives.
These align with Identified risk events, their causes and Reporting structures ensure that risks are the Turnbull Guidance on internal controls possible consequences are recorded in monitored continually, mitigation plans are and were in place throughout 2013 and risk registers.
Their likelihood and potential reviewed and significant exposures are up to the date of signing this report.
business impact and the control systems escalated from project level to business The Groups systems of internal control that are in place to manage them are unit management to divisional and Group operate through a number of different analysed and, if required, additional senior management.
processes, some of which are interlinked.
actions are developed and put in place to All divisions and business units must These include: mitigate or eliminate unwanted exposures.
have assurance mechanisms to ensure Individuals are allocated responsibility for a clear system of delegated authorities that their internal controls and actions evaluating and managing these risks to from the Board to management with designed to mitigate and eliminate risks anagreed timescale.
certain matters reserved by the Board are operating effectively.
A range of Risk registers and relevant action plans procedures is used to monitor the the annual review of the strategy and are regularly reviewed, at various levels effectiveness of internal controls, plans of each division and of the Group throughout the business, to identify including management assurance, risk as a whole in order to identify the risks emerging risks, remove expired risks management processes and independent to the Groups achievement of its overall andupdate mitigation plans.
assurance provided by internal audit objectives and, where appropriate, any andother specialist third party reviews.
relevant mitigating actions The Group sets its risk appetite by calibrating its delegations of authority and Internal control monthly financial reporting against the triggers for matters requiring Group The Groups systems and controls are budgets and the review of results and senior management or Board approval.
designed to ensure that the Groups forecasts by executive Directors and Inrelation to bidding, this means that exposure to significant risk is managed management, including particular areas projects above a certain value, with properly, but the Board recognises that of business or project risk.
This is used certain features or that import certain any system of internal control is designed to update managements understanding risks, or a move into new markets or to manage rather than eliminate the risk of the environment in which the Group worktypes, require approval by the offailure to achieve business objectives operates and the methods used to GroupTender and Investment Committee.
and can only provide reasonable and mitigate and control the risks identified Divisions have a delegated level of notabsolute assurance against material individual tender and project review authority as well as their own approval misstatement or loss.
In addition, not all procedures starting at the business unit andrisk management committees the material joint ventures in which the and progressing to divisional and Board andtriggers.
Group is involved are treated, for these Committee levels if value, or perceived purposes, as part of the Group.
Where In addition to the delegation of authority exposure, exceeds certain thresholds they are not, systems of internal control and approval controls mentioned above, and risk management are applied as regular reporting, monitoring and review and the mitigations listed in the table of agreed between the partners to the of the effectiveness of health, safety Principal Risks on pages 20 to 23, where jointventure.
These possible we take a programmatic or processes are subject to independent management system approach to risks, The Board continued to assess the audit and certification to internationally which typically involves the following effectiveness of the risk management recognised standards elements or equivalent : processes and internal controls during 2013 and to the date of this report.
Such the review and authorisation of strong leadership and accountabilities assessment is based on reports made to proposed investment, divestment and risk assessment the Board, the Audit, Risk & Assurance capital expenditure through the Boards Committee and the Business Practices Committees and the Board itself clear policies Committee, including: specific policies set out in the Group education, training and communications the results of internal audits reviews Finance Manual covering the financial appropriate procedures and controls ofinternal financial controls management of the Group, including arrangements with the Groups bankers monitoring, auditing and continual a Group wide certification that and bond providers, controls on foreign improvement.
effectiveinternal controls had been exchange dealings and management maintained or, where any significant ofcurrency and interest rate exposures, non-compliance or breakdown had insurance, capital expenditure occurred with or without loss, that procedures, application of accounting appropriate remedial action has been policies and financial controls oris being taken Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 64 DIReCtoRs RePoRt ContInueD was expected to deliver significantly Results and dividends lower profits from operations than The results for the year are shown in the managements expectations at the time audited financial statements presented of the full-year results announcement on pages 85 to 157 and are explained in March 2013. more fully in the Chief Executives Report, the Chief Financial Officers Review and As part of its review of the effectiveness 8.5p the Performance Review.
An interim of the system of risk management and dividend payment of 5.6p net per final dividend net per internal control, the Board has taken ordinary share was approved by the ordinary share intoaccount the events reported in the Boardon 13 August 2013 and a final trading update of 29 April and the control dividend of 8.5p net perordinary share enhancements that were adjudged to will be recommended at the Annual benecessary as a result.
General Meeting, giving atotal of 14.1p Actions taken to address these net per ordinary share, which compares issues included: with a total dividend perordinary share of 14.1p net for 2012.
Preference dividends legal compliance risks which are the appointment of a new CEO of totalling 10.75p gross per preference addressed through specific policies Construction Services UK share were paid in2013 2012: 10.75p andtraining on such matters as ethics, an action plan to improve standards in gross per preference share.
competition and data protection laws key disciplines such as planning, cost The Directors continued to offer the a Group wide risk management estimating and commercial governance dividend reinvestment plan, which allows framework which is embedded the enhancement of risk management holders of ordinary shares to reinvest their throughout the Group.
Under it, key processes to provide greater assurance cash dividends in the Companys shares risks are identified and assessed and that risks such as those which had through a specially arranged share action plans are developed to mitigate materialised in Construction Services UK dealingservice.
are better understood and addressed.
The results of these reviews are placed Innovation, research and development on risk registers and are subject to In May 2013, a Sub-Committee of the Increasingly we are working in long term regular review, with material risks Audit, Risk & Assurance Committee was relationships with our clients and innovation being escalated as appropriate appointed to monitor the progress of plays an important role in building those these actions andthe wider performance relationships and creating additional value reviews and tests by the internal audit of the UK construction services business.
Our ability to innovate is function of critical business financial This Sub-Committee met four times therefore essential to our sustainability.
processes and controls and specific during theyear.
reviews in areas of perceived high Most of that innovation emanates from business risk The Board has considered the progress collaboration, with our clients, supply that has been made in implementing chain and by means of internal the Groups ethics helpline and other thecontrol enhancements considered collaboration across our businesses.
For channels by which staff are encouraged necessary in the UK construction services example, we have developed a pipeline to raise concerns, in confidence, about business, and confirms that it is satisfied inspection camera for use in live water possible breaches of the Code of that the necessary actions have been and gas mains with technology specialist Conduct, improprieties on matters of taken or are being taken to rectify any JD7.
We participated in the development financial reporting and other issues.
of a new sleeper system for London These systems are extended, as soon Underground with the client and two Principal risks as possible and as appropriate, to all manufacturers with the result that track The principal risks that could adversely businesses joining the Group.
renewal productivity has more than impact our profitability and ability to doubled.
A collaboration on the M25 Each of the divisional CEOs is responsible achieve strategic objectives are set out widening scheme involving some 10 for ensuring that a comprehensive onpages 20 to 23. partner organisations has resulted in the framework of assurance including internal development of a rapid cure concrete that other disclosures audit exists within their division and has reduced lane occupation times during Business and financial review business units which is in accordance maintenance by 80%.
The Chairmans Review on page 1 and the with Group requirements.
Chief Executives Report on pages 4 and Our innovations are informed by research During the year, a difficult external 5, the Strategy Review on pages 10 to 19, work at several academic partner environment combined with internal Chief Financial Officers Review on organisations, including Salford University reorganisation resulted in poor operational pages24 to 27, the Performance Review BIM, Bristol University systems delivery in the UK regional construction on pages 28 to 35, and The Way We Work engineering and Pennsylvania State business and, to a lesser extent, the onpages 38 to 43 are incorporated by University building energy performance.
building part of the UK major projects reference into the Directors Report.
We sponsor three engineering doctorate business.
These factors led to a trading students at Bristol in conjunction with the update being issued on 29 April, which Engineering and Physical Sciences disclosed that Construction Services UK Research Council EPSRC.
com ar2013 65 Our ability to collaborate has been between holders of the Companys placeduring the year in Australia, enhanced by the growth in communities sharesthat may result in restrictions on Asia and theUS.
of practice, particularly those that involve the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Separately, the Chairman held three participation from both our construction No person has special rights of control meetings with major investors and five and professional services businesses, by over the Companys share capital and all further meetings were held with major the deployment of training in collaborative issued shares are fully paid.
shareholders by senior executives as part working practices and through our of our ongoing engagement.
ongoing Group wide accreditation to As at 31 December 2013, the Company thestandard BS11000 Collaborative had been notified in accordance with the We will maintain this communication Business Relationships.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the programme and expand it where Financial Conduct Authority of the following appropriate, subject to the constraints of Share capital and shareholders interests in its ordinary share capital: regulation and practice.
The 2014 investor Details of the share capital of the Company programme will focus on ensuring our Number Percentage as at 31 December 2013, including the investors and the analyst community of ordinary of ordinary rights attaching to each class of share, are shares held shares held understand the Group, its operations and set out in Note 29 on pages 135 and 136.
Causeway Capital strategy, and that international institutions During the year ended 31December 2013 Management LLC 35,275,099 5.12 continue to be given the opportunity no ordinary or preference shares were Prudential plc 35,103,707 5.10 to meet with management.
386,386 Standard Life Care is exercised to ensure that any ordinary shares were issued following Investments pricesensitive information is released theexercise of options held under the Limited 25,104,162 3.65 toall shareholders at the same time Companys savings-related share option inaccordance with UK Listing scheme and 270,895 ordinary shares Since 1 January 2014, the Company has .
were issued following the exercise of received a further notification advising options held under the Companys that Causeway Capital Management Executive Directors report regularly to the executive share option scheme.
LLCs interest is now 4.87% and that Board on meetings or other contact with Newton Investment Management Ltd shareholders or their representatives.
At 31 December 2013, the Directors had hasan interest of 5.16%.
Thenon-executive Directors continue to authority under shareholders resolutions believe that, through their direct and ready approved at the AGM and at the Class Auditor access to, and contact with, the Chairman Meeting of preference shareholders held Deloitte LLP has indicated its willingness and the Senior Independent Director and in May 2013 to purchase through the to continue as auditor to the Company and through the regular reports to the Board, market 68,848,254 ordinary shares and a resolution for its reappointment will be they are kept fully aware of the views of 16,775,968 preference shares at prices proposed at the AGM.
the larger shareholders in the Company set out in those resolutions.
This authority and the investment community generally.
expires at the earlier of the conclusion Relations with shareholders ofthe Class Meeting of preference The Board attaches great importance The Board continues to retain the services shareholders which will follow the 2014 tomaintaining good relationships with of independent external corporate and AGM or on 1 July 2014. allshareholders and ensures that investor relations consultants who provide shareholders are kept informed of advice on the relationship between the Throughout the year, all the Companys significant Company developments.
Company and its institutional investors.
issued share capital was publicly listed on the London Stock Exchange and it remains The Company continued its programme of The Board regards the Companys so as at the date of this report.
There are communication with institutional investors generalmeetings as an opportunity no specific restrictions on the size of a and sell side analysts throughout 2013. tocommunicate directly with private shareholding nor on the transfer of shares, Presentations of the half-year and full-year investors and actively encourages which are both governed by the Articles results were made in accordance with participative dialogue with all the of Association and the prevailing law.
The thepractice of previous years, and Companys shareholders.
The chairs of Directors are not aware of any agreements teleconferences have been held for the Board Committees attend the AGM Interim Management Statements.
each year along with the other Directors and are available to answer questions Through the year, 172 one-on-one and from shareholders.
group meetings were held at regular intervals with institutional shareholders The website is regarded by the Company 172 2012: approximately 185.
Current and as an important source of information one-on-one and group prospective shareholders, brokers and onthe Group, including financial press meetings were held at analysts were also given the opportunity releases, shareholder documentation, regular intervals with to engage with Balfour Beatty during annual and half-year results presentations institutional shareholders hosted roadshows in London, Scotland, and the terms of reference of the principal North America and Europe.
We continue to also presented at an investor conference.
develop the Companys website to ensure In addition, our international management it remains a principal source of information teams met with some of our largest on the Group and its activities.
shareholders, with meetings taking Read more online Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 66 DIReCtoRs RePoRt ContInueD Political donations to ensure that all job applicants receive At the AGM held on 16 May 2013, fair treatment, regardless of age, origin, shareholders gave authority for the gender, disability, sexual orientation, Company and its UK subsidiaries to make marital status, religion or belief donations to political organisations up to a to ensure that all employees similarly maximum aggregate amount of 25,000 receive fair treatment throughout in the European Union.
This approval is 12% theircareer aprecautionary measure in view of the reduction in broad definition of these terms in the to provide a working environment of carbon intensity Companies Act.
No such expenditure or respect and free from harassment.
donations were made during the year and Balfour Beatty strives to provide shareholder authority will be sought again employment, training and development at the 2014 AGM.
opportunities for disabled people In the US and Canada, donations totalling wherever possible.
We are committed 165,692 were made by business units tosupporting employees who become during 2013 2012: 371,000.
Most of Greenhouse gas emissions disabled during employment and helping these donations were made by Parsons Details of our emissions during the year disabled employees make the best use Brinckerhoff: they were small and all were and the actions which the Group is taking oftheir skills and potential, consistent permitted by law.
They are non-partisan to reduce them are set out on pages 41 withall other employees.
and, in the main, they relate to support and 42 and form part of the Directors The Company also operates all employee given for local campaigns, public bond or Report disclosures.
and executive share schemes in the UK, similar referenda to promote investment further details of which are included in employment in infrastructure.
Any political contributions theRemuneration Report.
The Balfour Beatty Group operates across or donations are tightly controlled and a broad spectrum of geographies and end must be approved in advance in In the case of the Share Incentive Plan markets.
In order that we can best serve accordance with the Companys internal SIP, participants are invited by the SIP our customers across such a complex procedures and must also adhere strictly Trustee to indicate their voting preferences anddiverse business environment and to the Companys policies on probity set on resolutions submitted to shareholder remain agile to its ever-changing demands out in its Code of Conduct.
A review of meetings and the SIP Trustee will vote and challenges, we actively promote a existing practices was undertaken during its holding in accordance with those decentralised management structure to 2013 and no changes to these practices instructions.
Shares held by theBalfour ensure client centricity, speed of decision were considered necessary.
Beatty Employee Share Ownership Trust making and consistent operational are not voted.
Parsons Brinckerhoff Group Inc sponsors excellence.
However, parallel with this a Political Action Committee PAC.
Information concerning the performance decentralised approach, there are key A PAC is an independently administered of the Group and the Companys share principles in the design and practice of committee which receives small voluntary price is provided to all employees via the employment policy that are applicable contributions from Parsons Brinckerhoffs Group intranet, 360, and through the across the Group.
These are: US employees and allocates the funds corporate website.
to provide a safe, open, inclusive and received to US political candidates and employee diversity challenging environment that attracts other eligible stakeholders who support Information concerning employee and retains the best people investment in infrastructure markets diversity is set out on page 40 and forms generally.
Contributions are entirely to enable all employees to perform at part of the Directors Report disclosures.
voluntary from employees and are kept their best and realise their full potential, completely separate from company assisted by the appropriate training and events after the reporting date funds.
Decisions taken by the PAC are career development Details of events after the reporting date independent of influence by Balfour are set out in Note 37 on page 144. to communicate the strategy of the Beatty.
Total PAC contributions in 2013 Group, the objectives of each respective were 83,981 2012: 88,019.
Change of control provisions business and the role and objectives The Groups bank facility agreements Corporate responsibility of each employee within that business contain provisions that, on 30 days A full description of our approach to notice being given to the Group, the to actively consult with all employees sustainability, including information on lender may exercise its discretion to and engage in a participating the Groups community engagement require prepayment of the loans on a environment that fosters the exchange programme, appears on page 43. change of control of the Company and of best practice, collaboration and The Groups published policies on health cancel all commitments under the Group cohesion of purpose and safety, the environment, business agreement concerned.
to provide market competitive pay conduct and ethics remain in place and and benefits that reward both individual are subject to regular reviews.
and collective performance Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 67 A number of significant joint venture IAS Regulation and they have also chosen the Strategic Report includes a fair andcontract bond agreements include to prepare the parent company financial review of the development and provisions which become exercisable by statements under IFRS as adopted by the performance of the business and a counterparty on a change of control EU.
Under company law, the Directors the position of the Company and of the Company.
These include the right must not approve the financial statements the undertakings included in the of a counterparty to request additional unless they are satisfied that they give consolidation taken as a whole, security and to terminate an agreement.
atrue and fair view of the state of affairs together with a description of the ofthe Company and of the profit or principal risks and uncertainties The Groups US private placement lossofthe Company for that period.
arrangements require the Company, Inpreparing these financial statements, promptly upon becoming aware that a In light of the work undertaken by the International Accounting Standard 1 change of control of the Company has Audit, Risk & Assurance Committee requires that Directors: occurred and in any event within 10 reported in greater details on pages 55 business days, to give written notice of properly select and apply to57 and the internal verification and such fact to all holders of the notes and accounting policies approval process which has been followed make an offer to prepay the entire unpaid this year, the Directors are able to state present information, including principal amount of the notes, together that the Annual Report and Accounts, accounting policies, in a manner that with accrued interest.
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and provides relevant, reliable, comparable understandable and provides the The Groups convertible bond and understandable information information necessary for shareholders arrangements provide that the holder provide additional disclosures when toassess the Companys performance, of bonds can require the Company to compliance with the specific business model and strategy.
redeem its bonds following a change of requirements in IFRS are insufficient to control of the Company at their principal statements of Directors as to enable users to understand the impact amount, together with accrued interest.
disclosure of information toauditors of particular transactions, other events The Company is required to notify the Each of the Directors at the date of and conditions on the Companys and bond holder within 14 days ofa change approval of this report confirms that: the Groups financial position and of control.
financial performance so far as the Director is aware, there is Some other commercial agreements, no relevant audit information of which make an assessment of the Companys entered into in the normal course the Companys auditors are unaware ability to continue as a going concern.
of business, include change of the Director has taken all the steps control provisions.
The Directors are responsible for keeping thathe or she ought to have taken as adequate accounting records that are The Groups share and incentive plans aDirector to make himself or herself sufficient to show and explain the include usual provisions relating to aware of any relevant audit information Companys transactions and disclose changeof control, as do the terms of and to establish that the Companys withreasonable accuracy, at any time, theCompanys cumulative convertible auditors are aware of that information.
thefinancial position of the Company redeemable preference shares.
andenable them to ensure that the This confirmation is given and should There are no agreements providing financial statements comply with the be interpreted in accordance with for compensation for the Directors Companies Act 2006.
They are also the provisions of Section 418 of the or employees on a change of control.
responsible for safeguarding the assets Companies Act 2006. ofthe Company and for taking reasonable Financial instruments By order of the Board steps for preventing and detecting fraud The Groups financial risk management and other irregularities.
Chris Vaughan objectives and policies and its exposure The Directors are responsible for the Chief Corporate Officer & tothe following risks foreign exchange, maintenance and integrity of the corporate Company Secretary interest rate, price and credit are detailed and financial information included on 5 March 2014 in Note 39 on pages 146 to 150. theCompanys website.
Legislation in Registered Office: statement of Directors theUK governing the preparation and 130 Wilton Road responsibilities dissemination of financial statements may London SW1V 1LQ The Directors are responsible for differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Registered in England Number 395826 preparing the Annual Report and the The Directors confirm that to the best financial statements in accordance with oftheir knowledge: applicable law and regulations.
the financial statements, prepared in Company law requires the Directors to accordance with IFRS as adopted by the prepare financial statements for each EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, financial year.
Under that law, the give a true and fair view of the assets, Directors are required to prepare the liabilities, financial position and profit Group financial statements in accordance orloss of the Company and the with International Financial Reporting undertakings included in the Standards IFRS as adopted by the consolidation taken as a whole European Union EU and Article 4 of the Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
