8 The US recovery appears to be further along, albeit from a low base.
Forecasters MarkET OvErvIEW are now expecting 6% pa nominal growth to 2017.
The Dodge Momentum Index, a 12 month leading indicator for nonInfrastructure remains a good place tobe.
Asthe residential construction, has been global economy begins to strengthen and confidence improving throughout 2013.
As confidence picks up, we will be seeking to take returns, the long term drivers for infrastructure advantage of opportunities in, for example, multifamily accommodation, mission investment remain positive.
Over the next five years critical buildings such as data centres, alone, the global infrastructure market is estimated green retrofit and student accommodation.
to be worth 12trillion steady and thereisa continued need for new or replacement transport, power and water assets in the medium to long term.
emerging markets Outside of the UK and the US, In advanced economies many key projects have been slow to come to opportunities will increase in emerging assets, such as power transmission market.
A continued squeeze on margins markets over the long term as their lines, highways and rail networks are has put pressure on contractors and, proportion of the global construction reaching the age at which they need to mostnotably, the supply chain.
Populations in these regions be upgraded or replaced.
Additionally, having gone into the downturn earlier, are becoming more urbanised from 50% environmental targets are driving the appears to be recovering sooner 4 in 2013 to 70% by 2050 which increases creation of new assets and improvement althoughsome uncertainty around infrastructure requirements.
Non-OECD of existing assets in sectors such as publicspending remains.
markets are forecast to rise from 55% of water and power generation.
In emerging Nevertheless, as these economies return global infrastructure spending in 2013 to markets, urbanisation and economic to growth, we believe the UK and the US 5 70% in2025.
GDP growth will certainly growth continue apace.
As economies will present significant opportunities in outperform in the medium term, with and cities grow, so does the need for theshort to medium term.
In the UK there forecasts expecting 3% pa overmature efficient transport, reliable power and are now clear signs of life.
The Markit 6 markets to 2018. an accessible, safe water supply.
Purchasing Managers Index, a leading Almost without exception, infrastructure 2 indicator, was up 20% on 2012 in the final investment is a key priority on five months of the year and forecasters government agendas worldwide.
are now, on average, expecting the construction market to grow by 7% pa our core markets 3 to2016.
We are particularly optimistic Despite these positive long term drivers, about sectors such as commercial our core UK and US construction markets building, student accommodation and 12 trillion have been constrained over the last two defence.
The infrastructure market has years.
Construction lags behind the market Over the next five years been supported in recent years by already cycle, so even as economic growth has alone, the global infrastructure awarded contracts, such as Crossrail.
begun to strengthen, the flow through market is estimated to be Thepipeline of new major projects 1 tonew orders takes time.
coming to market in 2014 is likely to be volumes in the UK and the US remain slow, although this should improve in down on the highs achieved before the the longer term.
Investment for smaller global financial crisis and in both markets, infrastructure projects on the other hand margins remain under pressure.
has been quicker to flow through, which In the UK, overall volumes have been supports an improved outlook for our low and have taken longer than expected regional civil engineering business.
New major infrastructure Figure 1: Markit CIPS, UK Construction Purchasing Managers Index 70 65 1 I HS Global Insight, Global Construction Outlook, 60 December 2013.
Reflects total size of Infrastructure market in nominal terms from 20142018 inclusive.
55 Exchange rate applied: USD:GBP 1:0.61.
2 M arkit CIPS, UK Construction Purchasing 50 Managers Index, December 2013.
3 A verage of 201316 CAGR for applicable market 45 new work in all construction excluding private residential according to forecasters Experian 40 Autumn 2013, Hewes Winter 2013 and CPA Winter 2013.
35 4 U nited Nations, World Urbanization Prospects, 2011 Revision.
6 I MF, World Economic Outlook, October 2013.
PMI, Commercial Building 12 month average PMI, Civil Engineering 12 month average Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 9 We see this particularly in the Middle East and South East Asia, where existing forecasts are promising.
We will access this growth via our existing operations inthese regions.
Resource-rich economies For resource-rich economies the short term outlook is more mixed.
Global commodity prices have fallen and with itso have miners capital expenditure programmes.
In Australia, which had benefited from a mining investment boom over the last decade, the impact has been significant.
After an extended period of unprecedented growth, mining-related construction is now forecast to shrink 7 over 20132014.
The impact of this is felt CrOSSraIl HElpING COMMUTErS across the economy, as tax receipts and consumer spending decline.
Growth in GET THErE faSTEr other infrastructure construction such In 2013, we were awarded two Crossrail projects by Network Rail.
asroads, railways and power, fell by We were awarded a contract to build two miles of the Crossrail route and 8 50% in nominal terms in 20112012. an iconic new rail station in southeast London that will help thousands Despite this, there are initial signals that of commuters get around every day.
The second contract was for the an Australian recovery may not be far electrification of a 12.5 mile section of the Great Western Main Line.
Following the general election, SUSTaINaBIlITy Healthy Communities public investment has started to pick up balfourbeatty.
com crossrail and the new government has explicitly made infrastructure investment a priority as a catalyst for economic growth.
With the AIG Performance of Construction sector outlook Finally, the building sector, which is Index now positive for the first time since We define economic infrastructure as traditionally the hardest hit sector during 9 2011, as well as the IMF forecasting transport, power and water.
In all three recessionary periods, is now entering 6 5% nominal GDP growth to 2018, sectors, the fundamental growth drivers acyclical upswing in the US, and we there is reason for cautious optimism.
Transport is dominated expect the UK to follow.
by road and rail investment.
Power will Canada, another resource-rich economy, Procurement continue to be supported by population has fared better.
The total applicable In our core markets, and increasingly growth, ageing assets and the sustainability construction market has grown by an elsewhere, we are continuing to see agenda.
Water will be driven by the need annualised rate of 11% from 2009 to 2013, atrend towards more sophisticated to harness limited water resources in driven by resources and infrastructure methods of project procurement and many parts of the world, flood defences investment.
Although future growth is alternative delivery contracts becoming and other marine programmes.
unlikely to match these levels, forecasters very much the mainstream for larger are still expecting annual growth of more In mining and resources, commodity price and more complex projects.
Confidence is being reductions have impacted investment in PPP is becoming increasingly popular in maintained and we anticipate the overall the short term, but the long term drivers the US, is returning to favour in Australia economy to continue to show solid, stable remain.
Some sectors, such as shale gas, and remains commonplace in the UK and growth in the medium term.
appear to be entering a boom.
In the UK, procurement through the new private finance framework PF2 is now beginning to take place, particularly in education, albeit slowly.
There is also anincrease in other PPP development opportunities, such as waste-to-energy Figure 2: American Institute of Architects, US Architecture Billings Index and offshore transmission owner OFTO projects.
70 We are also seeing the increased use of 65 design-build in many sectors, particularly infrastructure, and it is now used for 60 approximately 40% of non-residential 11 projects in the US.
55 50 7 AC IF, Australian Construction Forecast, September2013.
45 8 A ustralian Bureau of Statistics, Engineering Work Done, December 2013.
40 9 A ustralian Industry Group, Performance of Construction Index, November 2013.
35 10 IHS Global Insight, Canada Construction Market Forecasts, December 2013.
30 11 Reed Construction Data, Design-Build Project 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Delivery Market Share and Market Size Report, ABI, Non-Res Building 12 month average May 2013.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
