6 BUSINESS MOdEl hoW We DIFFeRentIAte Local presence In-house delivery supports Strong local presence, reflecting the fact that our clients Infrastructure Investments and supply chains are predominantly local.
enabling: sector expertise Technical sector expertise in relation to complex areas.
Higher win rates World class processes Greater delivery reliability World class processes in project pursuits, projects and risk management distilling our multi-country knowledge, consistently applied across our businesses.
Investments Expertise and capability to develop and invest in assets, flowing from our long experience in the UK and US in PPP andother infrastructure investment.
safety, sustainability and ethics Industry leading performance on safety, sustainability andethics, and clients are increasingly demanding this.
Read more on our strategic objectives on p10 ppp prOjECTS hoW We ADD VALue & INvESTMENTS Cash generation World-class processes generate profit and surplus cash flow.
Construction operations, in particular, create surplus cash flow as they grow, accelerated during upswings in the construction cycle.
Investment Cash flow from construction operations deployed in: Investment including acquisitions in strengthening and developing our business PPP infrastructure investment projects which are delivered designed, constructed, managed and maintained internally.
Virtuous circle enhances returns The combination of our PPP infrastructure investment and delivery businessesis virtuously self-reinforcing: enhancing the success rate and returns of the PPP Investments provide: investmentbusiness enhancing the margins and cash flow of the Higher margin opportunities deliveryoperations.
for construction and operate and maintain businesses In addition, the combination of our construction and PPP Infrastructure Investments businesses gives us resilience Balance sheetsupport for as aGroup throughout the cycle: negative working capital cash deployed in investments generates further returns butis also accessible if required during a downturn.
Read more on our strategic objectives on p10 Who We WoRK FoR We offer services that develop and finance, design and manage, manage and maintain infrastructure assets.
We do all of the above by integrating local supply chains.
Our clients typically include government departments andagencies, regulated utilities, public agencies and commercialfirms.
Read more on p15 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 7 Our business model has been developed to enable us to differentiate from our competitors in our core markets and clearly add value for our key stakeholders: ourclients, our employees and our shareholders.
Value added to acquired businesses through: CONSTrUCTION BUSINESS Management platforms GENEraTES CaSH TO INvEST World class processes Sector expertise Our business finances, designs, develops, manages and maintains essential assets, including buildings commercial and social and infrastructure transport, power, water by integrating local supply chains.
aCqUISITIONS InFRAstRuCtuRe InVestMents Read more on p34 PRoFessIonAL seRVICes Read more on p28 ConstRuCtIon seRVICes Read more on p30 suPPoRt seRVICes Read more on p32 Acquisitions provide: Growth Access to new markets andcapabilities Further business and margin improvement WOrld ClaSS pErfOrMaNCE aNd prOfIT aNd CaSH SHarEHOldEr rETUrNS dIvIdENd aNd CapITal apprECIaTION Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
