12 strategic objective we aim to strengthen our business.
We have made good progress in four: Canada, GrOWTH the Middle East, South Africa and South East Asia.
Our Australian business has been hampered by the mining downturn which we have taken prompt measures toaddress.
Although it may take time for activity in the market to return to historic levels, we believe Australia still presents good opportunities for the Group in themedium term.
In the other two geographies of India and Brazil, we are reducing our efforts as we believe we willgenerate better growth returns in other markets in the short to mid term.
target sectors 1 We continue to target key infrastructure sectors and are making good progress Our strategy is to develop our insectors where we can leverage global core UK and US businesses knowledge into our local businesses, 4% and to strengthen our presence suchas transport, power and water.
Our increase in order progress in mining has been hampered in other chosen geographies book in target byproject delays and cancellations, sectors and sectors in the longer term.
In particularly in Australia where growth 2013, this objective was slowed to hascome to an abrupt halt, but we believe the long term drivers remain sound.
enable us to focus on addressing leveraging our world-class processes, operational issues in our business sector expertise and innovation on a Complex building is also likely to feature national basis.
This is allowing all of heavily in the UK and US in the next few and capitalise on increasing ourbusiness to access growth sectors years.
We will particularly target niche, opportunities in the UK and US.
such as commercial multifamily housing, higher margin areas such as student corporate facilities, mission critical accommodation and defence in the UK Why is this important?
and US and mission critical installations As the UK and US markets return to such as data centres in the US.
growth and we begin to benefit from the In infrastructure, where we have a actions we have taken to reshape some strong platform in professional services, In both building and infrastructure, ofour core businesses in these markets, we have significant headroom to develop PPP and other investment procurement weare well placed to capitalise on the our downstream construction activities, models, remain a key component of opportunities they present.
In the longer whichcontinue to grow.
We will continue to target term, it remains important to strengthen any opportunities where we can our business outside our current core International growth leverage ourcombined construction inorder to expand our growth horizons Outside our core markets, we continue and investment capability.
and position the business for long todevelop the business.
weidentified seven geographies where What are we doing?
Core markets UK and US In response to current market conditions and some operational issues, our core UK construction business has been a key focus for management this year.
Going forward, our position in the UK means we are well placed to take advantage of the impending recovery.
Although it will take time to flow through to workload, early signs of activity are emerging in the regional construction and civil engineering business.
We are targeting particular opportunities in commercial building, student accommodation, defence and theregional markets, where we draw onmultiple parts of our UK business to satisfy client requirements.
In the major projects business, significant new projects SUSTaINaBlE dESIGN SOlUTION fOr dUBaI aIrpOrT have been slow to come to market and Our BK Gulf LLC joint venture in Dubai was awarded a 64 AED378 million we do not expect this trend to improve mechanical and electrical engineering contract to work on a project that will help in2014.
DubaiInternational Airport assist millions more passengers to get through the In the US, where the market is airport each year.
Our sustainable design solution will mean the new facilities graduallyimproving, we see significant willbe powered by renewable energy via photovoltaic and solar panels.
opportunities for our business over the SUSTaINaBIlITy Environmental Limits next few years.
com dubaiairport where we are a top-tier player, we are Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 13 500,000 homes powered each year by electricity generated through the Greater Gabbard project We reinforced our Balfour Beatty leading position in the Communities received top growing offshore transmission honours from the Professional market as we reached financial Housing Management close on the 317 million Greater Association, winning six awards 6% Gabbard offshore transmission inthe Military Service category of revenue project.
To date, we have been oftheir annual awards programme awarded preferred bidder recognising the outstanding status on two other OFTO clientservice of those who projects by Ofgem.
support the housing needs ofUSmilitary personnel.
Read more online Read more online fINaNCE & dEvElOp Infrastructure Investments p34 We have leveraged our 1,160 capabilities in the student The number of accommodation accommodation market facilities for postgraduate students toestablish a student accommodation portfolio inthe UK and US Our 63 million Holyrood Postgraduate Student Accommodation and Outreach Centre project is our first student accommodation win for our Investments business in the UK.
The 50-year concession contract involves the design, build and maintenance of student accommodation facilities for the University of Edinburgh.
Read more online 50-year concession contract for the university 14 Image courtesy of Shanghai Tower We have been appointed Construction Development Programme Management Office Co. Ltd Consultant on the Makkah Public Transport Programme for an Transform expected 60 months at a value of 61 million.
This project holds into a sustainable, great importance with strong healthyand economically cultural connotations given its thriving community prominent location in the Holy City of Makkah in Saudi Arabia.
Read more online When the Shanghai Toweropens in 2015, it will bethe tallest building in China 16% and also one of the most of revenue sustainable buildings in the world.
Parsons Brinckerhoff has played a key role in earning Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LEED certification for the skyscraper.
Read more online dESIGN & MaNaGE Professional Services p28 This will be the nations first highspeed rail system and will provide connections at up to 350kph.
35 million The first phase will connect the passengers annually when states economic centers from system is complete San Francisco to the LA Basin and will be integrated with urban, The California High-Speed commuter and intercity rail Railproject is one of the systems to create amodern largest, most ambitious public statewide rail network.
transportation programmes 78 million in the US, allowing passengers Frank Vacca, Chief Program Manager, to travel from Los Angeles extension on the California California High-Speed Rail Authority to San Francisco.
Parsons High-Speed Rail programme Brinckerhoff has served as management contract the projects programme manager since 2006.
Read more online 350kph Able to travel at speeds of up to 350kph Image courtesy of the California High-Speed Rail Authority 15 strategic objective dElIvEr GrEaTEr valUE TO ClIENTS 80% 1 Client satisfaction 2 the process, experts from the UK moved During 2013 we had some notable We engage with our clients to to Singapore to support the project on the successes in highways maintenance, gain a better understanding of ground and reduce project risk.
power transmission and student housing.
their objectives and then use Whilst some clients purchase more than Student accommodation is an example of ourexperience across all areas one service from us, many only use one at a growing sector, with around US$1 billion ofinfrastructure development any given time.
We have therefore tailored of new projects coming to market in the our offer and provide services alone or in US and a pipeline of around 1 billion of tobe able to deliver on these combination.
For those that are looking new projects anticipated in the UK over objectives better.
In 2013, our forsupport in more than one area, we the next few years.
We are establishing focus in this area hasremained.
have the ability toprovide this and share asignificant presence in both markets, knowledge and connect teams to work successfully transferring skills from work Why is this important?
on social infrastructure projects and Detailed engagement with our clients military housing.
During the course of We have expert knowledge in certain allows us to better understand their 2013 we announced nine contract awards sectors including transport, power and strategic needs.
Clients have their own in this market on both sides of the Atlantic.
By understanding the specific objectives be it better transport links, challenges and needs of a defined reliable and sustainable energy supply, 1 Where we operated a client service programme marketsector, we are able to create and such as The MAP, our average client satisfaction high quality education or world class score was 80% which equates to being amongst maintain infrastructure that is technically healthcare.
We aim to work in partnership thebest, however this only covers around 10% of sound and delivered with innovative with our clients to ensure their strategic ourUK and US operations.
The MAP is an ongoing andsustainable techniques.
objectives are met through the assessment andscoring tool that provides clients with apro-active feedback mechanism to comment infrastructure we finance, design, onourperformance as a contractor supplier.
In turn, transferring and sharing our knowledge and expertise across the business allows us to create and maintain infrastructure toa higher quality, at a lower price, fasterand safer, to ensure our clients meet theirgoals.
For example, in May 2013, we commenced work to remove a pivotal road rail crossing in Melbourne and lower the existing rail line below the road, reducing congestion, improving safety and cutting journey times for commuters.
The majority of our clients operate on a national basis and typically require support from us in specific areas of the asset lifecycle.
For them, we are able to provide local, dedicated teams who can draw onthe expertise of all of our business to avoid duplication of effort and mistakes SHarING kNOWlEdGE rEdUCES rISk IN SINGapOrE and ensure solutions are fit for purpose Our Gammon Construction joint venture was awarded two significant and best in class.
Land Transport Authoritys 87 S$174 million For example, in the later stages of 2013, contract for the design and construction of the Mayflower Station on the we were awarded a contract with SMRT Thomson Line and SMRT Trains 61 S$122 million contract for track Trains in Singapore to change the sleepers system replacement onthe North-South Line.
from timber to concrete, as part of the Our collaborative approach and the sharing of the knowledge renewal and upgrade of the existing and technology across our business, particularly with the UK rail team NorthSouth Line.
The Asia team worked on the SMRT Trains project, has reduced the risk our clients face.
closely with the UK rail team to share knowledge and equipment.
As part of Read more online balfourbeatty.
com gammonrail Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 16 strategic objective IMprOvE OpEraTIONal pErfOrMaNCE aNd COST EffECTIvENESS 3 Other programmes completed in 2013 scheme for the majority of members Clearly, given the profit issues During 2013, at a one-off cost of inAugust 2013.
The closure of the DB within the UK construction 10million, we relocated 170 roles pension scheme attracted a one-off business in the first half and inshared service functions including non-cash cost of 53 million: however finance, IT, HR and communications itwill reduce our cash contribution and economic challenges elsewhere, fromParsons Brinckerhoffs New York profit and loss charge by 12 million pa this became even more headquarters to Lancaster, Pennsylvania.
Through the This will deliver ongoing savings of Current programmes year, we continued to focus on 6million per annum through staff In November, we signed a contract with rationalisation and lower lease payments.
generating efficiencies across Verizon for a single consolidated global Following an extensive consultation with ITnetwork.
This will deliver lower costs alloperations and back office employees, we ceased future accrual and improved connectivity, enhancing support functions to ensure inthe UK defined benefit DB pension knowledge sharing across the business.
weoperate as efficiently and The service will be rolled out over a period asprofitably as possible.
During the year, we also signed a five-year Why is operational efficiency important?
contract with Fujitsu for the provision Our clients budgets are under pressure.
ofastandardised, centralised and Their expectation is that our scale will commoditised IT service to our UK allow us to create and share best practice operations.
We will complete the rollout across our operating units, have ofthis service in2015.
consolidated back office functions andapply consistent standards to our We continued the rollout of Oracle R12 processes.
This will allow us to deliver within our UK operations.
Its deployment services reliably, informed by in Construction Services UK has been organisational learning and supported delayed by the restructuring of that by a low cost and efficient overhead.
business: however, this work will be undertaken during 2014.
Support Services What progress have we made?
The Shared Service Centre SSC We have improved our cost effectiveness In this report last year, we confirmed in the UK with the creation of the SSC.
our intention to investigate the benefits of managing our businesses at a country This has enabled us to centralise most level.
Having satisfied ourselves that there ofour common procurement, HR and are advantages in terms of both client accounting processes and consolidate CrEaTING service and overhead reduction from oursupply chain and leverage our buying thisapproach, we are now running our apprENTICESHIpS IN power.
We have also completed the businesses under one leadership team in transfer of much of our UK accounting, WESTMINSTEr Australia New Zealand, the Middle East HRadministrative and IT services into Our 80 million contract to design and South Africa.
and construct a 19 storey building for where Parsons Brinckerhoff and our By the end of 2011, the activity at the SSC Urbanest, a leading supplier of student Support Services and Construction accounted for 50% of our UK transactions accommodation for Westminster businesses work together in closest and about 300 million of indirect spend University in London, was announced proximity and, consequently, the benefits was procured through specialists at the in 2013.
We have committed to a to our clients of an integrated approach SSC.
By the end of 2013, this is nearer range of employment and training are greatest.
However, due to the 90% of our UK transactions and about initiatives including the creation of imperative to focus on maximising 370 million of indirect spend.
40 apprenticeships to ensure the growthopportunities in the short term, project generates tangible benefits we are not looking to move to a country The success of this initiative informed our for the local community.
thinking on other initiatives including the Parsons Brinckerhoff Lancaster relocation.
com urbanest Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 17 Built by Howard S. Wright, apprenticeships aBalfour Beatty company, the We have committed to the Edith Green Wendell Wyatt Federal creation of apprenticeships Building in Portland, Oregon US which will amount to 7% of the has become a proving ground total workforce for this contract forinnovative sustainable technologies.
This modernisation resulted in one ofthe most energyefficient facilities in theUSGeneral Services Administration portfolio.
Read more online We were awarded the 154millioncontract to carry out  works to the London2012 Olympic Stadium.
The Stadium will host the Rugby World Cup 65% 2015 and be the permanent home of West of revenue Ham United Football Club from 2016.
The venue will also become the new national competition Stadium forathletics in the UK as well as hostingelite international athletics eventsand other sporting, cultural andcommunity events.
Read more online CONSTrUCT & COMMISSION Construction Services p30 1.6km 1,500 The Southern Connection Viaduct Section includes the project will generate an a1.6km dual two-lane estimated 1,500 local jobs sea viaduct The 720 million HK$8.6bn HKSAR highways contract to construct the Southern Connection Viaduct Section of the Tuen Mun Chek Lap Kok Link in Hong Kong is the largest solo civil engineering contract ever awarded to Gammon Construction, ourjoint venture.
Read more online 2016 The project will be substantially completed bythe end of 2016 18 Our joint venture won a contract with Sydney Water.
By sharing our network intelligence capabilities with Australian water companies, we are working collaboratively to better understand the issues facing water networks.
Read more online In 2013, we began to install highvoltage electricity cables for National Grids London Power Tunnels project, which will create an energy superhighway in tunnels 13% deep under the city.
Working with of revenue the Tunnelling and Underground Construction Academy, we are helping to address the resource 91 million challenges facing the power industry potential bid opportunity in by offering local unemployed people Australian water renewals training and the opportunity market over the next fiveyears to workin tunnelling.
Watch video and more online MaINTaIN & OpEraTE Support Services p32 Balfour Beatty rose to the 55 tonnes challenge to deliver and of salt spread on roads across sustain a real improvement the county each night as part ofwinter maintenance in the condition of our roads one that the people of Herefordshire are callingfor.
Geoff Hughes, Herefordshire Council Our 200 million Herefordshire Council UK Public Realm contract covershighways maintenance and improvement works, street lighting and street cleaning, as well as responsibility for public rights of way, parks and open Our maintenance activities spaces.
Our dedication to delivering an help the local community effective, efficient, sustainable and day in, day out client focused service for thecounty is achieved through flexibledelivery, innovation, andstaffdevelopment.
Read more online 19 strategic objective that the messages are embedded throughout the organisation, which we CONTINUE TO SHOW dothrough our extensive programme of ethical compliance, and we work with the middle tier of employees to ensure they too are aware of their responsibilities lEadErSHIp IN valUES in this area.
These programmes focus on the importance of building a good corporate reputation and on the difference aNd BEHavIOUr between what is lawful and what is right.
In 2013, we have sought to maintain our commitment to development, career progression and talent management across our workforce.
In the current economic environment, there has inevitably been the need to cut budgets 4 and costs which has impacted areas, such as training.
However, we have maintained duty.
This is a matter of huge regret to As an international leader in our focus in many areas including everyone involved with the Group.
infrastructure services and as supporting graduates and apprentices The way we work health and safety p38 as they enter the workforce.
We have part of our focus on securing recently joined other UK companies and We are acknowledged as leading the asustainable, long term future become members of the 5% Club to way from an environmental performance for the Group, we understand increase the number of apprentices perspective and this is providing benefit in theneed to provide a legacy and graduates in our workforce.
terms of work winning, client engagement, within the communities in which employee engagement and supporting The way we work people p40 the communities we work within.
To achieve this, we It is essential that we develop lasting, There is a growing emergence of needtoimprove continuously in collaborative relationships with our supply increasingly aggressive enforcement of chain partners.
Two thirds of our revenue areas such as safety, business anticorruption legislation and, with our is reinvested in our supply chain and as ethics, talent management, global reach, it is vital we continue to such our own performance is underpinned environmental performance focus on achieving a high degree of ethical by theirs.
In Construction Services UK, rigour in everything we do.
Our aim is to 55% of our spend went directly to SMEs andcommunity engagement.
comply with, if not exceed, the strict legal and 41% went to suppliers within a 50km In2013, we continued our focus requirements of the countries where radius of our project sites, supporting local in these areas, to maintain our weoperate.
We are a signatory of the market position and enhance UK Governments Prompt Payment Our focus is to ensure our business is run Codeand in September, we launched ourreputation.
ethically, not just to comply with the law.
avoluntary finance scheme to enable We achieve this, in part, by ensuring our ourUK supply chain to receive payment Why is this important?
senior leadership are part of Tone at the faster than before.
Our reputation is crucial to winning new Top a key element of our effective business, attracting and retaining the compliance programme, where our The way we work p38 to p43 bestpeople and building effective client leaders lead by example.
To be seen as a true leader in our field, we need to build and protect areputation for leadership in values andbehaviour.
In 2013, we launched our Roadmap that charts Health and Safety maturity from one of minimum expectations in 2013 toexcellence by 2017.
Alongside the Roadmap we introduced our Global Safety Principles, a set of rules that define the way we work.
Throughout the year we have focused on a relentless determination to reduce the risk of harm.
Despite improvement in the industry standard measurement of safety performance and the Accident Frequency Rate, five employees of sub contractors lost their lives during the year whilst on OUr valUES 12% We operate in increasingly diverse markets so a common set 4 of values offers clear business benefits and will help support Reduction the challenges of future growth.
Our Values are: Core values in greenhouse gas emissions Integrity, Teamwork, Excellence andRespect.
com values Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
