Board of Directors Executive Directors IAN HAWKSWORTH Chief Executive Age 48 Ian leads Capco, shaping strategy and External appointments driving performance.
He has over 25 Japan Residential Investment years experience in large scale global real Company Limited estate development, asset andcorporate management, having been a senior director of both Hongkong Land and Liberty International.
Ian is a Chartered Surveyor and a member of leading international industry bodies.
2 3 SOUMEN DAS Finance Director Age 37 Soumen is an experienced corporate nancier responsible for leading the finance function of Capco which includes reporting, treasury, corporate finance and tax.
Formerly an executive director ofUBS specialising in real estate, he joined Capco fromLiberty International having coordinated the demerger of the companies in 2010.
GARY YARDLEY Investment Director Age 48 Gary has been a senior deal maker in the UK and European real estate market for over 25 years.
He leads Capcos real estate investment and development activities overseeing all real estate transactions.
Previously Chief Investment Offi cer of Liberty International, Gary is a Chartered Surveyor and aformer partner of King Sturge.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP KEY Audit Committee 1 Corporate Responsibility Committee 2 Nomination Committee 3 Remuneration Committee 4 50 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chairman and Non-executive Directors IAN DURANT Chairman Age 55 Ian is responsible for the leadership of the Board, External appointments ensuring its eff ectiveness and setting its agenda.
Greene King plc Senior Independent Director Ian is a Chartered Accountant with a background Greggs plc Chairman in international financial and commercial Home Retail Group plc Chairman of management.
Ians career includes leadership Audit Committee roles with the retail division of Hanson and Jardine Matheson, Hongkong Land, Dairy Farm International, Thistle Hotels, Sea Containers and 2 3 Liberty International.
IAN HENDERSON CBE Non-executive Deputy Chairman and Senior External appointments Dolphin Square Foundation Chairman Independent Non-executive Director Age 70 Ishaan Real Estate PLC Former Chairman Formerly Chief Executive of Land Securities The Natural History Museum Chairman of Group PLC, Ian, a Fellow of the Royal Institution Property Advisory Group of Chartered Surveyors, has been widely involved The Royal Albert Hall in property industry matters, including being a 1 2 3 4 past President of the British Property Federation.
GRAEME GORDON Non-executive Director Age 50 External appointments Graeme was a Non-executive director of Liberty CFS Europe Limited International for 14 years before joining the Board Creative Investments Limited inMay 2010.
He is the son of Sir Donald Gordon, Fieldstall Limited the founder of Liberty International, and Mymarket Limited represents the Gordon Family Interests on the Board.
ANDREW HUNTLEY Non-executive Director Age 75 External appointments A Chartered Surveyor with 40 years experience Ashfern Developments Ltd who rose to be Chairman of Richard Ellis from Intu Properties plc Senior Independent Director 1993 to 2002.
3 4 DEMETRA PINSENT Non-executive Director Age 39 External appointments A former partner of McKinsey & Co, Demetra was Charlotte Tilbury Beauty Limited leader of McKinseys European Apparel, Fashion and Luxury Goods Practice for five years and has also acted as an adviser to emerging British luxury businesses.
Demetra is currently CEO of Charlotte 2 3 Tilbury Beauty, a new cosmetics brand.
HENRY STAUNTON Non-executive Director Age 65 External appointments A former Finance Director in the media, hotels Merchants Trust PLC Senior Independent and leisure sectors, Henry was appointed to the Director Board in June 2010 and became Chairman of Standard Bank Plc Audit Committee Chairman the Audit Committee shortly after in July 2010.
WH Smith PLC Chairman Previously Finance Director of Granada and ITV.
1 3 4 ANDREW STRANG Non-executive Director Age 61 External appointments Andrew was Managing Director of Threadneedle AEW UK Member of Investment and Governance Property Investments Limited for 17 years until Committees January 2008.
He was Executive Chairman of Intu Properties plc Non-executive Director Hermes Real Estate Investment Management Norges Bank Investment Management Real Estate until 2011.
