Directors report DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Annual The rules governing the appointment and The Capco Scrip Dividend Scheme was Report, and the audited consolidated replacement of Directors are contained in approved at the 2012 AGM and was off ered financial statements for the year ended the Companys Articles and UK Legislation.
to shareholders in respect of the 2012 final 31 December 2013.
In compliance with the UK Corporate dividend and the 2013 interim dividend.
Governance Code, at the 2014 Annual It is intended that the Scrip Dividend be STRATEGIC REPORT General Meeting all the Directors will off ered to shareholders in respect of the The Groups 2013 Strategic Report, which retire from offi ce and will off er themselves proposed final dividend for 2013, subject includes a review of the Groups business for re-election.
during the financial year, the Groups The proposed final dividend will be paid position at year-end and a description of COMPENSATION FOR LOSS on 19 June 2014 to shareholders whose the principal risks and uncertainties facing OF OFFICE names are on the register at 23 May 2014. the Group, comprises the following sections The Company does not have any of the Annual Report: agreements with any Executive Director CAPITAL STRUCTURE or employee that would provide Page Details of the Companys issued ordinary compensation for loss of offi ce or share capital, including details of Chairmans statement 6 employment resulting from a takeover movements in the issued share capital except that provisions of the Company Chief Executives review 8 during the year, authorities to issue or share schemes may cause share options repurchase shares and details of share Business model and strategy 10 and awards to vest on a takeover.
repurchased by the Company during the Key performance indicators 11 year, are shown in note 33 to the financial DIRECTORS CONFLICTS statements on page 120.
Each share carries Principal risks and uncertainties 12 OF INTEREST the right to one vote at general meetings of The Company has procedures in place for Operating review 18 the Company.
managing con icts of interests.
Should a Financial review 36 There are no speci c restrictions on the Director become aware that they, or a transfer of shares beyond those standard connected party, have an interest in an Corporate responsibility provisions set out in the Articles of existing or proposed transaction with the which includes information Association.
No shareholder holds shares Group, they should notify the Company on the Groups greenhouse carrying special rights with regard to Secretary before the next meeting or at gas emissions 42 control of the Company.
Directors have a continuing signi cant shareholdings are set out on DIRECTORS obligation to update any changes to page 83.
The Directors of the Company who held these con icts.
offi ce during the year and up to the date USE OF FINANCIAL DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES of signing the financial statements were INSTRUMENTS AND INSURANCE as follows: Information on risk management objectives In accordance with the Companys Articles, Chairman: and policies, including hedging policies, the Company has indemni ed the I. C. Durant and exposure of the Company in relation Directors to the full extent allowed by law.
to the use of financial instruments can be The Company maintains Directors and Executive Directors: found in note 30 on pages 114 to 119.
Offi cers liability insurance which is I. D. Hawksworth reviewed annually.
S. Das CHANGE OF CONTROL G. J. Yardley ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION PROVISIONS Changes to the Articles of Association must There are a number of agreements which Non-Executive Directors: be approved by shareholders in accordance take eff ect, alter or terminate upon a change I. J. Henderson with the Companies Act 2006. of control of the Company.
The agreements G. J. Gordon that would be considered signi cant are the A. J. M. Huntley DIVIDENDS Covent Garden 300 million debt facility D. Pinsent The Directors have proposed the and 70 million revolving credit facility H. E. Staunton following dividends: and the Lillie Square development joint A. D. Strang venture.
The new 665 million Covent Interim Dividend Biographies of each Director can be found Garden facility signed in February 2014 also paid on 25 0.5p per ordinary on pages 50 to 51 and details of each September 2013 share includes these change of control provisions.
Directors interests in the Companys Proposed Final shares are set out on page 79. Dividend to be 1.0p per ordinary The powers of the Directors are determined paid on 19 June 2014 share by UK legislation and the Companys Total proposed 1.5p per ordinary Articles of Association together with any dividend for 2013 share speci c authorities that shareholders may approve from time to time.
82 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shares held at time of last Percent held at time of last Holder noti cation noti cation Nature of Holding Date of last noti cation BlackRock, Inc. 106,485,911 14.05% Indirect Interest 24 Jan 2014 Gordon Family Interests 92,143,204 12.23% Direct Interest 2 Oct 2012 Coronation Asset Management pty Limited 74,396,731 9.86% Direct Interest 7 Aug 2013 Norges Bank 58,005,475 7.70% Direct Interest 28 Sept 2012 Public Investment Corporation 37,326,761 4.96% Direct Interest 13 Feb 2013 SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS THE ENVIRONMENT ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The signi cant holdings of voting rights in Details of the Groups corporate The 2014 Annual General Meeting of the the share capital of the Company noti ed responsibility policy and its aims and Company will be held from 11.30 am on and disclosed in accordance with Disclosure activities are described on the Companys 2 May 2014 at Four Seasons Hotel London at and Transparency Rule 5, as at 24 February website www.
The Notice of the Meeting, 2014, are shown in the table above: An overview of the Groups CR activity together with an explanation of the is on pages 42 to 49. business to be dealt with at the Meeting, EMPLOYEES is included as a separate document sent to The Group recognises the importance of The Group employees are employed by C&C shareholders who have elected to receive minimising the adverse impact of its Management Services Limited, Earls Court hard copies of Shareholder information and operations on the environment and the & Olympia Limited and Olympia Limited.
is also available on the Companys website.
management of energy consumption and The Groups employees are kept informed waste recycling.
By Order of the Board of its activities and financial performance through head offi ce brie ngs at key points The Company strives to improve its during the year and the circulation of environmental performance.
The corporate announcements and other environmental management system is relevant information to staff which are regularly reviewed to ensure that the supplemented by updates on the intranet.
Company maintains its commitment to environmental matters.
Certain of the Groups employees are eligible to participate in annual bonus OVERSEAS BRANCH REGISTER R. E. Pavey arrangements.
These arrangements, which For the purposes of its listing on the Secretary may include awards under the Groups Johannesburg Stock Exchange, the Performance Share Plan, help to develop 25 February 2014 Company maintains an overseas branch employees interest in the Companys register in South Africa.
Full details of the Performance Share Plan are contained GOING CONCERN in note 41 to the accounts on pages 123 As set out on page 41, the Directors have a to 126. reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources The Company operates a nonto meet both on going and future discriminatory employment policy and commitments for the foreseeable future.
full and fair consideration is given to Accordingly, they continue to adopt the applications for employment from disabled going concern basis in preparing the annual applicants where they have the appropriate report and accounts.
skills and abilities, and to the continued employment of staff who become disabled.
DISCLOSURE TO AUDITORS So far as the Directors are aware, there is no The Company encourages the continuous relevant audit information of which the development and training of its employees auditors are unaware and each Director has and the provision of equal opportunities taken all reasonable steps to make himself for the training and career development or herself aware of any relevant audit of all employees.
information and to establish that the Information relating to employees is given auditors are aware of that information.
The Group provides retirement bene ts for the majority of its INDEPENDENT AUDITORS employees.
Details of the Group pension The auditors,  LLP, arrangements are set out in note 42 on have indicated their willingness to continue pages 126 to 128. in offi ce and a resolution seeking to reappoint them will be proposed at the Further information on Group employees forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
can be found on pages 48 and 49. www.
