16 STRATEGIC REPORT COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 804 branches Segmental review throughout the UK Estate Agency The Estate Agency division is the UKs largest by market share, with804 branches operating nationwide from Penzance to Stirling.
Aswell as estate agency services, itplays a key role indriving revenue of the other Countrywidedivisions.
KPIs Highlights EBITDA growth 56% Total income m Y Year-end pipeline 25% higher Y 19 3.0 5% increase in average house prices Y Unprecedented growth in our award winning Land & New Homes business 5% Y 2013 193.0 Significant operational change delivered leading to improved Y 12 13 2012 184.6 service levels and lower cost base in the future EBITDA m This has delivered quality and process Operating review improvements as well as realising significant The Estate Agency division saw a 56% 1 6.1 ongoing cost savings compared to our increase in EBITDA to 16.1 million.
This previous model of branch-based and was achieved from a higher income figure regionally-based administration.
The Centre of 193 million and a cost base largely is also focused on projects that will improve 56% unchanged from the previous year.
service levels for our customers such 2013 16.1 2013 saw an upturn in market volumes with as overflow call handing, out of hours 12 13 2012 10.3 Estate Agency increasing house exchanges operation and complaints handling.
Market conditions The year was relatively subdued with regards improved gradually throughout the year, to new branch openings and acquisitions.
helped by improving economic consumer House exchanges number We continued with our Yorkshire expansion sentiment, better credit markets, and programme, opening new Bridgfords and Government initiatives supporting the 5 9,471 Blundells branches in West and South UK housing market including Help To Buy.
Yorkshire respectively, and in contrast to Relative growth was stronger in the South of recent years there were few branch closures.
the UK, although we saw performance improve 9% Market challenges across all of our main regions.
Availability 2013 59,471 and competition for new housing stock was As market conditions improve they also 12 13 2012 54,828 the key challenge in the year, with the ratio bring challenges for the Estate Agency of sales agreed to new listings at the highest division: competition for scarce listings level for some time, averaging 80%.
is fierce and there is pressure on fees, while an increasing number of new Average house price Of particular significance in 2013 was an entrants add further competitive pressure.
improved performance on cross sales to 1 86,100 other divisions.
The biggest improvements Asset management came in introducing vendors and purchasers The year was a testing one for our Asset to the Conveyancing and Surveying divisions.
Management business with an estimated 15% Penetration rates on conveyancing increased 5% decline in the UK repossession market volumes by over 8 percentage points in the year.
This is the fourth consecutive year Significant operational change was achieved 12 13 of decline in a market where Countrywide has 2012 177,600 in 2013.
In October we completed the process traditionally held a strong market share, thereby of transferring all branch administration having a disproportionate impact on overall support to our new National Sales Support market share.
Centre in Cheadle, Greater Manchester.
17 STRATEGIC REPORT COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Percentage of Group income 33% 19% of Group EBITDA Driver through cross referrals of: - 14% of Surveying Services revenue - 91% of Financial Services revenue - 86% of Conveyancing Services revenue Land & New Homes Focus on: Land & New Homes Through strategic investment and positive Building more new homes is a key long term priority for the UK market sentiment, our Land & New Homes Government.
A number of Government initiatives have been introduced business enjoyed significant revenue growth in 2013, up 18% in the year.
While this was with the aim of increasing access to new homes.
Countrywide identified helped in part by the Help to Buy scheme, the opportunity in the Land & New Homes L&NH market in 2011, much of the impact of this Government taking steps to invest significantly in the L&NH business since that time.
scheme has been seen in increased reservation numbers but has not yet 2013 was the second year of a significant translated into house sales.
Countrywide is the largest provider Y investment programme in this important of estate agency services for the area, with our L&NH business adding The Land & New Homes business topped L&NH sector in the UK 21 new employees in the year and delivering an impressive year by winning the Sunday a 34% increase in house exchanges.
Times New Homes agency of the year National and international sales Y award for the second successive year.
distribution L&NH integrates with other Countrywide divisions and employs specialist teams Overseas investors Significant growth in 2013 and further Y within Conveyancing and Financial Services.
2013 saw a record year of activity within growth anticipated in 2014 The service capability was further enhanced London & Premier L&P in terms of overseas in September with the Groups acquisition Accounted for 6% of house exchanges investment into the UK.
Channelled through Y of Lambert Smith Hampton, adding in the Estate Agency division Hamptons Hong Kong subsidiary, 170 sales significant commercial property expertise of London properties were made to overseas to the current residential offering.
investors in addition to high levels of interest Countrywide is the largest provider of from overseas buyers through the L&P branch Estate Agency services for the L&NH network.
Hamptons Hong Kong subsidiary sector in the UK, dealing with 1,500 Land & New Homes not only delivered impressive leads and sales builder and development clients in the UK.
to the UK agency business, but generated services include: Building more homes is one of the urgent significant revenues from sales of Malaysian issues facing the UK Government.
This properties to Hong Kong buyers.
was highlighted by the launch of the Help Equally important to the divisions international To Buy Equity Loans scheme in 2013, and Land sourcing strategy is the Hamptons International other commendable initiatives such as Y website which, by mid-2014, will boast over the relaxation of Planning Laws and the Planning expertise 100,000 international properties on any Y Build to Rent fund.
Key associations have New Homes sales Y been made with estate agents in Spain, Italy, France and the US served by over 5,000 Stock and Property Management Y buyer and seller leads from the L&P UK agency network in 2013.
18 STRATEGIC REPORT COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 126 branches in the UK Segmental review London & Premier The London & Premier division is the foremost UK estate agency business in the over 500,000 residential market by market share and provides a compelling service proposition through a multi-brand strategy.
KPIs Highlights The London & Premier L&P division was created during 2013 and Total income m Y incorporates a number of key Countrywide brands including Hamptons International, John D Wood & Co. and Faron Sutaria 11 5.6 The division achieved record breaking sales activity levels during 2013 Y 14% Income of 116 million generated an EBITDA return of 24.2 million, 42% up on 2012 Y 2013 115.6 Hamptons International is in the process of creating the largest UK international Y 12 13 2012 101.4 property website, which should be complete in 2014 EBITDA m Formation of London & Premier Operating review This new division for Countrywide, consisting Assisted by strategic investment and improving 24.
2 of 126 offices, was created by bringing market conditions, the division achieved together the brands that operate in the record levels of income and profitability.
upper price segments of the UK housing The L&P market remains relatively strong market.
These brands comprise: in comparison to the broader UK residential 42% market, benefitting from improving financial 2013 24.2 markets, overseas investment and a lower 12 13 Hamptons International Y 2012 17.1 reliance on credit to drive transaction levels.
John D Wood & Co. Several new offices were opened in 2013 Y including Sevenoaks, Amersham, South House exchanges number Faron Sutaria Y Woodford and Canary Wharf.
All are developing in line with their business plans.
In addition, 6, 338 UK Sothebys International Realty Y offices opened in recent years such as Ealing, Battersea, Balham, Southfields and Canford Hetheringtons Y Cliffs, are making a growing contribution.
14% Alan fide Maid Y The formation of L&P as a new division 2013 6,338 allows us to share best practice among the These brands are geographically centred 12 13 brands and extract synergies by leveraging 2012 5,544 around London and the South of the UK our infrastructure in areas such as IT, HR, and operate in their own distinct market marketing and finance.
For example, our segments, ensuring we are present London Contact Centre, which provides Average house price m throughout the whole upper middle and support to Hamptons International in driving top end of the market where appropriate.
activity levels and handling overflow calls, 8 98.5 Hamptons International is the largest of has been expanded to include Faron Sutaria these brands with over 70 offices covering and further growth is planned in 2014 the desired markets spreading from Bristol allowing more branches to benefit.
in the West, across the South and London 1% As we enter 2014 there continues to be a and north to Oxfordshire.
2013 898.5 positive sentiment within the L&P markets 12 13 and the division will continue to identify new 2012 891.0 office openings organically and selected acquisitions that are accretive.
19 STRATEGIC REPORT COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Percentage of Group income 20% - 28% of Groups total EBITDA We expect rental pricing growth across the Sales Focus on: UK to remain subdued as the sales market The L&P market has been characterised by recovers and a number of tenants become The London & strong levels of demand but a lack of supply, homeowners.
This will be most keenly felt especially in Central London.
New instructions Premier market in the regions where renting has become have been difficult to win with the market expensive compared to owning.
suffering from a lack of available properties During 2013 London & to sell and frustrated purchasers unable to Overall we have grown the number of Premierlisted nearly 10% of find a property to move to.
Due to these managed units by 7% in 2013 and have allproperties valued at over supply constraints, prime Central London seen a growth in our market share.
0.5million, selling twice has seen record property prices achieved thenumber of houses than over the course of the last year.
andInvestment The lack of property has had the knock on The Residential Development and Investment effect of high levels of activity and greatest The L&P market differs from the UK business of Hamptons International had a growth in the surrounding areas such as mainstream housing market, not least busy and successful year in terms of new London Zone 2, as people move from Central because of its sensitivity to overseas instructions and pitched for new business London, trading a similar priced property for investment demand.
Buyers in this and expanding the client network across a much larger home.
This ripple effect has market are also less likely to be all of our regions.
continued into the locations outside London, constrained by credit availability.
benefitting Hamptons International, Alan fide In Hong Kong, the Hamptons Internationals Londons reputation as a safe haven Maid and Hetheringtons, assisted by more Asia sales team had a very good year with during the recession encouraged favourable credit markets.
Across L&P, sales over 118 units sold across three developments investment, but investors are now more activity levels were at record breaking levels in the last two months of 2013 alone.
wary about capital growth in the near with the conversion of instructions into term.
Londons prime markets are still exchanges at the highest level recorded.
considered safe assets, but as the global recovery gathers pace and yields on Lettings The rising prices should encourage other assets improve, investors will more sellers into the market, adding Hamptons lettings in London remains strong, consider other options.
In addition, liquidity, but a lack of supply will although there was a slow down in the outer uncertainty about taxation policy for London and country offices.
Correct pricing, underpin house prices, particularly higher value property stamp duty superior specification and presentation has inLondon and the South.
thresholds, mansion tax and changes been the key to attracting the best tenants to capital gains tax will add to caution.
Value for money has been vitally The severe lack of supply in this sector important as tenants happily move if they and Londons position as a safe haven can find a more reasonably priced home, and a prime global city will support price potentially leaving landlords with an growth, but it is likely to be more modest empty property.
than elsewhere in the capital.
