04 INTRODUCTION COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 About Countrywide 26 commercial 1,344 estate offices agency and lettings offices 46 local high street brands To let A leading and integrated approach to property services We are the UKs leading provider of integrated property services.
Our UK network of local estate agency and lettings brands provide our corporate clients and home movers with a comprehensive range of property-related solutions that meet their needs, delivered with valuable local expertise.
We cover all areas of the property market Surveying Conveyancing Asset Land & New Estate Mortgages Lettings Financial Commercial management Homes Agency and insurance Services 05 INTRODUCTION COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Read more about our services www.
co. uk Local Integrated expertise solutions Over 11,000 employees Estate Agency Our business divisions As the UKs largest estate agency regional network, weare accessible to all UK home We operate through seven complementary divisions and, through movers andoperate regional property the breadth of our product offerings and effective cross-referral auctioneers using our local knowledge.
between these divisions, seek to provide integrated property Land& New Homes L&NH offers local, regional and national developers improved solutions to both corporate clients and residential customers.
We can service all stages of residential property sale or rental, Read more on p16 from listing to completion or letting.
London & Premier Lettings Financial Services Offering tailored services to buyers investing In addition to our national Lettings branch Our Financial Services division includes in prime real estate, primarily in London and network, we offer estate management theUKs largest single mortgage brokerage, the South East, we offer estate agency and services to provide block management and withover 600 consultants.
Together with lettings services through prestige brands.
multiple units on behalf of corporate clients.
ournetwork, Mortgage Intelligence, we offer OurResidential Development and Investment Other specialist services include leasehold expert advice on life and general insurance RDI team offers developers access to and commercial management and emergency along with access to quality financial products.
Read more on p18 Read more on p20 Read more on p22 Surveying Services Conveyancing Services Lambert Smith Hampton Countrywide Surveying Services CSS is Countrywide Conveyancing Services Providing commercial consultancy at every oneof the leading suppliers of valuation CCS provides legal conveyancing stage of the property development cycle, panelmanagement services, residential servicestoour clients, focusing on ourservices include: acquisitions, disposals valuations and surveys in the UK.
We panel accessibility and quality of service.
and lettings: lease advisory: legal support: manage and undertake valuations for the planning and development consultancy: UKsmortgage lenders.
property management: and valuation services.
Read more on p23 Read more on p24 Read more on p25
