14 STRATEGIC REPORT COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Our strategic objectives Transforming our business The directors believe that the significant investment that has been made while in private ownership has strongly positioned the Group for future growth across all its core markets.
Our strategic objectives for the three years 2014to2016 areas follows: Distribution channels Products and services 1 2 Providing customers with market-leading products Building on our physical and online distribution and services designed to meet their expectations.
capability inorder to optimise market share.
Tailoring our products and services to our local customers Over the past five years we have invested significantly in Lettings is key to meeting their needs.
Recognising this, we created businesses through acquisitions and the new starts programme the London & Premier division which enables management to build a stable, scalable business with sustainable revenue streams, to focus on the London and high net worth clients, sharing other major acquisitions include the purchase of Hamptons skills and market knowledge.
International 2010 and Lambert Smith Hampton 2013.
Additionally, we have increased our influence in the financial intermediary market With the shortage of new housing in the UK being a key issue with the acquisition of independent financial advisor networks.
facing the country, over the past two years we have built a strong We augment the branch network through targeted purchases.
Land & New Homes team to service and advise developers and house builders.
Acquiring Lambert Smith Hampton enhances Marketing is a key area for us and we are consolidating ability to offer the complete residential and commercial package.
the marketing resource recognising the B2B and B2C marketing teams.
We are evolving our online solutions for Group products and services.
Performance in 2013 Performance in 2013 28 Lettings acquisitions strengthen our share of the Land & New Homes sales increased 30% in 2013 Y Y lettings market Sales by Capital Private Finance, the specialist IFA set up in Y Marketing strategy and planning was centralised at the 2011 to offer Hamptons clients financial services products, Y beginning of 2013 and marketing costs as a percentage grew 44% to 1.5 million in 2013 of revenue decreased by 8% Acquisition of Lambert Smith Hampton in October 2013 Y Surveying Services secured major contracts, in order to expand our commercial property offering Y strengthening its position in the market Going forward Going forward Continue targeted strategic acquisitions.
20 million Continue focus on referrals to drive additional revenue Y Y has been set aside by the Board Build the combined Countrywide and Lambert Smith Hampton Y Develop a residential property investment vehicle.
20 million land development offer Y seed capital has been approved Developing products with strategic partners aimed at specific Y Continue to develop the Lettings New Starts programme market sectors, e. g. first-time buyers Y Branches Estate Agency and Lettings number Core Estate Agency penetration of house exchanges % Mortgages Conveyances 3.3% 1,344 2013 1,344 2013 582013 51 2012 1,301 2012 602012 50 15 STRATEGIC REPORT COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 People Infrastructure 3 4 Recruiting, developing and retaining the most dynamic, Ensuring our people have access to a reliable, talented and professional people in the industry.
Our employees are our key resource.
We are a people business Since 2007 we have permanently removed 60 million and high levels of customer service are delivered by a motivated of infrastructure costs.
Further cost reductions will be and talented team.
Common to the industry we face high levels achieved through investment in technology and shared of employee turnover, reducing attrition levels will improve profits, services capability in order that we have a robust scalable efficiency and service standards.
We run training programmes throughout the Group.
The Lettings Underpinning this strategy is the enormous task of transforming division has i-Learn for their front office employees and the Estate our IT Infrastructure, which evolved over the years through bolt Agency division uses AgencyPro which is a market-leading on acquisitions and local development.
We are now two-thirds training and complaints handling system with City & Guilds of the way through our transformation programme.
Through our talent management and leadership programme we are developing our future senior managers.
Performance in 2013 Performance in 2013 Engaged with all employees through first employee The centralised Estate Agency support centre in Cheadle Y Y engagement survey MyCountrywide and launched Inside became fully operational in early 2013, increasing Countrywide, employee magazine standardisation, quality control and audit and co-ordinating newspaper advertising Introduced graduate and apprenticeship training programmes Y to develop our future professional teams.
90 graduate surveyors Centralisation of branch re-fit teams reduces cost, maintains Y and 20 trainees lawyers standard and consistency of branch refurbishment Launched the first all employee share incentive plan in five years Mobile technology implemented in Surveying Services Y Y Going forward Going forward Build on the key themes arising from MyCountrywide Complete the development of the IT infrastructure and roll Y Y out across the Group Improve the recruitment process and reduce attrition rates Y through new induction training and on-boarding framework Plan, develop and begin to implement a Group-wide finance Y system to reduce waste, increase visibility and provide a Roll out HR engagement and reporting systems Y platform for synergistic savings Employee turnover % Fixed cost ratio % -12.2% -4.5% 36 63 2013 36 2013 63 2012 41 2012 66
