10 STRATEGIC REPORT COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Our business model Built on solid foundations We create value from a scalable, diversified and risk-mitigated business with significant recurring revenue streams which capitalise on our integrated services and product offering.
Weaim to create continuous relationships with our clients while maximising value from each transaction.
Complementary products Strategic partnerships Utilising our Our B2C clients including vendors, purchasers Our B2B clients including financial institutions integrated services and landlords access our complementary suite and national developers benefit from our scale for the benefit of of services through our branches.
We optimise and view our extensive network as an attractive our clients revenue streams through appropriate crossroute to market for their products.
In return, divisional referral of services.
We underpin we have access to exclusive deals and our products with a client focused competitive rates: a mutually beneficial approach to service arrangement for all partners Branches Brands Online Capitalising on Our national branch network is Through our multiple brand Our online presence through our distribution the foundation of the Groups strategy we can focus on portals and our own website, channels and operating model.
We identify specific sectors of both www.
co. uk product offering and target local markets to regional and national housing ensures our clients have access invest in with additional markets and tailor products to the latest properties and our or enhanced branches appropriately mobile apps are popular with people on the move People Market insight Centralised support Optimising andleadership services We invest in talented our resources and motivated teams who Access to and analysis of data Support services are understand their local markets leads to the development of centralised to reduce and the needs of our customers products and services to meet duplication and waste while to ensure the delivery of high our clients needs and provides improving standards of levels of customer service a basis for commentary on service and enabling us the market to deliver cost efficiencies through economies of scale 11 STRATEGIC REPORT COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 What makes us different?
Quality, full service provision creating continuous customer relationships while optimising value from each transaction.
Creating value Your trusted property partner B2C customers B2B customers Complementary products Strategic partnerships Mortgage Lending and Distribution Estate Agency Conveyancing Land & New Homes Development Mortgages and Insurance Lettings Asset Management Surveying and Valuation Local expertise Branches Brands Online Integrated solutions People Insight Central support Moving more people than anyone else in the UK
