12 STRATEGIC REPORT COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 What sets us apart Multi-brand approach andnational representation Scale Experienced and coverage management team Local expertise connected to Delivering transformation national presence and leverage andinnovation We operate across the UK residential Our success is built around recruiting, property market and focus on having the right incentivising and retaining talented brand in the right location to target customers managers drawn both from within the across all price bands.
Our depth and breadth Group and from leading businesses of coverage allow faster response to changing in related sectors.
Our scale provides us with management structure ensures the significant leverage to negotiate exclusive senior team remain close to customers product arrangements with providers and colleagues.
Strong and reduce costs on procurement.
growth Integrated functions allow recruitment Y We have a national network comprising of specialists who are delivering Y 804 Estate Agency branches, transformational initiatives Achieved by organic growth 126 London & Premier branches andtargeted acquisitions and 414 Lettings branches Proactive focus on development, Y succession planning and broadening We have developed significant experience Our 46 core brands range from local Y experience of senior management in acquiring businesses and a proven or national market presence to track record in identifying acquisitions internationally recognised brands for their strong strategic fit and ability to such as Hamptons International, address gaps in market coverage, whilst John D Wood & Co. Bairstow Eves also delivering accelerated profit growth and Bridgfords by achieving higher returns in our existing businesses.
Continued expansion of lettings Y network through 28 acquisitions during 2013 and pipeline for 2014 Acquisition of Lambert Smith Y Hampton to build commercial property expertise 13 STRATEGIC REPORT COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Our multi-brand approach and national representation are supported by scalable infrastructure and expertise designed to deliver complementary property services to both retail customers and corporate clients.
Strong relationships Trusted partner to customers and corporates Buying a property is the most expensive transaction most people ever undertake.
Our integrated offering and customer-centric approach help us create more enduring relationships with our customers than is typical in the housing market where one-off transactions are more common.
Our approach and integrity also ensures Leading that we win and keep strategic partnerships with key corporate customers and partners.
technology 9% increase to 73.6 million in Y Ongoing investment in value generated from our corporate technology and remotesolutions Integrated partner relationships We continue to invest significantly solutions in technology to implement innovation in a cost effective way.
Transformational infrastructure initiatives delivered through Optimising revenue streams our partnership with CGI are the backdrop We offer complementary services from to internal projects such as the creation across divisions including mortgages, of online training systems or continued insurance, surveying, lettings and legal evolution of real-time management information.
services to our customers or landlords, increasing penetration and loyalty.
Our integrated approach and expansion into Pioneering use of tablet technology for Y activity such as the London prime, door step sign-off of valuation reports lettings and financial services markets, and during market appraisals provide less sensitivity to housing Focused online development ensures transactions volumes.
Y highest proportion of leads are now generated by our own websites We generate revenue through Y inter-divisional leads and referrals, with cross sales running at 54% in 2013 The acquisition of LSH allows Y us to leverage their commercial experience in mixed-use developments and cross-refer activity to L&NH and the core Estate Agency business
