25 STRATEGIC REPORT COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 You can walk from the Olympic Segmental review Stadium to Twickenham on land LSHadvises on Lambert Smith Hampton Lambert Smith Hampton has made a successful start as a member of the Countrywide Group with financial performance ahead of plan Highlights Focus on: Industrial Appointment as advisors to Nationwide Building Society across its Y UK wide commercial property portfolio andLogistics Advising Cerberus Capital Management on its 375 million acquisition Y Lambert Smith Hampton is oneof of Lloyds Banking Groups Project Thames loan portfolio the leading industrial and logistics property advisors in the UK and Named as a supplier to the Crown Commercial Services framework Y Ireland and lets, sells or acquires around 20million sq ft of industrial and distribution space every year.
The Lambert Smith Hampton group Our highly-respected annual Industrial Growth plans LSH joined the Countrywide Group on andLogistics Market Report provides a Countrywide plans to invest further 1 October 2013.
LSH is one of the largest detailed analysis of all of the main issues in LSH to grow the business in our core commercial property consultancies in the affecting the industrial market across the markets.
We are committed to becoming UK and Ireland with 26 offices and over UK.
The report contains a comprehensive a key player in the commercial property 800 employees.
Working with investors, statistical review of the sectors recent market and to grow our market share.
developers and occupiers in both the performance and identifies key trends The market is still fragmented and, even as public and private sector, we advise forthe year ahead.
a scale commercial business, we currently on all aspects of commercial property have less than a 3% market share, providing The 2014 Report reveals that the transactions and management.
an opportunity for further market penetration.
industrial and logistics market staged The stronger links between the residential astrong recovery in 2013, with take-up Market commentary and commercial activities will also strengthen of space increasing by 24% from its Activity in the commercial property our businesses going forward.
As the 2012 low, and prime and secondary market is improving, with the investment economy continues to recover, we are seeing rentsgrowing in most locations.
Total UK investment increased development activity across volumes increased by 50% in 2013 in We also note that the lack of new build, the UK.
Combining the resources and comparison with 2012 and the annual total which stretches back to 2007, has left skills of the strongest regional commercial of 45 billion was the highest the market the market starved of high quality premises property advisor with the UKs largest has seen since 2007.
In the occupier and is likely to lead to the return of integrated property services business will markets, the improvement in the regions speculative development.
provide clients with market-leading advice has been less dramatic but take-up is at every stage of the development lifecycle.
The industrial market has also shown an improvement with occupier Financial performance take-up increasing by 24%.
We expect LSHs total income for the final quarter of current trends in both the regional office 2013, as part of the Countrywide Group, was and industrial markets to continue in to 16.6 million and EBITDA was 2.3 million.
2014, both of which are areas of particular Both these amounts were in excess of the strength for LSH.
forecasts for the quarter made at the time of the acquisition.
