57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Directors report For the year ended 31 December 2013 The directors present their report and the Shareholder Number of shares % holding audited consolidated financial statements Oaktree Capital Management 60,534,034 27.59 forthe year ended 31 December 2013.
The Caledonia Investments 11,517,339 5.25 review ofthebusiness, future developments Royal London Asset Management 8,968,626 4.09 and outlook, as well as specific disclosures inrelation to financial risk management and Kames Capital 8,312,219 3.79 employee policies, are contained within the Fidelity Worldwide Investment 7,673,962 3.50 strategic report and are incorporated into BlackRock Investment Mgt UK 7,469,162 3.40 thedirectors report by cross reference.
JP Morgan Asset Management 7,032,773 3.20 General information Powers of the directors Going concern Countrywide plc is a public limited company, Subject to the articles, the Companies Act and The Board seeks to present a balanced listed on the London Stock Exchange, any directions given by the Company byspecial andunderstandable assessment of the incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
resolution, the business of the Company will be Groups position and prospects.
In order theregistered address of the Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all tosatisfy themselves thatthe Company included in note2 of the financial statements.
the powers of the Company.
hasadequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Dividends Amendment of articles future, the directors have reviewed detailedassumptions about future trading The directors recommend the payment of The articles may be altered by special resolution, performance and cash flow projections afinal dividend of 6.0 pence net per share.
in accordance with the Companies Act.
within the Groups current five year plan.
Subject to approval at the AGM, the dividend This, together with available market will be paid on7 May 2014 to shareholders Directors and directors interests information and the directors knowledge on the register at 28 March 2014.
The total The directors of the Company who were andexperience, has given them the dividend in respect of the year is, therefore, inoffice during the year and up to the date of confidence to continue to adopt the going 8.0 pence net per share.
signing the financial statements are disclosed concern basis inrepairing the accounts.
onpage 40 and their interests inthe shares Share capital of the Company are disclosed on page 54.
Greenhouse gas emissions Details of the movements in issued share Please refer to our corporate responsibility capital during the year are provided in note25 Directors indemnities statement on page 35 for details of the to the Group financial statements.
Ordinary The Company has made qualifying third party disclosures required.
shares ofthe Company carry the right to one indemnity provisions as defined in the vote at a general meeting of the Company and Companies Act 2006 for the benefit of its Postbalance sheet events have no right to fixed income.
directors during the year: these provisions Since the year end, the Company has: remain in force at the date of this report.
Details of employee share schemes are provided in note 26 to the Group financial renegotiated its debt facility and reduced Y Auditor and disclosure of information statements.
At 31 December 2013, there were interest margins payable: details can be to auditor 39,375 shares heldin the Employee Benefit found on page 28: All directors at the date of approval ofthisannual Trust EBT for the purposes of satisfying awards completed the acquisition of six companies Y report confirm that: made under the Companys employee share for a total consideration of15.1 million: schemes and accounted foras treasury shares.
so far as the directors are aware, there and Y isno relevant information of which the The Company is authorised, until the next AGM, invested 7.0 million in our first residential Y Companys auditor are unaware: and to make one or more market purchases of its property investment.
ordinary shares, limited to: a maximum number the directors have taken steps that they Y of 21,373,067 ordinary shares: a minimum ought to have taken as directors in order AGM notice price of the nominal value: and a maximum to make themselves aware of any relevant Accompanying this report is the Notice of price of 5% above the average market value audit information and to establish that the theAGM which sets out the resolutions for for the preceding five business days or the Companys auditor is aware of any such the meeting, together with anexplanation higher ofthe price of the last independent information.
trade and highest current independent bid.
The auditor, PwC LLP, has expressed its By order of the Board willingness to continue in office as auditor Substantial shareholdings anda resolution to reappoint PwC will be As at 26 February 2014, the Company proposed atthe forthcoming AGM.
hadbeen notified of the following interest amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights Corporate governance Gareth Williams in the issued share capital of the Company.
The Companys statement on corporate Company secretary governance can be found in the corporate Appointment and removal ofdirectors 27 February 2014 governance report on pages 40 to 43 of this Directors may be appointed by the Company annual report.
Thecorporate governance by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
The report forms part of this directors report and Company may, by special resolution, remove is incorporated into it by cross reference.
any Director before the expiration of his period of office.
