20 STRATEGIC REPORT COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 43,783 properties Segmental review let in 2013 Lettings To let 2013 was a year of continued growth for the Lettings business with key focus on customer service, development of the New Starts programme and supporting the organic growth with targeted, value adding acquisitions.
KPIs Highlights Record income up 15% Total income m Y Record EBITDA up 32% Y 11 2.5 Investment in improving customer service and retention Y New Starts programme delivers positive contribution 15% Y 2013 112.5 28 acquisitions completed, contributing 5.3 million revenue and 1.8 million EBITDA Y 12 13 2012 97.8 Summary Systems development The lettings market remained favourable We continue to develop our integrated EBITDA m and, as there has been limited new supply IT platform to ensure that it meets both current of property, this has led to gradually increasing and future needs, including the expansion 28.
6 rents supported by continued demand of the business.
Development of online services from tenants.
for our clients resulted in the launch of an improved Client Portal which will be developed Over the year the number of potential tenants 32% further during 2014, enabling a far higher registering with us grew to over 384,000 level of client interaction and self-service.
2013 28.6 and this helped us increase the number Mobile applications for our employees to help 12 13 2012 21.6 of properties that we let to 43,783. them are being developed.
Working with other parts of the Group in Branch network a co-ordinated way has delivered referrals Average retail properties of potential clients that helps retain clients Our network provides the first point of contact under management number within the Group as their property needs for customers and landlords.
Lettings agents change over time.
are often incorporated within estate agency 5 2,181 branches, but form a separate, dedicated Supporting growth team.
This ensures that there is a clear focus We recognise that growth places a number on driving the Lettings business.
All employees 23% of challenges on the business and have are comprehensively trained to ensure they 2013 52,181 addressed these to ensure that we can can meet client expectations.
12 13 2012 42,531 continue to deliver future growth.
Support service Employee training and development Provides support to our branch network Average revenue per head We have introduced an industry leading, online, and clients directly through client accounting interactive employee training and development and legal services.
This team ensures that 5 7,964 system that has delivered a significant increase we have the best processes and legal support in the training available to employees across for our business and our clients through the the business.
Supported by a dedicated production of all legal documents such as training team, this structured curriculum, tenancy agreements and through rigorous 2% focused on specific employee roles, ensures tenant referencing.
2013 57,964 that employees have the right skills and 12 13 practical knowledge to meet customer 2012 56,651 expectations.
This investment supports career development plans which are being developed for all employees.
21 STRATEGIC REPORT COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Percentage of Group income 19% - 33% of Groups total EBITDA - 56,397 properties managed on an ongoing basis Focus on: Lettings operational model The division focuses its customer facing teams on servicing customer needs and letting properties support is provided by dedicated teams ofprofessionals.
Our operational model comprises three elements Branch network Support service Property management team This network provides the first point of Provides the customer accounting The property management team which reference for customers and landlords.
and legal services for example, the employs 134 full time equivalent The Groups letting agents are often production of tenancy agreements and employees who deal with ongoing incorporated within estate agency provision of references to the business.
issues including maintenance during branches but form a dedicated, separate the term of a tenancy and the handover team that does not typically cross-over at the start and end of the tenancy.
with the Estate Agency division.
This ensures a focus on driving the Lettings business.
Full time equivalent employees Full time equivalent employees Full time equivalent employees 1,342 2 02 22 7 of potential deals and completed Our New Start programme that delivered Property management team 28 acquisitions across the country, organic growth through the opening of Our property management team provides at a cost of 18.2 million.
Lettings businesses within the Groups support to customers and tenants in relation existing estate agency offices is now to repair and condition issues throughout The majority of deals are small single providing a positive contribution to the the tenancy and the handover at the start branch businesses which are readily business in line with the original plan.
They provide a key incorporated into the business and adopt The programme was delivered in four point of contact for both customers and the trading name of the most appropriate phases and, as expected, some offices tenants and service quality is key to Group business.
We have, however, acquired develop faster than others and we continue customer satisfaction.
a number of more substantial businesses to review the development of each branch.
where retention of the existing trading name The programme currently has 169 offices Acquisitions and New Starts generates more value for the Group such as as some have been combined with acquired We continue to look at expansion through Russells Lettings in Cambridge and Fitz-Gibbon businesses or other branches.
The New Starts acquisitions and seek to find businesses that Lettings in South West London.
During 2013, branches generated income of 16.4 million are complementary to our existing network acquired businesses contributed 5.3 million 2012: 9.4 million and EBITDA of 1.4 million which can be readily integrated to ensure that to income and 1.8 million to EBITDA.
service levels are maintained and potential As businesses are integrated they benefit synergies delivered.
We continue to open selective new offices from the systems, services and scale and, including a new office in Liverpool city We have a dedicated team who ensure economies that we can deliver whilst still centre branded as Entwistle Green, we that our acquisitions are carefully selected, retaining the things their customers value.
opened seven offices in 2013. vetted and integrated along with the relevant Our core business model often means that operational managers within the business.
new revenue streams, for example, insurance During the year we reviewed a large number sales and cross referrals, can be delivered.
