161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt2 161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt2.
qxp 18 07 2013 12:47 Page 12 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report together with the financial statements for the year to 31 March 2013.
Principal Activities of the Group Daejan Holdings PLC is a holding company whose principal activity, carried on through its subsidiary undertakings, is property investment.
In addition, where suitable opportunities are identified within the Groups investment portfolio, some development is also undertaken.
The majority of the Groups property portfolio comprises commercial, industrial and residential premises throughout the UK, but the Group also has a significant portfolio of commercial and residential properties on the eastern seaboard of the USA.
The Groups business model is generally to hold its investment property for the long term to generate rental income and capital appreciation, funded wherever possible by retained earnings and long term finance.
However, each of the Groups investment properties are considered to be potentially for sale in the right circumstances.
Investment Property A professional valuation of all the Groups properties was carried out at 31 March 2013.
The resultant figures are included in the financial statements now presented and the net increase of 82.7 million 2012 15.7 million over previous book values has been included in the income statement.
The Groups UK properties were valued by Colliers International, Chartered Surveyors and produced a revaluation surplus of 54.4 million 2012 2.5 million deficit.
The Groups USA properties were valued by Joseph J. Blake and Associates, Inc. and Metropolitan Valuation Services, Inc. both of which are Certified General Real Estate Appraisers.
The revaluation surplus arising on the USA properties was 28.3 million 2012 18.2 million.
Business Review The Groups business review is included in the Chairmans Statement set out on pages 2 to 11 and is included in this report by reference.
Results and Dividend The profit for the year amounted to 89.8 million 2012 33.0 million, as restated.
An interim dividend of 25p per share was paid on 8 March 2013 and the Directors now recommend the payment of a final dividend of 54p per share, making a total for the year of 79p per share 2012 76p per share.
Financial Objectives and Policies and Exposure to Financial Risk The Group operates a cautious financial policy within clear authorities on a non-speculative and long term basis in order to enable the Group to carry on its business in confidence and with strength.
The Group aims to ensure that the cost of capital is kept to a minimum through the maintenance of its many long standing relationships with leading banks and other financial institutions.
The Group seeks to minimise the risk of sudden and unexpected rises in finance costs by way of fixed rate debt and financial derivative instruments whilst retaining some flexibility in relation to short term interest rates.
There is no obligation or present intention to repay the Groups borrowings other than at maturity.
Payment Policy It is the Groups policy to settle the terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each contract or transaction, to ensure that those suppliers are aware of those terms and to abide by Page 12
