161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt2 161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt2.
qxp 18 07 2013 12:47 Page 13 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 the agreed terms of payment, providing that it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Group does not, however, follow any formal code or statement on payment practice.
Directors The Directors who served throughout the year, and who are still in office, are: Mr B S E Freshwater Mr D Davis Mr S I Freshwater Mr R E Freshwater Mr A M Freshwater USA Brief biographies of the Directors are as follows: Mr B S E Freshwater.
Aged 65 Joined the Board in December 1971 with primary responsibility for the Groups finances.
In July 1976 he was appointed Managing Director and, additionally, became Chairman in July 1980.
Aged 78 Previously a partner in Cohen Arnold, the Groups consulting accountants.
He relinquished his partnership in 1971 in order to devote more time to his numerous business and other interests.
He has been a non-executive Director of the Company since December 1971.
Aged 62 Directs the Groups operations in the USA and also has responsibility for the Groups UK sales division.
He has been a Director of the Company since January 1986.
Mr R E Freshwater Aged 43 He is currently pursuing an academic career and lectures to graduate students.
He is an actual and a potential beneficiary of trusts and a trustee of certain other trusts with substantial holdings of the Companys equity.
He was appointed to the board in 2010.
Mr A M Freshwater Aged 42 He is resident in the UK and sits as an Arbitrator in complex commercial disputes.
He is a potential beneficiary of trusts and a trustee of certain other trusts with substantial holdings of the Companys equity.
The rules governing the election and re-election of Directors are set out in the Corporate Governance section on page 18.
The powers of Directors of the Company are as set out in the Companys articles of association.
Directors Interests in Transactions Day-to-day management of the Groups properties in the United Kingdom is mainly carried out by Highdorn Co. Limited and by Freshwater Property Management Limited.
Mr B S E Freshwater and Mr S I Freshwater are Directors of both companies.
They have no beneficial interest in the share capital of Highdorn Co. Limited.
Mr B S E Freshwater, Mr S I Freshwater and Mr D Davis are also Directors of the parent company of Freshwater Property Management Limited but have no beneficial interest in either company.
Mr R E Freshwater has a beneficial interest in a trust holding interests in shares in Highdorn Co. Limited.
Details of the amounts paid for the provision of these services are set out in Note 18 to the financial statements.
