REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for agreeing The full report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 57 severance arrangements or other compensation for loss of of ce to 78.
In summary, the Remuneration Committee met on five occasions or early retirement for the Chairman, Executive Directors and senior during the financial year.
Attendance at each of these meetings is set out management and for appointing consultants to advise on executive in Table 5.
The full terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee are remuneration.
Details of the consultants utilised during the 2012 13 available from the Companys website www.
financial year can be found on page 67 of the Remuneration Report.
Committee membership GOING CONCERN Richard Akers took over as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the financial from Bob Davies on 14 November 2012 and Nina Bibby joined as a statements, the Directors are required to consider whether the Group member on 3 December 2012.
All members of the Remuneration can continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Committee, as set out in Table 5, are considered by the Company to be independent in accordance with Code provision D. 2.1.
The Groups business activities, together with factors which the Directors consider are likely to affect its future development, financial Table 5 Membership and attendance at Remuneration performance and financial position are set out in the Group Chief Committee meetings Executives Review on pages 8 to 13, the Group Finance Directors Review on pages 30 to 33 and the Business Review on pages 18 Remuneration Committee to 29.
The material financial and operational risks and uncertainties Chairman: that may have an impact upon the Groups performance and their Richard Akers mitigation are outlined on pages 34 to 39 and financial risks including Bob Lawson 5 5 liquidity risk, market risk, credit risk and capital risk are outlined in note Bob Davies 3 3 26 to the financial statements.
Richard Akers 5 5 Tessa Bamford 5 5 The financial performance of the Group is dependent upon the wider Nina Bibby 2 2 economic environment in which the Group operates.
As explained in the Rod MacEachrane 5 5 Managing Risk section on pages 34 to 39, factors that particularly affect Mark Rolfe 5 5 the performance of the Group include changes in the macroeconomic Richard Akers took over as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 14 November environment including buyer con dence, availability of mortgage finance 2012 when Bob Davies stepped down from his positions of Non-Executive Director, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
for the Groups customers and interest rates.
Nina Bibby joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 3 December 2012 and became a member of the Remuneration Committee as at that date.
On 14 May 2013, the Group agreed a comprehensive re nancing Note: package.
This provides the Group with around 850m of committed 1 5 Number of meetings attended whilst a Director: 5 Number of meetings held whilst a Director.
facilities and private placement notes to June 2016 and 650m to May 2018.
The committed facilities and private placement notes now Activities undertaken in respect of the 2012 13 financial year in place provide appropriate headroom above our current forecast The Remuneration Committee undertook the following activities in requirements.
In addition, in order to enable it to take advantage of respect of the 2012 13 financial year: current opportunities in the land market, the Group has agreed terms determined and reviewed the overall remuneration policy of the Group upon an additional 50m two year term loan, which we expect to be with regard to attracting, retaining and motivating directors and senior available from 1 October 2013. managers of the experience and calibre required by the Group having regard to remuneration paid to employees across the Group and an In addition to the new borrowing facilities agreed in May 2013, the external comparable group of companies together with the Groups Group has secured 30m of nancing from the Governments Get severance arrangements for directors and senior management: Britain Building and Growing Places Fund schemes during the year.
agreed targets and bene ts in respect of performance related pay These funds are repayable between 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2018. schemes, including long-term performance plans, for all participating employees which are: suf ciently challenging: fair and highly motivating: Accordingly, after making enquiries and having considered forecasts commensurate with sector practice: and consistent with maximising and appropriate sensitivities, the Directors have formed a judgement, shareholder value and the interests and expectations of shareholders: at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a determined the total remuneration package of the Group Chief reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to Executive and after consultation with him, the total individual continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being remuneration package of each Executive Director and senior at least 12 months from the date of these financial statements.
For this management including bonuses, incentive payments and share reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing options awards and pension arrangements: the consolidated financial statements.
undertook consultations with institutional investors on remuneration policy and other aspects of senior remuneration, as appropriate: and POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS considered the conclusions of the Department for Business, Innovation Details of the post balance sheet events can be found on page 144 and Skills review on Executive Directors remuneration and the new of this Annual Report and Accounts.
On behalf of the Board Tom Keevil GROUP GENERAL COUNSEL AND COMPANY SECRETARY 56 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
