REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW The Government remains committed to We are currently active on a number of public Land bank accelerating the disposal of public land as part and private sector partnership sites where of its housing strategy.
We have a strong track we are working closely with the Homes and record of securing public land and we are Communities Agency HCA, local authorities 2,127.0m pleased to have been appointed to all four and housing associations.
We are working 2012: 2,077.3m of the retendered Homes and Communities with the HCA to redevelop former collieries into Agency Delivery Partner Panels as well as to the popular new communities at Elba Park near Land purchases approved Greater London Authority London Development Sunderland and Heritage Park, Silverdale.
In the year, we have had offers accepted Bluebell, Nuneaton is replacing an old council on public land equating to 4,320 plots with a estate with 800 new homes in partnership 1, 047.
3m total gross development value of 1,023m.
with Nuneaton and Bedworth Council.
At 2012: 578.1m Derwenthorpe on the outskirts of York we At 30 June 2013 we have detailed planning are building an outstanding new sustainable Detailed planning consent consent for 95% of our expected FY14 community of around 540 homes along garden for expected FY14 completions completions and outline consent on a further 3%.
village principles in partnership with the Joseph Rowntree Housing Trust.
Working in partnership 95% We recognise that, whether acting as sole CUSTOMERS developer, JV partner, client or contractor, Customers are at the heart of our business.
partnerships are vital to our success.
We We understand that our customers want operate in many areas of the market, from support when making their purchase, and complex regeneration to advanced we are committed to offering the highest We remain focused environmental housing projects.
In doing so, standards of quality and customer service, we create a legacy that goes well beyond the as well as good value, well-designed homes.
on ensuring we homes and commercial properties we build.
have the land supply Our Customer Care Charter We continue to work with Government Our Customer Care Charter, which is available necessary to support agencies and private landowners to identify on our website, ensures we remain focused on business growth and and bring forward land for development, our customers throughout their journey with us.
often improving its environmental condition We are committed to continuing to improve the delivering it in a in the process.
We work with our suppliers customer experience, both on-site and online, way that maximises to help them to introduce the new technologies and we regularly obtain feedback from all our that we need to meet increasingly challenging customers at key points in the sale process.
building standards, and with our subcontractors to help them to improve their environmental Our new product range and safety performance.
We have carefully considered customer preferences in the development of the Barratt proportion of the land bank: however, this We engage with local communities and local and David Wilson product ranges.
Both brands is dependent upon the timing of planning authorities in order to seek to address any were updated in 2010 11 with internal layouts consents and land contracts.
impact that our developments may have designed with modern living in mind, providing on the environment, and we respond to freeowing living areas and natural light.
The new At 30 June 2013, our land bank had a carrying community aspirations by creating new jobs, designs have been well received by customers value of 2,127.0m 2012: 2,077.3m with an training people and supporting local initiatives.
and we continue to roll out both new ranges.
average housebuilding cost per plot of 45,000 By holding public exhibitions, we invite 2012: 45,000.
The average selling price of the stakeholders to talk to our specialist planners Customer feedback indicates that Barratt homes plots within our owned land bank is currently and architects about their concerns and offer customers value for money and offer expected to be c. 197,000 giving an average aspirations for our developments.
We believe customers high quality practical living space.
plot cost to average selling price ratio of 23% that a genuinely collaborative approach will The room proportions have been designed 2012: 24%.
deliver more land and housing.
to ensure that they are large enough to accommodate our typical customers furniture Planning We have always been concerned with housing requirements, whilst ensuring our external We have started to see a positive effect of the affordability issues and have worked closely designs are aesthetically pleasing.
Due to new planning regime, particularly the need for with financial institutions and Government smart, ergonomic design a Barratt customer local authorities to demonstrate a five year land for a number of years to improve access to can expect a wide range of features, creating supply.
Combined with our focus on improving mortgage funding for customers.
As a result great value for money.
design and engagement with the communities we are currently working with a number in which we work, this has improved the level of partners to help people gain access to Following customer feedback, our David Wilson of dialogue with the local authorities.
family homes have been designed with more 24 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 1 School children at The Gateway, Pickering.
2 The Gateway, Pickering a development of 96 high quality 2, 3, 4 and 5 bedroom homes.
generous dimensions that deliver an overall sense of space.
The designs include features such as higher speci cation kitchens, en-suite bathrooms with larger baths and the use of multiple roof lights in bedrooms.
Communicating with our customers Our sales and marketing team has continued to promote our brands throughout the year using focused marketing campaigns.
This included the use of the internet, radio and direct mail.
2 We recognise that the online market continues to change at a rapid pace.
During the last year we have further enhanced the design and content of our websites, including those compatible with smartphones and tablets, to ensure a customers first enquiry delivers all of the information they 1 require.
We have also continued to enhance our online user experience and quality of content through greater use of e-brochures, video, CASE STUDY 360 degree tours and imagery of planned developments and house types, in addition to helpful information about the local area.
We continue to invest in the technological Community engagement capabilities of our on-site sales centres, ensuring our sales advisers have the most The Gateway development is in the beautiful and popular market town of Pickering, up-to-date information immediately available North Yorkshire.
It is situated on the very northern edge of the settlement where landscape to deliver a customer experience that is sensitivities exist with the area adjoining the North Yorkshire Moors National Park, famous informative and hassle-free.
for its bleak, romantic landscape and forever associated with the hit TV series Heartbeat.
We continue to offer our customers support The land was secured under option as part of the strategic portfolio and with the through targeted incentives and discounts vast majority of development in Pickering likely to be concentrated to the south of as well as tools such as part-exchange.
the settlement, it was clear that to win hearts and minds, public consultation should be at the core of the project from the outset.
Consequently, exhibitions adopting a blank Assisting with mortgage products canvas approach were held providing locals with the opportunity to graphically present We recognise the importance of helping our their ideas to the team.
Schools were also seen as integral to this process recognising customers nd suitable financial products to that the proposed community park would extensively be used by the younger population.
The Groups Head Special assemblies were hosted to educate not only the children on the plans, but also of Mortgage Lender Relations works closely to broaden our views and those of the Planners and Councillors in terms of activities with the banks that provide mortgages to our that the children wished to see within this new public realm.
All of this work preceded customers to ensure that there is an appropriate the submission of the planning application such that once the formal process was range of products available.
We also participate underway, many supporters had been identi ed and in turn they recognised the lengths as fully as we can in Government schemes, to which the team had gone to ensure that the proposals had been listened to and such as Help to Buy, FirstBuy and NewBuy.
provided within the scheme wherever possible.
Following the granting of full planning consent, the liaison with local groups continued through the construction phase building upon relationships already established and We have started consequently the entire process was recognised in the Housebuilder Awards 2012 where the Yorkshire East Division picked up The Best Community Initiative Award.
to see a positive The scheme itself incorporates 96 high quality 2, 3, 4 and 5 bedroom houses from effect from the new terraced to detached properties including an element of affordable housing, all of which stands immediately adjacent to the new Community Park for the residents of Pickering planning regime to enjoy.
The overall success of the scheme soon became apparent with sales on the and an improved site exceeding the most optimistic of expectations.
level of dialogue with local authorities.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25
