REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW All our divisions and the mortgage brokers we recommend have implemented our Group-wide We are committed to processes for dealing with lenders and surveyors.
offering good value, These ensure that we provide them with transparency in relation to our products and the well-designed homes.
financial arrangements between the Group and Over 90% of our our customers.
These standards exceed the industry requirements as speci ed by the Council customers questioned of Mortgage Lenders and the processes are would Recommend subject to regular internal audit.
Customer satisfaction Our high quality homes have been accredited independently for the fourth year running with 5 Star builder status in the Home Builders Federation HBF National House-Building Council NHBC annual customer satisfaction survey.
This shows that over 90% of our customers questioned were satis ed with the quality of their new home and would Recommend us to a Friend.
Customer satisfaction with the quality of their new home is extremely important to us.
We have therefore recently implemented a requirement that every new home we build is inspected prior to completion by a divisional director to ensure that our high standards of quality are met.
In order to drive performance and to enable us to improve customer satisfaction, we have invested in bespoke survey questions and increased management reporting which we are using throughout our business.
Five year warranty We are the only volume housebuilder to offer a five year warranty which covers xtures and ttings and is additional to the ten year NHBC warranty on the fabric of the building.
This provides a real point of difference compared to our competitors and gives our customers increased con dence in our product.
INVESTING FOR THE FUTURE The nature of our industry continues to change and we are investing to equip our organisation to meet these challenges.
It is the skills of our people that will underpin the capability of the Group to adapt to the future.
People One of our key strengths is our people and we continue to invest in them and develop their expertise.
During the year ended 30 June 2013, we employed an average of 4,781 people 2012: 4,451 people.
We value the experience of our employees and 4% of our workforce has over 20 years service.
Despite high competition amongst employers in some regions, employee 26 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CASE STUDY turnover has only slightly increased to 13% 2012: 12%.
We are committed to providing equal opportunities for all.
At 30 June 2013, 22% 2012: 9% of the Board, 11% 2012: 11% of our senior managers and 33% 2012: 34% Digital on the move of our employees were female.
In the past year we have seen a large increase in customers accessing our online marketing We offer both vocational and leadership content from their mobile devices, such as mobile phones and tablets.
As a result, we have training programmes, as well as in-house increased our investment in mobile marketing to meet this growing demand.
By making use schemes promoting employee development, of this marketing channel, customers are now able to nd the information they need quickly engagement and recognition.
and easily using their mobile phone.
This in turn has increased the number of enquiries from potential customers and therefore ultimately helped to increase sales.
The Barratt Academy continues to provide structured, bespoke training to support individual We have partnered closely with a specialist mobile consultancy to create an easy-to-use development across three separate disciplines: mobile experience that utilises geo-location based services.
This allows customers to apprentices, site managers and technical search for new homes by manually typing in the name of a desired location, or, customers commercial roles.
Combining professional can carry out an automatic search based on where they are located at the time, using their training on-site and in the classroom with phones in-built technology.
industry recognised quali cations, our courses aim to develop craft and trade specialists, highly The mobile experience provides a range of rich content that is also offered on the main competent site managers and employees with website, but the content is adapted to suit a smaller screen and the different mind-set in-depth technical and commercial expertise.
of a customer when viewing content on their mobile phone.
Our research has shown that our customers do not want to spend time viewing detailed property content on their mobile During the year, we have also invested in a device: rather, they want to carry out speci c tasks such as nding a development near structured training programme for all 1,000 a location, or seeing the latest prices or information on moving schemes.
of our sales advisers and sales managers.
New sales staff will be trained through our We have also seen a dramatic rise in tablet usage and have delivered an experience tailored Barratt Academy programme.
to the size of a tablet screen customers using smaller tablets will see the mobile site which is designed for a smaller screen, whereas customers using larger tablets will see the main We are also undertaking a number of initiatives desktop website and be able to use all of the advanced features and content which have which seek to rebuild the skills base of the been designed with larger tablets in mind, allowing customers to browse the site using touch industry.
Over the next three years we intend screen features such as swipe to scroll, and pinch to zoom.
to recruit around 150 graduates, 30 paid interns, around 400 apprentices, and support Furthermore, we ensure that all of our emails to customers are optimised for viewing on 100 people through a unique Housebuilding mobile phones, as research shows that 70% of consumers delete emails immediately that Foundation Degree Programme delivered in dont t well on the screen of their mobile device and 18% unsubscribe.
We continually partnership with Shef eld Hallam University.
monitor the effectiveness of our email marketing so that we can update email templates to provide the best experience for our customers.
Our apprenticeship scheme comprises both trade and technical apprenticeships.
Our online search campaigns have been adapted to t mobile devices through speci c Apprenticeships last for a minimum of two advertising copy and bid strategies based on users within the vicinity of developments.
years and at 30 June 2013 the Group had This has helped to create ef ciency and reduce the costs per click.
We were delighted that optimisation activity focuses on content production, localised search queries and of course our apprenticeship scheme came second mobile so users who are situated in close proximity to a Barratt DWH development are in the Best Apprentice Programme at the now much more likely to be served a Barratt DWH search result.
This is generating an National Graduate Recruitment Awards increasing volume of traf c to our mobile marketing content.
and that we were recognised in the Top 100 Apprenticeships Employers list compiled We have also spent the last twelve months investing in our point of sale technology solution, by the National Apprenticeship Service ensuring that we are able to meet our ever increasing customer demands.
To ensure that in partnership with City & Guilds.
customer enquiries are fed through to our sales advisers on-site as soon as possible we have invested in new back of ce servers.
We have a graduate development programme which aims to recruit high potential talent into Across the majority of our developments we have installed new all-in-one PCs with built in the business.
The programme lasts for two touch screen 23 monitors, wireless colour printers and 3G routers.
Our sales advisers now years and graduates are given the opportunity have an improved technological solution to deliver an outstanding customer experience to spend time in each of our operational demanded of a 5 Star builder.
departments, whilst attending business and personal development courses.
Alongside the formal training programme, graduates are also BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW encouraged to undertake voluntary projects The expertise of our construction teams We continue to strive in their local community as part of their project has again been recognised externally, with to improve the design management module.
Our graduate a record-breaking 102 2012: 76 of our site development programme has won a number managers winning Pride in the Job awards of both our homes and of awards.
We were first in the Construction from the NHBC.
This is the highest number our developments and Property category in Job Crowds Top ever won by a housebuilder since the 100 Companies for Graduates to Work For, competition began in 1980 and is more than to deliver high quality and ninth overall.
We were also delighted to any other housebuilder for an unprecedented sustainable places win the Best Training Scheme at the Women ninth consecutive year.
in Construction Awards and to be third in the to live.
Graduate Employer of the Year Award at Our target is to have a fully certi ed Construction the National Graduate Recruitment Awards.
Skills Certi cation Scheme CSCS operational workforce, including subcontractors.
At March In addition, we offer specialist skills training 2013, 96% 2012: 97% of our workforce, in core areas, such as health and safety, including subcontractors, was fully CSCS construction and design and also offer certi ed, with the slight decrease re ecting the a suite of internally designed and delivered industrys focus on ensuring that all construction management and leadership training courses.
workers hold the appropriate card.
These are designed to help employees to develop the skills required to progress from Planet middle management through to senior We are committed to our sustainability We are committed to improving the carbon management and other leadership roles.
policy and we continue to strive to improve performance of our homes and have been the design of both our homes and our working with a number of partners to achieve We remain focused on employee engagement developments to deliver high quality this and on industry leading research projects and during the year our sixth annual engagement sustainable places to live.
such as the AIMC4 Fabric First project.
These voluntary surveys preferred approach is to improve the energy allow us to develop engagement plans Through our strict design requirements, ef ciency of our homes through fabric throughout the business aimed at further we ensure that all of our developments meet improvements and during the year 32% improving our relationship with our employees.
a benchmark standard, creating exemplary 2012: 26% of our homes had enhanced schemes which include open spaces and energy ef ciency due to fabric improvements.
We continue to recognise outstanding communal areas.
During the current financial We also integrated renewables into 28% individual and team performance of our year within our developments, 556 hectares 2012: 30% of our developments.
employees through quarterly and annual of open space was created, 739 hectares divisional awards and annual national awards.
of wildlife space was created or retained In progressing the zero carbon challenge In addition, we operate an instant recognition and 310,923 trees or shrubs were planted as well as designing homes to meet the scheme, which during the current year has or retained.
applicable building regulations, we also build awarded 400 prizes.
homes to meet the requirements of the Code for Sustainable Homes CfSH and various other design standards.
In Scotland, the CfSH is not applicable and instead we comply with their equivalent which is a sustainability rating of bronze, silver and gold.
Designing to the CfSH standards enables us to deliver sustainable homes that are tailored to a speci c location as this standard takes into account both the energy and water ef ciency of the home and the sustainability of the development.
During the year we completed 4,227 homes 2012: 3,820 homes that met the CfSH level 3 or above and 849 homes 2012: 1,150 homes that met the previous EcoHomes Standard.
We are committed to leading on large scale sustainable housing projects as we believe that the experience and skills we develop from these provide us with the knowledge and Paul Ebbs being presented with the Project Management award at the Duke of Gloucesters Young Achiever experience we need to deliver future schemes of the Year 2013 by HRH The Duke of Gloucester: Mike Bialjy, CITB and Christine Townley, Construction to higher sustainability performance standards.
28 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 INJURY INCIDENCE RATE PER 100,000 PERSONS EMPLOYED 2009 571 2010 582 2011 539 2012 511 2013 329 The Barratt Graduate Programme won the Best Training Scheme category at the Women in Construction Awards in February 2013.
For example, during the year we completed June 2013.
Our gross GHG footprint for this We also measure health and safety 42 units on our Hanham Hall development year was 36,196 tonnes CO.
This is based performance by monitoring our reportable 2e in Bristol and 32 on our Derwenthorpe on the energy used in our of ces electricity Injury Incidence Rate IIR.
During the financial development in York.
We have commenced and gas, on our active developments year ended 30 June 2013, our IIR reduced by work on our Scotswood development in electricity, gas, diesel and LPG and for 36% to 329 2012: 511 per 100,000 persons Newcastle upon Tyne where we are working in business travel leased cars and vans, rail employed.
We are committed to seeking to partnership to deliver a large scale sustainable and ights.
Our Scope 1 carbon emissions reduce the IIR year-on-year and we are working development which is expected to produce from gas, LPG and diesel were 16,287 tonnes with our suppliers, partners and local 1,800 new homes to CfSH level 4.
CO, Scope 2 carbon emissions from communities to minimise the risk of injury.
2e electricity were at 13,035 tonnes CO and 2e We acknowledge that the nature of our business our Scope 3 carbon emissions were 6,874 In the 2013 NHBC Health and Safety Awards, impacts on the local environment and we tonnes CO.
This equates to 2.77 tonnes Jason White, a site manager at Great West 2e continue to strive to reduce this impact, both of GHG emissions per 1,000 square foot Quarter in Brentford, won the National Award during and post-construction, by undertaking of legally completed oor area.
In 2013, in the Multi-Storey category.
In addition, signi cant brown eld development, by delivering we excluded fugitive emissions associated we won one Regional Award and had ten high quality regeneration projects and by with air conditioning refrigerant losses in our commended sites.
monitoring our waste and energy usage.
In the of ces due to the unavailability of this data.
current year, we built 66% 2012: 65% of our homes on brown eld land.
In addition, all divisions We were delighted to win several major awards within the Group continue to operate an during the current year re ecting our commitment environmental management system certi ed to to sustainability.
At the Housebuilder Awards ISO14001 which is subject to regular monitoring we were named Sustainable Housebuilder of and audit.
In each of our divisional of ces, we the Year and at the What House awards were have Green Teams to devise and implement named Sustainable Developer of the Year.
schemes to reduce energy usage at a local level.
Health and safety We are focused on waste management and The health and safety of our employees, seek to eliminate, minimise or recycle waste our customers and the public remains a top from our developments.
During the year, we priority.
Our Safety, Health and Environmental reduced our construction waste per legal management system SHE is subject to completion to 6.25 tonnes 2012: 6.47 tonnes.
continuous review and improvement and We also segregated 95% 2012: 96% conforms to health and safety standards of construction waste for recycling on-site.
All of our trading divisions adhere to the SHE guidelines and During the year, we have adapted our ongoing compliance is veri ed by a programme greenhouse gas GHG monitoring and of internal and external audits.
During the year, we reporting in line with the Governments recently carried out 5,437 monitoring visits and achieved published Environmental Reporting Guidelines an average compliance rate of 97% 2012: 96%.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 29
