105710 CPropTxt PRINT 105710 CPropTxt V17 11 04 2014 15:06 Page 7 Business Model and Strategy The Company carries on business as a closedproperties with less than 60 years remaining may ended property investment company.
Its shares are not exceed 10 per cent of total assets at the time of traded on the Main Market of the London Stock acquisition.
The Company is permitted to invest up to 15 per cent, at the time of acquisition, of its total assets in Board indirect property funds including listed property companies which invest principally in UK property, The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall but these investments may not exceed 20 per cent stewardship of the Company, including investment of total assets at any subsequent date.
The and dividend policies, corporate strategy, gearing, Company is permitted to invest cash, held by it for corporate governance procedures and risk management.
Biographical details of the Directors, working capital purposes and awaiting investment, in cash deposits, gilts and money market funds.
all of whom are non-executive, can be found on page 18.
The Company has no executive Directors The Company uses gearing throughout the Group or employees.
to enhance returns over the long term.
Gearing, The Board has contractually delegated the represented by borrowings as a percentage of total management of the investment portfolio and other assets, may not exceed 50 per cent.
However, the Boards present intention is that borrowings of the services to the Managers.
A summary of the terms of the management agreement is contained in note Group will be limited to a maximum of 35 per cent 2a to the accounts.
of total assets at the time of borrowing.
Investment Strategy Investment of Assets The Companys investment strategy is set out in its At each quarterly Board meeting, the Board receives objective and investment policy below.
a detailed presentation from the Managers which includes a review of investment performance, recent Objective portfolio activity and a market outlook.
It also The Companys investment objective is to provide considers compliance with the investment policy and ordinary shareholders with an attractive level of other investment restrictions during the reporting income together with the potential for capital and period.
An analysis of how the portfolio was invested income growth from investing in a diversified UK as at 31 December 2013 is contained within the commercial property portfolio.
Managers Review on pages 10 to 16 and a portfolio listing is provided on page 17.
Investment Policy The Companys policy is to hold a diversified The Groups borrowings are described in notes 13 portfolio of freehold and predominantly long and 14 to the accounts.
leasehold over 60 years remaining at the time of acquisition UK commercial properties.
It invests Environmental Policy principally in three commercial property sectors: The Property Managers acquire, develop and office, retail and industrial.
manage properties on behalf of the Company.
It is The Company invests in properties which the Board, recognised that these activities have both direct and on the advice of the Managers, believes will indirect environmental impacts.
The Board has generate a combination of long-term growth in endorsed the Property Managers own capital and income for shareholders.
Investment environmental policy, which is to work in partnership decisions are based on an analysis of, amongst with contractors, tenants and consultants to other things, prospects for future capital and income minimise those impacts, seeking continuous growth, sector and geographic prospects, tenant improvements in environmental performance and covenant strength, lease length, and initial and conducting regular reviews.
Investment risks are spread by investing across Shareholder Value different geographical areas and sectors and by The Board and Managers recognise the importance letting properties to low risk tenants.
The Company has not set any maximum geographic exposures, of both marketing and share buy-backs in but the maximum weightings in the principal increasing demand for the Companys shares.
In terms of marketing, the Managers offer a range of property sectors at any time stated as a percentage of total assets are: office: 50 per cent: retail: 65 per private investor savings schemes, details of which cent: and industrial: 40 per cent.
No single property can be found on page 59.
In addition, meetings are held regularly with current and prospective may exceed 15 per cent of total assets and the five largest properties excluding indirect property funds shareholders and stockbroking analysts covering the may not exceed 40 per cent of total assets in each investment company sector.
Share buy-backs can case at the time of acquisition.
Short leasehold help reduce the volatility of any discount of the Annual Report and Accounts 2013 7 105710 CPropTxt PRINT 105710 CPropTxt V17 11 04 2014 15:06 Page 8 Business Model and Strategy continued share price to the net asset value per share and The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these enhance the net asset value per share for risks through continual review, policy-setting and continuing shareholders.
Communication of quarterly enforcement of contractual obligations.
It also regularly monitors the investment environment and portfolio information is made through the Companys website.
the management of the Companys property portfolio.
The Managers seek to mitigate these risks through active asset management initiatives and Principal Risks and Risk Management carrying out due diligence work on potential tenants As stated within the Report of the Audit Committee before entering into any new lease agreements.
All on page 25, the Board applies the principles detailed of the properties in the portfolio are insured.
in the internal control guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council, and has established an Key Performance Indicators ongoing process designed to meet the particular needs of the Company in managing the risks and The Board uses a number of performance measures to assess the Companys success in meeting its uncertainties to which it is exposed.
The key performance indicators are as The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the follows: Company are described below and in note 18 which provides detailed explanations of the risks associated Net asset value total return and total return of with the Companys financial instruments.
the property portfolio compared with relevant Investment Property Databank indices: Market the Companys assets comprise principally direct investments in UK commercial Premium discount of share price to net asset property and it is therefore exposed to value: movements and changes in that market.
Dividends per share and dividend yield: and Investment and strategic poor investment Ongoing charges as a ratio of net assets.
processes and incorrect strategy, including sector and geographic allocations and use of gearing, The Companys performance against the key could lead to poor returns for shareholders.
performance indicators for the year under review is reported within the Chairmans Statement on pages Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could lead 4 to 6, the Managers Review on pages 10 to 16 to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange and the Performance Summary on page 3.
A listing, financial penalties or a qualied audit historic record of these indicators is contained in the report.
Highlights on page 2 and in the Historic Record on Management and control changes that cause page 58. the management and control of the Company to be exercised in the United Kingdom could lead to the Company becoming liable to United Kingdom taxation on income and capital gains.
Operational failure of the Managers accounting systems or disruption to its business, or that of other third party service providers, could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring, leading to a loss of shareholders confidence.
Financial inadequate controls by the Managers or other third party service providers could lead to misappropriation of assets.
Inappropriate accounting policies or failure to comply with accounting standards could lead to a qualied audit report, misreporting or breaches of regulations.
Breaching Guernsey solvency test requirements or loan covenants could lead to a loss of shareholders confidence and financial loss for shareholders see notes 13 and 14 for details of the principal loan covenants.
