105710 CPropTxt PRINT 105710 CPropTxt V17 11 04 2014 15:07 Page 19 Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and accounts of a new Director.
Trust Associates Limited has no the Group for the year ended 31 December 2013. other connection with the Company.
As explained in the Chairmans Statement, Mrs Trudi Clark was Results and Dividends appointed as an independent non-executive Director on 4 February 2014.
Mrs Clark is a Chartered The results for the year are set out in the attached Accountant and a former Chief Executive Officer of accounts.
She is a non-executive The Group paid interim dividends during the year director of a number of Guernsey based funds and ended 31 December 2013 as follows: companies and brings accounting, property and Payment Rate per banking experience to the Board.
In accordance date share with the Companys Articles of Incorporation Mrs Clark will retire at the Annual General Meeting, being Ninth interim for prior year 31 January 2013 0.5p the first such meeting following her appointment.
Tenth interim for prior year 28 February 2013 0.5p Being eligible, she will offer herself for re-election.
Eleventh interim for prior year 28 March 2013 0.5p As explained in more detail under Corporate Twelfth interim for prior year 26 April 2013 0.5p Governance on pages 22 to 23, the Board has First interim 31 May 2013 0.5p agreed that all Directors will retire annually.
Second interim 28 June 2013 0.5p Accordingly, Mr M R Moore, Mr B W Sweetland, Third interim 31 July 2013 0.5p Mr P Niven, Mr N J M Tostevin and Mr C Russell Fourth interim 30 August 2013 0.5p will also retire at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Fifth interim 27 September 2013 0.5p Sixth interim 31 October 2013 0.5p The Directors believe that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills, experience, Seventh interim 29 November 2013 0.5p independence and knowledge of the Company to Eighth interim 27 December 2013 0.5p enable it to provide effective strategic leadership and proper guidance of the Company.
The Board It is the policy of the Directors to declare and pay confirms that, following the evaluation process set dividends as interim dividends.
The Directors do not out in the Corporate Governance Statement on therefore recommend a final dividend.
Two further pages 22 and 23, the performance of each of these interim dividends, each of 0.5p per share, were paid Directors continues to be effective and on 31 January and 28 February 2014 and a third demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Board was paid on 28 March 2014.
The twelfth, and last, therefore believes that it is in the interests of interim dividend in respect of the year, of 0.5p per shareholders that these Directors are re-elected.
share, will be paid on 30 April 2014 to shareholders There are no service contracts in existence between on the register on 11 April 2014.
It is the intention of the Company and any Directors but each of the the Directors that the Company will continue to pay Directors has been issued with, and accepted, the dividends monthly.
terms of a letter of appointment that sets out the Principal Activity and Status main terms of his or her appointment.
Amongst other things, the letter includes confirmation that the The Company is a  company Directors have a sufficient understanding of the registered number 50402 and, during the year, Company and the sector in which it operates, and carried on business as a closed-ended property sufficient time available to discharge their duties investment company.
The Companys shares are effectively taking into account their other traded on the Main Market of the London Stock commitments.
These letters are available for Exchange.
inspection upon request at the Companys The principal activities of the Companys subsidiaries registered office.
are included in note 1b to the accounts.
Management Directors The Managers provide investment management and Biographical details of the Directors, all of whom are other services to the Company.
Details of the non-executive, can be found on page 18.
Mr J G arrangements between the Company and the Hooley retired as a Director on 31 December 2013.
Managers in respect of management services are There were no other changes to the composition of provided in note 2a to the accounts.
the Board during the year.
During the year, the Company employed the The Board keeps the appropriateness of the services of an external search consultant, Trust Managers appointments under review.
In doing so Associates Limited, to assist with the recruitment of the Board reviews performance quarterly and Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19 105710 CPropTxt PRINT 105710 CPropTxt V17 11 04 2014 15:07 Page 20 Report of the Directors continued considers the past investment performance of the Directors Authority to Allot Shares Company and the capability and resources of the The Company issued 14,000,000 Ordinary Shares Managers to deliver satisfactory investment during the year.
The aggregate net proceeds were performance in the future.
It also reviews the length 14.1 million.
of the notice period of the investment management Resolution 12 seeks an authority from shareholders agreement and the fees payable to the Managers, to allow the Directors to allot shares up to an together with the standard of the other services aggregate nominal amount of 758,715, being provided.
equivalent to approximately 10 per cent of the The Directors are satisfied with the Managers ability issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at to deliver satisfactory investment performance and 11 April 2014. the quality of other services provided.
It is therefore Resolution 13 seeks an authority from shareholders their opinion that the continuing appointment of the to disapply pre-emption rights in relation to the issue Managers on the terms agreed is in the interests of of shares as set out in the Listing Rules made by shareholders as a whole.
the Financial Conduct Authority under Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as Substantial Interests in Share Capital amended.
Resolution 13 gives the Directors, for the As at 31 December 2013 the Company had period until the conclusion of the Annual General received notification of the following holdings of Meeting in 2015 or, if earlier, on the expiry of voting rights under the Financial Conduct 15 months from the passing of the resolution, the Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules : necessary authority either to allot securities or sell shares held in treasury, otherwise than to existing Number of Ordinary Shares Percentage shareholders on a pro-rata basis, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 758,715.
This is Held Held equivalent to approximately 10 per cent of the Resolution Limited 203,936,835 26.8 issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at Investec Wealth & 11 April 2014.
Investment Limited 68,213,991 8.9 The Directors will only allot new shares pursuant to HSBC Holdings plc 38,602,399 5.0 the authority granted by Resolutions 12 and 13, Ignis Investment Services Guernsey law and the authority to allot shares Limited 24,903,180 3.2 contained in the Articles of Incorporation of the Company if they believe it is advantageous to the Based on 758,715,702 Ordinary Shares in issue as at Companys shareholders to do so and in no 31 December 2013. circumstances that would result in a dilution to the net asset value per share.
There have been no changes notified to the Company in respect of the above holdings, and no Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares new holdings notified, since the end of the year.
The Company did not buy back any shares during the year.
Going Concern In assessing the going concern basis of accounting The current authority of the Company to make the Directors have had regard to the guidance market purchases of Ordinary Shares expires at the issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
They end of the Annual General Meeting and Resolution have considered the current cash position of the 14, as set out in the notice of the Annual General Group, forecast rental income and other forecast Meeting, seeks renewal of such authority until the cash flows.
The Group has agreements relating to earlier of the Annual General Meeting in 2015 and its borrowing facilities with which it has complied 18 months from the passing of the resolution.
Based on this information the buy back of Ordinary Shares will be made subject Directors believe that the Group has the ability to to Guernsey law and within any guidelines meet its financial obligations as they fall due for a established from time to time by the Board and the period of at least twelve months from the date of making and timing of any buy backs will be at the approval of the accounts.
For this reason, they absolute discretion of the Board.
Purchases of continue to adopt the going concern basis in Ordinary Shares will only be made through the preparing the accounts.
market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value of the Ordinary Shares as last Annual General Meeting calculated where the Directors believe such The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, to be purchases will enhance shareholder value.
The price held on 21 May 2014 is set out on pages 56 to 57. paid will not be less than the nominal value of 1p 20 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited 105710 CPropTxt PRINT 105710 CPropTxt V17 11 04 2014 15:07 Page 21 per share.
Such purchases will also only be made up of the Company or a reconstruction of the in accordance with the rules of the UK Listing Company which offers all Shareholders the Authority which provide that the price to be paid opportunity to realise their investment.
If the must not be more than the higher of i 5 per cent continuation resolution is passed, the Directors will above the average of the middle market quotations propose a similar resolution at the Annual General Meeting of the Company every fifth year thereafter.
as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the Ordinary Shares for the five business days before the shares are purchased: and Disclosure of Information to the Auditor ii the higher of the last independent trade and the The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval highest current independent bid on the trading of this Report of the Directors confirm that: venue which the purchase is carried out.
Any shares so far as the Directors are aware, there is no purchased under this authority will be cancelled or relevant audit information of which the held in treasury within the following limits: Companys auditor is unaware: and no more than 10 per cent of the Companys each Director has taken all the steps that he or issued shares will be held in treasury at any she ought to have taken as a Director to make time: and himself or herself aware of any relevant audit shares will only be re-issued out of treasury at a information and to establish that the Companys premium to the net asset value.
auditor is aware of that information.
Discount Policy and Continuation Votes Auditor The Boards stated intention is to use the share buy KPMG Channel Islands Limited has expressed its willingness to continue in office as the Companys back authority to purchase Ordinary Shares subject to the income and cash ow requirements and auditor and a resolution proposing its reappointment will be submitted at the Annual General solvency of the Company and where the Directors Meeting.
believe the price available to be in the best interests of shareholders as a whole if the share price of an Statement Regarding Annual Report and Ordinary Share is more than 5 per cent below the Accounts published net asset value per share for a continuous period of 20 dealing days or more.
To ensure a fair Following a detailed review of the Annual Report comparison, the Directors believe that such discount and Accounts by the Audit Committee, the Directors should be calculated by adjusting the published net consider that taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced asset value per share for any dividends for which the and understandable and provides the information share price has gone ex-dividend.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and In the event that the Ordinary Shares trade at strategy.
In reaching this conclusion, the Directors a discount of more than 5 per cent for have assumed that the reader of the Annual Report 90 consecutive dealing days or more, the Directors and Accounts would have a reasonable level of will convene a general meeting to be held within knowledge of the investment industry in general and three months to consider an ordinary resolution for the investment company sector in particular.
the continuation of the Company.
If this continuation resolution is not passed, the Directors will convene a further general meeting to be held within six On behalf of the Board months of the first general meeting to consider the winding up of the Company or a reconstruction of C Russell the Company which offers all shareholders the Director opportunity to realise their investment.
If any such 11 April 2014 continuation resolution is passed, this discount policy, save in respect of share buy backs, would not apply for a period of two years thereafter.
In addition, at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2015, the Directors are required to propose an ordinary resolution for the continuation of the Company.
If the continuation resolution is not passed, the Directors will be obliged to convene an Extraordinary General Meeting within six months to consider the winding Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21
