105710 CPropTxt PRINT 105710 CPropTxt V17 11 04 2014 15:06 Page 1 Company Summary The Company Further details of the management arrangements are provided in note 2a to the accounts.
F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited the Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended Guernsey Capital Structure incorporated investment company.
Its shares have a premium listing on the Ofcial List of the UK Listing The Companys equity capital structure consists of Authority and are traded on the main market of the ordinary shares Ordinary Shares.
Subject to the London Stock Exchange.
solvency test provided for in the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 being satisfied, ordinary shareholders are The Annual Report and Accounts of the Company also entitled to all dividends declared by the Company and consolidate the results of its subsidiary undertakings, to all of the Companys assets after repayment of its which collectively are referred to throughout this borrowings and ordinary creditors.
document as the Group, details of which are contained in note 1b to the accounts.
Guernsey Regulatory Status At 31 December 2013 Group total assets less current The Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended liabilities were 1,080 million and Group shareholders Investment Scheme domiciled in Guernsey and was funds were 799 million.
granted an authorisation declaration in accordance with Objective section 8 of the Protection of Investors Bailiwick of The investment objective of the Company is to provide Guernsey Law 1987, as amended and rule 6.02 of ordinary shareholders with an attractive level of income the Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Schemes together with the potential for capital and income Rules 2008, on 9 June 2009. growth from investing in a diversied UK commercial property portfolio.
How to Invest The Managers operate a number of investment plans Investment Policy which facilitate investment in the shares of the The Companys investment policy is contained on Company.
Details are contained on page 59. page 7.
You may also invest through your usual stockbroker.
Management The Board has appointed F&C Investment Business Website Limited referred to throughout this document as FCIB The Companys website address is: www.
co. uk or the Investment Managers as the Companys investment managers and F&C REIT Property Asset Management plc referred to throughout this document as F&C REIT or the Property Managers as the Companys property managers.
FCIB and F&C REIT are both part of the F&C Asset Management plc group F&C and, collectively, are referred to in this document as the Managers.
