4 4 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 FOXTONS OVERVIEW Foxtons: The market leader Foxtons Group is the leading London estate agency, offering residential property sales and lettings services through its network of 44 branches.
The Group offers independent mortgage advice and other related services through Alexander Hall.
Foxtons was founded in 1981 and the first branch opened in Notting Hill Gate in 1982.
The Group focuses on the higher-volume, higher-value property markets in London.
In 2013 Foxtons revenue was 139 million.
The Groups business model enabled it to deliver Adjusted EBITDA margins of 35.7%.
The Company is able to generate high Organic expansion is a key element of our Foxtons is a multi-award-winning estate margins through its business model, strategy.
We have a successful track record agency, winning at prestigious events such which combines: of opening new branches and our plan is as the Sunday Times Estate Agency of the to open between five and 10 branches Year and International Property Awards, A strong, single brand: each year.
for Best Estate Agency, Lettings Agency, High levels of centralisation allowing low Marketing, Website, Training and many The Company is in a very strong financial cost expansion of branches: more.
These awards acknowledge our position to successfully execute its strategy work-hard, results-driven attitude and An innovative application of technology: by being both debt free and highly cash dedication to quality service.
This combination will also allow the Company to generate significant A powerful culture of sales and service returns to our Shareholders.
through outstanding training and staff development.
The Group has a clear strategy to grow profitability by: Targeting higher-volume, higher-value residential property markets in London: Maintaining a balance between sales and lettings: Providing a premium service which supports premium prices: Expanding organically to maximise return on capital: and Positioning itself for sales volume market growth.
Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 5 5 Map data 2014 Google 6 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Market The UK property market in terms of value and volume is concentrated in the south-east of the country.
High property density and resilient prices in London and the south-east create a disproportionately valuable market in this area.
Based on Land Registry data in 2012, London accounted for 43% of all residential property sales transactions by value in England and Wales.
London also supports a very strong lettings market.
Foxtons current and medium-term focus is on the London area with a longer-term opportunity in the south-east.
Going forward, Foxtons intends to open London focus Potential for growth between five and 10 new branches each year.
Through time we have the The limited geographical area of London, Foxtons current and future focus is on opportunity to more than double our combined with low levels of house building the higher-volume, higher-value markets current branch network within the M25.
and tight planning restrictions on new of London.
As at 31 December 2013, the Property sales transactions continue to building or redevelopment of property, Group operated 44 offices 42 located be well short of pre-2008 levels, offering have led to a constraint on the supply of in London and two in Surrey.
Foxtons a potential for accelerated growth.
Excess demand currently operates in less than half of its is primarily driven by high levels of target market and so there is significant economic activity, affluence, domestic scope to expand and to grow revenues and international mobility and population and profits even without any uplift in the growth, particularly of young adults.
London also attracts overseas purchasers who buy residential property either as homes or for investment purposes.
43% of all residential property sales transactions in England and Wales by value in 2012 occurred within London Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 7
