DIRECTORS REPORT Dividends Directors report The Board recommends a final dividend of 1.70p per share in respect of the 2013 financial year and a special dividend of 3.74p per share representing a total return to Shareholders Corporate structure of approximately 15.4 million.
Shareholders will be asked Foxtons Group plc is a public company limited by shares, to approve the dividend at the Annual General Meeting on incorporated in England and Wales and its shares are traded on 21 May 2014, for payment on 30 May 2014 to ordinary the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
Shareholders whose names are on the register on 2 May 2014.
The Board Post balance sheet events The names, roles and biographical details of the Directors of the There are no material post balance sheet events to report.
Company at the date of this report are given on pages 22 and 23.
FA Corp Sarl was a Corporate Director until resignation on Future developments in the business of the Company 26 June 2013.
Information in respect of likely future developments in the business of the Company can be found in the Strategic Report The Company shall appoint disregarding any alternate on pages 1 to 19 and forms part of this report by reference.
Directors no fewer than two and no more than 12 Directors.
The appointment and replacement of Directors may be made Corporate Governance as follows: A report on Corporate Governance and compliance with the The Shareholders may by ordinary resolution elect any person UK Corporate Governance Code is set out on pages 24 to 42 who is willing to act to be a Director: and forms part of this report by reference.
The Board may elect any person who is willing to act to be a Health and safety Director.
Any Director so appointed shall hold office only until An overview of health and safety is provided in the Strategic the next Annual General Meeting and shall then be eligible Report on page 18 and forms part of this report by reference.
for election: Each Director is required under the Articles of Association to Greenhouse gas emissions retire from office at the third Annual General Meeting after the Information on the Groups greenhouse gas emissions is set out Annual General Meeting at which he or she was last elected or in the Corporate Social Responsibility statement on page 19 and re-elected although he or she may be re-elected by ordinary forms part of this report by reference.
resolution if eligible and willing.
However, to comply with the principles of best Corporate Governance, the Board intends that Political donations each Director will submit himself or herself for re-election on an No political donations were made in 2013 2012: nil.
annual basis: Employee policies and involvement The Company may by special resolution remove any Director Foxtons operates an equal opportunities policy that aims to treat before the expiration of his or her period of office or may, by individuals fairly and not to discriminate on the basis of sex, race, ordinary resolution, remove a Director where special notice has ethnic origin, disability or on any other basis.
Applications for been given and the necessary statutory procedures are complied employment are fully considered on their merits, and employees with: and are given appropriate training and equal opportunities for career There are a number of other grounds on which a Directors development and promotion.
The Group places considerable value office may cease, namely voluntary resignation, where all the on the involvement of its employees, which is reflected in the other Directors being at least three in number request his or principles of Foxtons Corporate Practice and its related guidance, her resignation, where he or she suffers physical or mental which require regular, open, fair and respectful communication, incapacity, where he or she is absent from meetings of the zero tolerance for human rights violations, fair remuneration and, Board without permission of the Board for six consecutive above all, a safe working environment.
months, becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors, or is prohibited by law from being a Director.
Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43 DIRECTORS REPORT continued Directors indemnity Major interests in shares The Company has granted third-party indemnities to each of its As at 10 March 2014, Foxtons had been notified of the following Directors against any liability that attaches to them in defending interests representing 3% or more of the issued ordinary share proceedings brought against them, to the extent permitted by capital of the Company: English law.
In addition, Directors and officers of the Company Number and its subsidiaries are covered by Directors & Officers Institution of shares % liability insurance.
Adnams BBPM Holdings 62,970,059 22.32 The names of the Companys Directors who served during Caledonia Investments 23,751,286 8.42 the year, together with their biographical details and other Michael Brown 22,730,022 8.06 information, are shown on pages 22 and 23.
BlackRock Investment Mgt UK 21,801,102 7.73 Fidelity Worldwide Investment 15,350,251 5.44 Directors interests Details of interests in the ordinary shares of the Company of those Old Mutual Global Investors 15,304,747 5.42 Directors who held office at 31 December 2013 are given below: Blackrock Financial Management Ltd 11,078,743 3.93 Ordinary Capital Research Global Investor 9,610,590 3.41 shares held JP Morgan Asset Management UK Ltd 8,712,718 3.09 as at Percentage 31 December of issued Share capital Name of Director 2013 share capital The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, being the Executive only share class of the Company, are set out in the Companys Michael Brown 22,730,022 8.06% Articles of Association the Articles, which can be found at www.
Gerard Nieslony 666,512 0.24% Subject to the recommendation of the Board, holders of ordinary shares may receive a dividend.
On liquidation, holders of ordinary Non-executive shares may share in the assets of the Company.
At any general Garry Watts 43,477 0.02% meeting, on a show of hands every member who is present shall Andrew Adcock 43,477 0.02% have one vote and on a poll every member present, in person or Ian Barlow 86,955 0.03% by proxy, shall have one vote for every share of which they are Annette Court 32,608 0.01% the holder.
Holders of ordinary shares are also entitled to receive the Companys Annual Report and Accounts or a summarised No Director has any other interest in the share capital of the version and, subject to certain thresholds being met, may Company whether pursuant to any share plan or otherwise.
requisition the Board to convene a general meeting GM or No changes in Directors interests have occurred between propose resolutions at AGMs.
None of the ordinary shares carry 31 December 2013 and 10 March 2014. any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Each of Michael Brown and Gerard Nieslony have executed a There are no restrictions on transfers of ordinary shares Lock-Up Deed, pursuant to which they have agreed, subject other than: to certain customary exceptions, that during the period from Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed September 2013 to September 2014 they will not dispose of the by laws or regulations such as those relating to insider dealing: ordinary shares held by them at IPO.
There is also a requirement for Michael Brown, Gerard Nieslony and the COO, Nic Budden, Pursuant to the Companys Share Dealing Code whereby the to continuously hold shares to the value of at least two times Directors and designated employees require approval to deal their respective gross basic salaries.
in the Companys shares: and 44 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Where a person with an interest in the Companys shares has Authority to allot shares been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide Prior to the IPO, the Company was granted a general authority the Company with information concerning interests in by its Shareholders to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal those shares.
amount of 940,588 and, in addition, an authority to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,881,176 in connection The Company is not aware of any arrangements between with a rights issue or other pre-emptive offer.
The Company also Shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer received authority to allot shares for cash on a non pre-emptive of securities or voting rights.
basis up to a maximum nominal amount of 141,088.
As at the date of this report, no shares have been issued under these Powers of Directors authorities.
These authorities will expire at the conclusion of the The general powers of the Directors are set out in Article 108 of 2014 Annual General Meeting unless revoked, varied or renewed the Articles.
It provides that the business of the Company shall be prior to that meeting.
Resolutions will be proposed at the 2014 managed by the Board which may exercise all the powers of the Annual General Meeting to renew these authorities.
Company whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
This power is subject to any limitations Going concern imposed on the Company by applicable legislation.
It is also The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity limited by the provisions of the Articles and any directions given position are set out in the Business review section.
Furthermore, by special resolution of the Shareholders of the Company which note 28, page 82 to the consolidated financial statements includes are applicable on the date that any power is exercised.
the Groups objectives and policies for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial Amendment to the Companys Articles of Association instruments and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
The Company may alter its Articles of Association by special resolution passed at a general meeting of Shareholders.
In September 2013, the Companys shares were admitted to trading on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
Authority for the Company to purchase its own shares Concurrently with this admission process, the Company Prior to the IPO, the Company was granted authority by its implemented a placing of new ordinary shares.
Pursuant to this Shareholders to purchase up to 28,217,646 of its ordinary shares.
placing, 23,956,520 ordinary shares were issued, representing As at the date of this report, no ordinary shares have been 8.49% of the Groups post admission issued share capital, raising purchased under this authority and, therefore, the Company may gross proceeds of 55 million.
The primary proceeds were then purchase up to 28,217,646 ordinary shares under its existing used to repay the outstanding debt of the Company leaving authority.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2014 it debt free post IPO.
As a consequence, the Directors believe Annual General Meeting unless revoked, varied or renewed prior the Group is now in a very strong financial position due to to that meeting.
A resolution will be proposed at the 2014 Annual its profitable operations and strong cash generation and that General Meeting that the Company be authorised to purchase the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational up to approximately 10% of its ordinary shares at the Directors existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue discretion.
If the resolution is passed, the new authority will to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial replace the existing authority and will lapse at the conclusion statements.
The Directors have made this assessment after of the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
consideration of the Companys budgeted cash flows and related assumptions and in accordance with the Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 published by the UK Financial Reporting Council.
Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 DIRECTORS REPORT continued Auditor Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: a So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and b The Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as Auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting Your attention is drawn to the Notice of Annual General Meeting accompanying this Annual Report which sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The meeting will be held at Chiswick Park on 21 May 2014 at 10am.
On behalf of the Board Michael Brown Gerard Nieslony Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 10 March 2014 46 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013
