BOARD OF DIRECTORS Garry Watts Michael Brown Gerard Nieslony Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointed to August 2013 September 2002 August 2013 the Board Committee Remuneration, Nominations Chair None None memberships Previous appointments: In 1996 Garry Previous appointments: Previous appointments: joined Medeva plc as Finance Director Michael started his career as None and in 2000, following a merger with a solicitor at Slaughter and External appointments: Celltech Chiroscience, he was appointed May.
Prior to joining Foxtons, None as Director of Celltech Group plc and Michael spent six years at became CEO of its Celltech Medeva Enron Europe as General Experience: Gerard Nieslony division.
Garry joined SSL International Counsel and latterly as Chief joined Foxtons in August plc in 2001 as Finance Director and Operating Officer.
Michael 1999 as Group Financial was subsequently appointed as its is a former non-executive Controller and was appointed CEO from 2004 to 2010.
In addition director of Fitness First as Chief Financial Officer to his executive roles, Garry was a Limited and Teesside Gas in 2013.
Prior to joining non-executive member of the board, Processing Plant Limited.
Foxtons, Gerard spent two and chairman of the audit and risk years at Kvaerner Oilfield External appointments: committee, of the UKs Medicines and Products Limited as Financial None Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency Controller.
Prior to Kvaerner from 1991 to 2008.
Between 2004 and Experience: Michael Brown Oilfield Products Limited, 2008, he was a non-executive director joined Foxtons in September Gerard spent 10 years at and chairman of the audit committee 2002 as Chief Operating Duracell Batteries, initially as of Protherics plc.
Officer of Foxtons and Chief an analyst and subsequently Executive Officer of Alexander as Manufacturing Financial External appointments: Garry is the Hall.
He was appointed as Manager and then Financial Chairman of Spire Healthcare Group Chief Executive Officer of Controller of the Duracell UK Limited and of BTG plc, Deputy the Group in 2007 when European Technical Centre.
Chairman of Stagecoach Group plc, BC European Capital acquired Gerard is a qualified and a Non-Executive Director and a majority interest in the accountant and holds a member of the audit committee of Foxtons business.
degree in economics from Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. the University of Warwick.
Experience: Garry is a chartered accountant and a former partner at KPMG.
During 2007 and 2008 he was a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Corporate Governance Committee.
Garry is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
22 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annette Court Andrew Adcock Ian Barlow Stefano Quadrio Curzio Senior Independent Independent Independent Non-independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director August 2013 August 2013 August 2013 June 2013 as a Non-Executive Director, prior to IPO on the Board since 2007.
Audit, Remuneration, Audit, Remuneration Chair, Audit Chair, Remuneration, None Nominations Nominations Nominations Previous appointments: Previous appointments: Previous appointments: Previous appointments: Between 2007 and 2010 Andrew was, until July Ian is a past chairman of None Annette was the Chief 2011, managing partner of WSP Group plc.
He retired External appointments: Executive Officer of the Brompton Asset Management from KPMG LLP in 2008 as Stefano joined BC Partners European General Insurance and, until 2009, viceSenior Partner, London.
in 1996 as an investment division of the Zurich chairman of Citigroup External appointments: He executive and has been a Financial Services group.
He was is a Non-Executive Director of director since 2004.
He has Prior to this, from 2001 to previously a partner at Smith & Nephew plc and The served as an investor director 2006 she was Chief Executive Lazard LLC.
Brunner Investment Trust PLC of a number of portfolio Officer of the insurance External appointments: and the lead Non-Executive companies of funds advised division, and a member of the Andrew is Chairman of Director of HM Revenue & by BC Partners.
group executive management Majedie Investments plc Customs.
He is also Chairman committee, of The Royal Bank Experience: Stefano Quadrio and a Non-Executive Director of The Racecourse Association of Scotland Group plc.
Curzio has been involved of F&C Global Smaller Limited and a board member with the Foxtons business External appointments: She Companies plc, JP Morgan of the China-Britain since 2007 when BC is a Non-Executive Director European Growth and Business Council.
European Capital acquired and a member of the risk and Income plc, Kleinwort Benson Experience: Ian is a chartered a majority interest.
Prior to audit committees of Admiral Group Limited and Kleinwort accountant and a chartered joining BC Partners, Stefano Group plc and Jardine Lloyd Benson Bank Limited.
He holds an MA spent six years at the Boston Thompson Group plc and a is also a Director of the in engineering science from Consulting Group in London.
In Courtauld Institute of Art the University of Cambridge.
Stefano holds an MBA from addition, she is a business and Chairman of The Samuel Stanford University and a BA mentor for Merryk & Co. Ltd Courtauld Trust.
and MA in economics from and sits on the advisory board Experience: Andrew has the University of Cambridge.
of StreetGames, a charity over 30 years of experience that helps disadvantaged in the City of London and young people.
holds an MA in law and Experience: Annette holds a history of art from the degree in engineering from University of Cambridge.
Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23
