8 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategy Foxtons has an impressive track record of Premium service and prices growing its business by delivering premium The Group delivers high-quality service levels, maximising value service levels, which leads to a loyal client for clients by selling or letting their properties at the best price base and improving market share.
The Groups through the innovative application of technology, the utilisation of data and by working harder than competitors.
Foxtons branches strategic aim is to continue to leverage its brand, are open 8am to 8pm, 362 days a year, enabling them to work centralised resources, technology and sales and around our clients busy schedules.
38% of viewings take place service culture, in order to drive revenue and outside normal working hours, with 97% of asking prices being profit growth as it expands its branch network achieved.
The Group benefits from client loyalty with 70% of our through Londons higher-volume, higher-value business being repeat business.
By maintaining exceptional service levels Foxtons will continue to substantiate its premium prices, property markets.
drive up levels of repeat business and improve market share.
In many of its markets Foxtons is the leading estate agency, often accounting for over 20% of local sales.
Foxtons has five strategic priorities: Target higher-volume, higher-value residential Organic expansion under a strong single brand property markets in London The Group has a long and successful track record of profitable, organic expansion.
Complemented by the Groups well-invested Foxtons current focus is on the higher-volume, higher-value centralised business model, which enables rapid scaling at low markets of London which represent a disproportionately valuable incremental cost, new branches typically achieve a cash payback property market.
Through time we have the potential to more within 19 months of opening with a return on capital of circa than double the number of existing branches.
150% in the second year of operation.
Future growth will be financed by free cash flow.
Balanced business Positioned for sales market growth The Group places equal importance on its sales and lettings Residential property sales transaction volumes in London have businesses, aiming to achieve a relatively even balance between been depressed since 2008.
Over the last four years, Foxtons has the financial contributions made by each over time.
The Groups almost doubled the size of its branch network, gaining market lettings business benefits from a strong base of recurring revenues share and positioning it to benefit from any future growth in sales which has supported year-on-year revenue growth and provides volumes.
Furthermore, the operational leverage inherent in the valuable protection against naturally more cyclical property Foxtons centralised business model means that the incremental sales markets.
contribution of any increase in sales revenues will be higher than current margins.
Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 9
