Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 10 d a o I n f n p a t n p e r l o c i b h c v n a a e o t l t l i g i o o v g n n y i e S Business model departments to work cohesively together The Group is based around a business model which has been to deliver exceptional levels of service refined over 10 years to create a proven, significant and and productivity and have been a key sustainable competitive advantage.
driver in reducing average costs.
Foxtons systems also provide vital performance tools for managers, enabling them to monitor employee performance on a real-time basis.
Foxtons has also invested heavily in its website and web-based applications, which are internally developed and maintained, and which have received many industry awards for their innovative features.
Foxtons website showcases clients properties using high-quality images and interactive floorplans and allows users to search for properties using pioneering search criteria.
Clients have access to web-based applications, such as the landlord portal, giving them direct access to key tenancy information and documents, and applications that enable documents to be signed and payments to be made online.
Culture and people Foxtons people are highly motivated to deliver exceptional results for clients.
A wide range of incentives ensures that outstanding personal and team results technology has created a highly scalable are rewarded and recognised across the A single brand with business, delivering unparalleled levels of Company.
Foxtons recruits high-quality strong identity productivity and service.
This centralised individuals and is a true meritocracy.
We approach also delivers significant The Foxtons brand has been supported by always promote sales people from within operational leverage, enabling the Group significant levels of expenditure on brand our current pool of employees, ensuring to expand its branch network at relatively and customer marketing communications that our best people experience rapid low cost, thereby increasing profit margins.
programmes over the past 30 years.
career progression into leadership positions Foxtons leading property website, where they can have the greatest positive Foxtons.
co. uk, and 0% commission Innovative application of impact.
Our training and development campaign, which support each new branch goal is to create the finest estate agents technology opening, generate strong brand awareness in the industry with a clear focus on Foxtons development over the last and new business growth.
Its distinctive professionalism, integrity and work ethic.
30 years has been characterised by the branches and branded MINI fleet reinforce innovative application of technology to its high street presence and underpin its Integrated mortgage broker estate agency.
The Group is recognised quality credentials.
as the technology leader in the sector, Foxtons integrated mortgage broker, with sophisticated workflow systems, Alexander Hall, benefits from low-cost Business centralisation web applications and content-rich sales leads from the estate agency The Groups substantial long-term information databases underpinning business and has the potential to grow virtually every aspect of its business investment in centralised work groups, as Foxtons expands and as property business process engineering and model.
These systems enable our internal sales transactions increase.
Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11 c e B d n n e t u a l r p s a e i l o r i n s u e a t e p l t u i s o s C n
