Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 09 Chief executives review Achieving our objectives Andrew Cunningham Chief Executive Officer Our UK assets have again outperformed There remains a significant mis-match We have seen another the national indices with their market value between housing supply and demand period of outperformance rising by 8.3% compared to the average in the UK, and the three major political increase of 5.6% in the Nationwide and parties in the UK recognise the need for from our UK assets this Halifax indices.
Within central and inner a major increase in housing supply of all London the market value of our assets rose tenure types.
Margins on normal The UK Government has supported by 15.6% compared to an average increase trading sales have of 9.5% in the Nationwide and Halifax the housing market in a number of ways.
In the home ownership mortgage market indices for those regions.
increased as have net the Government has introduced two financial support measures Funding for Market overview asset values and we have The housing market continues to improve Lending and Help to Buy which have led delivered on our target to to an increase in the number of housing particularly beyond London and the South East which has already seen considerable transactions over the last year.
This, in turn, reduce debt and gearing.
has boosted confidence among househouse price growth.
It is important that the Government ensures the increased builders and developers and, according to the Purchasing Managers Index PMI, purchasing ability of homebuyers is matched by an increase in housing supply housing construction activity is at its highest point since November 2003. to avoid excessive house price inflation although we currently see no signs of this.
Following the Montague Review, the Government has made significant strides The residential market continued to show regional variations in 2013. in implementing policies to stimulate investment and growth in the sector.
However there was an underlying upward trend in house prices across the whole of In particular, it has introduced a 1bn fund for the construction of build-tothe UK according to the Land Registry, Nationwide and Halifax house price indices.
rent developments and set aside 10bn of Housing Guarantees, whereby it will For the first time since 2007, Nationwides Q3 index showed annual house price guarantee borrowers liabilities against new rental homes.
In addition, the Government growth in all 13 UK regions.
In London and the South East, where 60% of our has established the PRS Taskforce, a specialist group of private sector experts assets by market value are located we saw year-on-year growth of 10.7% in vacant within Government, including a Grainger secondee, responsible for kick-starting possession values VPV 2012: 6.0%.
