s n r u t e R n o i s t t a e g s Strategic report Governance Financials r i a T m i t p O : y g e t : a y r g e t t s Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47 We improved our process for measuring More broadly, tenant carbon emissions Our first report of tenant satisfaction in the UK : from our UK Residential portfolio are an We seek honest feedback from our estimated 29,551 tonnes CO.
Reporting of 2 greenhouse gas GHG tenants to continually improve our property these Scope 3 emissions is not required by emissions in line with management services, which makes us a UK regulation, but our estimate makes clear desirable third-party portfolio manager.
that Graingers mandatory GHG footprint UK mandatory reporting The 2012 13 phone customer survey pilot is very small compared to tenant emissions increased response rates to 88% and from heating, lighting and hot water in regulation is provided highlighted the move-in experience and the properties we own and manage.
on pages 52 and 53. customer communication as areas for We are actively working to improve improvement.
We are extending this new the energy efficiency of our existing process to additional portfolios in 2013 14 homes through ECO funding andour and have set ourselves a 2013 14 target refurbishment specifications.
Looking forward to define and improve the PRS customer There are several areas under our One of the Grainger values is to take communication experience.
These initiatives operational control for which we were a long-term view and accordingly, help us to manage the risk that we fail to notable to collect data this year.
These are  is increasingly determine the expectations of stakeholders fully disclosed and explained in our GHG a fullyintegrated part of our business.
And, the fees earned from statement see page 52.
I intend to lead our CR programme away our property management services are a We have judged that human rights from a focus on detail, towards big picture key driver for greater balance in our income are not a material risk for the business due solutions.
We can update one process and streams see case study page 44. to existing regulatory requirements in the eliminate a problem for 15,000 tenants, UK and Germany and the nature of our rather than solve each problem individually.
We increased the Energy Performance supply chain.
However, we will consider I am proud to share highlights from Certificate level of our units: how Grainger can contribute to the the past year and our plans for the year We piloted a scheme to upgrade the EPC advancement of human rights in 2013 14. aheadin this report, and in our CR report ratings of our portfolio through our regular For information on our staff diversity, please atwww.
refurbishment programme instructing our see Employee profile page 43. contractors that this was a requirement of Andrew Cunningham the refurbishment.
Government regulation, CEO from the Green Deal to the UK Energy Act, targets existing housing stock for improvements in energy efficiency in order to meet the UKs carbon reduction targets see page 33.
This will impact our ability to let lower rated units starting in 2018.
Delivering In 2013 14, we will partner with Kier to value through implement property conditions assessments CR within our repairs and maintenance programme that will be the foundation of a multi-year EPC improvement programme.
Preserving asset value for the long-term will enable us to continue to optimise our financial gearing.
Grainger values UK required sustainability reporting We are pleased to be able to make our first report of greenhouse gas GHG emissions this year in line with UK mandatory reporting regulations.
Our total GHG footprint, reported in line with Defras guidance on mandatory GHG reporting requirements, is 2,423 tonnes CO e. 2 a r s t s s R e C n i s u B s r o t a p c i i d h n s i r e e c n d a a m e r o L f r e p y e K e c n a l a B 48 Grainger plc Strategic report Corporate responsibility Progress against CR targets in 2012 13 continued Strategic 2012 13 CR target objective linkage Final status What we have Improve Graingers UK and Germany process and accuracy 1: 3 formeasuringand managing tenant satisfaction with a robust achieved this year baselinetobeused from 2013 14.
Define the in-house customer-focused value, skills and 1: 3: 4 behaviours necessarytoenable Grainger to meet its customer needs.
2012 13 CR target progress Status Total Identify and respond to current and future customer needs 1: 2: 3: 4 1.
Achieved 6 through researchand customer profiling for property and asset management.
In progress 2 Include clauses on environmental, social and service quality 1: 4 4.
Not achieved 0 criteriaandreporting in all major supplier contracts.
Train managing agents on raising health and safety and 1: 3: 4 Progress against CR targets in 2012 13 environmental standards.
We are proud to have achieved 67% of our targets for 2012 13, in addition to Increase to EPC level E or above 10 AssuredShorthold 1: 4 completing 67% of targets that were Tenancy AST units and 10 regulated units that are currently F or partially achieved at the end of 2011 12.
Minimum target, which may be extended if initial results We are committed to completing the are positive.
targets that were partially achieved in Partner with Green Deal providers to test Green Deal on at least 1: 4 2012 13 on customer profiling, and 10Grainger units in2013.
Initial target, which may be exceeded if improving Graingers measurement of pilot is successful.
tenant satisfaction achieved in our UK business though not in our German arm Model the financial impact of key sustainability risks 2: 4 and continuing our pilot to uprate EPCs on  business.
We have two two-year targets which are in progress and will be Report on global Scope 1 and 2 GreenhouseGas GHG emissions 1: 4 inlinewith therequirements of UK mandatory reporting assessed in 2014. regulation.
Continue improving Graingers GRESB score year-on-year in 2013 1: 4 k and 2014.
Earn an EPRA sustainability award for 2012 13 report 1 k Targettobeassessedin 2014.
Key: 2011 12 CR target Final status Progress against targets Achieved Collect annual electricity, gas and water meter readings atallblocksforwhich Grainger purchases energy.
Partially achieved In progress k Create a CR library on Grainger policies, achievements and FAQsforuseininternal and external communications on Not achieved l Graingerscorporate responsibility approach.
Publish an executive director approved policy outlining For full information on our current  risks and opportunities andfuture targets, performance .
com Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49 Supply chain and customers the number of complaints has decreased Progress against key Customers consistently rate Grainger from 60 to 54.
We will be reviewing how performance indicators and our contractors customer service we measure and report resolution of in2012 13 as good or satisfactory, but we aim to complaints in 2013 14 as part of our onimprove these KPIs over the next year.
going efforts to improve customer service.
Our new partnership with Kier introduces We use key performance indicators to track a single, national repairs hotline and service Community investment our continuing performance on previous level promises for repairs.
Also, we are In 2011 12 we made a large increase in corporate responsibility targets that are working to improve tenant satisfaction our volunteering and charitable donations embedded into our business activities.
through new move-in procedures and as part of our centenary celebrations.
The table below provides a summary of our changes to customer communication.
These have returned to more normal most material KPIs.
For full details on our The company-wide customer complaints levels in 2012 13.
The greater dip in staff corporate responsibility KPI performance, procedure introduced in 2011 means volunteering was due to high demands on visit www.
that all complaints received are logged staff time for business purposes.
We aim to and carefully reviewed by management, increase the level of volunteering back to Our properties including the executive board.
anequivalent of 30% of staff volunteering Our understanding of the EPC ratings The percentage of applicable one day in 2013 14. of our portfolio continues to improve as complaints received and resolved during more EPCs are commissioned each year.
the financial year has increased to 81% and FandG rated properties are concentrated in our regulated portfolio these units are KPI generally sold upon vacancy rather than 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 1-year trend re-let.
Whilst this means that the impact of the 2018 lettings ban for FandG properties Our properties is minimal, we launched a pilot to uprate 1 EPC energy efficiency ratings % of properties AC: 47% AC: 36% AC: 36% properties through refurbishment in fide: 42% fide: 44% fide: 47% 2012 13 and will extend this in partnership FG: 10% FG: 20% FG: 17% with Kier in 2013 14.
Our Considerate Average Considerate Constructors Scheme 71% 78% 79% 2 Constructors Scheme scores demonstrate CCS score continuous improvement in operating Supply chain our development sites in a manner which respects local communities.
Customers rating contractors service at good 98% 87% 84% 3 or above % Customers Proportion of tenants rating Graingers 61% 77% 75% 4 management service as good or above % Percentage of tenant complaints fully resolved Not 73% 81% 5 % as of year end measured Community investment Total donated to charities 55,548 69,411 51,597 6 total cash and in-time contributions, Number of staff working days contributed 56 86 41 forcharitable causes Number of staff involved in volunteering 60 78 41 activities during company time 1 Includes all properties in EPC database for UK Residential and GRIP 2,316 as of 30 September 2013 up from 2,287 in 2011 12.
2 Major refurbishments and development sites.
Figures for previous years have been restated as percentages due to change in theCCSscoring methodology UK only.
3 Existing market rented and regulated tenants UK only.
4 In the customer survey process introduced in 2012 13, the wording of this question was changed slightly to very satisfied or quite satisfied with service provided by Grainger UK only.
5 All complaints via the executive and through Grainger website UK only.
6 Includes corporate donations, money raised by employees for charitable causes including activities by employees in their own time, staff time contributed through volunteering and money donated by staff through payroll giving.
50 Grainger plc Strategic report APG takes ESG criteria into consideration Corporate responsibility Case study in our due diligence process for real estate continued The role of corporate investment.
We use the annual Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark responsibility in the Case study GRESB survey and results for measuring, GRIPfund monitoring and comparing the sustainability Reporting our performance of our property investments.
Graingers co-equity partnership with corporate responsibility We are engaging with GRIP to use its APG, Europes biggest pension fund 2013 GRESB performance to highlight performance asset manager and a leading sustainable potential areas for improvement, and to investor, to create GRIP, one of the largest target advances for the next reporting year.
We believe that transparent disclosure of  UK private rented Graingers GRIP fund management has ourcorporate responsibility performance is sector funds is an opportunity to further responded proactively over the last nine part of our leadership role in the residential improve our corporate responsibility months, targeting smart metering, quarterly sector.
We disclose performance through standards and performance.
energy reporting, tenant communications arange of industry recognised standards and capital works to improve the andbenchmarks.
One of the challenges We are aiming to create a unique, sector sustainability performance of a strategic wefaceinresponding to investor surveys leading GRIP product a totally better portfolio of private rented sectorblocks.
isthe difficulty in collecting environmental quality service unit type, finish, repairs, Sander Paul Van Tongeren, data for aresidential portfolio dominated customer communication, environmental seniorsustainability specialist bysingle family residences.
In 2013 14, efficiency in the private rented sector.
globalreal estate and infrastructure, weplan to engage with organisations that Sustainability is one important facet of that APGAsset Management.
measure sustainability in real estate to drive overall product.
What were doing with appropriate reporting for the residential sector.
sustainability is not a tick box exercise, its APG see corporate responsibility as We improved our corporate score in about improving the asset performance acompetitive advantage and part of the Global Real Estate Sustainability and making a product that gives better the extensive due diligence process they Benchmark GRESB by 9% and aim to choice to tenants.
conducted was into our CR performance.
improve further in 2014 with expanded Paul Ruston, GRIP asset manager, APG are very serious about CR and, as environmental performance indicators.
Graingerplc when a footballer plays with a top team, The GRIP fund submitted a separate heor she gets better: by interacting with GRESB response for the first time in 2013 APG, we will improve.
and has agreed a roadmap to ensure Andrew Cunningham, CEO, Grainger plc it outperforms its peer group average GRIP fund next year.
A newly refurbished property Grainger has expanded its reporting in the GRIP fund.
against EPRA sustainability best practice recommendations see page 51.
We scored 78 for disclosure and level C for performance in the Carbon Disclosure Project 2013, outperforming the UK and FTSE 350 averages and significantly improving on our score from 2012.
We continue to be listed in the FTSE4Good Index.
And, for the first time we are reporting GHG emissions in line with UK mandatory reporting regulations see page 52.
Next year we will begin to report emissions from our German portfolio.
Carbon DisClosure ProjeCt Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 51 be able to report more fully against the is the first year that we are reporting Summary of recommendations next year and includes most measures, we are only able to EPRAsustainability directions on where to find each indicator comment on trends in office energy use.
We have significantly Energy use in both our like-for-like and expanded our reporting this year to include all offices decreased slightly 2% and 3% water, waste and energy for our portfolio.
We expect further decreases The following table provides an overview We are reporting on an operational control next year when we combine our two of the EPRA sustainability performance approach, in line with our reporting for London offices.
measures that Grainger is able to report UK mandatory GHG reporting.
We are For our full EPRA sustainability best on, an explanation for those that we not reporting on any energy or water practice recommendations reporting table, cannot report on, outlines our plans to sub-metered to tenants, as this is outside see page 168. expand our data collection in 2013 14 to our Scope 1 and 2 boundaries.
Since this EPRA sustainability best practice recommendations compliance table Compliance self assessment Where EPRA sustainability Own office measure performance measure Property investment portfolio occupation Grainger commentary is reported UK German residential GRIP Own office assets assets assets occupation Pages 3.1 T otal energy consumption Not gathered for our German property investment portfolio due to a transfer 168 to 172 l from electricity in property management.
We will commence collecting data for this portfolio [GRI: EN4] in 2013 14.
3.2 Total energy consumption N A N A N A There is no Grainger-obtained district heating and cooling for our UK 168 to 172 l from district heating and propertyinvestment portfolio and there is no district heating and cooling cooling [GRI: EN4] consumption sub-metered to Grainger from our landlord for our UK and German occupied offices.
3.3 T otal energy consumption N A Not gathered for our German property investment portfolio due to a transfer 168 to 172 l from fuels [GRI: EN3] in property management.
We will commence collecting data for this portfolio in 2013 14.
There is no fuel consumption sub-metered to Grainger from our landlord for our UK and German occupied offices.
The intensity measure used for property investment portfolio is kWh per 168 to 172 3.4 Building energy intensity l m value of assets under management.
The intensity measure used for own [GRI: CRESS CRE1] occupied offices is kWh per employee.
Direct GHG emissions includes emissions from fuel combustion from our 168 to 172 3.5 Total direct greenhouse gas l property investment portfolio only.
We have not included emissions from our GHG emissions vehicle fleet in reporting of own operations.
Please see our mandatory GHG [GRI: EN16] statement for a full footprint figure.
3.6 T otal indirect greenhouse gas Indirect GHG emissions include Scope 2 GHG emissions from purchased 168 to 172 l GHG emissions electricity and Scope 3 GHG emissions from transmission and distribution [GRI: EN16] losses associated with purchased electricity for our UK property investment portfolio and our UK and Germany occupied offices.
3.7 Gr eenhouse gas intensity Greenhouse gas intensity from building energy includes Scope 1 and 2 GHG 168 to 173 l from building energy emissions only.
The intensity measure used for property investment portfolio [GRI: CRESS CRE 3] is kg CO2e per m value of assets under management.
The intensity measure used for own occupied offices is kg CO2e per employee.
3.8 T otal water withdrawal Not gathered for our own occupied offices due to landlord metering 173 l l by source [GRI: EN8] arrangement.
Not gathered for our German property investment portfolio.
3.9 B uilding water intensity Not gathered for our offices due to landlord metering arrangement.
173 l l [GRI: CRESS CRE2] Not gathered for our German property investment portfolio.
The intensity measure used for property investment portfolio is m3 per m value of assets under management.
N A We do not provide waste management for our UK Residential portfolio.
174 3.10 T otal weight of waste by l Waste data was not gathered for our German occupied office or property disposal route [GRI: EN22] investment portfolio.
174 3.11 P ercentage of waste by l Waste data was not gathered for our German occupied office or property disposal route investment portfolio.
Key: l Fully reported Partially reported Not reported 52 Grainger plc Strategic report Limitations to data collection Methodology Grainger plc We have used the main requirements of UK Residential mandatory greenhouse gas We have not reported emissions from the the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting emissions reporting and Reporting Standard revised edition properties in our GInvest portfolio or from units undergoing small-scale refurbishment and ISO14064 Part 1: data gathered for our on-going reporting under the Carbon as we do not have energy consumption Global GHG emissions data for period 1 1 October 2012 to 30 September 2013 data for the reporting year we are Disclosure Project: energy consumption Tonnes data for our UK properties and emission working to improve data collection for Emissions from of CO2e future reporting.
factors from the UK Governments Combustion of fuel and operation Conversion Factors for Company offacilities 1,467 Fund and third-party management Reporting 2013.
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling We have reported on all of the We have not reported emissions from the purchased for own use 956 emission sources required under the properties in our WIP portfolio as we do Total footprint 2,423 Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report not have energy consumption data for the Companys chosen and Directors Reports Regulations 2013. reporting year we are working to improve intensity measurement: We have used the Operational Control data collection for future reporting.
Emissions reported above, 0.98per consolidation method.
These sources fall per m value of assets mvalue within our consolidated financial statement.
German Residential under management: ofAUM We do not have responsibility for any We have not reported emissions from Emissions reported above, 0.18 per emission sources that are not included in the properties in our German residential 2 per owned unit : ownedunit our consolidated statement.
portfolio as we do not have energy Emissions reported above, 8.97 per consumption data for the reporting year 3 per employee : employee we are working to improve data collection Scope 3 Global GHG emissions data for period for future reporting and will report on our 1October 2012 to 30 September 2013 German properties next year.
Tonnes Emissions from ofCO2e Developments contractor electricity and fuel use 239 Scope 1 Landlord-obtained gas consumed in common areas and by tenants Electricity transmission and onanunmetered basis.
distribution losses 81 Fuel consumption in vehicles owned or leased by Grainger plc.
Business travel Scope 2 Landlord-obtained electricity consumed in common areas and by tenants air and railinUKandGermany 140 on anunmeteredbasis.
Tonnes Electricity consumed by Grainger plc.
that is sub-metered by its landlord ofCO2 in offices which it occupies as a tenant.
Estimated tenant energy use, Scope 3 Contractor-obtained energy used in developments and refurbishments, calculated from a sample of whereavailable.
Energy Performance Certificates, Grainger employees business travel: greyfleettravel.
EPCs and reported in CO only.
29,551 2 Tenant-obtained energy consumption estimated from the properties 1 As this is the first year of Mandatory GHG reporting, there is no comparison year reported.
2 T his is the number of owned units in the UK: in future years this Not included Waste treatment and disposal.
will also include the number of owned units in Germany.
3 Total number of employees in Grainger plc at 30 September 2013.
Landlord-obtained energy consumed by tenants on a metered basis scenario not currently applicable.
Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53 related initiatives to implement new ways Estimation Advisors statement For properties where some consumption of thinking and doing business.
As one of the first companies to report in is known, missing periods of consumption Upstream Sustainability Services, a division compliance with mandatory greenhouse have been estimated using the daily of Jones Lang LaSalle has been engaged gas reporting under the Companies Act average of known consumption.
37% of since 2005 as advisors to Grainger plc on 2006 Strategic and Directors Reports the total energy use has been estimated its corporate responsibility CR strategy and Regulations 2013, we commend Grainger using this methodology.
Our programme of work for significantly improving the data properties have been excluded from the includes assisting Grainger plc with setting collection coverage for its UK residential analysis because we have not been able CR targets and reviewing performance portfolio.
Grainger has not been able torecord any consumption.
against these targets at year end.
Due to to report on emissions from its German Grainger has used a database of over Upstreams long-standing relationship portfolio for 2012 13 due to a change 2,000 EPCs produced between 2008 and with Grainger plc, the review of target in property manager.
We recommend 2013 across the UK Residential and GRIP achievement and this statement itself Grainger integrates reporting of energy portfolios to estimate tenant carbon dioxide cannot be considered entirely independent.
consumption into arrangements with emissions.
Every EPC has an estimate of Jones Lang LaSalles observations its new German property manager and the units annual carbon footprint for continues to expand and improve its UK and recommendations are based on heating, lighting and hot water based on reporting next year.
independent analysis of documents, the units predicted energy consumption.
Grainger has made significant progress interviews and or other secondary evidence We have taken an average of emissions for in measuring tenant satisfaction and provided by Grainger plc and relevant each portfolio so that the average reflects identifying areas to improve its supply third-parties.
Reasonable efforts were the portfolios characteristics e. g. flats, chain and tenant communication made to check the quality, accuracy and single family dwellings, etc.
Therespective for UK private rented sector tenants.
credibility of all available information but averages have been multiplied by the Implementing a similar programme this did not include site visits or audits on in Germany has proved challenging number of units per portfolio and the primary data e. g. meter readings and this year.
results summed to produce an estimate invoices.
Consequently, this statement The process of defining the company of emissions for UK Residential.
We first does not represent formal assurance or values through an extensive process published an estimate of tenant emissions verification of the corporate responsibility of staff engagement is clear evidence using this methodology in our 2010 11 content of Grainger plcs 2012 13 Annual that Grainger continues to engage with Annual report and have updated it to report and accounts.
its employees on being a responsible reflect the addition of new EPCs and business, building on the CR Innovation Summary of target performance changes in the composition of our portfolio Day in 2012.
Grainger achieved 6 67% and partially in each succeeding year.
Looking ahead, Grainger is achieved 3 33% corporate responsibility demonstrating its commitment to Intensity metrics targets in the year to 30 September 2013. risk management by incorporating We have used the market value of assets The company also completed two targets sustainability risks into its corporate under management as our main intensity which were partially achieved at the end risk register.
In line with best practice measurement as this is also what we use of 2011 12 and made significant progress standards and the requirements of the to measure our business efficiency KPI as in the final outstanding 2011 12 target to new Global Reporting Initiative G4 reported in this Strategic report.
We have collect annual electricity, gas and water standard, we recommend Grainger also used the number of UK units that we meter readings at all blocks for which conducts a materiality review to identify own and the number of our employees.
Two targets are the most significant sustainability risks We have chosen these metrics to align with in progress and will be assessed in 2013 14. and opportunities and incorporates our financial reporting.
these into the corporate risk register.
Observations and recommendations Our reported carbon footprint will The materiality review should include Grainger continued to embed CR be larger in the 2013 14 reporting year both the UK and German businesses, to throughout its operations in 2012 13 and because we will be able to obtain data for ensure greater alignment in approach to built on the achievement of previous CR those parts of our portfolio that are missing corporate responsibility going forward.
targets to implement more concrete CR in 2012 13. initiatives throughout its supply chain and business activities.
The long-term value Lora Brill, associate director.
of Graingers CR programme will depend Upstream Sustainability Services, on the companys ability to capitalise Jones Lang LaSalle on lessons learned through targets and 7 November 2013
