18 Grainger plc Strategic report Strategic objective: # 4 grainger optimisation Optimising our operational and financial gearing Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19 How we are delivering on our objective As our business evolves, we are taking actions to secure thelong-term future success of Grainger.
As part of that, wehave adjusted our capital structure to ensure it is an appropriate fit to the changing nature of our asset base andthe profile of our income streams.
This year we have delivered on our target to reduce our net debt to below 1bn, and our LTV to below 50%, and to implement efficiency and cost-saving measures.
Reducing gearing and enhancing value Driving operational efficiency Throughout this process of fide-gearing, One way in which we have increased wehave been successful in both protecting theefficiency in our business is through and enhancing the value of our business.
We have secured While achieving a reduction of 611m in net cost savings of approximately 2m on the debt since March 2011, we have increased day-to-day reactive repairs and maintenance thebusiness NNNAV by 23%.
works we undertake on our assets in Britain.
We have done this by appointing a single Last year we set out a target to reduce our supplier, Kier, to undertake all reactive repairs net debt to below 1bn in the year, which and maintenance across our entire UK wesuccessfully achieved ahead of schedule portfolio.
We have ensured that the new in August.
In addition, we wanted to reduce arrangement will provide greater efficiency our LTVto below 50%.
As at 30 September and cost control, as well as an enhanced and 2013 group LTV was 48%.
We also set a more responsive service to our tenants.
target to reduce property expenses and overheads by5% on a run rate basis We are also making improvements and comparing September 2013 to September upgrades to our IT and information systems 2012, whichwe have also achieved.
and processes to prepare the business for continued future growth andto support ourgrowing fund management business.
