26 Grainger plc Strategic report Rents Cafe on the Tilt Estate A beautiful and attractive place to live in East Dulwich, South London, 296 properties with a mixture of market rented accommodation and regulated tenancies.
Situated around a private garden square for residents and with a local cafe and art gallery, this estate is a well sought after example of a vibrant place to live, centred around rental accommodation.
Tilt Estate, East Dulwich, London 296 properties Rental income is a regular and predictable proactivity of our lettings team and our Rental income levels for income stream for our business.
The main asset management activities.
the year have remained contributors to our rental income stream Our regulated tenancy portfolio also are our wholly-owned UK and German provides a reliable rental income stream strong, underpinned portfolios.
Our opportunities to increase albeit at a lower gross yield than our market rent come largely from rent reviews of rented portfolio since the rents charged bygrowing demand existing tenanted assets.
on our regulated tenancies are sub-market forrenting in the UK.
In our market let properties and those rents.
Application can be made for rents we manage on behalf of others, rents on regulated tenancies to be re-registered Gross rental income follow market trends and reflect the quality every two years by local Government rent of the individual unit.
Any rent increase is capped at for the year was 71.3m, length of tenure is around 20 months, the percentage change in UK RPI since the representing 25% of we have regular opportunities to ensure rent was last registered plus a percentage that we maximise rents and our related prescribed by law, which is currently 5%.
fees through our market awareness, the In the past year our regulated tenancy portfolio generated 30m of gross rent.
S St tr rate ateg gi ic c r re ep po or rt t Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27 Net rents 2013 2012 m m UK Residential 37.2 41.8 Germany 8.7 17.1 Retirement Solutions 2.3 3.7 Development 0.3 0.2 Total 48.5 62.8 The UK rental market continues to grow portfolio generated net rental income in the with strong consumer demand and year of 37.2m 2012: 41.8m, an anticipated significant interest among international reduction following the portfolio transfers into institutional investors.
The UK private co-investment structures.
Underlying rental rented sector is beginning to show signs levels per asset, however, remain strong.
of maturity, with recent investments from The German business delivered net rents, major pension funds and the breakthrough before property management expenses, of of several build-to-rent schemes, including 11.6m 2012: 22.8m.
Again, the reduction our development in Barking, East was anticipated and resulted from the London.
We expect this momentum to transfer of the two Stuttgart portfolios into continue, providing future opportunities our co-investment vehicle with Heitman.
for leveraging our expertise and skills to Certain assets in the Retirement solutions generate further rental income.
portfolio also produce a net rental income Total net rents in the year amounted to and this amounted to 2.3m in the year 2012: 3.7m.
