16 Grainger plc Strategic report Strategic objective: # 3 grainger balance Balancing the sources of our incomethrough exploiting changingmarket opportunities Young Street, Kensington Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17 How we are delivering on our objective Due to the growth in the UK rental market there are anincreasing number of opportunities for generating greaternon-trading income.
Over the past two years wehave increased our non-trading income streams significantly which helps to cover our operational and financecosts.
Grainger partners with APG, Europes biggest Other existing rent and fee income generators pension fund asset manager, tocreate GRIP, In addition to the new initiatives above one of the largest  UK GRIP and the Heitman co-investment vehicle private rented sectorfunds.
we have a number of other key business This year, we joined together with APG as ventures whichgenerate non-trading income.
co-equity partners to create the GRIP fund, Our Residential Asset Management Platform which initially purchased the 350m portfolio RAMP with Lloyds Bank is a significant from G:res1, a fund set up by Grainger in fee income driver.
In addition to a minority equity stake in assetmanagement to distressed residential the GRIP fund, Grainger alsoprovides asset property portfolios in administration or and property management services in return receivership across Britain.
This fund marks one of the biggest We are the development partner to the institutional investments in the UK private Defence Infrastructure Organisation of rented sector.
theMinistry of Defence and the Homes In addition, during the year Grainger andCommunities Agency for Wellesley, formedaco-investment vehicle with Global theAldershot urban extension in the real estateinvestment firm, Heitman, to SouthEast of England which will comprise acquire aportfolio owned by Grainger and to 3,850 new homes, two new schools, invest infurther German residential property.
andnew health and leisure facilities.
Sources of income and profit m 1.
Profits on sale of vacant property 52 113 1 Finlay St, London Improving sales margins through refurbishment an extensive, highquality refurbishment of a property formally subject to a regulated tenancy.
