Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 81 At 30 September 2013, the directors had companys transactions and disclose unexpired power to repurchase up to with reasonable accuracy at any time Other 41,600,000 shares.
thefinancial position of the company and the group and enable them to ensure that disclosures Directors interests in significant contracts the financial statements and the directors No directors were materially interested in remuneration report comply with the anycontract of significance.
Companies Act 2006 and, asregards the Principal activities group financial statements, Article 4 of the Grainger plc is a holding company and Statement of directors responsibilities IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible during the year the group through The directors are responsible for for safeguarding the assets of the company subsidiaries of Grainger plc has continued preparing the annual report, the directors and the group and hence for taking its activities of property trading, investment, remuneration report and the financial reasonable steps for the prevention and development and management.
statements in accordance with applicable detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Each of the directors, whose names Results for the year Company law requires the directors and functions are listed on pages 54 The results of the group are set out in the to prepare financial statements for and 55 confirm that, to the best of consolidated income statement on page 87 each financial year.
Under that law the their knowledge: which shows a profit for the financial year directors have prepared the group financial the group financial statements, which attributable to the owners of the company statements in accordance with International have been prepared in accordance with of 53.6m 2012: 0.4m.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true adopted by the European Union, and the and fairview of the assets, liabilities, Dividends parent company financial statements in financial position and profit ofthegroup: An interim dividend of 0.58p 2012: 0.55p accordance with United Kingdom Generally the strategic report on pages 2 to 53 per share was paid on 5 July 2013.
Accepted Accounting Practice United includes a fair review of the development The directors recommend the payment Kingdom Accounting Standards and and performance of the business and of a final dividend of 1.46p per share applicable law.
Under company law the the position of the group, together 2012: 1.37p, to be paid on 7 February directors must not approve the financial with a description of the principal risks 2013 making a total dividend for the statements unless they are satisfied that anduncertainties that it faces: year of 2.04p 2012: 1.92p per share.
they give a true and fair view of the state so far as the directors are aware, there is Any shareholder wishing to participate in of affairs of the group and the company no relevant audit information of which the Dividend Reinvestment Plan for the and of the profit or loss of the group for the companys auditors are unaware: and 2013 final dividend will need to ensure that that period.
In preparing these financial the directors have taken all the steps that their application form is returned to our statements, the directors are required to: they ought to have taken as a director registrars by 13 January 2014. select suitable accounting policies and in order to make themselves aware of then apply them consistently: any relevant audit information and to Share Capital make judgements and accounting establish that the companys auditors are During the year 148,278 shares were estimates that are reasonable aware of that information.
issued pursuant to the exercise of share and prudent: options under the groups SAYE scheme.
state whether IFRSs as adopted by The maintenance and integrity of the The company has one class of ordinary the European Union and applicable Grainger plc website is the responsibility of shares and all shares rank equally and are UK Accounting Standards have been the directors: the work carried out by the fully paid.
No person holds shares carrying followed, subject to any material auditors does not involve consideration of special rights with regard to control of the departures disclosed and explained in these matters and, accordingly, theauditors company.
There are neither restrictions the group and parent company financial accept no responsibility for any changes on the transfer of shares nor the size of statements respectively: and that may haveoccurred to the financial a holding which are both governed by prepare the financial statements on statements since they were initially the Articles of Association and prevailing the going concern basis unless it is presented on the website.
The directors are not aware inappropriate to presume that the Legislation in the United Kingdom of any agreements between holders of company will continue in business.
governing the preparation and shares in the companythat may result in dissemination of financial statements may restrictions on the transfer of shares or The directors are responsible for keeping differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the 82 Grainger plc Governance Health and safety Independent auditors and disclosure of Other disclosures Grainger has a well-developed Health and information toauditors continued Safety Management System for the internal As far as each director is aware, there is and external control of health and safety no relevant audit information of which risks which is managed by the Director of the companys auditors are unaware.
Insurance of directors Health and Safety.
This includes the use of Each director has taken steps that they The company has put in place insurance online risk management systems for the ought to have taken as directors in order to cover its directors and officers against identification, mitigation and reporting of to make themselves aware of any relevant the costs of defending themselves in real time health and safety management audit information and to establish that civil legal proceedings taken against information.
The group health and safety the companys auditors are aware of that them in that capacity and in respect committee consists of members from information.
 LLP ofdamages awarded in such proceedings.
across the organisation and is chaired by have expressed their willingness to continue Following shareholder approval, the the chief operating officer.
The committee in office as auditors to the company and group maintains insurance for Grainger continues to monitor the delivery of legal group.
A resolution to reappoint them as plcs directors in respect of their duties as compliance in health and safety through auditors to the company and group will director, which is a qualifying third party audit and implementation of improvements beproposed at the next AGM.
indemnity provision for the purposes to enable the group to become best of the Companies Act 2006.
Takeover directive was in place during the financial year On a change of control, the core banking and at the date of approval of these Employment of disabled persons facilities described in note 28 to the financial statements.
The company gives full and fair accounts will become repayable should consideration to applications alternative terms for continuing the facilities Financial risk management foremployment made by disabled not be agreed with the lenders within Details are included in note 29 to the persons, having regard totheirparticular 45days.
There are no other material financial statements.
In the event of an matters relating to a change ofcontrol employeebecoming disabled every effort ofthe company following a takeover bid.
Corporate responsibility CR is made to ensure thattheir employment Our approach to CR is based on our within the company continues and The directors have confirmed approval assessment of the potential risk and thatappropriate training is arranged where ofthe Directors report.
In the year ended 30September 2013, the group necessary.
It is the policy of the company that the training, career development and By order of the board achieved 67% and partially achieved 33% of the applicable CR targets that promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of it committed to meeting by that date.
Further information is provided in other employees.
the corporate responsibility report on Michael Windle pages46to 53.
Employee involvement Company Secretary The group places considerable value on 7 November 2013 International operations the involvement of its employees and has continued its practice of keeping them Our German portfolio continues to be centrally managed and controlled from informed on matters affecting them as employees, for example, eligibility to join ouroverseas offices.
company share schemes, and on the various factors affecting the performance of the group.
Communication is made using the intranet, The Source, and through regular meetings with, and presentations by, senior management.
