02 Grainger plc Strategic report Our business model grainger Assets residential Reversionary assets Through our business model we deliver Market value We acquire tenanted properties No.
of units at a discount to vacant possession strong returns from value and sell them when they 1,397m 9,346 our reversionary and become vacant.
We continue to Vacant possession value Reversionary surplus seek acquisition opportunities for market rented assets reversionary assets.
1,849m 452m and our residential expertise allows us Market rented assets to supplement these No.
of units Market value We let at market rents and actively returns by generating manage our assets todrive rental growth.
We will grow our market 446m 4,007 management rental business and develop fee income.
purpose built residential rental assets tohold and manage for the longterm.
Our expertise and the scale of our assets and Assets under management operations enable us Market value We earn fees from our Units under management management of residential to generate sustainable assets owned by third-parties 8,216 953m income streams.
or within co-investment Share of profits and vehicles.
We will use our revaluation gains Fees in 2013 residential expertise to increase our feeincome.
13m 15m Total assets owned and managed In total, therefore, we No.
of units owned Market value own and manage 21,569 properties with a market 13,353 1,843m value of 2.8bn.
of units owned and managed Market value 2,796m 21,569 Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 03 Our business model Sales Rents Fees Profit from sales Net rents Gross fees and other income 77.7m 48.5m 12.9m The majority of our recurring sales Rental income is a key income A key strategic element of revenues and profit on sale comes stream for our business.
Graingers business is to seek from the sale of properties when they Itis regular and predictable, opportunities to generate fall vacant normal sales thereby complementing our sales from recurring income.
Over the past releasing the inherent reversionary trading.
Rental income is derived years we have been successful surplus.
In addition, when we from both our reversionary and in increasing fee income from a decide that a particular property or our market rented portfolios.
Gross portfolio no longer offers attractive Ouropportunities to increase rent fee income was 12.5m in 2013, future value growth we sell these come largely from rent reviews an increase of 24% compared properties while occupied tenanted on existing reversionary tenanted to 2012, derived from asset and sales.
We also take advantage assets and renewals and new lets property management fees from ofopportunities for adding value in our market rented portfolio.
our co-investment vehicles and by utilising our in-house expertise management contracts.
to refurbish a select number of properties before sale.
A balanced risk profile A balanced risk profile A balanced risk profile Our sales revenue a stable and reliable cash In our market let properties and those we Our fee income comes from ventures such flow and the associated profit from sales will manage for others, rents follow market trends.
asGRIP, our JVs with Moorfield and Heitman, continue to be delivered through the predictable As the average length of tenure is around our partnership with the Ministry of Defence sales of our reversionary assets and through our 20 months we have regular opportunities at Aldershot and from our RAMP business in development projects including Macaulay Walk, to maximise rents and related fees through partnership with Lloyds Bank.
The breadth and Berewood, Hortensia Road andYoung Street.
our market awareness, our proactive lettings depth of our offering and our position in the team and our asset management activities.
residential market will enable us to generate Application for rent increases on units in our newfee earning opportunities.
regulated portfolio can be sought every two years based on increases in UK RPI plus 5%.
How we maintain success How we maintain success How we maintain success Sales of reversionary assets will continue to We expect the current momentum in the UK We have successfully increased fee income generate profit on sale.
Our 2013 14 financial rental market to continue.
Strong consumer through a number of different ventures and year has startedwell.
At 31 October the group demand should drive further rental growth and across all business units.
We will continue sales pipeline completed sales, contracts we will increase our presence and rental income to seek diverse opportunities to generate exchanged and properties in solicitors hands through our new build-to-rent schemes.
amounted to52.3m with UK vacant sales values 6.3% aboveSeptember 2013 valuations.
Read more on pages 24 and 25 Read more on pages 26 and 27 Read more on pages 28 and 29
