14 Grainger plc Strategic report Strategic objective: # 2 National Asset and Property Management capabilities Grainger offices Kier service centres grainger returns Ensuring our assets are located and managed todeliverthe best returns 60% of assets owned are in London and the South East Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15 How we are delivering on our objective Maximising returns from our assets by ensuring they are located in the best places and by actively managing them.
By using our skills, expertise and broad The assets in our UK Residential business geographical reach in residential asset were sold, on average throughout 2013, management, we are able to maximise the after107 days and at 10.4% above their growth in capital values from our investments September 2012 VPV.
To achieve an average and ensure that our portfolios valuations of just 107 days across over 800 individual outperform the general market.
In the UK, sales highlights the residential management the growth in capital values of our portfolios skills available within Grainger and consistently beat the leading national house demonstrates the liquidity of the portfolio.
price indices Nationwide and Halifax.
Our current activities include residential In the year to 30 September 2013 these two management, trading, development, indices showed an average rise of 5.6%.
By investment, fund management, accounting contrast, the vacant possession value VPV and reporting and this one-stop-shop facility inour combined UK portfolios rose by 6.4% combined with our national geographic whilst their market value rose by 8.3%.
The presence is a strong competitive advantage.
valuations are supported by regular sales The addition of our new subsidiary, Grainger evidence 675units of vacant properties Trust, a For Profit Registered Provider of which on average were made at 7.9% in social housing, also gives us access to this excess of September 2012 VPV.
market where many of our future main competitors operate.
Our geographic spread This increase in market value equates to will enable us to seize opportunities that are atotal addition to net assets, before asset difficult for most London-centric operators.
Within this, the VPV of our UK Residential portfolio, which benefits from We will continue to emphasise this breadth a concentration weighted towards London as part of the Grainger Residential and the South East of England, rose by 8.2%.
The VPV of the more geographically diverse Retirement solutions assets rose by 2.3%.
Grainger UK portfolio as of 30 September 2013 Vacant possession Increase in vacant Market value % of No.
of units value m possession value % m market value 1.
