06 Grainger plc Strategic report Strategic objectives Our objective is to be a leader in the residential market, delivering sustainable long term returns to our investors and our partners from a combination of sales, rents and fee income.
Our strategy looking forward: Actions and impacts: # We will continue to invest in our scalable owner We will develop new 1 manager platform, our capabilities, our skilled people, and innovative products expert processes, and financial strength.
This will create to create and exploit business opportunities across the residential market grainger opportunities as the and attract high quality partners.
We will continue to engage with others to push forward thinking about market changes.
leadership important issues that will take our industry forward and We will maintain our leading position create better products and services to meet our stakeholders needs and ambitions.
in the residential property market # All we do will be based on our two key principles We are currently active 2 active asset management and geographical focus in the doughnut zones that lead to outperformance.
Our appetite to acquire around central London regulated tenancy portfolios and individual regulated grainger to acquire large scale properties will continue.
We will also focus on the development of purpose built residential rental stock build-to-rent opportunities.
returns build-to-rent in London and the South East and key regional cities.
In some cases we will acquire stock by We will locate and manageour forward commitment to the developers.
assets to deliver the best returns # The emerging more mature, customer focused private At Berewood we will 3 rental sector PRS will become a more significant part develop our own PRS ofour business.
We will also increase our focus and our stock to hold and manage grainger capabilities on the creation of joint ventures and fund for the long term and management structures to generate recurring fee balance income.
We will increase the proportion of our income we are investigating similar from net rents and fees, towards 60% and ultimately to potential at Aldershot.
We will balance the sources of our cover our interest costs.
income through exploiting changing marketopportunities # Our current level of gearing of 45%50% is appropriate Going forward, whilst we 4 in the medium term and LTV, rather than absolute will require purchases debt levels, will be the more relevant measure for us grainger to meet strict investment going forward.
Wewill also actively manage our average criteria, we will be actively cost of debt downwards from its current level, towards optimisation seeking and creating 5.0%.
With headroom of 292m, andmindful of maintaining appropriate leverage, we are now able investment opportunities.
We will optimise our financial to take advantage of opportunities that are aligned and operational gearing to match with ourstrategic objectives.
