Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 Our partners Our partners are key to oursuccess: we create mutually beneficial relationships that enable usto create value for ourselves and our partners in the residential property market.
Elsewhere in this report we highlight best exemplified by the announcement in the new and existing partnerships in our May of the award of a 10-year contract to funds, co-investment and development Kier for the provision ofreactive repairs and businesses.
In support of these and other maintenance services in the UK.
Achievements in 2013 income-generating activities, the creation The core objectives of this agreement, and maintenance of effective long-term the first large-scale and only national relationships with suppliers and advisers arrangement of its kind in the Private is central to ensuring our sustainable Rented Sector, are a reduction in the costs 12.5m profitability and to increasing efficiency.
of these services both to Grainger, and to This year we have made significant strides its co-investors, and an improvement in the Fee income forward in a number of areas.
quality of services provided to the tenants At the start of the year we in the properties that we manage.
In the implemented our legal panel, which longer term we hope to work closely with focused our use of legal advisers on their Kier on opportunities where our skills and 24% areas of expertise and improved our interests are aligned.
management of a crucial area of cost and In Germany, in parallel with the Increase partnership arrangement with Heitman, expertise.
In December we outsourced the process of inspection and valuation of we have undertaken a fundamental review of how best to take our business forward our properties owned or managed by our Retirement solutions business to Allsop, and ensure that we possess the capabilities and resources that we require to meet a enabling both an improvement in the use ofinternal resources and the efficiency with new level of expectation and performance.
Accordingly we have entered into a longwhich the inspection and valuations are carried out.
This emphasis on ensuring that term arrangement with Treureal to provide property management services to our we focus our people and our management time on those areas that add most value wholly and jointly-owned portfolios.
has been at the heart of our Business Improvement Programme and has been
