46 Grainger plc Strategic report Corporate responsibility How CR supports our business strategy The CEO perspective from Andrew Cunningham Looking back over the past year, our market.
We defined the values that have Our values achievements demonstrate Graingers been at the heart of Grainger for the last commitment to embedding corporate 100 years through a collaborative, bottomresponsibility into our everyday work and up process with our employees.
Our values the competitive advantage behaving as a will set the guidelines for behaviours and responsible business provides.
Partners and a framework to make good commercial investors like APG see page 11 and page and ethical decisions going forward.
I also As a responsible business, 17 and the Ministry of Defence see page believe that they will help us to retain and we take a long-term approach 29 have clear standards of corporate attract the talented people needed to to what we do.
We are proud behaviour and responsibility a robust deliver our strategy see pages 32 and 42. to be and committed to continuing corporate responsibility track record is on One ofnext years CR targets is to embed as the leader in the residential par with our status as a listed company, our our values throughout the business.
large portfolio, and geographic diversity in making Grainger a partner of choice.
We modelled the financial impact This means: Other organisations see those relationships of sustainability risk: We are always striving to be and know we are a company of quality.
The UK governments 2012 Climate the best, whether its improving Our corporate responsibility CR Change Risk Assessment identified damage how we do things or finding programme is directly linked to our to property due to flooding as a key risk new opportunities that give us business model and four key strategic and the Governments recent negotiations the edge in the residential market.
objectives: leadership, location, balance and with the insurance industry also highlighted Our expertise is the key to optimisation.
We set CR targets to manage the financial impact of this risk for property our success, creating confidence risks and opportunities related to our owners.
We undertook an extensive in both ourselves and others.
strategic objectives and then embed these process of flood risk assessment for initiatives into our everyday work for long- 13,500 UK properties this year.
Flood risk At the heart of all of this is term value creation.
Im pleased to report is already considered in our sustainable a mutual respect, whether it that we achieved 67% of our corporate investment policy, published in 2012. is for colleagues, customers, responsibility targets this year.
For example, Understanding the financial impact of competitors, communities in 2012 13: flood risk and actively managing it in our orour clients.
existing portfolio and acquisitions is part We defined the values necessary of how we manage our assets to deliver for Grainger to meet its customer demands: the best returns.
Our flood risk database also feeds into business recovery plans for Our values are the foundation of our leadership of the residential property environmental disasters see page 32.
