Strategic Report Board of Directors and Board of Directors and Executive Management Executive Management Directors Michael Harper 69 Sir Nigel Rudd 67 Simon Pryce 52 Mark Hoad 43 Chairman Non-Executive Director Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Appointed to the Board as a Appointed to the Board as Appointed to the Board as Group Appointed to the Board as Group non-executive director in Chairman Designate in December Chief Executive in June 2007.
February 2005 and became 2013, it is intended that Sir Nigel Simon also chairs the BBA Aviation Mark is a Chartered Accountant.
Non-Executive Chairman in June Rudd will succeed Michael Harper Executive Management He joined BBA Aviation as Group 2007.
Michael is an engineer by as Chairman in May 2014.
In addition to his Financial Controller in May 2005 training and has a wealth of Sir Nigel is Chairman of Heathrow BBA Aviation plc position, Simon from RMC Group plc where he had experience gained as a director Airport Holdings Limited and a is on the Board of the General worked since 1996 in a number of of Williams plc where, on the Non-Executive Director of Sappi Aviation Manufacturers finance roles, including expanding demerger in 2000, he became Limited.
In February 2011, he was Association GAMA, the US his international business Chief Executive of Kidde plc.
He is appointed Chairman of the general aviation trade body, and experience with periods based currently Chairman of Ricardo plc, Business Growth Fund and is Chairman of its International in Germany, Croatia and Australia, a non-executive director of became a Senior Advisor to Affairs Committee.
Simon is a where he was Chief Financial QinetiQ Group plc and a Fellow Barclays plc in January 2013.
Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Officer of ASX-listed company of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
Sir Nigel has a wealth of Society, a member of the Council Adelaide Brighton.
He will retire from the Board at experience at the top of UK of the University of Reading, the AGM on 7 May 2014. industry, including previous a Chartered Accountant and chairmanships of Invensys plc, a member of the Chartered Alliance Boots plc, Pendragon plc, Institute for Securities and Pilkington plc and as founder Investment.
He was previously of Williams plc he oversaw its with JP Morgan and Lazards demerger in 2000, creating in London and New York, and Chubb plc and Kidde plc.
Sir Nigel GKN plc in a range of international is Chancellor of Loughborough finance and management roles.
University, Deputy Lieutenant of Derbyshire and a Freeman of the City of London.
Executive Management Simon Pryce Mark Hoad Peg Billson Sheena Mackay Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director President and CEO, Group HR Director Aftermarket Services 08 BBA complete.
indb 8 12 03 2014 12:10 Strategic Report Board of Directors and Executive Management Key to committee members Audit and Risk Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Nick Land 66 Susan Kilsby 55 Peter Ratcliffe 65 Wayne Edmunds 58 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in August Appointed to the Board in April Appointed to the Board in January Appointed to the Board in August 2006 and Senior Independent 2012 and became Chairman of 2009.
Peter brings to the Board 2013.
Wayne is Chief Executive Director and Chairman of the the Remuneration Committee in his experience of working in an of Invensys plc and has extensive Audit and Risk Committee, Nick May 2013.
Susan brings to the industry focused on customer commercial experience, was formerly Chairman of Ernst & Board her global investment service, as he was the Chief particularly in the US markets.
Young LLP and a member of the banking experience, having Executive Officer of Carnival plc Previously, Wayne was Chief Global Executive Board of Ernst begun her career at The First until April 2003 and Chief Financial Officer of Invensys plc, & Young, positions which he held Boston Corporation and later Executive Officer of the P&O having joined the business in from 1995 to 2006.
In addition worked at Bankers Trust and BZW, Princess Cruises division of 2008 as CFO of Invensys Process to his experience as a Chartered before the latter was acquired Carnival Corporation and Carnival Systems.
He joined Invensys plc Accountant, Nick brings to the by Credit Suisse.
He also from Reuters America, Inc. having Board his extensive skills Chairman of the EMEA Mergers brings his significant experience held other senior financial roles as an advisor to international and Acquisitions team at Credit both as an executive and a in the technology sector, businesses.
His current Suisse until 2009 and she was non-executive director of UK including 17 years at Lucent appointments include being also a non-executive director and US public listed companies.
Technologies, Inc. anon-executive director of of LOccitane.
Her current Hewas previously an executive Vodafone Group Plc, Ashmore appointments include being director of The Peninsular and Group plc and Alliance Boots Chairman Designate of Shire plc Oriental Steam Navigation GmbH.
He is also an adviser to and a non-executive director of Company.
He is a Chartered Alsbridge plc, sits on the Financial Coca-Cola HBC AG and Green Accountant and a dual US UK Reporting Council and chairs the Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. citizen.
He is currently a board of the Vodafone Group Herexperience advising clients non-executive director of Mead Foundation.
across a range of industries Johnson Nutrition Company includes significant deals in the and Casa Pacifica Center for aviation and aerospace sectors.
Hugh McElroy Michael Scheeringa Iain Simm President, Group President and CEO, Group General Counsel Business Development Flight Support and Company Secretary 09 BBA complete.
