Directors Report The directors have carried out a critical review of the Groups Going Concern Going Concern 2014 budget and medium-term plans, with due regard for the risks and uncertainties to which the Group is exposed and the impact that these could have on trading performance.
The key assumptions used in The Groups business activities together with the factors likely constructing the budget were that: to affect its future development, performance and position are Signature and ASIG will see gradual recovery throughout set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 92.
The financial the plan period through modest market growth: position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position Engine Repair and Overhaul will continue to progress through are described on pages 56 and 57.
In addition, note 17 of operational improvement: and the Consolidated Financial Statements includes the Groups Legacy Supports platform specific demand will be enhanced objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: through new licences signed.
its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company risk and liquidity risk.
and the Group have adequate resources to continue in The Groups committed borrowing facilities are a operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they $750 million multicurrency revolving credit facility, dated continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in 21 April 2011, with a split maturity of $250 million which is due preparing the annual financial statements.
to expire in April 2014, and $500 million which is due to expire in April 2016, and $300 million in senior loan notes in the US private placement market with maturities of seven, ten and twelve years.
Under the $750 million multicurrency revolving credit facility, as at 31 December 2013, the Group had available $432 million of undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
These debt obligations and facilities are subject to cross default.
Further details relating to these debt arrangements are provided in note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The bank facility and the US private placement notes are subject to two main financial covenants: maximum net debt to underlying EBITDA of 3.5 times and minimum net interest cover of 3.0 times underlying EBITDA.
The Directors expect the Group to comply with these covenants for the foreseeable future.
The Groups forecasts and projections taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facilities in the foreseeable future.
The principal risks and uncertainties affecting the forecasts and projections, to which the Group is exposed, relate to the number of hours of flying activity, principally in B&GA, but also to a lesser extent in commercial and military aviation.
Flying hours largely dictate the drivers of revenue, namely fuel volumes in Signature, aircraft movements in ASIG, engine overhaul cycles in ERO and demand for components in Legacy Support and APPH.
Further details of these risks and uncertainties are provided on page 21.
