Strategic Report Flight Support Signature Flight Support The worlds largest and market-leading FBO network Revenue 2013 2012 Inc dec $m $m % USA 812.0 788.9 3% Europe & ROW 156.4 164.0 5 % Total 968.4 952.9 2% Performance Signature Flight Support Signature delivered a strong performance in 2013 as it outpaced its major market in North America and grew its network through meaningful acquisitions and the continued expansion of Signature Select, its asset light licensing model.
Signatures headline revenue increased by 2% to $968.4 million 2012: $952.9 million.
Adjusted for fuel price fluctuations, organic revenue increased by 4%.
US B&GA activity increased by 2% in the year and European B&GA movements declined by 2%.
In Europe, Signature was also impacted by slot availability at London Heathrow, although this issue has largely been resolved going into 2014.
Continued outperformance in North America offset this European market softness.
During the course of the year Signature completed or signed agreements to add five new FBOs to its network.
There are now a total of 118 FBOs in the network globally, with 71 of these in North America.
As previously announced, Signature extended its presence at Van Nuys Airport through the acquisition of Maguire Aviation Group, LLC making Signature the largest operator at this key B&GA airport.
The acquisition completed in December 2013.
Signature will also extend its leading position at Westchester County Airport through the acquisition of Jet Systems, which is expected to complete in the first half of 2014.
Since year end Signature has also agreed to acquire FBOs at London Biggin Hill and Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport, Michigan for a total cash consideration of $7.0 million.
Signature further extended its network in Europe, South America, the Caribbean and Asia as it commenced operations at Berlin Tegel Airport, won an RFP for a new FBO at Port of Spain, Trinidad, started handling operations at Singapore Changi International Airport and, in early 2014, started construction for a new FBO in Panama through an airport licensing agreement with ASIG.
In September Signature purchased a 75% share of Starlink Aviation Incs FBO in Montral, Quebec, Canada, formerly part of the Signature Select network, representing the first acquisition of a Signature Select location.
The Signature Select network continued to grow with the addition of the Sonoma Jet Center at Sonoma County Airport.
Signature also signed an exclusive licensing arrangement with Imperial Oil to provide its 37 Esso dealers in Canada with the opportunity to join the Signature Select network.
indb 31 12 03 2014 12:10 Signature continued progress in securing lease extensions across its network with the average Signature residual lease life of Signatures locations in the US at 18 years.
In total, Signature has secured FBO experience 12 lease extensions in the last 2 years, including a 10-year lease extension to our sole source Boca Raton, Florida facility in Washington DC.
Signature also won the RFP to construct a new facility at Mineta San Jose International Airport, under a 50-year lease which is expected to be completed in 2015.
08.30 Signature has completed two of its previously announced construction projects with the Customers arrive and are met by a warm, friendly Signature grand opening of the new dedicated NetJets private terminal at Palm Beach International greeting from a team who are Airport in June and the state-of-the-art private aviation terminal at Newark Liberty focused on providing exceptional International Airport in November.
Meanwhile, the ongoing redevelopment of Signatures safety and service.
FBO at Luton remains on track with the new hangar expected to be operational in the second quarter of 2014 and the new FBO opening in the second half of 2015.
16.09 In preparation for flight the Signatures commitment to consistently exceeding customer expectations by continuously jet is refuelled by our highly improving the safety and quality of the services it provides resulted in another increase in its trained team.
customer loyalty score to 85%, the highest level in the companys history.
16.45 The jet is guided safely on to Key Facts the taxiway, ready for an efficient and on-time departure.
118 50 150m A truly international FBO Unique network 50 FBOs Over 150 million gallons of network 118 locations in top US metro locations aviation fuel sold per annum worldwide 32 BBA complete.
