Strategic Report Our Strengths Our Strengths As a focused business, BBA Aviation is ideally placed to exploit opportunities in the markets in which we operate.
Five major factors will contribute to BBAAviations continued success.
Market leadership We are market leaders in the markets in which we operate with strong, recognised brands.
Signature Flight Support is the worlds leading fixed base operation FBO network with 85 wholly owned worldwide locations and 27 additional locations in which we operate as part of a joint venture or where we have a minority interest.
Six further locations operate under licence.
ASIG is the largest independent refueller in the world.
Our Engine Repair & Overhaul businesses have market-leading positions in the majority of programmes in which they participate.
Legacy Support has a proven capability in the adoption of intellectual property to provide seamless support of OEM pedigree parts.
Barriers to entry The requirement for a lease from an airport authority to operate an FBO.
The average unexpired lease term of our FBO network in the USA is 18 years.
The need for an authorisation to provide commercial aviation services at individual airports and the required technical capability around into-plane refuelling.
The need for a licence from an OEM to service its engines.
We are authorised by the OEMs for engine overhauls on 80% of the engines powering the B&GA fleet.
Intellectual property on aviation component sub-systems and systems which we license from OEMs.
Service orientation attractive financial characteristics Our businesses have a service focus and operate with low asset intensity and a naturally flexible cost base, making them highly cash generative and inherently well suited to deal with market cyclicality.
Growth There are significant growth opportunities across all of our businesses resulting from cyclical recovery when it comes, structural growth and the scope for continued consolidation in what are generally fragmented markets.
Common focus The business is actively managed by an empowered, experienced and motivated management team with a defined Group-wide focus as expressed in BBA Aviations vision, mission and values.
