Directors Report Directors Interests in Shares Additional Disclosures Additional Disclosures Directors interests in shares and share options are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Directors Indemnities Group Results and Dividends The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour The results for the year ended 31 December 2013 are shown of each of its directors under which the Company agrees in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 96. to indemnify each director against liabilities incurred by that The directors recommend the payment of a final ordinary director in respect of acts or omissions arising in the course of share dividend for 2013 of 11.0 net per share on 23 May 2014to their office or otherwise by virtue of their office.
In addition, the shareholders on the register at the close of business on 11April Company has entered into indemnity deed polls in substantially 2014, which together with the interim dividend paid on similar terms in favour of members of the Executive 1November 2013 makes a total of 15.40 net per ordinary share Management Committee and other members of senior for the year 2012: 14.65.
Shareholders will receive their dividends management.
Where such deeds are for the benefit of directors in sterling unless they have previously elected to receive their they are qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by dividends in US dollars.
Shareholders who wish to receive s309B of the Companies Act 1985 or s234 of the Companies Act dividends in US dollars must make the appropriate election to 2006, as applicable.
At the date of this report, these indemnities Capita Registrars no later than 5.30pm Wednesday 30 April 2014. are therefore in force for the benefit of all the current directors Anew election is not required if shareholders have previously of the Company and other members of senior management.
made a valid election to receive dividends in US dollars.
Further On 1 November 2007, a subsidiary of the Company, BBA information concerning the dividend currency election can be Aviation Finance, entered into qualifying third party indemnity found on the Companys website at www bbaaviation.
provisions as defined by s234 of the Companies Act 2006 in favour of its directors, under which each director is indemnified Acquisitions and Disposals against liabilities incurred by that director in respect of acts or Acquisitions and disposals in the year are described on page 56 omissions arising in the course of their office or otherwise by and in note 24. virtue of their office and such provisions remain in force as at the date of this Report.
Events After the Balance Sheet Date In February 2014, the Group completed the disposal of APPH Employee Information to Hroux-Devtek Inc for a total cash consideration of $128 The Company provides employees with various opportunities million.
As a result of the disposal of APPH, ordinarily a section 75 to obtain information on matters of concern to them and to debt would have been triggered.
The Group has agreed with the improve their awareness of the financial and economic factors Trustees of the BBA Income and Protection Plan to apportion the that affect the performance of the Company.
These include section 75 debt and put in place an asset backed funding all hands briefings, staff forums and meetings with trade structure which will replace the previously agreed schedule of unions that take place throughout the year.
In 2013, a number deficit contributions as set out in note 19. of communication initiatives have been developed to foster effective two-way communication around theorganisation.
Research and Development All companies within the Group strive to operate fairly at The Group continues to devote effort and resources to research all times and this includes not permitting discrimination against and development of new processes and products.
Costs of any employee or applicant for employment on the basis of race, $4.4 million have been charged to the income statement religion or belief, colour, gender, disability, national origin, age, during the year.
military service, veteran status, sexual orientation or marital status.
This includes giving full and fair consideration to suitable Market Value of Land and Buildings applications for employment from disabled persons and making The directors are of the opinion that the market values of the appropriate accommodations so that if existing employees Groups properties are not substantially different from the values become disabled they can continue to be employed, wherever included in the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements.
practicable, in the same job or, if this is not practicable, making every effort to find suitable alternative employment and to Board of Directors provide relevant training.
The current directors of the Company at the date of this report appear on pages 8 and 9.
Mark Harper retired from the Board Agreements on 10 May 2013 and Hansel Tookes resigned from the Board Under s992 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company discloses on 30 September 2013.
Wayne Edmunds was appointed to that in the event of a change of control in the Company: i the the Board on 7 August 2013 and Sir Nigel Rudd was appointed Companys $750 million revolving credit facility dated 21 April to the Board on 1 December 2013.
All the other directors held 2011 and its $300 million private note placement dated May 2011 office throughout the financial year under review.
could become repayable: and the Engine Lease Agreement In October 2013, the Company announced that dated 29 June 2009 as amended under which $62 million of immediately following the 2014 Annual General Meeting, aircraft engines have been leased to the ERO business could be Michael Harper would retire from the Board as Chairman and terminated: ii certain authorisations issued to the ERO business that Sir Nigel Rudd would be appointed as Chairman in his place.
indb 90 12 03 2014 12:45 Directors Report Resolutions at the Annual General Meeting tocarry out certain works on the authorising OEMs engines Additional Disclosures couldbecome terminable by the relevant OEM OEMs include The Companys AGM will be held on 7 May 2014.
Accompanying this Report is the Notice of AGM which sets out the resolutions to Rolls-Royce, Pratt & Whitney Canada and Honeywell : iii certain authorisations issued to the Legacy Support business by United be considered and approved at the meeting together with some explanatory notes.
The resolutions cover such routine matters Technologies Corporation companies could become terminable: and iv the operating licence with London Luton Airport as the renewal of authority to allot shares referred to earlier, to disapply pre-emption rights and to purchase own shares.
Under s992 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company also discloses an employment agreement Substantial Shareholdings between a subsidiary company and Keith Ryan entered into in July 2002 which has provisions such that in certain circumstances The Company has been notified, as at 4 March 2014, of the following material interests in the voting rights of the Company relating toa change of control of the Company he could receive compensation upon termination of employment of up to a years under the provisions of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: remuneration, based on base salary, bonus, benefits in kind and % pension rights during the notice period.
Tiger Global Investments, L. P. 11.14 Management Report Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 8.63 The management report required by the provisions of the Prudential plc group of companies 6.39 Disclosure and Transparency Rules is included within the William H. Gates III 6.09 Strategic Report and has been prepared in consultation with Harris Associates L. P. 4.96 management.
Standard Life Investments Ltd 4.84 Suppliers Payment Policy Newton Investment Management Limited 4.98 The Company and Groups policy is to settle terms of payment Black Rock, Inc. 4.97 with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, to Jupiter Asset Management Limited 4.39 ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment Barclays Global Investors 3.86 and to abide by the terms of the payment.
Royal London Asset Management 3.03 Share Capital Details of the Companys share capital and changes to the share Charitable and Political Donations capital are shown in note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Group donations to charities worldwide were $440,000 Statements.
That note also contains a summary of the rights 2012: $575,000.
Nodonations were made to any political attaching to each class of shares and details of the number of party in either year.
ordinary shares held in employee benefit trusts.
Awards granted under the Companys share plans are satisfied either by shares Auditor held in the employee benefit trusts or by the issue of new shares As required by s418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the when awards vest.
The Remuneration Committee monitors the directors, at the date of the approval of this report, confirms that: number of awards made under the various share plans and their a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit potential impact on the relevant dilution limits recommended information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: by the Association of British Insurers.
Based on the Companys and issued share capital as at 31 December 2013, these were in b th e director has taken all the steps that he ought to have respect of the limit of 10% in any rolling 10-year period for all taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant share plans 4.1% and in respect of the limit of 5% in any rolling audit information and to establish that the Companys 10-year period for discretionary share plans 2.8%.
auditor is aware of that information.
The Company was given authority to purchase up to Words and phrases used in this confirmation should be 14.99% of its existing ordinary share capital at the 2013 Annual interpreted in accordance with s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
That authority will expire at the conclusion of the AGM in 2014 unless renewed.
Accordingly, A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company a special resolution to renew the authority will be proposed will be proposed at the AGM.
The existing authority for directors to allot ordinary shares Directors Report approved by the Board on 4 March 2014 and will expire at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
Accordingly, an signed on its behalf by: ordinary resolution to renew this authority will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
In addition, it will be proposed to give the directors further authority to allot ordinary shares in connection Iain Simm with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders.
This is in line Group General Counsel and Company Secretary with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers.
If the directors were to use such further authority in the year following the 2014 AGM, all directors wishing to remain in office would stand for re-election at the 2015 AGM.
Details of these resolutions are included with the Notice of AGM enclosed with this Report.
