Strategic Report Our Markets Our Markets BBA Aviations balanced portfolio of market-leading flight support and aftermarket services businesses support a broad spectrum of aviation market segments, including Business and General Aviation, Commercial and Military.
Business and General Aviation 68% BBA Aviations operations in the Business and General Aviation B&GA market account for approximately two thirds of the Groups revenue.
B&GA covers thousands of aircraft large and small serving a wide variety of roles.
Worldwide there are more than 18,000 jets, 13,000 turboprops and 19,000 turbine civil helicopters in operation classified as B&GA aircraft.
Our Flight Support division primarily services business aircraft in this segment and our Aftermarket Services division supports a range of jets, turboprops and helicopters engaged in a variety of business, utility and public service roles.
B&GA flight hours and movements are the key growth drivers for both of our divisions, particularly in North America, which is the largest B&GA market and where over 75% of our Go to pages 2325 Our Markets in 2013 revenues are generated.
Increased activity means more customer arrivals and departures For further details about how throughout our Signature network, an increased uptake of fuel by those customers at our markets performed in 2013 Signature FBOs and a greater number of engine repair and overhaul events driven by increased engine usage.
Measures that give a broader indication of the longer-term health of the market and future flying hours include new business aircraft jet and turboprop deliveries, the proportion of the fleet held for resale and the price of second-hand inventory.
B&GA is a market with attractive growth characteristics that are both cyclical and structural in nature.
Following the North American markets decline during the 2007-2009 downturn the market remains 20% off its peak activity levels.
With no structural change in the market and B&GA travel remaining a key productivity and efficiency tool, particularly in North America where there are significant distances between large populations and a lack of efficient intermodal alternatives, inherent structural growth coupled with cyclical recovery remains an exciting prospect for the Group.
indb 15 12 03 2014 12:10 Strategic Report Commercial Aviation 25% Our Markets BBA Aviation operates in the commercial aviation sector through our Flight Support division.
ASIG, our commercial aviation service business provides fuelling, ground handling and technical services to commercial operators and airports around the world.
Our Aftermarket Services division also participates in this market by providing engine repair and overhaul services to regional jet operators who fly the same small thrust engines used in B&GA.
We also offer component and accessory repair services to the legacy commercial fleet and fuel measurement devices used on a number of newer aircraft models.
The primary growth driver for this market is the frequency of commercial aircraft movements which, in turn, drives demand for our on-airport services and aftermarket support.
The long-term growth forecasts for commercial aircraft movements are 2.7% per annum in North America and 5% per annum globally for the next 20 years.
Participants in the sector have recently resumed growth plans that are forecast to double the size of the commercial fleet by 2032.
The strain such expansion will place on capital leads us to believe that airlines will remain favourable towards outsourcing many of their non-core service needs such as ground handling and into-plane fuelling.
Military Aviation 7% Our services to the military market are primarily the support of legacy military platforms and those aircraft that are government adaptations of civilian aircraft.
Much like our B&GA and commercial markets, demand is principally driven by flight activity.
Revenue by key markets B&GA Commercial Military 68% 25% 7% Signature 64% ASIG 74% 23% ERO ERO 32% ERO 13% Legacy 47% Legacy Legacy 3% 10% APPH 30% APPH 1% APPH 3% 16 BBA complete.
