Overview Performance Governance Accounts Other Information 31 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Go vernance RE PORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors have pleasure in submitting the Annual Report and Accounts of Bellway p. l. c. to the shareholders for the year ended 31 July 2013.
Principal activities The Company is a holding company, owning subsidiary undertakings which continue to be engaged principally in housebuilding in the United Kingdom UK.
Performance and prospects A review of the Groups performance and prospects that fulls the requirements of the business review can be found in the Chairmans Statement on pages 3 and 4, the Chief Executives Operating Review on pages 9 to 12, the Corporate Responsibility Policy on page 15, the 2013 Corporate Responsibility Statement on pages 16 to 19, the Environmental Policy on page 21 and the Group Finance Directors Review on pages 22 to 25.
In addition, information in respect of the principal operating risks of the business is set out in the Operating Risk Statement on pages 26 and 27.
Results and dividends The profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent company amounts to 108.6 million 2012 79.3 million.
The directors have proposed a final ordinary dividend for the year ended 31 July 2013 of 21.0p per share.
This has not been included within creditors as it was not approved before the end of the financial year.
Dividends paid during the year comprise a final dividend of 14.0p per share in respect of the year ended 31 July 2012, together with an interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 July 2013 of 9.0p per share.
The directors recommend payment of the final dividend on Wednesday 15 January 2014 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on Friday 13 December 2013.
Directors All the directors of the Company, who are shown on pages 28 and 29, served throughout the year, with the exception of Paul Hampden Smith and Denise Jagger who were both appointed on 1 August 2013.
Howard Dawe, who is not shown, was a director up until the date of his retirement on 31 January 2013.
Directors contracts Details of the terms of appointment of all the directors are given in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 44 and 45.
Directors interests The directors interests in the share capital of the Company and in share ownership plan arrangements are given in the Report ofthe Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 39 to 53.
Takeovers Directive The information for shareholders required pursuant to the relevant companies legislation which implements the Takeovers Directive is disclosed in this Report and in the Shareholder Information section on pages 91 and 92.
32 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Go vernance RE PORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Notiable shareholders interests As at 31 July 2013 and at the date of this Report the Company had been notied of the following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: As at 31 July 2013 As at 14 October 2013 Number of % total Number of % total shares with voting shares with voting voting rights rights voting rights rights Blackrock Inc 14,767,027 12.13 15,863,955 13.03 Fidelity International Ltd FMR Corp 9,300,000 7.64 9,300,000 7.64 JP Morgan Chase & Co 5,712,902 4.69 5,715,902 4.69 AXA Framlington Investment Management 5,603,638 4.60 5,603,638 4.60 Polaris Capital Management LLC 4,897,018 4.02 N A Below 3% Lloyds Banking Group plc 4,261,453 3.50 4,261,453 3.50 Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited 3,890,282 3.20 3,890,282 3.20 Legal & General Group PLC 3,658,355 3.01 3,658,355 3.01 Corporate governance Introduction The Board acknowledges the importance of, and is committed to the principle of, achieving and maintaining a high standard of corporate governance.
This Report, together with the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration, as detailed on pages 39 to 53, describes how the Principles of Good Governance, which are set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, are applied by the Group.
Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board considers that it has complied with the detailed provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in June2010 throughout the year to 31 July 2013 and up to the date of this Report.
The UK Corporate Governance Code is publicly available, free of charge, from FRC publications, tel: 020 8247 1264, e-mail: cch@wolterskluwer.
Statement about applying the Principles of Good Governance The Group has applied the Principles of Good Governance, including both the Main Principles and the Supporting Principles, by complying with the UK Corporate Governance Code as reported above.
Further explanations of how the Main Principles and Supporting Principles have been applied are set out below and in connection with the remuneration of the directors, in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration.
The Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Operating Review and the Group Finance Directors Review present a balanced and comprehensive assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The Board At the date of this Report the Board consists of eight directors whose names, responsibilities and other details appear onpages28 and 29.
Two of the directors are executive and six of the directors, including the Chairman, are non-executive.
TheBoard discharges its responsibilities by providing entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls, which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
It sets the Companys strategic aims, ensures that the necessary financial resources and personnel are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and reviews management performance.
It also defines the Companys values and standards and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders are understood and met.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters which are specifically reserved for its decision, which includes strategy and management, structure and capital, financial reporting and controls, internal controls, contracts and agreements, communication, Board membership and other appointments, remuneration, delegation of authority, corporate governance matters, policies and other miscellaneous items.
In addition, it has a series of matters that are dealt with at regular Board meetings including an operational review, a financial review, land acquisition, major projects, personnel, risk, health and safety, strategy, reporting requirements, corporate governance, internal control and matters for decision.
It has also adopted a framework of delegated commercial and operational authorities which define the scope of powers delegated to management below Board level.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary and all the directors may take independent professional advice at the Groups expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
Overview Performance Governance Accounts Other Information 33 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The Companys Articles of Association Articles require one-third of the directors to offer themselves for re-election each year at the Annual General Meeting AGM and all directors to seek re-election at least every three years.
The Articles also require new directors appointed since the last AGM to offer themselves for re-election at the next AGM.
In addition, the UK Corporate Governance Code includes a provision that all directors should be subject to annual re-election.
As a result, all of the directors, with the exception of Mr Johnson, retire from the Board and offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Mr Johnson retires from the Board on 31 January 2014 and is therefore not retiring and seeking re-election at the AGM.
The directors biographies are shown on pages 28 and 29.
None of the executive directors hold external directorships.
Board effectiveness The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and ensuring it operates effectively.
In this regard it pays due cognisance to the FRCs document entitled Guidance on Board Effectiveness, dated March 2011.
The directors possess an appropriate balance of skills and experience to meet the requirements of the business.
During the year there were eight Board meetings, three Audit Committee meetings, four meetings of the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration, two meetings of the Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors Remuneration and four Nomination Committee meetings.
The Board holds a meeting at least once a year dedicated almost entirely to strategy.
Inaddition, the Board aims to visit four divisions each year and last year visited the North East, Yorkshire, North West and embryo Manchester divisions, as well as receiving presentations at Board meetings from senior Head Ofce and divisional management.
In addition, presentations are also given by external advisers and other third parties, where necessary.
There were no absences from any Board or Board Committee meetings by any director during the year.
The non-executive directors met three times during the year, including once without the Chairman present.
Training and development The Board received appropriate training and updates on various matters relevant to its role, as and when required.
Training needs are reviewed as part of the performance evaluation process and on an ongoing basis.
The new non-executive directors have benefited from a Board induction programme which included meetings with a number ofthe Companys advisers, senior staff at both Head Ofce and the divisions and also site visits.
Board balance and independence The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive, which are recorded in writing and approved by the Board, are separate, with a clear division of responsibilities, ensuring a balance of responsibility and authority at the head of the Group.
The senior independent non-executive director is Peter Johnson, who is available for shareholders to raise any queries orconcerns they may have.
Following Peters retirement from the Board on 31 January 2014, John Cuthbert will succeed him assenior independent non-executive director with effect from 1 February 2014.
Each of the non-executive directors, excluding the Chairman, has, at all times, acted independently of management and has no relationship which would materially affect the exercise of his or her independent judgement and decision-making.
The Company considers all of its non-executive directors, excluding the Chairman, to be independent, as dened in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Whenever any director considers that he or she is interested in any contract or arrangement to which the Group is or may be aparty, due notice is given to the Board.
No such instances of any signicance have arisen during the year.
Board evaluation During the year the Board conducted its first externally facilitated evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and individual directors.
The evaluation was performed, utilising online questionnaires and telephone and face to face interviews.
It was facilitated by Independent Audit Limited, who have no other business connections with the Group.
This process included the Chairman, acting on behalf of the Board, evaluating the performance of the other directors and the non-executive directors, led by the senior independent non-executive director, assessing the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The Board, led by the Chairman, evaluated its own performance and the Committees, led by their respective Chairman, evaluated their own performance.
The outcome of this process was extremely positive, with the Board concluding that its performance and that of its Committees were both satisfactory and effective, that they were balanced and that the individual directors were working in a committed and effective manner.
Following the evaluation, the Board produced a number of action points, some of which have already been dealt with and others which it will be addressing throughout the course of the next 12 months and will be reporting upon in next years report.
The Board Committees The Board has formally constituted Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The terms of reference for the Audit and Nomination Committees and the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration are available either on request, at the AGM or on the Groups website: www.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises five independent non-executive directors, Peter Johnson Chairman, Mike Toms and John Cuthbert, who were members of the Committee throughout the year, and Paul Hampden Smith and Denise Jagger who joined the Committee on 1 August 2013.
The Committee meets at least three times a year and met three times during the year under review.
Following Peter Johnsons retirement from the Board on 31 January 2014 Paul Hampden Smith will become Chairman of the Committee.
Its activities during the year related to routine matters including the review of risk, internal controls, auditor performance and review of half year and annual accounts.
The Committee met the auditor without management present on two occasions.
In addition, the Committee Chairman had regular contact with the Finance Director and the external auditor.
34 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Go vernance RE PORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED The Committees responsibilities include the following: to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance.
to review and make recommendations in relation to the half year and annual accounts prior to submission to the Board.
to assess the scope and effectiveness of the systems established by management to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and non-financial risks.
to review managements reports on the effectiveness of systems for internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management.
to consider the appointment re-appointment of the external auditor and assess its independence each year.
to recommend the audit fee to the Board and pre-approve any fees above a certain level, in respect of non-audit services provided by the external auditor and to develop and monitor the Companys policy on the provision of non-audit services bythe external auditor and to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not restrict the external auditors independence or objectivity.
to agree the nature and scope of the external audit and review the quality control procedures and steps taken by the external auditor to respond to changes in regulatory and other requirements.
to oversee the process for selecting the external auditor and make appropriate recommendations through the Board totheshareholders to consider at the AGM.
to consider annually whether there is a need for an internal audit function and make a recommendation to the Board.
to review the Groups procedures for handling allegations from whistleblowers.
to review annually the Groups compliance with its Anti-Bribery Policy.
The Board believes that Peter Johnson and Paul Hampden Smith have recent relevant financial experience as Chartered Accountants.
The Group has a written Independent Auditor Policy in place which seeks to preserve the independence of its auditor by dening those non-audit services the independent auditor may and may not provide.
There are clearly dened levels of approval depending on the value of work to be provided.
Where fees exceed 100,000 or where total non-audit fees equate to 100% of audit fees, Board approval would be required.
In respect of any material project with fees in excess of 200,000 where the auditor is considered for the provision of services, this would be the subject of a competitive tendering process.
The Companys independent auditor would not be engaged for any of the following non-audit related services: bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records or financial statements of the Company: financial information system design and implementation: appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions, or contributions in kind reports: actuarial services: internal audit outsourcing services: management functions or human resources: broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment banking services: legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit: and any other service that is impermissible by regulation.
The Company's auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has advised that, due to an internal reorganisation, it has instigated an orderly wind down of its audit business and transfer to KPMG LLP.
The Board has therefore decided toput KPMG LLP forward to be appointed as auditor and resolutions concerning its appointment and to authorise the directors to agree its remuneration will beput to the forthcoming AGM.
Further information is provided in Shareholder Information onpage 87.
Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration The Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration comprises Mike Toms Chairman, Peter Johnson and John Cuthbert, who were members of the Committee throughout the year, and Paul Hampden Smith and Denise Jagger who joined the Committee on 1 August 2013.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and during the year it met on four occasions.
Its duties are to review and recommend the basic salary, taxable benets, terms and conditions of employment, including performance-related payments, long-term incentive plans and other benets of the executive directors and the Chairman.
The Committee also reviews remuneration policies for senior management below Board level.
During the year, in addition to routine matters, the Committee dealt with, inter-alia, arrangements for the introduction of the new performance share plan, the remuneration packages in respect ofthenew management team and consideration of the new disclosure requirements for remuneration reports.
The Report ofthe Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 39 to 53 contains details of directors remuneration and the Groups policies in relation to directors remuneration.
Overview Performance Governance Accounts Other Information 35 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors Remuneration The Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors Remuneration comprises the executive directors and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
It meets at least once a year to review and recommend the terms, conditions and remuneration of the non-executive directors.
Last year it met on two occasions to review the fees and terms of appointment of the non-executive directors.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises John Cuthbert, who was appointed Chairman of the Committee on 1 February 2013, Peter Johnson, Mike Toms and John Watson, who were all members of the Committee throughout the year, with the exception of John Watson, who was appointed on 1 February 2013, replacing Howard Dawe, who was Chairman of the Committee until his retirement from the Board on 31 January 2013.
In addition, Paul Hampden Smith and Denise Jagger joined the Committee on 1August 2013.
The Committees main duties are to formulate plans for succession for both executive and non-executive directors and, in particular, for the key roles of Chairman and Chief Executive and to make recommendations regarding appointments to the Board.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and last year met on four occasions.
During the year, the Committee made recommendations to the Board in relation to the re-appointment of non-executive directors whose letters of appointment expired during the year and to the appointment of the two new non-executive directors, which took effect on 1 August 2013.
Appointments to the Board are made on merit through a formal, rigorous and transparent process against objective criteria recommended by the Committee, with due regard given to the benets of diversity on the Board, in all its aspects.
The two non-executive directors were appointed following a rigorous selection process, involving the consideration of a long list which was then reduced to a short list of five individuals comprising three women and two men.
The interview process involved the whole Board and the Group Company Secretary.
The Committee was assisted in this process by The Zygos Partnership, which has no other business relationship with the Company.
Although the Board already includes a number of accountants, it was felt appropriate to recruit Paul Hampden Smith who has significant recent relevant financial experience.
He will become Chairman of the Audit Committee when Peter Johnson retires on31January 2014.
Denise Jagger is a solicitor by qualication but has an extensive commercial background and it was felt that this would augment the skills and experience already available on the Board.
The appointment of a non-executive director is for a specified term and re-appointment is not automatic and is made on the recommendation ofthe Committee.
The Committee also guides the whole Board in arranging orderly succession for appointments to the Board.
Other committees of the Board are formed to perform certain specic functions as required from time to time.
Directors remuneration The principles and details of directors remuneration are detailed in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration onpages 39 to 53.
Accountability and audit The statement on going concern and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts are shown on pages 37 and 54 respectively.
The Audit Committee, whose role is detailed above, has meetings at least twice a year with the Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and also for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The system is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with the guidance contained in the Turnbull Report Internal Control Guidance for Directors of Listed Companies Incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility to establish, maintain and monitor a system of internal control relating to operational, financial and compliance controls and risk management to safeguard the shareholders interests in the Companys assets.
This system, however, is designed to manage and meet the Groups particular requirements and reduce the risk to which it is exposed rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control and, in particular, it reviews the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed onanon-going basis.
Management is responsible for the identication and evaluation of significant risks applicable to particular areas of the business together with the design and operation of suitable controls.
These significant risks, which are described in the Operating Risk Statement on pages 26 and 27, are regularly assessed and cover all aspects of the business, and in particular land acquisition, planning, construction, health and safety, information and reporting systems, sales, environmental issues, personnel, asset protection, treasury management, taxation and legal and regulatory compliance.
In addition, there is a responsibility to mitigate risk by the provision of adequate insurance cover and by management reporting on material changes in the business or external environment affecting the risk prole.
36 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Go vernance RE PORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED There is a system of regular reporting to the Board which provides for appropriate details and assurances on the assessment and control of risks.
The continuing role of the Board is, on a systematic and on-going basis, to review the key risks inherent in the business, theoperation of the systems and controls necessary to manage such risks and their effectiveness and to satisfy itself that allreasonable steps are being taken to mitigate these risks.
The key areas of control are as follows: the Board has agreed a list of key risks which affect the Group and has considered the extent to which the measures taken bythe Group mitigate those risks.
an established monitoring structure is in place, which provides short lines of communication and easy access to members ofthe Board.
delegation of clearly defined responsibilities to the Regional Chairmen and divisional boards with clear procedures and authority limits in place to provide and maintain effective controls across the Group.
a comprehensive reporting system entailing annual budgets, regular forecasting and financial reporting.
a central treasury function operates at Head Office.
regular meetings with divisional and regional management attended by members of the Board to review divisional performance.
the acquisition of land and land interests is subject to review by management and, in certain circumstances, approval bytheBoard to ensure that purchasing criteria are met.
regular reviews of site costs and revenues by senior Head Office management which are reported to the Board.
regular visits to sites by in-house health and safety teams and external consultants to monitor health and safety standards andperformance.
a number of the Groups key functions are dealt with centrally.
These include finance, banking and treasury, taxation, financial services, pensions, insurance, information technology, legal, personnel and company secretarial.
The Company does not have a separate internal audit function and, as recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Audit Committee considers annually whether there is a need for such an internal audit function and makes a recommendation to the Board.
During the year, having considered the robust systems and strong controls already present in the Group and as described above, the Audit Committee recommended that no separate internal audit function was presently required.
The position will continue to be monitored by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
During the year, there were no significant internal control issues identied by the Groups internal control monitoring procedures, as detailed above.
Whistleblowing arrangements Throughout the year the Group has operated a whistleblowing arrangement whereby all employees of the Group are able, via an independent external third party, to condentially report any malpractice or matters of concern they have regarding the actions of management and employees.
This facility is also available for employees to report any breaches of the Companys Anti-Bribery Policy.
The Audit Committee and the Board regularly review the effectiveness of this arrangement.
Relations with shareholders The Company encourages active dialogue with its private and institutional shareholders, both current and prospective.
Meetings are held with both existing and prospective institutional shareholders on a regular basis and as requested.
Shareholders are also kept up to date with Company affairs through the Annual and Half Year Reports, Trading Updates and Interim Management Statements.
The AGM is used to communicate with institutional and private investors and their participation is encouraged by the taking of questions by the whole Board, both during, and also informally, before and after the meeting.
The senior independent non-executive director is always available to discuss issues with current and prospective shareholders and institutions, as required.
In addition, the whole Board is regularly updated on shareholder and investor views and activities at Board meetings by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
During the year the Chairman of the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration consulted with a number of major shareholders on matters concerning executive remuneration.
Further information for shareholders is available under Shareholder Information on page 87 to 93 and also on the Groups website at www.
Overview Performance Governance Accounts Other Information 37 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Going concern After making due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue inoperational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts as discussed further on page 61.
Employees The Group is an equal opportunities employer.
It is the Groups policy to develop and apply, throughout the Group, procedures and practices which are designed to ensure that equal opportunities are provided to all employees of the Group, or those who seek employment with the Group, irrespective of their age, colour, disability, ethnic origin, gender, marital status, nationality, parental status, race, religion, belief or sexual orientation.
All employees, whether part-time, full-time or temporary, are treated fairly and equally.
Selection for employment, promotion, training or other matters affecting their employment is on the basis of aptitude and ability.
All employees are assisted and encouraged to develop their full potential and the talents and resources of the workforce are fully utilised to maximise theefciency of the organisation.
It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration to the employment needs of disabled persons and persons who become disabled whilst employed by the Group and to comply with any current legislation with regard to disabled persons.
Training ateach division is planned and monitored through an annual training plan.
The importance of good communications with employees is recognised by the directors.
Each division maintains good employee relations using a variety of means appropriate to its own particular needs, with guidance when necessary from HeadOfce.
New employees, when eligible, are invited to join the Companys pension and life assurance arrangements.
In addition, theGroup operates a savings related share option scheme.
The Company also offers a private medical scheme, childcare vouchers and personal accident insurance arrangements.
Environmental issues The Board recognises the importance of environmental issues and when carrying out its business, endeavours to make a positive contribution to the quality of life, both for the present and the future.
An Environmental Policy, approved by the Board, has been adopted by all trading entities within the Group.
Environmental issues are addressed in the Corporate Responsibility Policy on page 15, the 2013 Corporate Responsibility Statement on pages 16 to 19, the Environmental Policy on page 21, and in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Groups website www.
co. uk, a copy of which is available from the GroupCompany Secretary at the Companys registered ofce.
Health and safety at work The Group promotes all aspects of health and safety throughout its operations in the interests of employees, sub-contractors, visitors to its sites and premises and the general public.
Health and safety issues are considered at each Board meeting, and are addressed in the Chief Executives Operating Review on pages 9 to 12, in the Corporate Responsibility Policy on page 15, in the 2013 Corporate Responsibility Statement on pages 16 to 19, and in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Groups website www.
Donations During the year the Group made no political contributions but donated 77,699 2012 45,875 for charitable purposes.
TheCompany made no political contributions or charitable donations during the year 2012 nil.
significant relationships The Company is party to a number of banking agreements with major clearing banks.
The withdrawal of such facilities could have a material effect on the nancing of the business.
Other than the foregoing, the Group has contractual and other arrangements in place with suppliers and other third parties which support its business activities.
None of these arrangements are considered to be critical to the performance of the business.
Suppliers The Group agrees terms and conditions under which business transactions with suppliers are conducted.
The policy is that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with these terms and conditions, provided that the supplier is also complying with the terms and conditions.
The Groups current policy concerning the payment of the majority of its materials suppliers and sub-contractors is for payment to be made at the end of the month following the month of the invoice.
For other supplies, particularly land, the terms are many and varied.
Trade creditors due within one year at 31 July 2013 of 88.4 million 201276.3million resulted in a creditor payment period of 23 days 2012 24 days.
Land creditors due within one year were 107.0 million 2012 89.1 million.
Including land creditors, the creditor payment period was 60 days 2012 52 days.
The parent company had no land or trade creditors at 31 July 2013 2012 nil.
38 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Go vernance RE PORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Purchase of the Companys own shares The Company was given authority at the AGM on 11 January 2013 to purchase its own ordinary and preference shares.
Asat the date of this Report no market purchases have been made by the Company and this authority will expire attheendofthe forthcoming AGM when shareholders will be asked to renew this authority for a further year.
Directors and ofcers liability insurance and indemnification of directors The Company carries appropriate insurance cover in respect of possible legal action being taken against its directors and senior employees, and the Articles provide the directors with further protection against liability to third parties, subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act 2006.
Such qualifying third party indemnity provision remains in force as at the date ofthis Report.
Disclosure of all relevant information to auditor The directors who held ofce at the date of this Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken asa director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware ofthatinformation.
Auditor In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
See Shareholder Information on page 87 for details on the change ofauditor.
AGM special business Seven resolutions will be proposed as special business at the AGM to be held on Friday 13 December 2013.
Explanatory notes on these resolutions are set out in Shareholder Information on pages 87 to 91.
By order of the Board Kevin Wrightson Group Company Secretary 14 October 2013
