| | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Market insights Dublin Irelands improving economic performance was reflected in the level of activity in the commercial property market in 2013, with transactions in all sectors increasing year on year.
The investment property market saw almost 2bn worth of deals completed by the end of the year.
This is compared to a figure of just 25m in 2010.
Understanding our business and the markets in which of development land deals.
In commercial, crossborder we operate is vital to providing the services that our investable real estate, offices continued to dominate the clients require.
We do this by using a combination large deals, followed by retail except in the US where of comprehensive market and economic research let residential apartments in purposebuilt blocks were complemented by the knowledge and experience of favoured ahead of retail property.
Industrial units and our people.
We believe this gives us a unique perspective hotels by volume represent small asset allocations in of the prime real estate markets around the world and all jurisdictions.
helps us connect clients with opportunities.
In the world of private wealth, directlyowned residential We estimate that the value of all global real estate totals property forms an important component of real estate around US$180tn, of which c. 83% are residential assets portfolios.
We have identified total global residential and the remainder commercial.
Investable commercial holdings of US$5.2tn among ultra high net worth property totals around US$20tn globally divided almost individuals averaging US$15m per individual.
equally between private and corporate institutional Highlights from a few of the cities in which we operate, investors.
In 2013, large real estate transactions were chosen to give context to our business model and distributed in similar proportions between sectors across corporate strategy are on pages 7 to 25. the globe, with the notable exception of China where there were very high levels Savills plc 07 Report and Accounts 2013 Market insights continued Sydney One of very few AAA rated economies left on the planet, Sydney attracts investors due to its large, stable, transparent and liquid property market.
Annual investment volume in all Sydney office markets reached AU$4.7bn, industrial AU$1.4bn and retail AU$2.4bn.
08 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013 | | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Savills plc 09 Report and Accounts 2013 Market insights continued 10 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013 | | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Madrid Improved economic forecasts and prime market indicators have drawn international investors attention and confidence back to Spain.
Annual investment volume in 2013 reached c. 500m with a significant increase in overseas investors: 55% in 2013 2012: 24%.
Savills plc 11 Report and Accounts 2013 Market insights continued Tokyo Amid signs of a cyclical recovery in property fundamentals, Japans improved economic outlook has fostered strong competition for investment opportunities in the capital city.
Tokyos total property transaction volume jumped 71% compared to 2012, with strong demand from both onshore and offshore investors.
12 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013 | | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Savills plc 13 Report and Accounts 2013 Market insights continued 14 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013 | | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements London Central London is the number one global destination for cross-border investment into commercial real estate with some 15bn of investment flowing to the capital in 2013.
The prime London residential market continued to perform strongly.
Price growth at 11.4% was driven by a combination of overseas and domestic demand, with the strongest growth seen in the south west London markets.
New buyers registering with Savills remain at a high level.
Savills plc 15 Report and Accounts 2013
