Corporate responsibilities Key highlights in 2013 People.
We: We: Continued with our strategy of investing in people by Increased the number of UK offices achieving IS014001 creating a competency framework designed to develop 2004 accreditation.
the personal and business skills relevant to our business Were awarded a BREEAM excellent rating for our UK and our clients commitment.
Participated in an apprenticeship creation programme Incorporated global greenhouse gas emission reporting to create jobs for those without a degree.
We: We: Maintained our commitment to delivering the high quality Continued to be actively involved in supporting good services expected by our clients and demanded by our causes in the communities in which we live and work.
business by building on the strength of our existing crossRetained our membership of FTSE4Good, evidencing our border inter-regional service capacity, by sharing best commitment to meeting globally recognised corporate practice and experiences and by listening to client feedback.
Further enhanced our client service offering with significant investment in systems and the creation of client advocate roles.
Corporate responsibility at Savills Our business philosophy Corporate responsibility CR is our commitment to the positive Pride in everything we do.
impact that our business can make, through our people, to our We: stakeholders and the communities in which we live and work.
Take great pride in delivering the highest quality service.
Overall responsibility for our CR programme sits with the Group Seek to employ only the best people.
Chief Executive and the Board.
CR strategy is overseen by our Enjoy what we do.
CR Steering Group, comprising senior representatives from a range of business and central teams.
CR strategy is implemented Always act with integrity.
and delivered at country level across the four areas of CR which We: we believe are key to the success of our business: People, Behave responsibly.
By focusing on these key Act with honesty and respect for other people.
areas we give our businesses the freedom to adapt quickly and Adhere to the highest standards of professional ethics.
to respond at local level to new opportunities in the markets in which they operate.
The Board receives annual and ad hoc Take an entrepreneurial approach to business.
updates on CR activities and progress.
To ensure that we can We: readily identify emerging issues and respond to them on a timely Seek out new markets and opportunities for clients.
basis, we continue to include the consideration of CR-related Take a creative and entrepreneurial approach to issues in our Key Risk Registers.
Are forward thinking, and always aim to build long term client relationships.
Aim to be a leader in every market we enter.
Commit ourselves with passion, energy and expertise.
Approach problems with a proactive, practical attitude, delivering robust solutions.
Help our people fulfil their true potential.
We: The FTSE Group confirms that Savills plc has been independently assessed Encourage an open and supportive culture in which every according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to individual is respected.
remain a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by the global index Help our people to excel through appropriate training company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series that is designed and development.
to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met Share success and reward achievement.
stringent environmental, social and governance criteria, and are positioned to Recognise that our peoples diverse strengths combined capitalise on the benefits of responsible business practice.
with good teamwork produce the best results.
Believe that a rewarding workplace inspires and motivates.
Strive to provide an environment in which our people can flourish and succeed this allows us to recruit, motivate and retain talented people and build on our status as an employer of choice.
BREEAM is a registered trademark of BRE the Building Research Establishment Engage with our people to communicate our vision and Ltd. Community Trade Mark E5778551.
The BREEAM marks, logos and symbols are the Copyright of BRE and are reproduced by permission.
strategy through well established internal channels.
34 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013 | | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Policy Savills remains committed to further developing these Our CR policy focuses on those key areas where we believe programmes and inspiring all staff to perform to their we can make a difference: People, Training and Development, maximum potential.
Ethics, Client Commitment and Health, Safety and Environment.
All of our businesses are expected to comply with local legal Ethical commitment standards as an absolute minimum, while our established global Savills is committed to doing business legally and ethically framework provides the flexibility required to have meaning and wherever it operates doing the right thing in the right way.
At Savills, we learn through experience and Savills Ethical Trading Policy is detailed in our Group Code of we actively encourage our businesses to share their experiences Conduct which is readily accessible in local languages to all and develop best practice to ensure that we continue to improve staff, to support their day to day decision making.
We continue as an organisation.
to maintain our focus on ensuring that our people worldwide work within our specified financial, operational and compliance People framework, and that these standards are consistently applied.
Throughout this Report we refer to the importance of our people.
We demand the highest professional standards from all of our They are key to our continued success.
It is our vision to be the people all of the time and have a zero tolerance to breaches.
real estate adviser of choice in our selected markets and deliver However, given the breadth of activities and the number of superior financial performance and this can only be achieved people we employ there may be occasions when we do not meet through the dedication, commitment and excellence of our people.
the high standards we aspire to.
Where we fail to reach these high standards, we treat any breach with the utmost seriousness.
Savills is committed to providing employment on an equal basis irrespective of gender, sexual orientation, marital or civil partner Human Rights status, gender reassignment, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or At Savills we recognise our responsibility as a global corporate national origin, religion or belief, disability or age.
We support citizen and we consider the concerns of the wider communities the Core Conventions of the International Labour Organization.
where we conduct our business.
Our people strategy remains focused on supporting delivery of We are committed to doing the right thing in the right way and the highest standards of client service through motivated and this is reflected in the Savills Code of Conduct.
The Code, which engaged people.
We believe that a positive culture is essential to underpins our social, ethical and environmental commitments, high quality client service.
This positive culture is encapsulated clearly sets out the standards of behaviour that we expect our in our business philosophy.
Our reputation has been built on our employees to demonstrate and adhere to in their day to day people and we believe that staff whose behaviours reflect in our working life at Savills.
business philosophy deliver the excellent client service that we strive to provide.
Our business philosophy also captures our As an absolute minimum, our employee policies comply with commitment to ethical, professional and responsible conduct local legislation in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
We fully and our entrepreneurial value-enhancing approach.
support the principles of UN Global Compact, the UN Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organizations Training and development ILO Core Conventions and we expect our business partners to We firmly believe in the value of developing future talent from within operate in accordance with these standards.
the Group and the wider business community and we are working hard to help nurture the entrepreneurs and leaders of the future.
Any breaches of our Code of Conduct may be reported In this regard, we continued our significant investment in people in accordance with Companys whistle-blowing procedure.
In the UK our graduate programme was recognised for the seventh year running as the Graduate Employer of Choice Diversity and inclusion Property in The Times Graduate Recruitment Awards 2013 and Savills is a global company and across all parts of our business, we continue to see a record number of applicants for this and our we look to create an inclusive culture in which difference is student summer scheme and work placement programmes.
We believe that our inclusive approach gives us a competitive advantage and underpins the success of We are proud to have linked up with some of our industry peers our business by giving us the ability to select our employees from on the Changing the Face of Property CTFOP initiative which the highest quality individuals in the widest available pool of talent.
has a group aim to increase diversity within the property industry from under-represented groups.
The initiative includes, amongst Our employees come from a wide range of backgrounds and other things, developing an apprenticeship programme to offer have a diverse range of skills and experience.
We have created jobs to school leavers and other junior candidates without a a culture in which those skills, experience and perspectives are university education.
During 2013 our UK business rolled out a detailed People At Savills, we have long realised that our reputation as a quality Development programme, which included a competency global real estate provider of choice is built on our people and framework and career roadmap for all staff to provide them that they are fundamental to the success of the business.
with a clear understanding of what skills are required and what they need to do to progress from Graduate to Director.
We respect our people for who they are, their knowledge, skills The programme looked in detail at the different areas and sectors and experience, as individuals and as valued members of the and sought to develop appropriate training that would enhance Savills team.
We work together to bring out the best in each both personal and client-based relevant skills throughout the other and to sustain the strong working relationship ethic that has business.
Taking this forward, in 2014 we will be piloting a formal nurtured our can do attitude.
As at 31 December 2013 our total mentoring and coaching programme to provide all staff at all levels global workforce of 26,287 colleagues, comprised 14,420 males with improved guidance on their career within Savills.
Of these 159 were senior executives 138 on the success of the UK pilot scheme, consideration will be given male, 21 female comprising members of the Group Executive to rolling the programme out to other parts of the Group over time.
Board and board members of the corporate entities whose Savills plc 35 Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate responsibilities continued financial information is incorporated in the Groups 2013 Health, Safety and Environment consolidated accounts in this Annual Report.
The Companys Environment Board of Directors comprised seven members, six males and Savills and its associates operate more than 600 offices around one female.
We also manage buildings for clients through our property management teams.
We are committed to reducing our Historically ours has been an industry which has struggled impact on the environment and, at our corporate head offices and to recruit a high percentage of female graduates and we are business premises, our approach is to reuse, reduce and recycle.
encouraged that our graduate recruitment programme is helping We also try to make a difference by helping our associates and to redress the balance at Savills where we have a 50 50 male clients to achieve their environmental goals, by providing quality to female ratio of graduates.
advice, incorporating the principles of sustainability.
However, we continue to view diversity in its widest sense and By actively seeking to reduce our environmental impact we prior to any new appointment consideration is given to gender are able to achieve increased operational efficiencies and and diversity in its broadest sense, with a view to appointing the savings, both internally and for our clients.
best placed candidate for the role.
Our policy and these principles are implemented through How we support diversity and inclusion?
our operating businesses and day to day actions.
Our aim is to have a workforce that is representative of the countries and the communities in which we live and work and As part of our drive to control our environmental impact and to we will continue to endeavour to improve the representation of act as a hallmark of quality for our clients, our offices continue to women at Board and senior levels within the organisation and work to secure ISO14001 2004: the international standard for to sustain an inclusive culture in which all talent can thrive.
This is designed to achieve sound environmental performance by using a proactive range of As an organisation committed to diversity in its workforce, we practical office management measures consistent with our aim of will continue to strengthen our policies, processes and practices carbon reduction.
During 2013 a further 26 UK offices achieved to develop our diversity and inclusion plans within the Groups this accreditation bringing the total number of accredited UK markets and geographies, in alignment with our corporate goals.
Clients During the year, our London teams moved to a new head office Client care which has achieved a BREEAM excellent rating.
BREEAM is an We are committed to delivering a high quality service and assessment method whereby the environmental credentials of creating long term partnerships with all our clients.
To do this buildings are measured against a universally recognised and we need to deliver exceptional client service over the long term benchmarked set of standards.
through forging sustained relationships and ensuring that the client experience of Savills is second to none.
Client review We will continue to adopt innovative technology to deliver meetings are a necessary and vital part of our approach to client research information, marketing materials, web-based care and we invest in an independent client review programme to collaborative forums and marketing brochures, so as to reduce focus on how well we are doing in the way we plan and execute paper, transport costs and waste, all of which have an impact the services we provide, how well we communicate and what on the environment.
additional value we give our clients.
This provides an important independent rating of the standard of our client service which is In many countries, food is a scarce natural resource.
In 2013, our reviewed regularly and used to refine service delivery.
Hong Kong business signed up to an initiative sponsored by the Hong Kong Government, the Food Wise Charter.
The Charters Following a successful pilot in 2012, our top 100 clients now aim is to raise consumer awareness of the amount of food waste have a dedicated client advocate whose core responsibility is to produced daily and to promote the use of good practices to act as a focal point for client servicing enquiries, and in particular encourage consumers to use natural resource sensibly.
It is to allow any service issues on current instructions to be quickly hoped that this initiative will help to protect the environment by identified and addressed.
These client advocates also play a key reducing the amount of food waste sent unnecessarily to landfill role in reviewing our performance with the client in tandem with each year.
the client research programme to ensure that we understand where we have met or exceeded expectations and those areas in In response to the Governments request for support from which we can do better.
It also ensures that we have awareness the business community, our colleagues in Hong Kong have of the clients real estate plans over the coming 12 months so committed their business to implementing an action plan to that we can make the appropriate support services available.
promote best practices and behavioural changes to reduce Our client advocates are supported by an IT platform which food waste in their workplace.
To help them achieve their harmonises client data from across the UK business into goals, the business has agreed to instigate a scheme which readily accessible client intelligence reports.
includes conducting in-house waste audits to improve waste management performance, measuring and monitoring Complementing this initiative we recognise that there are clients performance and promoting awareness of the principles that would benefit from a full Savills service offering and in 2013 of the Charter to its stakeholders.
we introduced the Savills Pilot 7 with a dedicated CRM team.
The team is responsible for managing the client care plan This year, our environmental reporting has been updated to which includes a review of the current year, meeting schedule reflect new legislative requirements that came into effect in for key contracts, financials for the year to date and future years, October 2013, requiring us to measure and report our global a client communication plan and a list of agreed actions and greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
In this regard, 2013 is our responsibilities.
The CRM team meet quarterly and report base year for reporting.
For practical reasons, however, in 2013 annually into the UK Board.
we are only reporting on GHG emissions from our UK, Rest of 36 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013 | | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Europe, Australia, New Zealand and Hong Kong operations.
We are extremely pleased to report that Savills has been We have taken this approach in these locations because we successfully cleared of any breaches in Health and Safety have been able to analyse all the emission sources required legislation following an appeal against the local authority by the new legislation that fall under our operational control, prosecution in respect of an accident which took place at the ie their assets and liabilities are consolidated in the Savills Group Brewery Shopping Centre, Essex, UK in 2009, when a youth financial statements.
In subsequent years, we will seek to playing a game of dare fell and sustained injuries after losing expand the scope of our reporting to include more locations.
his grip on the outside of a rail of an escalator.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Community Reporting Standard methodology to identify our GHG inventory Charitable giving of Scope 1 direct and Scope 2 indirect emissions.
The UK Our offices and our people are actively involved in their Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting communities.
At a local level, we have developed a series of have then been applied to complete the calculations.
In a very community engagement programmes which have a positive few cases, of necessity, we have extrapolated total emissions by impact on the areas where our people live and work to ensure using available information from part of the reporting period.
So that Savills is firmly engaged with the communities we serve.
as to express our annual emissions in relation to a quantifiable The stories below represent only a few examples from across factor relevant to our wide ranging activities, we have used a per the globe of the wide variety of activities undertaken by Savills capita intensity ratio, as this provides the best comparative and its employees during 2013. measure over time.
During the year, Savills UK main charity of choice was Honeypot, Total Global Emissions for Carbon Reporting 2013 a childrens charity which works to enhance the lives of 1 GHG Emissions Scopes 1 2 TCO e yr 2 vulnerable children and young carers aged 512 years by providing respite breaks and ongoing outreach support.
To raise money our employees took part in many fundraising events large and small.
A significant fundraiser was the Great River Race Scope 1 Direct 1,256.58 2013, a gruelling 21-mile marathon row from Docklands to Ham Scope 2 Energy Indirect 5,608.71 in Surrey where Savills UK employees put up a 16-strong crew to compete against 300 boats from around the globe.
Total Gross Emissions 6,865.29 Total Employees FTE av.
3,890 This year, in support of the charity Countryside Learning, GHG Intensity Ratio 2 1.76 the Rural team at Savills UK travelled from Lands End to John OGroats.
Over a six-week period, 240 staff undertook a Notes: series of gruelling disciplines including cycling, running, walking, 1 Emissions Factors based on Defra DECC Guidelines 2011. riding and kayaking over the 1,221-mile route, visiting 50 estates 2 Total Gross Emissions, divided by Total Full Time Equivalent Employees FTE Year Average.
in the process, raising over 35,000 and highlighting the Charitys 3 Total global emissions for Carbon Reporting 2013: UK, Rest of Europe, important work.
Countryside Learning inspires children, parents Australia New Zealand and Hong Kong.
and teachers to learn more about the issues faced by the rural sector.
Last year, the Charitys estate day programme and Once again, we took part in the International Carbon Disclosure Countryside Live events, allowed over 20,000 children and Project CDP during the year.
Some 4,000 organisations around 650 teachers to be introduced to the UK countryside.
the globe measure and disclose their greenhouse gas emissions and climate change strategies as part of the CDP.
This data is During 2013 our Australian business chose to focus on one major collected annually on behalf of institutional investors, purchasing fundraising initiative in partnership with Youngcare a charitable organisations and various government bodies.
organisation which works to help young Australians who require 24 hour care to stay at home with their family and friends.
Health and safety Savills is committed to the health, safety and welfare of its staff Organised by Youngcare, a Savills employee took on a mentally and others affected by our business operations.
Safe working and physically challenging 10-day trek across sand dunes in practices form an integral part of our day to day business and we temperatures in excess of 30 degrees.
He was supported in this aim to find practical solutions to Health and Safety risks.
To this by his colleagues who helped him to raise funds towards the end our safety strategy is focused on priorities such as reducing AU$644,000 raised by 12 walkers who took part in the trek.
significant occupational exposure to workplace hazards and maintaining regulatory compliance.
The UK operates a Give As You Earn scheme which allows staff to donate a portion of their monthly salary to a registered charity.
In 2013, we continued to promote our positive safety programme, We also operate a profit share waiver scheme whereby staff can by rolling out a number of upgraded health and safety processes, elect to waive an element of any annual profit share in favour of including the employee induction programme.
We also expanded registered charities of their choice upon which the Group areas of our Health and Safety team, demonstrating our ongoing augments the donation to the chosen charity by 10%.
commitment to safety in the workplace.
Future plans For the coming year, our key priorities are to run further training It has been another year of significant development and programmes to refresh the knowledge of safe working practices progress and this is reflected in this years CR report and amongst our employees.
We will continue to promote locallythroughout this document.
Going forward, we will seek to based activities and initiatives to enhance Health and Safety further develop and strengthen our CR approach by continuing awareness, thus further promoting the existing positive to focus on those activities where we are best placed to make company Health and Safety culture.
Savills plc 37 Report and Accounts 2013
