Directors Remuneration report continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Potential Performance measures Tax advantaged all-employee share plans complying with HMRC regulations Share plans available to all UK Executive Directors are eligible to Maximum in accordance n a employees in the Group who participate in any of the Groups with HMRC defined limits.
all-employee share plans on the same terms as other UK employees.
Legacy plans The Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS expired in 2011.
Options granted under this plan were subject to performance criteria.
Outstanding options granted up to and including May 2011 continue to be exercisable in the normal fashion, having satisfied the performance criteria attaching to them.
The Group also operates a shareholding policy for Executive Directors details of this can be found on page 51 of this Report.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy for example for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed before the Policy came into effect or at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes pension payments under legacy defined benefit pension plans and the satisfaction of awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment were agreed at the time the award was granted.
Clawback or malus may apply where stated in the above table.
Other elements of remuneration are not subject to clawback or malus.
The Committee may increase the proportion of annual performance related profit share deferred into shares.
The PSP will be operated in accordance with the rules of the plan as approved by shareholders.
In accordance with those rules the Committee has discretion in the following areas as well as general administrative discretion : the Committee may adjust the number of shares under award if there is a capitalisation, rights issue, subdivision, reduction or any other variation in the share capital, a demerger or special dividend: a performance condition for an existing award may be amended if an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider that an amended performance condition would be a fairer measure of performance and would be no less difficult to satisfy: on a change of control or winding up the number of shares will be subject to any relevant performance conditions and time pro-rated.
The Committee has discretion not to apply this reduction or to apply an alternative or no performance condition.
Additionally, participants may have the opportunity to exchange their awards for equivalent awards in the new holding Company: and the Committee has the discretion to treat a demerger as an early vesting event on the same basis as a change of control.
Performance measures and target setting Performance Share Plan Annual Performance Related Profit Share For the PSP, the use of a mix of relative shareholder return and Performance measures for the Annual Performance Related earnings measures ensures that the Groups Executive Directors Profit Share are intended to provide a balance between are focused on delivering both absolute bottom line growth incentivising executives to meet near term profit objectives and strong returns to shareholders relative to an appropriate and the creation of longer term shareholder value through comparator group.
an appropriate mix of strategic, operational and personal performance goals.
In the event the Committee considered it appropriate to change the performance measures for the PSP, any new measure Consistent with the Groups partnership style culture, annual would be selected to be in line with the Groups long term profit performance is the primary performance measure.
business strategy and to support long term shareholder value Targets are set to be appropriately stretching, by reference creation.
The Committee would consult with major shareholders to the Groups internal business plans and to align with in advance of a change in a performance measure used for returns to shareholders over the cycle.
A portion of the award relates to strategic, operational and The performance targets for the PSP are reviewed periodically personal objectives.
These objectives are determined annually and set taking into account market conditions, external market by the Committee and incentivise sustainable improvements forecasts, internal business forecasts and market practice.
in the underlying drivers of performance and the continued The Committee may also adjust the targets in the light of development and further growth of the Group.
corporate activity eg merger and acquisition activity, capital events or changes to accounting rules to ensure that targets remain appropriate.
60 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013 | | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Remuneration arrangements throughout the Group Group Chief Executive Of cer The remuneration policy for Executive Directors follows the same key principle as that for all senior employees in the Group that Maximum salaries are below the market median with a greater emphasis 2.73m 10% 73% 17% on variable, performance related remuneration.
Any differences in the specific policies generally reflect differences in market On-target performance practice for differences in seniority.
For support staff, salaries 1.37m are set around market median levels to ensure the Group is 21% 71% 8% able to recruit and retain high quality individuals.
Threshold 0.28m Other than Executive Directors, only GEB members are currently 100% Fixed pay eligible to receive awards under the PSP on an annual basis.
Annual reward Other senior staff may be granted share awards under the Long term reward Companys Deferred Share Plan DSP if there are particular business reasons for applying a retention element to remuneration.
Group Chief Financal Of cer Illustrations of application of the remuneration Policy Maximum The charts opposite illustrate how much the current Executive 1.97m 11% 76% 13% Directors could earn under three different performance scenarios for 2014: Threshold, On-target performance and Maximum On-target performance based on the assumptions below: 1.02m 22% 72% 6% Threshold 0.22m 100% Fixed pay Annual reward Long term reward Element in the above chart Component Threshold On-target Maximum Fixed Pay Base salary 2014 annual base salary Pension 20% of salary for the Group Chief Executive, 18% of salary for the Group Chief Financial Officer Benefits Annual taxable value of benefits provided in 2013 Annual reward Annual performance 0% of 49% of Group Chief Executive related profit share maximum award maximum award Officer 2,000,000 Group Chief Financial Officer 1,500,000 Long term reward PSP 0% of 25% of Group Chief Executive maximum award maximum award Officer 450,000 Group Chief Financial Officer 250,000 Other assumptions A constant share price has been used.
Excludes additional shares representing the value of dividends declared during the vesting period which may attach to the deferred element of any annual performance related profit share award or PSP award at vesting.
Assumes that no awards are made under tax advantaged all-employee share plans.
Savills plc 61 Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Remuneration report continued Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors Approach to fees Operation Other items Fees for the Chairman and other Non-Executive Fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors are Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to Directors are set at an appropriate level determined by the Non-Executive Chairman and participate in any of the Groups incentive taking into consideration individual roles the Executive Directors.
and responsibilities, the time commitment required and external market practice.
Fees payable to the Chairman are determined Non-Executive Directors do not currently receive by the Remuneration Committee excluding the any taxable benefits however they are covered Fees are reviewed annually.
by Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Basic fees for membership of the Board The Non-Executive Director fee policy is to pay: Expenses incurred in the performance of are subject to the maximum payable to Non-Executive duties for the Company may be Non-Executive Directors excluding the A basic fee for membership of the Board: reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, Non-Executive Chairman as stated in and including any tax due on the benefits.
the Companys Articles of Association.
Committee chairmanship and Senior Independent Director fees to reflect the Additional benefits may be provided in the future additional responsibilities and time if the Board considered this appropriate.
The Chairman receives an all-inclusive fee for the role.
Additional fees for membership of a Committee or chairmanship or membership of subsidiary boards or other fixed fees may be introduced if considered appropriate.
Approach to remuneration on recruitment In the event that the Board appointed a new Executive Director, in determining his or her new remuneration package the Committee would take into consideration all relevant factors including the calibre, skills and experience of the individual and the market from which they are recruited.
In determining the remuneration package the Committee remains mindful of the need to avoid paying more than is necessary on recruitment.
Buy outs To facilitate the recruitment of a new Executive Director, the Committee may make awards to buy out remuneration forfeited on leaving the previous employer.
In doing so the Committee would take into account all relevant factors including the form of awards, the vesting conditions attached to the awards and any performance conditions.
The overriding principle will be that any replacement buy out awards will be of up to a comparable commercial value of the awards that have been forfeited.
The Committee may make use of LR9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules for the purpose of buy outs only.
Fixed remuneration The remuneration policy for current Executive Directors reflects the Groups overall philosophy of paying below market median salaries and a greater emphasis on performance related elements.
However the Committee is mindful of the need to retain flexibility for the purpose of recruitment, taking into account the range of potential circumstances which might give rise to the need to recruit a new Executive Director.
Against that background the policy for the fixed element of reward for a new Executive Director allows: the salary for a new appointment to be set in line with market levels rather than below market levels: or provision of a salary supplement for a period of time as an Executive Director transitions to a lower fixed pay over time.
Where an Executive Director is located in a different international jurisdiction benefits may reflect market practice in that jurisdiction.
New recruits would normally participate in defined contribution arrangements or take a non-pensionable salary supplement.
The level of contribution would be determined at the time of appointment and may be set at a higher level than the current policy.
This might arise, for example, where a newly appointed Executive Director is recruited on a significantly lower salary than in their previous position taking into account the structure of remuneration at Savills.
For international appointments, the Committee may determine that alternative pension provisions will operate, and when determining arrangements the Committee will give regard to the cost of the arrangements, market practice in the relevant international jurisdiction and the pension arrangements received elsewhere in the Group.
Variable remuneration The variable remuneration annual performance related profit share and PSP awards for a new recruit would be consistent with the policy in the table on page 59 excluding buy outs.
In the case of an employee who is promoted to the position of Executive Director including if an Executive Director is appointed following an acquisition or merger, it is the Companys policy to honour pre-existing awards and contractual commitments.
Non-Executive Directors In the event of the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with those detailed in the relevant table above.
62 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013 | | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Interim appointments In the event that an interim appointment is made to fill an Executive Director role on a short term basis or a Non-Executive Director taking on an executive function on a short term basis then an additional fee or salary supplement may be provided.
Director service contracts and termination policy When determining the leaving arrangements for an Executive Director, the Committee takes into account any pre-established agreements including the provision of any incentives plans, typical market practice, the performance and conduct of the individual and the commercial justification for any payments.
The following summarises our policy in relation to Executive Director service contracts and payments in the event of a loss of office: Notice periods 12 months notice by either the Company or the Executive Director.
For new appointments the Committee reserves the right to increase the period of notice required from the Company in the first year of employment to up to 24 months, decreasing on a monthly basis to 12 months on the first anniversary of employment.
Contract dates Jeremy Helsby 1 May 1999 Simon Shaw 16 March 2009 Expiry dates Contracts are rolling service contracts with no expiry date.
Elements of remuneration Executive Directors service contracts contain provisions relating to base salary, pension, private medical insurance, car allowance or the provision of a Company car and confirm their eligibility to participate although not necessarily receive any award in the Companys annual performance related profit share arrangements, the PSP and other employee share schemes.
Termination payments If an Executive Directors employment is to be terminated, the Committees policy in respect of the contract of and treatment of the employment, in the absence of a breach of the Service Agreement by the Director, is to agree a termination payment annual performance based on the value of base salary and contractual benefits and pension entitlements in their notice period and, provided related profit share they are classified as good leavers as defined in their Service Agreements which expression does not include dismissal due to poor performance a pro-rata annual performance related profit share.
The policy is that, as is considered appropriate at the time, the departing Executive Director may work, or be placed on garden leave, for all or part of his her notice period, or receive a payment in lieu of notice in accordance with the Service Agreement.
The Committee will consider mitigation to reduce the termination payment to a leaving Director when appropriate to do so, having regard to the circumstances.
No performance related profit share element would be paid in respect of notice periods not worked.
In addition, where the Director may be entitled to pursue a claim against the Company in respect of his her statutory employment rights or any other claim arising from the employment or its termination, the Company will be entitled to negotiate settlement terms financial or otherwise with the Director that the Committee considers to be reasonable in all the circumstances and in the best interests of the Company and to enter into a Settlement Agreement with the Director to effect both the terms agreed under the Service Agreement and any additional statutory or other claims, and to record any agreement in relation to any annual performance related profit share award, in line with the policies described above and or, as below, share awards.
Treatment of share Deferred share awards incentives Deferred share awards made under the annual performance related profit share scheme are subject to forfeiture if the award holder leaves service prior to the vesting date other than in defined good leaver situations.
Good leaver circumstances are death, ill-health, injury or disability, redundancy, retirement, the employing Company being sold or transferred outside of the Group, or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
For good leavers, any outstanding deferred share award will normally vest on the date of cessation.
Where a good leaver circumstance is at the Committees discretion rather than a prescribed circumstance, vesting may be on such date and such terms as it may determine.
PSP In the event that a participant is a good leaver any outstanding unvested PSP awards will normally be pro-rated for time in service during the relevant performance period and will vest based on performance to the end of the performance period.
In particular circumstances eg death, the Committee has the power to vary these provisions, including to allow for early vesting.
For all other leavers, outstanding unvested awards lapse.
Good leaver circumstances are leaving due to death, injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy, or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee for example, retirement.
If an award has been granted as an option and a participant ceases to work for the Group after the option has become exercisable, he she will normally be permitted to exercise outstanding options within a period of six months following the end of the performance period or cessation of employment where this is after the end of the performance period as appropriate.
In the event of the death of a participant the personal representatives will be able to exercise an option in accordance with the PSP rules.
All-employee share plans Awards vest in accordance with their terms, under which good leavers are entitled to receive shares on or shortly after cessation, but other leavers normally forfeit any awards.
Other awards Where an award is made for the purpose of recruitment for example a buy out award under LR 9.4.
2 then the leaver provisions would be determined at the time of award having regard to the circumstances of the recruitment, the terms of awards being bought out and the principles for leavers in the current policy.
Other information Executive Directors are subject to post employment restrictive covenants for a period of six months post cessation.
The Company may also meet ancillary costs, such as outplacement consultancy and or reasonable legal costs, if the Company terminates an Executive Directors service contract.
Savills plc 63 Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Remuneration report continued Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman have letters of appointment setting out their duties and the time commitment expected.
Non-Executive Directors are initially appointed for a period of three years.
These appointments may be renewed for subsequent terms.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, all Directors are subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
The Chairmans letter of engagement allows for six months notice.
Appointments of other Non-Executive Directors may be terminated by either party with three months notice.
The Company reserves the right to make a cash payment in lieu of notice.
The following table sets out the date each Non-Executive Director was appointed to the Board and the end date of the current letter of appointment.
Non-Executive Date appointed to Board End date of current letter of appointment Peter Smith 24 May 2004 24 May 2016 Martin Angle 2 January 2007 2 January 2016 Tim Freshwater 1 January 2012 1 January 2015 Clare Hollingsworth 2 April 2012 2 April 2015 Charles McVeigh 1 August 2000 1 August 2014 Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group In making remuneration decisions, the Committee considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
As part of decisions being made on the annual pay review, the Committee is informed about the approach to salary increase and the outcome of profit share and other incentive arrangements such as fee earner commission schemes across the Group.
The Committee is also provided with comparative metrics on total employment costs across the Group as a percentage of revenue.
The Company operates a consistent remuneration philosophy across the Group.
In this context the Committee does not consider it necessary to consult with employees in the Group on the specific remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee takes into account the views of the Groups shareholders and investor bodies.
The Board and the Committee through its Chairman has open and regular dialogue with our major shareholders on remuneration matters, including consulting with major shareholders where the Committee is considering making material changes to the remuneration policy.
64 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013
