Business model Our business model A global network Market intelligence of connected people and local knowledge Brand Strong cash generation Our people, our clients Sustainable growth and relationships and shareholder value Financial discipline, risk mitigation and strong governance Reputation A diverse and Advisory, management coherent offer and transactional services Our business model above illustrates in simple terms how we This also supports our ability to advise on all aspects of multi-use create shareholder value, qualitatively, through improving the development schemes worldwide.
We recognise that real estate strength of our premium brand, and quantitatively, through transaction markets are cyclical, so we seek to provide a the delivery of profits and dividends to shareholders.
We treat combination of services, in part to mitigate transactional volatility every client as an individual and take time to understand what with less cyclical offerings.
This is combined with our ongoing they need and how we can best service them.
We do this by: drive for cost efficiency and margin improvement and the maintenance of a prudent capital structure to enable us better to Delivering value withstand the overall cyclicality of our core transactional markets.
We deliver consistently high quality, client-focused real estate advisory services, offering a broad range of specialist advisory, People at the core management and transactional services in the key global markets We have ensured that our stakeholders choose us by building our in which we operate.
Recognising that owners and occupiers brand and reputation on the quality of our people, relationships, are increasingly global in their outlook, we deliver this through resources and processes.
All that we do is underpinned by strong the disciplined development of our operational capability, which governance and high standards of responsibility, which supports creates opportunity and progressively enhances our service the sustainable development of our business.
More detail of our offering in our chosen markets.
Approximately 40% of our revenue governance structure, policies and practices can be found later is generated by Transaction advisory fees: the remainder comes in this Annual Report on pages 38 to 72. from non-transactional business by way of fees for Property and Facilities Management and Consultancy services and Because of our personal approach to business, our people the remainder from Investment Management fees.
are fundamental to our business and we have worked hard to ensure that they enjoy working at Savills, to promote their A diverse, coherent offer personal and professional development, to encourage them We actively diversify from a business and geographic perspective to develop their careers within the Group and to share in the with the aim of mitigating the risk of exposure to any one success of the business.
We have cultivated a diverse client base drawn from small local businesses, private individuals, global We firmly believe that our people are key to delivering excellent blue-chip investors and occupiers, government departments service to our clients and achieving our objectives, they give us and local government and health authorities.
We have built and a unique perspective of the markets in which we operate and maintained our position as a leading player in both the prime connect our clients with real estate opportunities and market residential and prime commercial real estate markets, aligning intelligence.
By choosing Savills, our clients have access to over with the global trend amongst private and institutional investors to 26,000 staff with a broad range of experience, competencies recognise both types of real estate as an investment asset class.
and local knowledge, based in offices in key real estate locations across the globe and benefit from our extensive market research material.
06 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013
