| | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Group Executive Board 2.
Simon Hope Group Chief Executive Chief Executive Savills UK Global Head of Capital Markets For photograph and full biography see opposite page.
Appointment to the Group Executive Board: Appointment to the Group Executive Board: Mark was appointed to the Group Executive Board Simon was appointed to the Group Executive Board when it was formed in February 2008. when it was formed in February 2008.
Simon Shaw Group Chief Financial Officer Background and relevant experience: He Background and relevant experience: He joined For photograph and full biography see became Chief Executive of Savills UK Limited Savills in September 1986 and he is responsible for opposite page.
following the merger of the Commercial and L&P our Global Capital Markets business and Head of businesses in January 2013.
He previously served Savills Commercial Investment.
Chris Lee as Chairman and Chief Executive of Savills of the Board of the Charities Property Fund.
Group Legal Director & Company Secretary Commercial Limited from January 2008 and prior to this was Head of the Manchester office which he 14.
Borja Sierra Appointment to the Group Executive Board: opened for Savills from when he joined in July 1996.
Chief Executive Continental Europe Chris joined Savills in June 2008 and was appointed to the Group Executive Board in August 2008.
Rob McKellar Appointment to the Group Executive Board: He has responsibility for legal and compliance Chief Executive Asia Pacific Borja was appointed to the Group Executive Board issues globally.
Appointment to the Group Executive Board: Background and relevant experience: He held Rob was appointed to the Group Executive Board Background and relevant experience: He joined equivalent roles with Alfred McAlpine plc, Courts plc when it was formed in February 2008.
Savills in 1998 and is responsible for Savills Continental and Scholl plc between 1997 and 2008, prior to European businesses.
Formerly he was Head of Savills which he was Deputy Group Secretary of Delta plc Background and relevant experience: He was in Spain for 10 years, and in February 2008 he was from 1990 to 1997. appointed Chief Executive of Asia Pacific on appointed as Executive Managing Director of Savills 31 March 2005 having served as the Group Finance US, where he assumed responsibility for Savills 9.
Rupert Sebag-Montefiore Director since June 2000 and prior to this since cross-border investment business.
Head of Global Residential December 1994 was Finance Director of Savills Commercial Limited.
Justin OConnor Appointment to the Group Executive Board: Chief Executive Cordea Savills Rupert joined Savills in 1980 and was appointed to 12.
Raymond Lee the Group Executive Board when it was formed in Chief Executive Hong Kong, Appointment to the Group Executive Board: February 2008.
Macau and Greater China Justin was appointed to the Group Executive Board in September 2010.
Background and relevant experience: He was Appointment to the Group Executive Board: appointed as Head of Global Residential in January Raymond was appointed to the Group Executive Background and relevant experience: He joined 2013 having until then, served as Managing Director Board in January 2011.
Cordea Savills in January 2004 as Head of Business and Chairman and Chief Executive of Savills L&P Development.
He was subsequently appointed Chief Limited from May 2000 and October 2004 Background and relevant experience: He joined Executive of Cordea Savills in January 2006.
In 2009, Raymond became the CEO previously held a number of senior positions at in Hong Kong and Macau and in 2010 was appointed Henderson Global Investors, Lend Lease and the Other appointments: Rupert is currently a Director CEO of Greater China.
Raymond is a Fellow of the AMP Society.
of Pigeon Land Ltd, Penshurst Properties Ltd and Hong Kong Institute of Directors and is a Guangdong English Concert.
He is also a member of the Investment Province Zhuhai Municipal Committee Member, Committees of Winchester College and Christ CPPCC.
