| | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Audit Committee Report Accountability Risk and internal control The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that risk is effectively managed across the Group.
Risk management is implemented from the top down.
The Board is supported by Martin Angle the Audit Committee in discharging its oversight duties with Chairman of the Audit Committee regard to internal control and risk management.
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the The Audit Committee has a key role in ensuring the integrity of Groups system of risk management and internal control to the Groups financial statements and the effectiveness of its risk safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups Assets management processes and internal controls.
During the year, and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
However, its activities continued to be focused on the integrity and quality such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate of the Groups financial reporting, the performance of the internal the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide and external audit processes, the suitability of the Groups only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material system of internal governance and control including receiving misstatement or loss.
and considering reports from Internal Audit and a broad range of compliance related matters.
The Committee will continue to The Boards attitude and appetite to risk is communicated to the monitor its activities in the light of regulatory and best practice Groups businesses through the strategy planning processes and developments.
the Audit Committee monitors the ongoing status and progress of action plans against key risks on a regular basis and reports The Audit Committee has reviewed the content of this years its findings to the Board.
Annual Report and Accounts and advised the Board that, in its view, the Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and Going Concern understandable and provides the information necessary for The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business to affect its future development, performance and position are model and strategy.
set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 37.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and The Committee noted the unqualified opinion from the borrowing facilities are described on pages 26 to 28.
Note 3 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments Meetings and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and Attendance table liquidity risk.
Meetings Meetings eligible to Committee member attended attend The Group has considerable financial resources, including a 90m committed revolving credit facility augmented by Martin Angle 4 4 a 90m accordion facility extension option that runs to Tim Freshwater 4 4 June 2017, together with a broad spread of businesses across Clare Hollingsworth 4 4 different geographic areas and sectors.
As a consequence, As at 31 December 2013 and up to the date of this Report, the Audit Committee the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage was composed entirely of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Every member its business risks successfully.
of the Committee is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Biographical details of the After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable Committee members are shown on page 42. expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern The Committee met four times during the year and there was basis in preparing the Report and Accounts.
full attendance at all meetings by members, as shown in the table above.
Committee meetings are attended by Committee members and, by invitation, the Non-Executive Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, Group Risk Director, Group Legal Director & Company Secretary and other senior executives of the Group.
Savills plc 47 Report and Accounts 2013 Report of the Directors Corporate Governance Statement continued The Chairman of the Committee meets informally and is in regular The principal activities of the Committee during the year are set contact with the Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Risk Director out below: and Group Legal Director & Company Secretary and senior members of the external audit team.
This group generally meets review and discussion of the key accounting considerations ahead of each full Committee meeting to prepare and identify key and judgements reflected in the Groups results for the Half areas for consideration by the Committee.
At least once a year, Year ended on 30 June 2013: the Committee meets separately with the External Auditor and agreement of the external audit strategy and scope for the with management without the other being present.
year ended 31 December 2013: review and discussion of the key accounting considerations The Chairman of the Committee also attends the AGM to respond and judgements reflected in the Groups results for the year to shareholder questions that might be raised on its activities.
ended on 31 December 2013: review and consideration of the External Auditors Report Composition for the year ended 31 December 2013, including the The Audit Committee is chaired by Martin Angle: he is supported External Auditors observations on the Groups Internal by two independent Non-Executive Directors Tim Freshwater and Control environment: Clare Hollingsworth.
review the valuation practices and controls across the Groups business: Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board following review the strategies and policies being pursued to mitigate recommendations by the Nomination Committee and membership risks and reconfirm the Groups risk appetite: is reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee as part of the review of the Groups whistle-blowing arrangements, reports annual Board performance evaluation.
made under these during the year ended 31 December 2013 and the result of consequent investigations: All members of the Committee receive an appropriate induction receiving and considering reports from the Groups Internal which includes an overview of the business, its financial dynamics Audit team covering various aspects of the Groups and risks.
Committee members are expected to have an operations, controls and processes and monitoring the understanding of the principles of, and recent developments progress made by management in addressing in, financial reporting and their application as well as the roles recommendations arising out of these reports: of the internal and external audit functions.
considering and where appropriate approving the instruction of the Groups External Auditors on non-audit assignments Role, objectives and responsibilities during the year ended 31 December 2013.
The Committees role is to assist the Board in discharging its duties and responsibilities for financial reporting, internal control and in In particular, the Committee also considered the global threat making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the of cyber crime on businesses by criminals using online tools independent External Auditors.
The Committee is responsible for to extract intellectual property and other competitive data.
the scope and results of the audit work, its cost effectiveness and To establish the level of potential risk, the Committee used the the independence and objectivity of the External Auditors.
Cabinet Office BIS 10 steps to cyber security model to review the key elements of the Groups information risk management The Committee is authorised to investigate any matter within arrangements.
The Committee will continue to review, develop its Terms of Reference a copy of which can be found on the and monitor the Groups information risk management Companys website at www.
com and has access to the arrangements so as to manage the risk of cyber crime to services of the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary and, the Groups businesses.
where necessary, the authority to obtain external legal or other independent professional advice in the fulfilment of its duties.
The Committee has responsibility for reviewing the Groups whistle-blowing arrangements and ensuring that appropriate arrangements are in place for employees to be able to raise, in confidence, matters of alleged impropriety, and for ensuring that appropriate follow-up actions are taken.
Activities The Committee works to a planned programme of activities focussed on key events in the annual financial reporting cycle and standing items that it considers regularly under its Terms of Reference.
To enable the Committee to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively, it relies on information and support from management across the business.
The Committee reviews reports and presentations from management and the Internal and External Auditors, questions and where appropriate, challenges information and reports its findings back to the Board.
48 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013 | | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Significant accounting issues Having reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal The significant accounting issues considered by the Committee control, the Committee was satisfied that necessary actions and discussed with the External Auditor during the year were: have been, or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified.
Management override of internal controls: the Committee considered the presumed risk of management The integrity of the Groups relationship with the External override of internal controls as defined by the auditing Auditor and the effectiveness of the External Audit process standards.
In so doing, the Committee reviewed the The Committee carried out a review of the effectiveness of the robustness and effectiveness of the overall control external audit process and considered the re-appointment of environment of the Group, including consideration of the  LLP PwC and the appropriateness Groups whistle-blowing arrangements and the reviews of its fees.
The review covered a broad range of matters, including conducted by the Internal and External Auditors and, amongst other factors the quality of PwC staff, its expertise and was satisfied that there were no issues arising.
resources and the independence of the PwC audit.
Goodwill impairment: the Committee received reports In the course of its review the Committee considered the from management on the carrying value of the Groups audit plan for the year and determined how the Auditors had businesses, including goodwill.
The Committee reviewed performed to the plan.
In deciding whether to recommend managements recommendations, which were also the reappointment of PwC the Committee considered the considered by the External Auditors, including evaluation robustness of challenge and findings on areas which require of the appropriateness of the assumptions applied in judgement: the strength and depth of the lead partners at determining asset carrying values, After review, the key locations: and feedback from Savills management.
Committee was satisfied with the assumptions and judgements applied by management and, with the There were no significant findings arising from the evaluation this support of the External Auditors, concluded that no year and the Committee concluded that both the audit and the impairment of carrying values was required.
It therefore recommended to the Board that PwC be re-appointed as Auditors for a further year.
Presumed risk of fraud in revenue recognition: Accordingly, a resolution recommending their reappointment The Committee considered the presumed risk of fraud will be put to shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
as defined by the auditing standards and was satisfied that there were no issues arising.
In 2012, the Financial Reporting Council FRC amended the UK Corporate Governance Code to introduce audit tendering every Litigation: The Group is subject to various legal actions ten years on a comply or explain basis for FTSE350 Companies and proceedings in the ordinary course of business.
This new provision applied to financial years Committee reviewed the provisions held in relation to each beginning on or after 1 October 2012.
The FRC also suggested significant legal case and assessed the appropriateness non-binding transitional arrangements with respect to audit of these as at 31 December 2013 taking into account the tendering.
In 2013, the Competition Commission CC published Groups insurance cover and the advice received from its report into the FTSE350 audit market and proposed remedies external counsel to ensure that appropriate provision had similar to those of the FRC, albeit that the CCs proposals will be been made.
The Committee agreed with the position taken mandatory and were not expected to come into effect until late in by management in respect of this matter.
Further in December 2013, EU regulations were finalised to require Auditors of public interest entities to be rotated every ten The effectiveness of Internal Audit years.
Alongside the decision on Auditor engagement, the EU The provision of Internal Audit services during 2013 was agreed new arrangements on the provision of non-audit services jointly delivered by the Groups Internal Audit team and a whereby a cap of 70% of the audit fee will be imposed based panel arrangement with BDO LLP and Grant Thornton LLP.
on a three-year average at the group level and there will be an The Boards responsibility for internal control and risk is extensive list of prohibited services.
detailed on page 29 and is incorporated into this Report by reference.
Due to the complexity arising from the three sets of regulations, there is still a considerable degree of uncertainty and further During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved the consultation is underway by the FRC and the CC in relation to Internal Audit plan, having regard to the complementary roles auditor rotation, the outcome of which will not be known until of the Internal and External Audit functions.
The Committee sometime later in 2014. ensured that the Internal Audit team had the necessary resources and information made available to it to enable it to fulfil its mandate PwC has been the Companys Auditors since 2001 when it won to the appropriate professional standards.
The Committee a tender for the external audit.
The senior partner responsible reviewed Internal Audit reports on a regular basis and the Group for the Groups audit must be rotated every five years to ensure Risk Director and the Head of Internal Audit attended meetings objectivity.
The last lead partner change took place in 2011. and presented to the Committee.
In assessing the performance of the Internal Audit function, the Committee considered and The Committee has considered the FRCs suggested nonmonitored their effectiveness in the context of the Companys binding transitional arrangements with respect to audit tendering risk management system and took into account managements and as a consequence, will consider the tendering arrangements assessment of and responsiveness to the Internal Auditors towards the conclusion of the current audit partners period in findings and recommendations and reports from the External office or earlier if there is cause to do so.
Auditor on any issues identified during the course of their work.
Savills plc 49 Report and Accounts 2013 Report of the Directors Corporate Governance Statement continued The Committee will keep these matters under review to ensure Relations with shareholders that the Company continues to comply with the prevailing The Group recognises the importance of maintaining regular provisions in respect of Auditor engagement, rotation of the dialogue with its shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive and senior partner and the provision of non-audit services by Group Chief Financial Officer lead a regular programme of the Auditors.
meetings and presentations with analysts and investors, including presentations following the publication of the Companys full and The Committee considers on an ongoing basis, the half year results.
This programme maintains an ongoing two-way independence of the External Auditors and has established dialogue between the Company and shareholders, and helps to policies to consider the appropriateness or otherwise of ensure that the Board is aware of shareholders views on a timely appointing the External Auditors to perform non-audit basis.
The Board also receives feedback at least twice each services, including consideration as to whether the External year from its corporate brokers on investors and the markets Auditors are the most suitable supplier of such services.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are also available to shareholders.
Details During the year, PwC was paid 0.9m for audit services.
of how the Company has considered shareholders views with PwC has also provided certain non-audit services to the Group, regard to the Groups remuneration policy can be found on principally advice on taxation and transaction related matters for page 55. which it has been paid a further 0.6m.
Details of the fees paid to the Auditors can be found in Note 7 c to the financial statements.
The AGM provides the Board with a valuable opportunity to Contracts for non-audit services in excess of 100,000 require communicate with private shareholders and is generally attended Committee approval.
Below this level the Chairman of the Audit by all of the Directors.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to Committee is notified of new instructions for the delivery of nonask questions during the meeting and to meet Directors following audit services.
the conclusion of the formal part of the meeting.
In accordance with the Code, the level and manner of voting of proxies lodged The Committee is satisfied that in view of their knowledge and on each resolution at the AGM is declared at the meeting and experience of the Company PwC was best placed to provide published on the Companys website.
The outcome of the such non-audit services and that their objectivity has not been votes cast at the 2013 AGM in respect of the 2012 Directors impaired by reason of this further work.
However, in line with Remuneration Report can be found on page 71.
The Directors aim Companys policy on the provision of non-audit work, the to give as much notice of the AGM as possible, which is at least Committee will review the provision of non-audit work provided 21 clear days, as required by the Companies Act 2006 CA2006.
by the External Auditors on a case by case basis.
However, in order to preserve the Directors flexibility to call general meetings other than an AGM, the Directors sought and received The following non-audit services may not be provided by the authority from shareholders at its 2013 AGM to call such meetings External Auditors: on 14 clear days notice.
It is the Directors intention to seek to renew this authority at the AGM to be held on 12 May 2014.
The bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting Directors confirm that the shorter notice period would not be used records or financial statements: as a matter of course, but only in situations where flexibility is financial information systems design and implementation: merited by the business of the meeting and is in the interests of Internal Audit outsourcing services: shareholders.
More details of all of the resolutions to be proposed management functions or human resources advice: or at the 2014 AGM can be found in the AGM Notice which advising on senior executive including Executive Director accompanies the Report and Accounts.
In accordance with the Articles, electronic and paper proxy To further safeguard the independence of the Companys appointments and voting instructions must be received not External Auditors and the integrity of the audit process, later than 48 hours before a general meeting.
recruitment of senior employees from the External Auditors is not allowed for an appropriate period after they cease The Company has taken advantage of the provisions within to provide services to the Company.
the CA2006 which allow communications with shareholders to be made electronically where shareholders have not requested Disclosure of relevant audit information hard copy documentation.
Details of the information available The Directors confirm that, insofar as they are each aware, there to shareholders can be found on page 127.
Information about is no relevant audit information of which PwC is unaware and the Company is also available on the Companys website each Director has taken the steps that ought to have been taken www.
as a Director to be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that PwC is aware of that information.
50 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013 | | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Report of the Directors Other statutory information The information below, is incorporated into this Report by reference.
Management Report This Directors Report, on pages 38 to 53, together with the Operations Strategic Report on pages 2 to 37, form the Management Report The Company and its subsidiaries together the Group operate for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
through a network of offices and associates throughout the Americas, the UK, Continental Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa and Additional Information Disclosure the Middle East.
Pursuant to regulations made under the CA2006 the Company is required to disclose certain additional information.
Those Results for the year disclosures not covered elsewhere within this Annual Report The results for the Group are set out in the consolidated income are as follows: statement on page 76 which shows a reported profit for the financial year attributable to the shareholders of the Company Share capital and major shareholdings of 50.8m 2012: 36.8m.
The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2013 comprised 134,280,732 2.5p ordinary shares details Dividend of which may be found on page 119.
An interim dividend of 3.5p per ordinary share amounting to 4.5m 2012: 4.1m was paid on 14 October 2013.
It is The Company has only one class of share capital formed recommended that a final dividend of 7.0p per ordinary of ordinary shares.
All shares forming part of the ordinary share amounting to 9.0m is paid, together with a supplemental share capital have the same rights and each carries one vote.
interim dividend of 8.5p per ordinary share amounting to 11.0m to be declared by the Board on 19 March 2014, on 21 May 2014 Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy or by corporate and paid to shareholders on the register at 22 April 2014. representatives in relation to corporate members.
The Articles More details of the proposed dividend and the Companys provide a deadline for the submission of proxy forms electronically performance can be found in the Chairmans statement on or by paper of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed pages 2 and 3. for the holding of the meeting or the adjourned meeting.
Principal developments There are no unusual restrictions on the transfer of ordinary The development of the business is detailed in the Strategic shares.
The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a Report on pages 2 to 37. certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: i lodged at the registered office of the Company or any other place as the The principal risks and uncertainties are detailed on pages Board may decide accompanied by the certificate for the shares 29 to 33. to be transferred and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make Directors the transfer: or ii in respect of only one class of shares.
Short biographical details of the current Directors are shown on page 42.
All the Board members served The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share throughout the year.
The Board comprises the Non-Executive whether certificated or uncertificated, whether fully paid or not, Chairman, two Executive Directors and four Independent in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Board may also Non-Executive Directors.
close the register of shareholders for up to 30 days effectively suspending the registration of all transfers: however, in respect Clare Hollingsworth will stand down from the Board at of uncertificated shares, consent from CREST would be required the conclusion of the AGM on 12 May 2014 following for such a closure.
which Tim Freshwater will become the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
As at 19 March 2014 the Company had been notified of the following interests in the Companys ordinary share capital Interests in the issued share capital of the Company held in accordance with Chapter 5 of the UK Listing Authoritys at the beginning under review and up to the date of this Report Disclosure and Transparency Rules: by the Directors or their families are set out on page 69 of the Remuneration Report.
Details of share options held by the Shareholders Number of shares % Directors pursuant to the Companys share option schemes Franklin Templeton Institutional, LLC 13,419,706 9.99 are provided in the Remuneration Report on page 70.
It is the Old Mutual plc 8,177,923 6.09 Boards policy that the GEB Members should retain at least Franklin Templeton Investment 105,000 shares value at 31 December 2013: 678,300 in the Management Limited 6,705,679 5.02 Company and that the Group Chief Executive retains at least Artisan Partners Limited Partnership 6,530,863 4.90 150,000 shares value at 31 December 2013: 969,000 based on the mid-market share price of 646p per share Heronbridge Investment Management LLP 5,404,296 4.05 on 31 December 2013 at all times.
Ignis Investment Services Limited 5,378,874 4.01 BlackRock, Inc 4,227,835 3.17 Directors interests in significant contracts No Directors were materially interested in any contract As at 31 December 2013, the Savills plc 1992 Employee Benefit of significance.
Trust the EBT held 5,525,661 shares.
Any voting or other similar decisions relating to these shares are taken by the trustees Statement of Directors responsibilities of the EBT, who may take account of any recommendation of the In accordance with the Code and the Disclosure and Company.
The EBT waives all but 0.01p per share of its dividend Transparency Rules DTR DTR4, the Directors Responsibilities entitlement.
For further details of the EBT please refer to Note 2 Statement is set out on page 72 and is incorporated into this to the financial statements.
Savills plc 51 Report and Accounts 2013 Report of the Directors Other statutory information continued Purchase of own shares Political contributions In accordance with the Listing Rules, at the AGM on 8 May 2013, There were no political contributions during the year 2012: nil.
shareholders gave authority for a limited purchase of Savills shares of up to 10% of the issued share capital.
During the year, no shares Employees policies and involvement were purchased under the authority.
The Directors recognise that the quality, commitment and motivation of Savills staff is a key element in the success The Board proposes to seek shareholder approval at the AGM of the Group: see pages 34 to 37 for more information.
on 12 May 2014 to renew the Companys authority to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares of 2.5p each for The Group provides regular updates covering performance, cancellation or to be held in treasury.
Details of the proposed developments and progress to employees through regular resolution are included in the Notice of AGM circulated to newsletters, video addresses, the Groups intranet, and shareholders with this Annual Report the AGM Notice.
social media and through formal and informal briefings.
These arrangements also aim at ensuring that all of our staff Change of control understands our strategy and to build knowledge on the part There are no significant agreements which take effect, alter of employees of matters affecting the performance of the or terminate in the event of change of control of the Company Group.
The Group also consults with employees so as to except that under its banking arrangements, a change of control ascertain their views in relation to decisions which are likely may trigger an early repayment obligation.
Articles of Association Employees are able to share in the Groups success through The Companys Articles are governed by relevant statutes and performance related profit share schemes see page 59 for more may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders in details and for UK employees including Executive Directors, a general meeting.
share plans which include a Sharesave Scheme and a Share Incentive Plan SIP.
The Sharesave Scheme is an HMRC The Companys rules about the appointment and replacement approved save-as-you-earn share option scheme which allows of Directors are contained in the Articles.
The powers of the participants to purchase shares out of the proceeds of a linked Directors are determined by UK legislation and the Articles savings contract at a price set at the time of option grant.
in force from time to time.
Participants may elect to save up to 500 per month and options may normally be exercised in the six months following the maturity Unless determined by ordinary resolution of the Company, of the linked three-year savings contract.
The potential for the number of Directors shall be not less than three and not extending the Sharesave Scheme internationally remains under more than 18.
A Director is not required to hold any shares in consideration.
The SIP is also HMRC approved and through the Company by way of qualification.
However, as more fully which participants may make regular purchases of shares described on page 51, in accordance with Board policy, the up to 150 per month which is the current statutory limit from members of the GEB which includes the Executive Directors pre-tax income.
Shares under the SIP normally vest after five are expected to build up and maintain a shareholding in the years free from income tax and national insurance contributions.
The Board may appoint any person to be a Director and such Director shall hold office only until the next AGM Human Rights and equal opportunities when he or she shall then be eligible for reappointment by the We support the principles of the UN Universal Declaration shareholders.
The Articles provide that each Director shall retire of Human Rights and the Core Principles of the International from office at the third AGM after the AGM at which he or she Labour Organization.
A retiring Director shall be eligible for re-election.
However, in accordance with the Code.
All Directors of the It is Group policy to provide employment on an equal basis Company are subject to annual re-election.
irrespective of gender, sexual orientation, marital or civil partner status, gender reassignment, race, colour, nationality, ethnic Annual General Meeting or national origin, religion or belief, disability or age.
In particular, The AGM is to be held at 33 Margaret Street, London W1G 0JD the Group gives full consideration to applications for employment at 12 noon on 12 May 2014: details are contained in the AGM from disabled persons.
Where existing employees become Notice circulated to shareholders with this Report.
disabled, it is the Groups policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment and to provide training and Half Year Report career development and promotion to disabled employees.
Like many other listed public companies, we no longer circulate printed Half Year reports to shareholders.
Rather, Half Year results statements are published on the Companys website.
This is consistent with our target of saving printing and distribution costs.
52 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013 | | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Independent Auditors In accordance with Section 489 of the CA2006, a resolution for the reappointment of  LLP as Auditors of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Whistle-blowing The Group encourages staff to report any concerns which they feel need to be brought to the attention of management.
Whistleblowing procedures, which are published on the Groups intranet site, are available to staff who are concerned about possible impropriety, financial or otherwise, and who may wish to ensure that action is taken without fear or victimisation or reprisal.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Details of the Groups global greenhouse gas emissions for the financial year under review can be found on page 37.
By order of the Board Chris Lee Group Legal Director & Company Secretary 19 March 2014 Savills plc Registered in England No.
2122174 Savills plc 53 Report and Accounts 2013
