Report of the Directors Corporate Governance Statement continued The Board is satisfied that the Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors committed sufficient time during Effectiveness the year to enable them to fulfil their duties as Directors of the Company.
None of the Non-Executive Directors has any Board composition and balance conflict of interest which has not been disclosed to the Board in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association Balance of Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors Articles.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code it is our intention to conduct an external independent evaluation of Board Non-Executive Chairman 1 effectiveness and performance and that of its principal Non-Executive Directors 4 Committees at least every three years.
Executive Directors 2 In this regard, IDDAS was engaged by the Board to conduct an independent assessment of board effectiveness in 2013.
Length of Tenure of Non-Executive Directors The review was designed to build upon the learning gained in the previous reviews to measure progress year on year and to confirm that the actions agreed by the Board in the light of 0-4 years 2 5-9 years 2 10 years 1 previous reviews had been addressed.
IDDAS met with individual Board members separately to undertake their review.
On completion of the review process, IDDAS presented their At all times during the year at least half of the Board members, report, covering the key themes and issues raised, and excluding the Chairman, were Independent Non-Executive made a number of recommendations to further enhance Board Directors.
In the light of this review the Board has reconfirmed its objectives for 2014 as being i to further develop the Groups The posts of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are distinct global approach to client servicing, ii to ensure, having agreed and separate.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures the plans at senior level, that management has implemented effective engagement and contribution of all Executive and appropriate succession plans at business level and continued Non-Executive Directors.
The Group Chief Executive has to develop the Groups talent management initiatives and iii to responsibility for all Group businesses and acts in accordance ensure the continued interaction with executives and teams with the authority delegated by the Board.
There are a number individual businesses.
of areas where the Board has delegated specific responsibility to management, including responsibility for the operational The report also concluded that the contribution made by management of the Groups businesses as well as reviewing each Director continued to be effective and that each Director strategic issues and risk matters in advance of these being continued to demonstrate commitment to the role and that considered by the Board and or its Committees.
the Company should therefore support their re-election to the Board at the AGM in May.
Accordingly, the Board considers that throughout the year the Company was in full compliance with the Code.
The skills and experience of the Directors, are set out on page 42.
In this regard, the Board considers Martin Angle, Tim Freshwater, Clare Hollingsworth and Charles McVeigh to be Independent Diversity Non-Executive Directors, as they are independent of management The Board is aware that the number of women on boards and have no business or other relationship which could interfere remains a topic for debate for companies and regulators.
materially with the exercise of their judgement.
In particular, and We agree fully with the spirit and aspirations of the Davies notwithstanding his long service on the Board, the Board Report to increase the number of women on company continues to consider that Charles McVeigh remains entirely boards.
However, we continue to view diversity in its broadest independent in character and judgement.
Martin Angle is the sense with a view to appointing the best placed individual Senior Independent Director and is available to shareholders if for the role.
they have concerns which have not been addressed by contact with the Chairman and or Group Chief Executive.
In a sector which historically has struggled to retain a high percentage of female leaders, we are striving to redress the balance with our successful graduate recruitment programme which aims to have a balanced intake of males and females and should help to ensure that there continues to be a diversity of talent within the Company from which we can draw the future leaders of our Company.
The biographies of the Board members appear on page 42.
44 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013 | | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Board induction and training To ensure a full understanding of Savills and its businesses, on appointment each new Director undergoes an induction programme which introduces the Director to the Groups business, its operations, strategic plans, key risks and its governance arrangements, and includes one to one briefings from the Heads of the Principal Businesses and an introduction to each Group businesss development strategy.
Ongoing training courses are available and Directors also receive regular updates on developments in legal and regulatory matters.
Directors conflicts of interest Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they have, or could have, an interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company.
A Director will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter has been authorised by the other Directors in accordance with the Articles.
The Board has adopted a set of guiding principles on managing conflicts and approved a process for identifying current and future actual and potential conflicts of interest.
It was also agreed that the Nomination Committee would review authorised conflicts at least annually or if and when a new potential conflict situation was identified or a potential conflict situation materialised.
During 2013, actual and potential conflicts of interest that were identified by each Director were subsequently authorised by the Nomination Committee, subject to appropriate conditions in accordance with the guiding principles.
Savills plc 45 Report and Accounts 2013 Report of the Directors Corporate Governance Statement continued The Committee meets at least twice a year, or as required, Nomination Committee Report and met twice during 2013.
There was full attendance at all meetings by members, as shown in the table above.
Members of the Committee also attend the Companys AGM at which there is an opportunity to meet with shareholders.
The Committee Chairman is on hand to answer questions in the event that shareholders ask specific questions related to the Nomination Committee and its activities.
Peter Smith Chairman of the Nomination Committee Committee objective and activities The primary objective of the Committee is to review the size and composition of the Board and its key Committees and to plan for The Nomination Committee has an important role to play in its progressive refreshing, with regard to balance and structure.
ensuring that the Board and its principal Committees have the right mix of skills, experience and diversity to deliver Group The Committee has standing items that it considers regularly strategy and to create value.
under its Terms of Reference, for example the Committee considered and approved the Directors potential Conflicts of In consultation with the Chairmen of the principal Committees, Interest and reviewed its own Terms of Reference which are the Nomination Committee will continue to monitor the needs of reviewed at least annually or as required, eg to reflect changes the Board and its Committees in the context of Group strategy, to the UK Corporate Governance Code or as a result of with the aim of ensuring that the Groups succession planning changes in regulations or best practice.
policy evolves such that there is an identifiable supply of talent and experience available to the Board and its Committees from More detailed information on the role and responsibilities which to select successors.
of the Committee can be found in the Committees Terms of Reference which can be accessed on the Companys website at www.
Meetings Attendance table Succession planning and diversity Meetings Meetings eligible to The Company adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure Committee member attended attend for the appointment of new Directors and key Senior Executives Peter Smith 2 2 with consideration to gender and diversity in its widest sense.
Before making an appointment, the Committee assesses the Martin Angle 2 2 balance of skills, knowledge, independence, experience and Tim Freshwater 2 2 diversity of the Board and, in view of this assessment, will draw Clare Hollingsworth 2 2 up a description of the role and competencies needed, with a Jeremy Helsby 2 2 view to appointing the best placed individual for the role.
The Company uses recruitment consultants to assist the Committee As at 31 December 2013 and up to the date of this Report, the Nomination in delivering its objectives and responsibilities.
No Director is Committee was primarily composed of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Biographical details relating to each of the Committee members is shown involved in decisions regarding his or her own succession.
Coming year In the coming year we will continue will keep the Boards During the year, the Committee comprised the Independent composition under review and the Committee will consider Non-Executive Directors, together with the Chairman and the how it may be enhanced to ensure that the Board continues Group Chief Executive.
The Committee Chairman is Group to reflect the needs of the Company and its shareholders.
Chairman, Peter Smith save in circumstances where the Chairmans succession is considered.
Any other Director, Group Legal Director & Company Secretary or an external adviser may be invited by the Committee to attend the meetings from time to time, as appropriate.
46 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013
