| | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Purpose and link to strategy Operation Potential Performance measures Annual Performance Related Profit Share To encourage the achievement Annual profit share awards In line with the Groups philosophy, Performance is primarily measured of challenging financial, strategic reflect the Groups annual profit there is greater emphasis on variable based on the Groups annual profit and or operational targets.
performance and personal performance related pay, while base performance with at least 70% of performance and contribution.
salaries are set significantly below awards subject to profit performance.
Further alignment with market median levels.
The remainder of the award is based shareholders interests through Awards are delivered part in cash on an appropriate mix of strategic, deferral of a portion into shares.
and part in shares subject to a Maximum annual profit share operational and or personal minimum cash threshold.
The awards are: performance goals.
proportion delivered in shares is 2m p. a. for the Group determined on a progressively Chief Executive.
The award potential at threshold increasing scale, up to one third.
For on-target performance Chief Financial Officer.
currently around 50% of the profit Shares are normally deferred for share award is awarded.
a period of at least three years.
For a new Executive Director the Committee would determine the The Committee awards dividend appropriate normal maximum taking equivalents in respect of dividends into account the role and responsibility, declared over the deferral period.
subject to a maximum of 2m p. a.
The Committee may exercise its judgement to adjust individual annual bonus payouts should they not reflect overall business performance or individual contribution.
Clawback provisions apply in exceptional circumstances such as a material misstatement of the Groups financial results or gross misconduct.
Performance Share Plan PSP To drive and reward the delivery Awards of shares subject to a Maximum annual award potential Performance conditions for future of longer term sustainable performance period of normally of 200% of salary plan rules limit.
awards are reviewed annually to shareholder value, aid retention no less than three years.
ensure that the measures and their and ensure alignment of senior Award policy for 2014 is: targets remain appropriate to management and shareholder PSP awards may be in the form Up to 450k for the Group business strategy and are sufficiently interests.
of nil cost options or conditional Chief Executive.
challenging, and that the relative awards over shares.
Awards may Up to 250k for the Group balance of the performance measures incorporate an award of Company Chief Financial Officer.
remains appropriate for properly Share Option Plan Options incentivising and rewarding the approved by HMRC.
Subject to an overall maximum of creation of longer term sustainable 1m per annum per participant.
The Committee awards dividend equivalents on a reinvested basis in For a new Executive Director the Performance conditions are respect of dividends over the vesting Committee would determine the currently based on two measures: or exercise period.
appropriate normal maximum taking into account the role Relative TSR against the Malus provisions apply, allowing and responsibility, subject to FTSE 250 excluding investment for the reduction of awards in a maximum of 200% of salary trusts or other appropriate exceptional circumstances of material or if lower 1m p. a. p. a. comparator group.
The Committee may adjust vesting of awards if it considers that the The Committee may review the outcome of the measurement of the performance measures for the PSP performance conditions does not to ensure they remain aligned to the accurately reflect the underlying strategy.
The Committee would performance or financial health of the consult with major shareholders in Company.
In the event the Committee advance of a change in performance proposes to make an upward measures used for the PSP.
adjustment the Committee will consult with major shareholders No more than 25% of an award in advance.
The Committee may vests for threshold performance.
adjust or amend awards in accordance with the PSP rules.
Savills plc 59 Report and Accounts 2013
