Report of the Directors Corporate Governance Statement continued Board of Directors 1.
Tim Freshwater Chairman of Savills plc and Chairman of the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Independent Non-Executive Director Nomination Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee Appointment to the Board: Tim was appointed Appointment to the Board: Peter was appointed Appointment to the Board: Martin was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 24 May to the Board on 2 January 2007 and replaced Timothy 1 January 2012.
2004 and was elected Chairman with effect from Ingram as the Senior Independent Non-Executive 1 November 2004.
Background and relevant experience: Until recently Tim was a NonExecutive Director of Chong Background and relevant experience: Formerly Background and relevant experience: Formerly, Hing Bank Limited.
Formerly he was Chairman of UK Senior Partner of  PwC he was Group Finance Director of TI Group plc and Grosvenor Asia Pacific Limited, Managing Director and Peter served for two years as Chairman of Coopers held various executive roles with Terra Firma Capital Chairman of Corporate Finance Goldman Sachs Asia & Lybrand International and as a member of the global Partners and its portfolio companies, including The from 2001 until 2005 and Vice-Chairman of Goldman leadership team of PwC.
He served as Chairman of Waste Recycling Group Executive Chairman and Le Sachs Asia from 2005 until 2012.
Tim previously RAC plc and was a Non-Executive Director of Meridien Hotel Group Deputy Chairman.
Prior to that worked at Jardine Fleming, becoming Group Chairman Safeway plc and the Equitable Life Assurance Society.
he held a number of senior positions in investment in 1999, and was a Partner at Slaughter and May from banking with S G Warburg & Co. Morgan Stanley and 1975 to 1996.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of Dresdner Kleinwort.
Associated British Foods plc and Paris Orleans SCA Other appointments: A Non-Executive Director of and Chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of Aquarius Platinum Limited, COSCO Pacific Limited, Investment Trust plc.
Pennon Group plc, OAO Severstal, Shuaa Capital psc Swire Pacific Limited and Hong Kong Exchanges Dubai, Chairman of The National Exhibition Group, and Clearing Limited.
Committee membership: Remuneration and and Chairman and Treasurer of FIA Foundation.
Committee membership: Audit, Remuneration Committee membership: Audit, Remuneration and and Nomination Committee.
Jeremy Helsby Group Chief Executive 5.
Clare Hollingsworth Appointment to the Board: Jeremy joined Savills Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman in 1980 and was appointed to the Board in 1999. of the Remuneration Committee Appointment to the Board: Charles was Background and relevant experience: He was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board: Clare was appointed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Savills on 1 August 2000. to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on Commercial and Savills Europe for seven years 2 April 2012. until he was appointed as Group Chief Executive Background and relevant experience: Formerly, on 7 May 2008. he was Co-Chairman of Citigroups European Background and relevant experience: Clare is Investment Bank and served on the Boards of Witan Chairman of Eurostar International Limited.
Formerly, Committee membership: Nomination Committee.
Investment Company plc, Clearstream, the London she was Chief Executive Officer of Spire Healthcare Stock Exchange, LIFFE, British American Business and its predecessor business, BUPA Hospitals.
Clare Inc and was a member of both the Development is a former Managing Director of Caledonian Airways 3.
Simon Shaw Board and Advisory Council of the Princes Trust.
having been appointed as part of the leadership team Group Chief Financial Officer He was also appointed by the Bank of England to when the airline was established by British Airways.
serve on the City Capital Markets Committee and the She is a former Non-Executive Director of Caledonian Appointment to the Board: Simon joined Savills Legal Risk Review Committee and was a member of Airways, Ambea ABand and the Assurance Group Ltd. as Group Chief Financial Officer in March 2009. the Fulbright Commission.
Other appointments: Chairman of Eurostar Background and relevant experience: Simon Other appointments: A Senior Adviser at Citigroup, International Limited and Non-Executive Director of is a Chartered Accountant.
He was formerly Chief Charles also serves on the Board of EFG-Hermes, Spire Healthcare Limited, Virgin Healthcare Holdings Financial Officer of Gyrus Group PLC, a position Petropavlovsk plc formerly Peter Hambro Mining plc Limited and Mlnlycke AB.
he held for five years until its sale to the Olympus and is a Trustee of the Landmark Trust and the Corporation.
Simon was Chief Operating Officer Natural History Museum Development Board.
Committee membership: Audit, Remuneration of Profile Therapeutics plc for five years and also and Nomination Committees.
worked as a corporate financier, latterly at Hambros Bank Limited.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Chairman of Synairgen plc.
