Corporate Governance the board bill ShANNoN bill oliVER StEVE buRKE Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Construction Director Appointed to the Board as non-executive Appointed to the Board in January 2000.
Appointed to the Board in November 2006. director and Chairman Designate in November Committee membership Committee membership 2010 and became non-executive Chairman in None.
Experience Experience Committee membership Has over 30 years experience in the property Joined St. Modwen in 1995 as a Contracts Chairs the Nomination Committee and is a industry with residential and commercial Surveyor after a number of years construction member of the Remuneration Committee.
development companies such as Alfred experience in senior roles with national Experience McAlpine, Barratt and The Rutland Group.
contracting companies including Balfour A 30 year career at Whitbread plc which Finance Director of Dwyer Estates plc from Beattyand Clarke Construction.
culminated in his appointment as a main Board 1994 to 2000.
Joined St. Modwen in 2000  Director in 1998 director for 10 years until his retirement in 2004. asFinance Director, and was subsequently andjoined the Board as a director in 2006.
Former Chairman of AEGON UK plc previously appointed Managing Director in 2003 and Scottish Equitable, Gaucho Grill Holdings Ltd ChiefExecutive in 2004.
A member of the and Pizza Hut UK Ltd, and former advisory board of the Governments non-executive director of The Rank Group plc, Regeneration Investment Organisation.
Barratt Developments plc and Matalan plc.
Currently a non-executive director of Johnson Service Group plc and Trustee of the Royal Voluntary Service.
MiChAEl duNN RiChARd Mully Group Finance Director Senior Independent Director Appointed to the Board in December 2010.
Appointed to the Board in September 2013 andbecame Senior Independent Director in Committee membership December 2013.
Committee membership Experience Member of the Audit, Remuneration A 20 year career in finance, including as andNomination Committees.
FinanceDirector of both Private Finance and Building at Carillion plc.
Joined St. Modwen in Experience 2010 from May Gurney Integrated Services plc A 30 year career in investment banking andreal where he spent five years as Group Finance estate private equity investing, including as Director.
A non-executive director of co-founder and managing partner of Grove Metropolitan Housing Association and International Partners LLP formerly Soros Real aqualified Chartered Accountant.
Currently Senior Independent Director of Hansteen Holdings plc and ISG plc, non-executive director ofAberdeen Asset Management plc andSupervisory Board member of Alstria OfficeREIT-AG.
56 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 KAy ChAldECott SiMoN ClARKE lESlEy JAMES, CbE Independent non-executive director Non-executive director Independent non-executive director Appointed to the Board in October 2012.
Appointed to the Board in October 2004.
Appointed to the Board in October 2009.
Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Member of the Audit, Remuneration None.
Chairs the Remuneration Committee andNomination Committees.
andisamember of the Audit and Experience NominationCommittees.
Experience Former Deputy Chairman of Northern Racing Joined Capital Shopping Centres Group plc plc and director and Vice-Chairman of The Experience now Intu Properties plc on graduating and held Racecourse Association Ltd.
Currently HR Director for Tesco plc from 1985 to 1999 a number of senior management positions, Chairman of Dunstall Holdings Ltd.
The son and a main Board director from 1994. including Managing Director, during a career ofSir Stanley Clarke, the founder and former Formernon-executive director for a number spanning 27 years.
Also served as a main Chairman of St. Modwen, and represents the ofcompanies including Care UK plc, Alpha Board director from 2005 until leaving the Group interests of the Clarke and Leavesley families, Airports Group plc, Inspicio plc, Liberty in 2011.
Currently a non-executive director of the Companys largest shareholders, on International plc and the West Bromwich NewRiver Retail Limited.
A member of the Royal theBoard.
Former Trustee of the charity Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Currently a non-executive director of Anchor Trust.
A Companion of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development.
JohN SAlMoN tANyA StotE Independent non-executive director Company Secretary Appointed to the Board in October 2005.
Joined St. Modwen as Company Secretary Interim Senior Independent Director from inMarch 2012.
Has held senior Company March2013 to November 2013.
Secretary roles in a number of FTSE listed companies including Taylor Woodrow plc, Committee membership TravisPerkins plc and, most recently, GKN plc Chairs the Audit Committee and is a member of where she was Deputy Company Secretary the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Experience AFellowofthe Institute of Chartered Admitted to partnership of Price Waterhouse .
in1976 and was a senior client partner at  LLP with lead responsibility for a range of major listed companies until his retirement in 2005.
Aformermember and Deputy Chairman of PwCs Supervisory Board and former Trustee and Council Member of the British Heart Foundation.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 57
