Corporate Governance directors Report StRAtEGiC REPoRt the Companies Act 2006 requires the directors to prepare a Strategic Report which contains a fair review of the Companys business and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faced.
the Strategic Report for the year ended th 30November 2013 is set out from the inside front cover of this Report to page 55.
PoStbAlANCE ShEEt EVENtS ANd FutuRE dEVEloPMENtS th there were no post-balance Sheet events in respect of the year ended 30 November 2013. likely future developments are described in the Strategic Report.
CoRPoRAtE GoVERNANCE StAtEMENt the disclosure and transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority require certain information to be included in a corporate governance statement in the directors Report.
information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate governance statement can be found in the Corporate Governance section on pages 59 to 97 and is incorporated into this directors Report by reference.
ANNuAl GENERAl MEEtiNG th the AGM of the Company will be held at 12.00 noon on Friday, 28 March 2014 at the Marketing Suite, innovation Centre, 1devon Way, longbridge technology Park, birmingham b31 2tS.
the notice of meeting, which includes the special business to be transacted and an explanation of all the resolutions to be considered at the meeting, is set out on pages 155 to 164. diVidENd th the directors recommend a final dividend of 2.67p per ordinary share in respect of the year ended 30 November 2013, to be paid th th on 4 April 2014 to ordinary shareholders on the register on 7 March 2014. this, together with the interim dividend of 1.33p per rd share paid on 3 September 2013, brings the total dividend for the year to 4.00p per share 2012: 3.63p per share.
ShARE CAPitAl the Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 10p each.
the issued share capital of the Company is set out in note K to the Company Financial Statements.
the Company does not currently hold any shares in treasury.
At the 2013 AGM, shareholders authorised the Company to make market purchases of up to 20,036,093 ordinary shares, representing 10% of the issued share capital at that time, and to allot up to an aggregate nominal amount of 13,357,395. th these authorities expire at the 2014 AGM.
during the year ended 30 November 2013, no shares were allotted or repurchased.
Resolutions to renew these authorities will be proposed at the 2014 AGM.
St. Modwen operates an Employee Share trust trust to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards of ordinary shares made under th the Companys share-based incentive arrangements.
As at 30 November 2013, the trust held 72,582 shares 2012: 215,754 shares, representing 0.03% 2012: 0.11% of the Companys issued share capital.
the trust deed contains a dividend waiver provision in respect of these shares.
Any voting or other similar decisions relating to shares held by the trust would be taken by the trustee, who may take account of any recommendations of the Company.
there were no purchases of shares by the trust during thefinancial year.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares the holders of ordinary shares in the Company are entitled to receive dividends when declared, to receive the Companys Annual and half year Reports, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the resolutions to be considered at the 2014 AGM are set out inthe notice of meeting on pages 155 to 164.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares th As at 30 November 2013 and the date of this report, except as referred to below, there are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company, no limitations on the holding of ordinary shares and no requirements to obtain the approval of the Company, or of other holders of ordinary shares in the Company, for a transfer of shares.
the directors may refuse to register the transfer of a share in certificated form which is not fully paid or on which the Company has a lien, where the instrument of transfer does not comply with the requirements of the Companys Articles of Association, or if the transfer is in respect of more than one class of share or is in favour of more than four joint holders.
the directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share, which represents an interest of at least 0.25% in a class of shares, following the failure by the member or any other person appearing to be interested in the shares to provide the Company with information requested under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006. transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CRESt and the directors can refuse to register the transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CRESt.
the Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
98 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Substantial shareholders th As at 30 November 2013, the Company had been notified of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares in accordance with the disclosure and transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority: Direct Indirect Total % of Shareholder voting rights % of voting rights voting rights % of voting rights voting rights voting rights lady Clarke and connected parties excludingSimon Clarke 19,962,539 9.06% 19,962,539 9.06% J. d. leavesley and connected parties 18,263,382 8.29% 18,263,382 8.29% blackRock, inc. 11,075,661 5.03% 11,075,661 5.03% tR Property investment trust PlC 6,802,638 3.09% 6,802,638 3.09% rd As at 3 February 2014, the Company had not been advised of any changes or additions to the interests set out above.
diRECtoRS th the following served as directors during the year ended 30 November 2013: th th Name Position as at 30 November 2013 Service in the year ended 30 November 2013 Steve burke Construction director Served throughout the year Kay Chaldecott independent non-executive director Served throughout the year Simon Clarke Non-executive director Served throughout the year Michael dunn Group Finance director Served throughout the year th david Garman N A Retired on 27 March 2013 th Katherine innes Ker N A Retired on 27 March 2013 lesley James independent non-executive director Served throughout the year st 1 Richard Mully independent non-executive director Appointed on 1 September 2013 bill oliver Chief Executive Served throughout the year 2 John Salmon Senior independent director Served throughout the year bill Shannon Chairman Served throughout the year st 1 Appointed Senior independent director on 1 december 2013. th th 2 Senior independent director from 28 March 2013 to 30 November 2013. th the biographical details of all the directors serving at 30 November 2013, including details of their relevant experience and other significant commitments, are shown on pages 56 and 57.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 99 Corporate Governance directors Report continued diRECtoRS CoNtiNuEd Following his appointment to the board in September 2013 and in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Richard Mully will retire and offer himself for election at the 2014 AGM.
All other directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election in accordance with the Code.
the Articles of Association provide that a director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of shareholders or by the existing directors, either to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional director.
the directors Remuneration Report, which includes details of directors service contracts and their interests in the Companys shares, is set out on pages 76 to 97.
With the exception of service contracts or those contracts detailed in note 22 to the Group Financial Statements, no director had a material interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its operating companies at any time during the year.
Copies of the service contracts of the executive directors and the letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
Powers of the directors the board may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the Companys Articles of Association, uK legislation including the Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by the Company in general meeting.
the directors have been authorised by the Companys Articles of Association to issue and allot ordinary shares and to make market purchases of the Companys own shares.
these powers are referred to shareholders for renewal at each AGM.
Further information is set out under the heading share capital on page 98.
Conflicts of interest under the Companies Act 2006, directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest with the Company.
As permitted by the Act, the Companys Articles of Association enable directors to authorise actual or potential conflicts of interest.
Formal procedures for the notification and authorisation of such conflicts are in place.
these procedures enabled non-conflicted directors to impose limits or conditions when giving or reviewing authorisation and require the board to review the register of directors conflicts twice yearly and on an ad hoc basis when necessary.
Any potential conflicts of interest in relation to newly appointed directors are considered by the board prior to appointment.
Directors liability insurance and indemnity the Company has arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of potential legal action taken against its directors.
to the extent permitted by law and in accordance with its Articles of Association, the Company also indemnifies the directors against any claims made against them as a consequence of the execution of their duties as directors of the Company.
ARtiClES oF ASSoCiAtioN the Companys Articles of Association, which, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, may only be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders, are available on its website www.
ChANGE oF CoNtRol the Company is party to a number of committed bank facilities which, upon a change of control, are terminable at the banks discretion.
under such circumstances, awards made under the Companys share-based incentive arrangements would normally vest or become exercisable subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
in addition, the Companys retail bondholders have an option to require the Company to redeem the bonds should a change of control event occur.
FiNANCiAl iNStRuMENtS the Groups exposure to and management of capital risk, market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk is set out in note 16 to the Group Financial Statements.
100 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 EMPloyEES St. Modwen is committed to regular communication and consultation with its employees and encourages employee involvement in its performance.
News concerning St. Modwen, its activities and performance is published on the Companys intranet.
quarterly management meetings are held to inform senior staff about matters affecting them as employees, at which their feedback is sought on decisions likely to affect their interest, and where a common awareness of the financial and economic factors affecting the Companys performance is developed: this information is then cascaded to all employees.
A performance-related annual bonus scheme and share option arrangements are designed to encourage employee involvement in the success of the Company.
Employment of disabled persons it is the policy of the Company to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment received from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
the policy includes, where practicable, the continued employment of those who may become disabled during their employment with the Company and the provision of appropriate training.
St. Modwen provides the same opportunities for training, career development and promotion for disabled as for other employees.
GREENhouSE GAS EMiSSioNS All disclosures concerning the Groups greenhouse gas emissions as required to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and directors Report Regulations 2013 are contained in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report which forms part of theStrategic Report on pages 50 to 55.
PolitiCAl doNAtioNS in accordance with the Companys policy, no political donations were made and no political expenditure was incurred during the year.
GoiNG CoNCERN the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in the Strategic Report.
the directors have considered these factors and reviewed the financial position of the Group, including its joint ventures and associates.
the review included an assessment of future funding requirements based on cash flow forecasts extending for 18 months from the date of signing the Financial Statements, valuation projections and the ability of the Group to meet covenants on existing borrowing facilities.
the directors were satisfied that the forecasts and projections were based on realistic assumptions and that the sensitivities applied in reviewing downside scenarios were appropriate.
As described in the Financial Review on pages 43 to 45, there are no corporate facilities that require renewal before November 2014, when the Groups 100m facility with lloyds banking Group matures.
the directors have reviewed the options available in respect of this and the Groups other banking facilities, together with opportunities to increase the diversity and longevity of debt facilities.
As a result the directors are satisfied that the Group will have sufficient ongoing facilities available for the Groups financing requirements.
based on their assessment, the directors are of the opinion that the Group has adequate available resources to fund its operations for the foreseeable future and so determine that it remains appropriate for the Financial Statements to be prepared on a going concern basis.
AuditoR the Companys auditor, deloitte llP has expressed a willingness to continue in office and resolutions for their re-appointment and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2014 AGM.
the board, on the advice of the Audit Committee, recommends their re-appointment.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 101 Corporate Governance directors Report continued StAtEMENt oF diRECtoRS RESPoNSibilitiES the directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements inaccordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Financial Statements for each financial year.
under that law the directors have prepared the Group Financial Statements in accordance with international Financial Reporting Standards iFRSs as adopted by the European union and the Company Financial Statements in accordance with united Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice united Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
under company law the directors must not approve the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
in preparing these Financial Statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether iFRSs as adopted by the European union and applicable united Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Company Financial Statements respectively: and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
the directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys and the Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the iAS Regulation.
they are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
the directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website www.
legislation in the united Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors in office as at the date of this report, whose names and functions are set out on pages 56 and 57, confirm that tothe best of their knowledge: the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of theassets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation takenas a whole: and the directors Report and the Strategic Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and theposition of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description ofthe principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Each of the directors in office as at the date of this report also confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
this confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. the directors as at the date of this report consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys and the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Approved by the board and signed on its behalf by tanya Stote Company Secretary rd 3 February 2014 102 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
