Construction expertise increases portfolio value Asset management the land bank diverse and extensive portfolio Strategic Report our business model What makes St. Modwen the uKs leading regeneration specialist?
Asset management expertise Regeneration and sustainability at our heart Remediation expertise 06 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Sales of assets provide capital for investment delivery Recurring income underpins running costs of the business Planning expertise Strategic Report The land Recurring bank income our long-term view allows us to acquire assets at low Whilst all of our assets are ultimately held with a view to costand then maximise their potential by steadily adding generating significant future value, some also produce value to them over time through remediation and planning.
a steady income stream prior to development which then at the appropriate time we either dispose of the asset underpins the running costs of the business.
this ensures to realise any increase in value or release it fordevelopment that commitments can be met if development profits fall and ourselves or in joint venture.
enables us to extract the maximum value from our land bank inthe short-term.
the diverse and extensive nature of our 1.1bn land bank What differentiates us?
provides us with the flexibility to move with market demands We employ locally-based asset management capability to and, coupled with our local expertise, means we can pursue manage the assets as efficiently as possible.
We typically offer value-creating opportunities.
A considerable proportion of low affordable rents on relatively short tenancies which ensure our land bank is held at relatively low value, giving us access that voids remain at their lowest possible level as we prepare to a wide variety of development opportunities without the sites for development.
the diversity of occupiers in our need forsignificant financing.
income producing properties helps us to avoid overexposure to a single scheme, sector or tenant.
See pages 0809 See pages 1011 Asset management Delivery We increase the value of our land bank over time using our When we are unable to add any further significant value to an expertise in and hands-on approach to remediation and asset, we seek market-driven opportunities to dispose of it, regeneration, managing sites, public consultation and the either through the delivery of pre-let and pre-sold buildings or planning process.
our skills can be applied effectively to the sale of land.
Cash generated on the sale provides recycled smalldevelopments or be used to navigate complex and capital to invest in the business and supports the delivery of long-term projects.
long-term shareholder value creation through a progressive dividend policy.
our ability to progress our land bank successfully through What differentiates us?
the planning process and our expertise in brownfield land We continue to find good development opportunities that are remediation and other aspects of regeneration make us an not reliant on speculative development.
Where industrial and attractive partner to both landowners and public bodies.
commercial occupiers have immediate requirements for new the skill and experience of our people is fundamental to premises, we are able to react quickly to meet their demands the success of our asset management activities and we with sites that already benefit from planning.
our regeneration continue to retain, develop and incentivise them.
projects continue to serve as catalysts for change, impacting positively on the local economy and attracting a variety See pages 1213 ofoccupiers.
See pages 1415 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 07
