231283 UKCPT pp01-pp18NEW 21 03 2014 10:26 Page 18 Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and, other than Mr Robertson, are independent of the Investment Manager, are responsible for the determination of the investment policy of the group and its overall supervision.
The Directors are as follows: Christopher Hill Chairman.
John Robertson Christopher Hill is a resident of Guernsey.
He is an John Robertson is a resident of the UK.
Associate of the Chartered Institute of Bankers Mr Robertson has over 35 years experience in and was managing director of Guernsey investment management in a variety of roles, International Fund Managers Limited, part of the and was most recently Director Funds and Baring Financial Services Group, for 8 years prior to Corporate Governance at Ignis Investment Services its sale in 2005 to Northern Trust.
He has over 40 years experience Limited.
Prior to his retirement from Ignis in 2012, he was a director of in the field of offshore banking and fund administration and is a Ignis International Funds plc, Ignis Alternative Funds plc, Ignis past Chairman of the Guernsey Investment Funds Association.
He is Liquidity Fund plc, Ignis Strategic Solutions Funds plc and Ignis Global Chairman of International Oil and Gas Technology Limited listed in Funds SICAV.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Association of Certified London.
Mr Hill has been a Director of the Company since launch in Accountants.
Mr Robertson has been a Director of the Company September 2006. since launch in September 2006.
Christopher Fish Andrew Wilson Christopher Fish is a resident of Guernsey.
He Andrew Wilson is a resident of the UK.
He was retired in 2005 as Managing Director of Close formerly of Richard Ellis, Royal Insurance as Chief International Private Banking.
Mr Fish has over surveyor and he joined Rugby Securities as a 35 years experience in offshore banking, asset director in 1987.
He was a founder director of management, treasury, trust services and fund Rugby Estates plc in 1990 and chief executive administration.
He is also a director of three other UK listed funds officer through its official listing, move to the Alternative and is a former director of an European commercial property Investment Market and subsequent fide-listing in regard to the orderly fund.
Mr Fish has been a Director of the Company since launch in liquidation agreed with shareholders.
He is also a non-executive director of September 2006.
Ipswich Building Society and non executive Chairman of Folgate Holdings Limited.
Mr Wilson has been a Director of the Sandra Platts Company since launch in September 2006.
Sandra Platts is a resident of Guernsey and is a non-executive director of Investec Bank C. I. Ltd Ken McCullagh and Starwood European Finance Partners Ltd. Ken McCullagh is a resident of Ireland.
Since Sandra was Managing Director of Kleinwort 2000 he has been Chief Executive Officer of LNC Benson in Guernsey and Chief Operating Officer Property Group, a private real estate investment for Kleinwort Benson Private Banking Group UK and Channel company which held and managed 500 Islands.
She also held directorships of the Kleinwort Benson Trust million of assets.
Previously he worked as a Company and Operating Boards, retiring from Kleinwort Benson Director and Partner of Corporate Finance for Farrell Grant Sparks, boards in 2010.
Sandra holds a Masters in Business Administration Chartered Accountants and was also a Financial Controller of and The Certificate in Company Direction from the Institute of Gunne Estate Agents now CBRE in Dublin.
He is a Fellow of the Directors.
Mrs Platts was appointed to the Board in December 2013.
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ireland.
Mr McCullagh was appointed to the Board in February 2013.
18 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED
