231283 UKCPT pp01-pp18NEW 21 03 2014 10:26 Page 2 Company Summary The Company The GP is the general partner and UKCPH is a limited partner of the GLP.
The limited partnerships principal business is that of an UK Commercial Property Trust Limited the Company is a closed investment and property entity.
ended, Guernsey registered investment company which was launched on 22 September 2006.
Objectives The Company has a single class of share in issue, which is listed on The investment objective of the Company is to provide ordinary the official list and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the potential for capital and income growth from investing in a The Company has an indefinite life and was incorporated on diversified portfolio of UK commercial properties.
The 24 August 2006. investment policy of the Company is set out on page 19.
The Group Benchmark The Group consists of the Company, its five wholly owned Investment Property Databank Balanced Monthly and Quarterly subsidiaries, and a limited partnership.
The subsidiaries, UK Commercial Property Holdings Limited UKCPH, UK Commercial Property GP Limited the GP, Management UK Commercial Property Nominee Limited UKCPN, UK Ignis Investment Services Limited is the Investment Manager of Commercial Property Estates Holdings Limited UKCPEH the Group.
formerly known as SCP Group Limited and UK Commercial Property Estates Limited UKCPEL are incorporated in Guernsey.
Further details of the management contract are provided in the The principal business of UKCPH, UKCPEL and the GP are that of an Notes to the Accounts.
The principal business of UKCPN is that of a nominee company.
The principal business of ISA Status UKCPEH is that of a holding company.
The Companys shares are eligible for ISA investment.
The limited partnership, UKCPT Limited Partnership, the GLP Website is a Guernsey limited partnership.
UK Commercial Property The Companys website address is: www.
co. uk Holdings Limited and UK Commercial Property GP Limited have a partnership interest of 99 and 1 per cent respectively in this entity.
2 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED
