231283 UKCPT pp19-pp32 21 03 2014 10:29 Page 19 Report of the Directors The Directors present the Annual Report and accounts of UK Business Review Commercial Property Trust Limited, the Company for the year The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall stewardship of ended 31 December 2013. the Company, including investment and dividend policies, corporate strategy, corporate governance, and risk management.
Results and Dividends A review of the business and how it has performed in the year is encompassed in the Chairmans Statement and Investment Manager The results for the year are set out in the attached accounts.
The Review as well as the Report of the Directors.
Biographical details of Company has paid interim dividends in the year ended the Directors, all of whom are non-executive, can be found on 31 December 2013 as follows: page 18.
Payment Date Rate per share p Investment Policy Fourth Interim for The Companys investment objective is to provide ordinary prior period Feb 2013 1.3125 shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the First interim May 2013 1.3125 potential for capital and income growth from investing in a Second interim Aug 2013 1.3125 diversified UK commercial property portfolio.
Third interim Nov 2013 1.3125 Investment risks are spread through the Company and its subsidiaries the Group by investing in a diversified portfolio of Total 5.2500 freehold and long leasehold UK commercial properties.
The Group invests in income producing investments.
The Group currently On 4 February 2014 the Company declared a fourth Interim invests in four commercial property sectors: office, retail, industrial dividend of 1.3125p per Ordinary Share with an ex-dividend date and leisure.
The Group has not set any maximum geographic of 12 February 2014, which was paid on 28 February 2014. exposures within the UK nor any maximum weighting limits in the Post Balance Sheet Events principal property sectors.
No single property shall, however, exceed at the time of acquisition 15 per cent of the gross assets of In January 2014, the Company committed to the purchase of the Group.
three fully pre-let sites at Aberdeen Gateway Business Park, Aberdeen via forward funding and Commitment agreements for a The Group is currently permitted to invest up to 15 per cent of maximum 48.3 million on phased completion through to an its total assets in indirect property funds including in other estimated completion date of December 2014. listed investment companies.
The Group is permitted to invest cash, held by it for working capital purposes and awaiting In February 2014, the Company announced a reduction in its investment, in cash deposits, gilts and money market funds.
annual dividend from 5.25p to 3.68p per annum, effective from May 2014, along with a reduction in the management fee payable At an EGM of the Company on 28 April 2011 the shareholders by the Company to 0.65% of total assets from 1 July 2014. of the Company approved a revised gearing policy of the Group amended to read as follows: Gearing, calculated as Principal Activity and Status borrowings as a percentage of the Groups gross assets, may The Company is a Guernsey company and during the year carried not exceed 65 per cent.
The Board intends that borrowings of on business as a property investment company.
The principal the Group at the time of draw down will not exceed 25 per activity and status of the Companys subsidiaries is set out in Note 9. cent.
of the Total Assets of the Group.
For so long as the Lloyds Facility remains outstanding, it is the Boards current Listing Requirements intention that borrowings of the Company will be limited to a maximum of 10 per cent.
of the Groups net assets at the Throughout the period the Company complied and intends to time of draw down.
The Board receives recommendations on continue to comply with the conditions applicable to property gearing levels from the Investment Manager and is responsible investment companies set out in the Listing Rules.
for setting the gearing range within which the Investment Share Capital Manager may operate.
The issued Ordinary share capital at 31 December 2013 consisted As at 31 December 2013 the Group had total borrowings of 230 of 1,197,348,858 Ordinary shares of 25p each and 41,445,142 million, representing a gearing level of 20.7 per cent of the year Ordinary shares held in treasury.
At 18 March 2014, these numbers end gross assets.
Each Ordinary share of the Company carries one An analysis of how the portfolio was invested as at 31 December vote at general meetings of the Company.
2013 is contained within the Investment Manager Review on There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares in the pages 8 to 14 and a full portfolio listing is provided on page 17.
Company other than certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by law for example, insider trading law.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 19 231283 UKCPT pp19-pp32 21 03 2014 10:29 Page 20 Report of the Directors continued The Groups performance in meeting its objectives is measured Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could lead to against key performance indicators as set out on page 4.
A suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange Listing, review of the Groups returns during the year, the position of financial penalties or a qualified audit report.
the Group at the end of the year, and the outlook for the Management and control changes that cause the coming year is contained in the Chairmans Statement and the management and control of the Company to be exercised in Investment Manager Review.
the United Kingdom could lead to the Company becoming liable to United Kingdom taxation on income and Principal Risks and Risk Uncertainties capital gains.
The Companys assets consist of direct investments in Financial inadequate controls by the Investment Manager UK commercial property.
Its principal risks are therefore related or third party service providers could lead to to the commercial property market in general, but also to the misappropriation of assets.
Inappropriate accounting policies particular circumstances of the properties in which it is invested or failure to comply with accounting standards could lead to and their tenants.
The Manager seeks to mitigate these risks misreporting or breaches of regulations.
though continual review of the portfolio utilising research produced by the Managers in-house research team and also Operational failure of the Investment Managers through asset management initiatives.
More detailed accounting systems or disruption to the Investment explanations of these risks and the way in which they are Managers business, or that of third party service providers, managed are contained under the headings of credit risk, could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting and liquidity risk and interest rate risk in note 16 to the accounts.
monitoring, leading to a loss of shareholders confidence.
The Board has also identified a number of specific risks that are The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these risks through reviewed at each Board meeting.
These are as follows: continual review, policy setting and enforcement of contractual The Company and its objectives become unattractive to obligations.
It also regularly monitors the investment investors.
This is mitigated through regular contact with environment and the management of the Companys property shareholders, a regular review of share price performance portfolio and levels of gearing, and applies the principles and the level of discount at which the shares trade to NAV detailed in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Details of the and regular meetings with the Companys broker to discuss Companys internal controls are described in more detail on these points and address any issues that arise.
Tenant failure or inability to let property.
Due diligence work Management of Assets and Shareholder Value on potential tenants is undertaken before entering into new lease agreements.
In addition, tenants are kept under The Board has contractually delegated the management of the constant review through regular contact and various reports investment portfolio and other services to Ignis Investment both from managing agents and from the Managers own Services Limited.
Finally, contingency plans are put in The Company invests in properties which the Investment place at units that have tenants that are believed to be in Manager believes will generate a combination of long-term financial trouble.
growth in income and capital for shareholders.
Investment decisions are based on analysis of, amongst other things, Loss on Financial instruments.
The Company has entered into prospects for future capital growth, sector and geographic a number of interest rate swap arrangements.
These swap prospects, tenant covenant strength, lease length and initial yield.
instruments are valued and monitored on a monthly basis by the counterparty banks.
The Manager checks the valuations Investment risks are spread through investing in a range of of these swap instruments internally to ensure they are geographical areas and sectors, and through letting properties accurate.
In addition, the credit ratings of the Banks that to low risk tenants.
A list of all the properties held as at the swaps are taken out with are assessed at every 31 December 2013 is contained on page 17 and further analysis Board meeting.
can be found in the Investment Manager Review.
At each Board meeting, the Board receives a detailed presentation from the Other risks faced by the Company include the following: Investment Manager together with a comprehensive analysis of Economic inflation or deflation, economic recessions and the performance of the portfolio during the reporting period.
movements in interest rates could affect property valuations, and also its bank borrowings.
The Board and the Investment Manager recognise the importance of managing the premium discount of share price Strategic incorrect strategy, including sector and to net asset value in enhancing shareholder value.
One aspect property allocation and use of gearing, could lead to poor of this involves appropriate communication to gauge investor returns for shareholders.
sentiment and, to this end, the Investment Manager meets with current and potential new shareholders, and with stockbroking 20 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 231283 UKCPT pp19-pp32 21 03 2014 10:29 Page 21 analysts who cover the investment company sector, on a regular The Directors are also Directors of UK Commercial Property Holdings basis.
In addition, communication of quarterly portfolio Limited, UK Commercial Property GP Limited, UK Commercial information is provided through the Companys website, Property Nominee limited, UK Commercial Property Estates www.
co. uk, and the Company also utilises a public Holdings Limited and UK Commercial Property Estates Limited relations agency to enhance its profile among investors.
which are all wholly owned subsidiary undertakings.
The Company maintains an appropriate level of insurance in Key Performance Indicators KPI respect of Directors & Officers liabilities in relation to work The Companys benchmark is the Investment Property Databank Monthly undertaken on behalf of the Company and all its subsidiaries.
This benchmark incorporates all monthly and quarterly addition, Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Company, valued property funds and the Board believes this is the most appropriate seek independent professional advice on any matter that concerns measure to compare the performance of a quarterly valued property them in the furtherance of their duties.
investment Company with a balanced portfolio.
In accordance with the articles of association Mr C Hill and The Board uses a number of performance measures to assess the Mr K McCullagh retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer Companys success in meeting its objectives.
The key performance themselves for re-election.
Mrs Platts, having been appointed since indicators are as follows: the last AGM and in accordance with the articles of association, offers herself for election.
In addition, the AIC Code of Corporate Net asset value share price total return against the IPD Governance and the UK Corporate Governance Code both benchmark and other selected comparators.
recommend that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies be subject to Premium Discount of share price to net asset value.
annual re-election, therefore both Mr J Robertson and Mr A Wilson Dividend per share and dividend yield.
also retire and offer themselves for re-election.
As explained in the Chairmans Statement, Mr C Fish will retire at the AGM.
formal performance evaluations which covered each individual These indicators for the year ended 31 December 2013 are set out Director excluding Mrs Platts and the Board as a whole, as well as on page 4. a review of the performance of the Chairman by the other members of the Board, the performance of all of the Directors In addition the Board considers specific property KPIs such as void continues to be effective with each making a positive contribution rates, rent collection levels and weighted average lease length on to the performance of the Company.
Therefore, the re-election of a regular basis.
These are reported on pages 15 to 16.
Mr C Hill, Mr K McCullagh, Mr J Robertson and Mr A Wilson and the election of Mrs S Platts is recommended to shareholders at the Directors 2014 Annual General Meeting.
In addition to the self appraisal of The Directors who held office during the period and their interests the Board that is undertaken each year, the consultants Boardroom in the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2013 all of which Review Limited facilitated an external review in February 2014 to are beneficial were: consider the effectiveness of the Board, its committees and individual directors.
Following this, a list of action points to optimise As at As at the functioning of the Board has been compiled and the Board will 31 December 31 December be working through these points in coming months.
2013 2012 Date of 25p Ordinary 25p Ordinary Substantial Interests in Share Capital Appointment Shares held Shares held At 31 December 2013 the following holdings, representing more Christopher Hill Sep 2006 20,000 20,000 than 3 per cent of the Companys issued share capital, had been notified to the Company.
Keith Dorrian Sep 2006 n a 10,000 retired Number of Jun 2013 Ordinary Shares Percentage Christopher Fish Sep 2006 10,000 10,000 Held Held % John Robertson Sep 2006 10,000 10,000 Phoenix Life Limited 690,960,172 57.7 Andrew Wilson Sep 2006 45,000 45,000 Investec Wealth & Investment 142,371,353 11.9 Ken McCullagh Feb 2013 - n a Nestle Capital Sandra Platts Dec 2013 - n a Management Limited 56,137,385 4.7 Investec Asset Management 36,880,674 3.1 On 6 February 2014, Mr Andrew Wilson purchased a further 30,000 shares in the Company.
There have been no other changes in the above interests between 31 December 2013 and 19 March 2014.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 21 231283 UKCPT pp19-pp32 21 03 2014 10:29 Page 22 Report of the Directors continued No changes to these holdings had been notified to the Company the strength of the Board and, as all Directors will be subject to as at 28 February 2014. reelection on an annual basis, it is not appropriate for the Board to have a limit on the overall length of service of any of the The Companys ultimate controlling party is Phoenix Group Companys Directors, including the Chairman.
The Board Holdings and immediate parent company is Phoenix Life Limited.
undertakes formal performance evaluations as set out on page 21.
This is also the ultimate controlling party of the Companys investment manager, Ignis Investment Services Limited.
The Company does not have a Remuneration Committee with the Board as a whole being responsible for Director and Board Corporate Governance remuneration levels.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of New Directors follow an induction process, including input from the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the Investment Manager, Secretary and Corporate Broker, on the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for investment Companies joining the Board and all Directors receive other relevant training AIC Guide both of which can be found at www.
AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code which can The Company has no executive Directors or employees.
uk, as well as setting out additional management agreement between the Company and its principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific Investment Manager, Ignis Investment Services Limited, sets out relevance to the Company.
the matters over which the Investment Manager has authority and the limits beyond which Board approval must be sought.
All other The Board considers that reporting against the principles and matters, including strategy, investment and dividend policies, recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide gearing, and corporate governance procedures, are reserved for which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, will provide the approval of the Board of Directors.
The Board currently meets an appropriate and satisfactory level of transparency to shareholders.
at least quarterly and receives full information on the Companys investment performance, assets, liabilities and other relevant The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC information in advance of Board meetings.
Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, except as set out below.
Board Committees The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to: The Board has appointed four committees to cover specific operations as set out on the following pages.
Copies of the terms the role of the chief executive of reference of each committee are available on the Companys executive directors remuneration website, or upon request from the Company.
In the forthcoming year, with the imposition of AIFMD, a Risk Committee will also the need for an internal audit function be constituted.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these Audit Committee provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being The Audit Committee, which was chaired by Mr Christopher Fish an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of and Mr McCullagh when required throughout the year, operates the Companys day-to-day management and administrative within well-defined written terms of reference, which are available functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company on the Companys website.
It comprises all of the directors other has no executive directors, employees or internal operations.
The than Mr John Robertson, who is invited to attend meetings of the Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these Committee unless, as a non independent director, a conflict of provisions.
Given the non-executive nature of the Board, Principle 1 of the AIC Code recommends that Boards appoint a the Committee also believe it is appropriate for the Chairman of Senior Independent Director SID.
In view of the Boards the Company to sit on the Audit Committee.
Within the non-executive nature and having separate Chairs of the Board and membership of the Committee, Mr Ken McCullagh is a chartered Audit Committee, the Board considers the appointment of a SID is accountant and following the retirement of Mr Fish in June 2014, not required.
will become the Committee Chairman.
The Board consists solely of non-executive Directors of which The duties of the Audit Committee are as follows: Mr Christopher Hill is Chairman.
All Directors, other than Mr John Review the Annual and Interim Accounts and challenge Robertson, are considered by the Board to be independent, with where necessary the actions and judgements of the any potential conflicts considered at each Board meeting with Companys Manager: reference to the AIC Code.
The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and experience are considered to add significantly to 22 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 231283 UKCPT pp19-pp32 21 03 2014 10:29 Page 23 Review and monitor the internal controls and risk management level given comparable evidence, letting activity and the property systems on which the Company is reliant: market as a whole.
Following this meeting and subsequent discussions with the Investment Manager a value of 1,048,705,000 Determine the terms of appointment of the auditor, together was agreed as the valuation of the property portfolio as at with its remuneration: 31 December 2013.
The Audit Committee considered the report by To advise the Board on whether the Annual Report and the Chairman of the Valuation Committee along with a summary of Accounts, taken as a whole are fair, balanced and the valuation and its key movements by the Investment Manager understandable and provide the information necessary for and agreed that this valuation was appropriate for the financial shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business statements.
In terms of existence of the properties, the Committee model and strategy.
noted the procedures that the Manager has in place to ensure correct approval and title to all properties held which include any The Audit Committee is also the channel through which the auditor property transaction documentation having to be approved and reports to the Board of Directors.
It meets at least twice a year and signed by the Board irrespective of its value and the obligations on now, generally, four times to take account of the new requirements the Companys solicitors to ensure good and marketable title.
In placed on audit committees by the 2012 UK Corporate Governance addition, the Committee sought assurance from the auditor prior to Code and AIC Code dated February 2013.
An additional meeting sign off of the financial statements that the confirmation of all titles was arranged during the audit to consider any matters which the has been included as part of the audit work undertaken.
auditor wished to communicate to the Audit Committee and, through them, to the Board of Directors.
This provided a forum for Recognition of Rental Income How was the issue the external auditor to give their views about significant qualitative addressed?
aspects of the Companys accounting practices and to draw to the The recognition of rental income is undertaken in accordance with attention of the Audit Committee any significant difficulties that the accounting policy disclosed in note 1 e to the accounts.
The they encountered during the audit, any substantial uncorrected Committee considered the processes and controls the Manager misstatements, any disagreements with management and any has in place to ensure the completeness and accuracy of income.
other matters which they felt it appropriate to raise.
These include data input checks, rent demand reconciliations and rent arrear reconciliations.
In addition the Committee also Significant Issues considered the various reports provided by the Investment At a planning meeting of the Audit Committee with the auditor, Manager and reviewed on a quarterly basis during the year which the scope and timing of the audit were agreed and it was included the following: confirmed that the Directors had no knowledge of any fraud Portfolio Yield summaries: within the Company: it was agreed that the significant issues in the audit should be the valuations of the properties and the Movement in annualised Contracted Rent: accuracy of income recognition in the Company and set out Quarterly Income Changes with details of lease activity in the below is how the Committee considered these issues during its quarter: review of the financial statements.
Rent collection percentages: Valuation of Properties How was the issue addressed?
The valuation of properties is undertaken in accordance with the Rental arrears: accounting policy disclosed in note 1 h to the accounts.
The Detailed quarterly financial reporting detailing out the main valuation of properties is considered by the Property Valuation reason for revenue movements in the quarter.
Committee, representatives of which met the external valuer, along with the Manager, as part of the year end valuation process.
The The Audit Committee concluded that, given the controls and Chairman of this Committee reported to the Audit Committee in reporting in place throughout the year, the rental income February 2014 and indicated that the following issues were number included in the financial statements of 72,191,000 discussed in the meeting with the external valuers: was appropriate.
Market review and outlook: Review of Auditor The objectivity of the auditor is reviewed by the Audit Committee, The level of yields on properties within the portfolio: which also considers the terms under which the external auditor is Letting activity within the portfolio: appointed to perform non-audit services.
The objectivity and independence of the auditor is safeguarded by obtaining Rental value and void changes: assurances from the auditor that adequate policies and Comparable evidence relating to the valuation of the properties.
procedures exist within its firm to ensure the firm and its staff are independent of the Company by reason of family, finance, Particular focus was given to the underlying yields applied to a employment, investment and business relationships other than in number of the properties and whether they were at the correct the normal course of the business and enforcing a policy UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 23 231283 UKCPT pp19-pp32 21 03 2014 10:29 Page 24 Report of the Directors continued concerning the provision of non-audit services by the auditor raised in this have been selected so as to give a fair picture of the which governs the types of work which are excluded.
The Audit Companys position and that the performance data in the Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit including document has not been selected so as to give a misleadingly the following areas: optimistic view of the Company.
The Directors have also critically reviewed the Investment Managers report to ensure that the Quality of audit work including ability to resolve issues in a comments made in this are consistent with their knowledge of the timely manner: Company and with the figures in the accounts.
As with any Company, there are some elements in the accounts that are Working relationship with the Committee and Manager: inevitably more complex than others and the Board has been at Suitably qualified personnel involved in the audit: pains to have these expressed in clear language so as to make them as understandable as possible.
Cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors, with particular regard to non-audit fees.
The Board very much welcomes views from shareholders and The performance and effectiveness of the auditors in relation to company analysts on the Annual Report and Accounts and, where the above points was considered through a formal evaluation practicable, will incorporate any suggestions that will improve template completed by the Committee and the Managers.
In relation to non-audit fees, these amounted in aggregate to Management Engagement Committee 109,000 2012: 60,400 for the year ended 31 December 2013 The Management Engagement Committee has met once in the and related principally to costs in connection with capital past year preceding the date of the signing of these accounts.
The allowance claims for the Group and corporate advice on AIFMD.
purpose of the Committee is to review the terms of the Where any non-audit fee is expected to exceed 25,000, the agreements with the Manager including, but not limited to, the Company operates a policy under which specific prior approval management fee and also to review the performance of the must be given by the Committee.
Notwithstanding the provision Manager in relation to the achievement of the Companys of such non-audit services, the Audit Committee considers Ernst & objectives.
These reviews have been conducted during the year Young LLP to be independent, given the safeguards put in place by and the outcomes are noted below.
Ernst & Young LLP to ensure independence.
Ignis Investment Services Limited provides management services The Audit Committee considers that it received all necessary to the Company.
A summary of the contract between the information from the Companys service providers as well as from Company and Ignis Investment Services Limited in respect of the external auditor in order for it to compile the necessary management services provided is given in note 2 to the disclosures.
The Committee noted the full co-operation of all accounts.
parties in producing the Annual Report and no difficulties or The Directors, other than Mr John Robertson, have considered the disagreements were observed.
Following the completion of the investment performance of the Company and the capability and audit, the Audit Committee and Board followed a systematic resources of the Investment Manager to deliver satisfactory approach to evaluate the auditor and the effectiveness of the audit investment performance.
They also considered the length of the process and found this to be satisfactory.
notice period of the investment management contract and the fees payable to the Investment Manager, together with the Declaration standard of the other services provided.
It was noted that the On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board Investment Manager had agreed to reduce the level of fees consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is charged from 1 July 2014. fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for users to assess the Companys performance, Following this review, it is the Directors opinion that the business model and strategy.
The Board is able to make this continuing appointment of the Investment Manager on the terms assertion since the Annual Report and Accounts document, which agreed is in the interests of shareholders as a whole due to the is prepared by the Manager and subsequently subject to external strength and quality of the management team, performance audit, is carefully scrutinised by the Audit Committee and by any achieved and the Investment Managers commitment to the Directors who are not members of the Audit Committee sector.
The Management Engagement Committee have also specifically focusing on the significant issues highlighted in this conducted reviews where appropriate with the assistance of the report.
In their consideration of the document, the Directors put Investment Manager of the Companys other service providers.
themselves in the position of a shareholder and consider carefully The outcome of those reviews has been satisfactory.
whether the comments made are consistent with their view of the overall performance of the Company during the period under Nominations Committee consideration.
Specifically, consideration has been given to the The Nominations Committee which was set up in the year Financial and Property Highlights section to ensure that the points comprises all independent Directors of the Company and is 24 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 231283 UKCPT pp19-pp32 21 03 2014 10:29 Page 25 chaired by Mr Christopher Hill.
The Board had previously carried the value this brings to the Company in terms of skills, knowledge out this role itself.
The Nominations Committee considers and experience.
Initial interviews were carried out and a shortlist appointments of new Directors, undertaking a thorough and open of candidates were then interviewed by the Nominations process involving, where appropriate, professional recruitment Committee.
The search process concluded with the appointment consultants and committee interviews with candidates identified.
of Mrs Platts on 12 December 2013.
The Nominations Committee In the year, the Board developed criteria to address the anticipated met once during the year.
vacancy, and involved OSA Consultants Limited who have no other Property Valuation Committee connection with the Company in the selection of a long list of candidates.
The criteria for selection took into account the need The Property Valuation Committee comprises all of the Directors for the Board to have a balance of skills, experience, independence and is chaired by Mr Andrew Wilson.
Representatives from the and knowledge of the Company.
In addition, the Board and Committee meet the external valuers of the Company at least Committee was cognisant of the debate around the once a year and report back to the Board on the process for recommendations of the Davies Report on Women on Boards.
The arriving at independent valuations and on any issues that arise in Board recognises the benefits of diversity in its broadest sense and relation to this process.
Director Meetings Attendance Summary Property Nominations Valuation Board of Directors Audit Committee Committee Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended C Hill 44 3 3 1 1 2 1 K Dorrian retired June 2013 4 1 3 1 n a n a n a n a C Fish 43 3 3 1 1 1 1 K McCullagh appointed Feb 2013 44 3 2 1 1 2 2 J Robertson 44 n a n a 1 1 2 2 S Platts appointed Dec 2013 41 n a n a n a n a 2 1 A Wilson 44 3 3 1 1 2 2 The table above sets out the number of Board and Committee stressed conditions.
In addition the Company and Group has no meetings held during the year and the number attended by each contingent liabilities.
In addition to the above, there were 17 ad hoc meetings Having thoroughly considered the going concern assessment the held during the year.
All meetings were held outside the UK.
Board has concluded that there are no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt about the Company and Groups ability Going Concern to continue as a going concern.
The Directors have a reasonable The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely expectation that the Company and Group has adequate resources to affect its future development, performance and position are to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, set out in the Investment Policy and the Risk Uncertainties review thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of on pages 19 and 20.
In addition, Note 16 to the financial accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
statements includes the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management Environmental, Health & Safety, Ethical & Bribery Policy objectives: details of its financial instruments: and its exposure to The Investment Manager acquires, develops and manages credit risk and liquidity risk.
properties on behalf of the Company.
It is recognised that these At both the Company and Group levels comprehensive going activities have both direct and indirect environmental impacts.
concern assessments have been performed.
The Board has The Board has endorsed the Investment Managers own followed the Financial Reporting Councils Going Concern and environmental policy, which is to work in partnership with Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 contractors, suppliers, tenants and consultants to minimise those when performing their going concern assessments.
impacts, seeking continuous improvements in environmental performance and conducting regular interviews.
The Company The assessments performed include review of the valuation and also recognises that it has a commitment to protecting the health liquidity of investments as at the balance sheet date and of and safety of those who use its properties.
The Company has a solvency and cash flow projections under both normal and health and safety policy which sets out the arrangements and UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 25 231283 UKCPT pp19-pp32 21 03 2014 10:29 Page 26 Report of the Directors continued responsibilities to ensure high standards of health and safety are which safeguards shareholders investments and the Companys assets, maintained in each property.
In addition the Board has adopted an is maintained.
An internal audit function specific to the Company is ethical policy which highlights the need for ethical considerations therefore considered unnecessary.
to be considered in the acquisition and management of both new Relations with Shareholders and existing properties.
The Company places great importance on communication with its It is the Companys Policy to prohibit and expressly forbid the offering, shareholders and welcomes the views of shareholders.
The Manager and giving or receiving of a bribe in any circumstances.
This includes those Broker of the Company meet existing and potential shareholders on a instances where it may be perceived that a payment, given or received, regular basis and the Board receives regular reports on the views of may be a bribe.
The Company has adopted an Anti-Bribery and shareholders from these meetings.
In addition the Chairman, where Corruption Policy to ensure robust compliance with The Bribery Act possible, meets larger shareholders annually and other Directors are 2010.
The Company has made relevant enquiries of its Manager and has available to meet shareholders if required.
The Annual General Meeting received assurances that appropriate anti-bribery and corruption policies of the Company and also the annual and interim results presentations have been formulated and communicated to their employees.
provides a forum, both formal and informal, for shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and Investment Manager of Internal Controls the Company.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has therefore established Non-Mainstream Pooled investments an ongoing process designed to meet the particular needs of the The Company currently conducts its affairs so that the shares issued by Company in managing the risks to which it is exposed, consistent with the Company can be recommended by IFAs to ordinary retail investors in the guidance issued in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The process accordance with the FCAs rules in relation to non-mainstream is based principally on the Investment Managers existing risk-based investment products and intends to continue to do so for the approach to internal control whereby a risk matrix is created that foreseeable future.
The shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions identifies the key functions carried out by the Investment Manager and which apply to non-mainstream investment products because the other service providers, the individual activities undertaken within those Company would qualify as an investment trust if the Company was functions, the risks associated with each activity and the controls based in the UK.
employed to minimise those risks.
A residual risk rating is then applied.
The risk matrix is regularly updated and the Board is provided with Annual General Meeting regular reports highlighting all material changes to the risk ratings and Among the resolutions being put at the Annual General Meeting of the confirmation of the action which has been, or is being, taken.
A formal Company to be held on 17 June 2014, the following resolutions will annual review of these procedures is carried out by the Board and be proposed.
includes consideration of ISAE 3402 formerly SAS70 and similar reports issued by the Investment Manager and other service providers.
Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights Resolution 11 gives the Directors, for the period until the conclusion of Internal control procedures have been in place throughout the period the Annual General Meeting in 2015 or, if earlier, on the expiry of and up to the date of approval of this Report, and the Board is satisfied 15 months from the passing of resolution 11, the necessary authority with their effectiveness.
These procedures are designed to manage either to allot securities or sell shares held in treasury, otherwise than to rather than eliminate risk and, by their nature, can only provide existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis, up to an aggregate nominal reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement amount of 30,969,850.
This is equivalent to approximately 10 per cent or loss.
At each Board meeting the Board monitors the investment of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 19 March 2014 performance of the Company in comparison to its stated objective and including Treasury Shares.
The Board also reviews the Companys activities since the previous Board meeting to ensure that the The Directors will allot new shares pursuant to this authority only if they Investment Manager adheres to the agreed investment policy and believe it is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to do so and approved investment guidelines and, if necessary, approves changes to in no circumstances would this be done if it results in a dilution to the such policy and guidelines.
In addition, at each Board meeting, the net asset value per share.
Board receives reports from the Secretary in respect of compliance matters and duties performed on behalf of the Company.
Conflicts are Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares noted at the commencement of each Board meeting.
The current authority of the Board granted to it by shareholders at the The Board has reviewed the need for a dedicated internal audit function.
2013 AGM to buy back shares in the Company expires at the end of AGM The Board has decided that the systems and procedures employed by to be held in 2014.
The Board intends to renew such authority to buy the Investment Manager and the Secretary, including their internal audit back shares up to 14.99 per cent of the number of Ordinary Shares in functions and the work carried out by the Companys external auditors, issue.
This special resolution, if approved, will enable the Company to provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, buy back up to 179,482,593 shares based on the current number of 26 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 231283 UKCPT pp19-pp32 21 03 2014 10:29 Page 27 shares in issue excluding treasury shares.
Any buy back of Ordinary Auditors Shares will be made subject to Guernsey law and within guidelines Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office established from time to time by the Board, which will take into as auditors and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be account the income and cash flow requirements of the Company, and submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
the making and timing of any buy backs will be at the absolute So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit discretion of the Board.
information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware, and each has Purchases of Ordinary Shares will only be made through the market for taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself cash at prices below the prevailing published net asset value of an aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Ordinary Share as last calculated, where the Directors believe such Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
purchases will enhance shareholder value.
Such purchases will also only be made in accordance with the rules of the UK Listing Authority which Recommendations provide that the price to be paid must not be more than the higher of The Directors believe that the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual i five per cent above the average of the middle market quotations for General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its the Ordinary Shares for the five business days before the purchase is shareholders as a whole, and recommend that shareholders vote in made and ii the higher of the last independent trade and the highest favour of the resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of all current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange.
The minimum their own beneficial shareholdings.
price exclusive of expenses that may be paid is 25 pence a share.
Approved by the Board on 19 March 2014.
The Company may retain any shares bought back as treasury shares for future re-issue and re-sale, or transfer, or may cancel any such shares.
Christopher M. W. Hill During the period when the Company holds shares as treasury shares, Director the rights and obligations in respect of those shares may not be exercised or enforced by or against the Company.
The maximum Christopher Fish number of shares that can be held as treasury shares by the Company is Director 10 per cent of the aggregate nominal value of all issued Ordinary Shares.
Ordinary Shares held as treasury shares will only be re-issued, re-sold, or transferred at prices which are not less than the published net asset value of an Ordinary Share.
It is the intention of Directors that the share buy back authority will be used to purchase Ordinary Shares, subject to the income and cash flow requirements of the Company, if the share price of an Ordinary Share is more than 5 per cent below the published net asset value for a continuous period of 90 dealing days or more.
In the event that such discount is more than 5 per cent for 90 dealing days or more, following the second anniversary of the Companys most recent continuation vote, 10 July 2009, the Directors will convene an Extraordinary General Meeting to be held within three months to consider an ordinary resolution for the continuation of the Company.
If this continuation resolution is not passed, the Directors will convene a further extraordinary general meeting to be held within six months of the first extraordinary meeting to consider the winding up of the Company or a reconstruction of the Company which offers all Shareholders the opportunity to realise their investment.
If any such continuation resolution is passed, this discount policy, save in respect of share buy backs, would not apply for a period of two years thereafter.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 27 231283 UKCPT pp19-pp32 21 03 2014 10:29 Page 28 Directors Remuneration Report unaudited The Board has prepared this voluntary report in accordance with Fees are annually reviewed against comparable vehicles and if the new regulations governing the disclosure and approval of considered appropriate, increased accordingly.
The current fee Directors remuneration following changes to the UK Companies levels are as follows: Act 2006.
This Remuneration Report comprises two parts: 31 December 31 December i Remuneration Policy, which will be subject to a binding 2013 2012 shareholder vote to be put to the members at the forthcoming AGM in the first instance and then every three years thereafter.
Chairman 45,000 45,000 Should the Remuneration Policy be varied during this interval, then Shareholder approval for the new Remuneration Policy will Chairman of Audit Committee 35,000 35,000 be sought: and Director 30,000 30,000 ii An annual report on the implementation of remuneration, Appointment which provides information on how the policy has been applied The Company only intends to appoint non-executive Directors: during the year and which will be subject to an advisory vote on the level of remuneration paid during the year as set out in the All the Directors are non-executive appointed under the terms Implementation Report.
of Letters of Appointment: The fact that the Remuneration Policy will now be subject to a Directors must retire and be subject to election at the first AGM binding vote does not imply any change on the part of the after their appointment, and annually thereafter: Company.
The principles remain the same as for previous years.
There have been no changes to the Directors Remuneration Policy New appointments to the Board will be placed on the fee during the period of this Report.
applicable to all Directors at the time of appointment currently 30,000 : Remuneration Policy No incentive or introductory fees will be paid to encourage This part of the Remuneration Report provides details of the a Directorship: Companys Remuneration Policy for Directors of the Company.
This policy takes into consideration the principles of UK Corporate The Directors are not eligible for bonuses, pension benefits, Governance and the AICs recommendations regarding the share options, long term incentive schemes or other benefits: application of those principles to investment companies.
As the Company has no employees and the Board is comprised wholly of The Company indemnifies its Directors for all costs, charges, non-executive Directors and given the size and nature of the losses, expenses and liabilities which may be incurred in the Company, the Board has not established a separate Remuneration discharge of duties.
Directors remuneration is determined by the Board as a whole.
Performance, Service Contracts, Compensation and Loss of Office The Directors are non-executive and their fees are set within the The Directors remuneration is not subject to any performance limits of the Companys Articles of Association which limit the related fee: aggregate fees payable to the Board of Directors per annum.
The level of cap may be increased by shareholder resolution from time No Director has a service contract: to time.
Subject to this overall limit, the Boards policy is that the remuneration of non-executive Directors should reflect the nature No Director was interested in contracts with the Company of their duties, responsibilities and the value of their time spent during the period or subsequently: and be fair and comparable to that of other comparable vehicles The terms of appointment provide that a Director may be that are similar in size, have a similar capital structure and have a removed without notice: similar investment objective.
Compensation will not be due upon leaving office: No Director is entitled to any other monetary payment or any assets of the Company.
Directors & Officers liability insurance cover is maintained by the Company on behalf of the Directors.
It is intended that, if approved, the Remuneration Policy will take effect at the conclusion of the AGM on 18 June 2014.
28 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 231283 UKCPT pp19-pp32 21 03 2014 10:29 Page 29 Implementation Report Audited Information The total fee payable to each Director who served during the present and Aggregate Fees previous financial year of the Company is shown in the following table.
Article 79 of the Companys Articles of Association currently limits the aggregate fees payable to the Board of Directors to a total of 2013 2012 300,000 per annum.
No change to this limit is proposed for the forthcoming year.
Christopher Hill 45,000 45,000 Keith Dorrian 14,075 30,000 Directors Remuneration Rates Christopher Fish 35,000 35,000 Based on the levels of fees, Directors remuneration for the Ken McCullagh 27,417 - forthcoming financial year will be as follows: Sandra Platts 1,630 - 31 December 31 December John Robertson 30,000 30,000 2014 2013 Andrew Wilson 30,000 30,000 Total 183,122 170,000 Chairman 45,000 45,000 Chairman of Audit Committee 35,000 35,000 retired 19 June 2013 Director 30,000 30,000 appointed 1 February 2013 It is the current intention of the Board that the level of Directors appointed 12 December 2013 fees will be reviewed in June 2014.
Any changes made will be in accordance with the remuneration policy stated on page 28.
Fees are pro-rated where a change or appointment takes place during a financial year.
There were no payments to third parties Company Performance from the fees referred to in the table above Although the Company has appointed Ignis as an external investment manager pursuant to the terms of the investment Directors Interests in the Company management agreement set out in note 2 to the accounts, the The Directors are not required to have a shareholding in the Board is responsible for the Companys investment strategy and Company.
The Directors interests in the share capital of the performance.
The following graph compares the total return Company are shown in the Directors Report on page 21. assuming all dividends are reinvested to ordinary shareholders compared with the total return on the IPD Benchmark over a five Approved by the Board on 19 March 2014. year period to 31 December 2013 rebased to 100 at 31 December 2008.
Christopher M. W. Hill Director 220 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 IPD Benchmark UKCPT Share Price Total Return UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 29 Total Return Index
