231283 UKCPT pp01-pp18NEW 21 03 2014 10:26 Page 8 Investment Manager Review Market Review In the second half of the year prime yields in key regional markets fell by over 0.5%.
However, this yield shift is not evident in the The UK economy closed 2013 in a much healthier condition than a poorer quality secondary tertiary end of the spectrum, where year ago.
Market indicators suggest that the composition of structural shifts in attitudes to risk and occupational demand economic growth appears healthy, reasonably well-balanced, and mean that vacancy rates will remain stubbornly high, void periods is expected to be more than maintained over the short term at will be longer and rents lower.
This is now being reflected in yield least.
Business and consumer confidence continue to improve and movement and all property yields are moving firmly downwards.
This is leading to an increase in investment Market evidence suggests that the downward movement has been within the private sector as greater confidence surrounds future much stronger in the closing quarter of 2013 than is currently profitability.
being reported in IPD whose data is based on valuations, rather The strengthening outlook for the UK economy, supports the case than transactions.
for real estate as an asset class.
Business investment is now increasing as corporations become more confident about future Performance Review profitability, a crucial requirement for sustained expansion.
It has Property returns improved quarter on quarter through 2013, been some considerable time since the UK economy has enjoyed opening with a modest capital decline which evened out with positive news of this scale and magnitude.
income to deliver 3.0% by the half year as measured by the IPD Benchmark.
In response to the combined effects of an improved Although all this positive data is welcome, it has yet to translate economic outlook both home and abroad and a low interest rate fully into real income growth for most which suggests that the environment, capital values continued to gain momentum with increase in consumer spending has been fuelled by a reduction in the second half of the year producing 4.0% capital growth i. e savings, a strengthening housing market and reduced interest 7.0% total return and in the process produced the highest rates.
Inflation, which has undermined real income growth in quarterly total return for three years in the last quarter of 2013. recent times, does, however, seem to be reverting to long term For the year, the UK commercial property sector delivered a total target rates which should ease the pressure on any prospect of a return of 10.7% with a 6.0% income return and 4.5% capital pre-emptive rise in interest rates.
Capital value growth was driven by yield compression as When the rate of GDP growth accelerates, there is usually a rental values across the market generally remained flat.
All corresponding uplift in rental growth, and we expect to see this as property rental value growth has been modestly positive over the we enter the next phase of the current economic cycle.
However, year 0.6% with growth in office and industrial rental values, some commentators believe that this may be more muted than in predominantly in London and the South East, off-setting rental previous cycles, with a rate of rental growth of only around 2% p. a. value decline in the retail sector.
over three years, focused in certain sub sectors and regions of the Whilst all the principal sectors recorded positive capital growth UK, the most likely outcome.
throughout 2013, offices remained the strongest performing sector.
With an overall return of 15.8%, Central London continued The volume of investment transactions in the UK rose steadily to be at the forefront of this performance, buoyed by yield during 2013, reaching 53 billion over the year, the highest compression in response to continued investor demand from investment level since 2007.
This increase does not fully reflect home and abroad as well as sustained levels of strong rental investor demand, as the supply of good quality stock remains growth.
The year witnessed very strong returns for Outer London constrained and is arguably holding back transaction levels, and South East markets as investors began to recognise the strong although investor appetite has now spread from London and the property fundamentals evident in these markets, which led to very South East markets to the UKs regional markets, albeit on a more healthy capital growth driven by yield compression and selective basis.
South East office markets delivered a Although it has been the familiar theme of Central London retail total return of 15.4% in 2013.
Although the prevalence of yield and offices delivering the strongest returns, the yield gap between compression was also evident in the better regional markets, the London South East and the UKs regional markets, combined with rental growth story was much more benign but the market was nascent signs of an improving occupier market in the key regional still able to deliver a total return of 6.2%.
centres and an increasing investor appetite towards risk, has manifested itself in increasing investor demand for good quality Industrial markets also benefited from yield compression as the assets in the UKs regional markets.
This was reflected in the fact year progressed, particularly within distribution warehouses, where that almost a third of investment volumes were from regional a lack of available supply was also supporting upward pressure on markets.
All Industrial total returns were 12.9% for 2013.
8 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 231283 UKCPT pp01-pp18NEW 21 03 2014 10:26 Page 9 The retail market remained the greatest source of market The table below sets out the components of total return of the divergence, with Central London continuing to be driven by very Company and of the benchmark in each sector for the year to 31 strong rental growth and delivering 16.1% total return.
This was in December 2013: stark contrast to shopping centres and high streets in the rest of Total Return Income Return Capital Growth the country where structural changes, weak disposable income Fund Benchmark Fund Benchmark Fund Benchmark growth, and a continued over supply in secondary markets %% %% %% continued to cause rental falls and resulted in a total return of Offices 21.2 14.1 6.7 5.6 13.6 8.1 2.4% over the year.
Industrials 15.9 12.9 6.8 6.9 8.6 5.7 Overall, divergence in performance between prime and secondary assets on the whole persisted over the review period: however, in Retail 5.5 8.1 6.3 5.9 -0.8 2.0 certain markets, the variance is narrowing.
Other Commercial Income incl Leisure 11.2 9.6 6.3 5.7 4.6 3.8 Annualised rental income for the Company was 68.1 million at Total 11.5 10.7 6.5 6.0 4.7 4.5 the end of the year representing a fall of 6.1% from the previous year.
The largest single contributor to this reduction was the Coca Source: IPD assumes reinvestment of income in capital gain loss Cola lease expiry at Charter Place, Uxbridge sold in December 2013 but a number of lease expiries and breaks mainly within the Offices Companys shopping centres were also important factors.
As The Companys office holdings continued to provide the highlighted in the asset management section below, a concerted portfolios strongest returns in 2013.
This was led by continued effort continues to be made to replace that income and this will yield compression and rental growth in Central London with very remain a key focus for the Company.
strong capital growth of 13.6% being the principal component in a total return of 21.2% for the year.
The threat of administrations seems to have diminished although where it has occurred within the portfolio it has resulted in There has been a notable shift in pricing for assets with shorter improved income levels and lease length in certain cases.
lease lengths in Central London and South East office markets The investment of some of the Companys cash resources and where severe supply shortages are manifesting themselves in proceeds from sales has had a positive effect on revenue with the higher headline rents and a marked fall in incentives.
The acquisition of Newtons Court, Dartford producing an income yield Companys own Central London assets were notable beneficiaries of 6.4% as well as the commitment to fund Aberdeen Gateway.
of this trend with three out of the five top performers in the portfolio from the West End office portfolio such as Craven House, Fouberts Place, London and two properties in Great Marlborough Portfolio Performance Street, all of which are within the Soho office sub market.
In a similar fashion to the overall market, the performance of the portfolio improved as the year progressed and delivered an overall portfolio return comfortably ahead of the benchmark of 11.5% for the year with 4.7% capital growth, principally from the last quarter, and an income return of 6.5%.
The external portfolio valuation as at 31 December 2013 was 1,048.7 million.
The Companys Central London retail and office holdings were the principal reasons for that capital growth but it was also particularly pleasing to see the improved contribution from the performance of the Companys industrial and retail warehouse assets, which represent approximately 47% of the overall portfolio.
Great Marlborough Street, London, W1 Outside London, and reflecting the improvement in investor sentiment in the regions highlighted above, the total return for the UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 9 231283 UKCPT pp01-pp18NEW 21 03 2014 10:26 Page 10 Investment Manager Review continued Companys regional office portfolio was 11.1%, this being the shopping centre portfolio which if maintained will benefit from an combination of a strong income yield of 8.2% and improved improving investment market.
This comfortably outperformed the benchmark.
Other Commercial Leisure The Companys single leisure investment, The Rotunda, Kingston Industrials upon Thames generated a total return of 11.2% during the year The Companys Industrial portfolio was the next best performer providing a good margin over the 9.6% total return in the broad during the year with an overall return of 15.9%.
The broad ranging ranging Other Commercial sector.
The returns were helped by industrial assets, which include retailer led distribution warehouses increasing investment demand for the sector, resulting in yields and traditional multi-let estates, were well placed to benefit from strengthening, and consolidation of the rental tone in this asset the combined effects of improved yields, driven by a marked supporting a healthy income return.
improvement in investor demand, as well as stable rental values.
Across all assets, yields improved by as much as 50 basis points in Investment Activity some cases with asset management highlighted further below Sales providing an additional boost to income and capital growth Good progress was made with sales throughout 2013, with capital throughout the year.
intensive assets such as Bushey Road, Raynes Park, London and Charter Place, Uxbridge, both being sold at prices well ahead of Retail valuation.
Including the sale of the high street retail property at Although there are many reasons to be positive about the Buchanan Street, Glasgow earlier in the year, the Company realised Companys retail portfolio e. g improving market sentiment, a total of 44.2 million from sales at a net exit yield of 2.25% and stabilisation of rents and a reduction of voids in certain cases, this in doing so fide-risked the portfolio by removing significant sector was the weakest performer, in common with the general requirements for capital and revenue expenditure and reducing market.
Capital growth was witnessed in the final quarter of 2013 for the The sale of Charter Place, Uxbridge was the most significant of the first time since Q2 2011.
Across the portfolio, values improved by sales and was achieved at a time when there was very strong 2.3% in Q4 and, although this was not enough to offset falls from investment demand for South East offices which ensured that the earlier in the year, it is an indication of some stability entering the Company was able to benefit from a price significantly ahead of retail market.
the September valuation of 22 million.
Importantly, the sale reduced the portfolios void position by almost 2.5% and was also The Companys South East retail assets benefited from the in line with the Companys strategy to limit portfolio income risk continued investor focus within London markets, as well as and development risk and to sell assets where significant capital supermarkets, and helped provide a very strong total return during expenditure is required.
Retail Warehouses, driven by asset management and improving Purchases yields, provided a healthy 8.6% overall return for the year.
The In line with the strategy of increasing exposure to the multi-let attractive income return, supported by minimal voids and industrial sector, the Company purchased a multi-let industrial longevity of income within that sector of the portfolio, delivered estate at Newtons Court, Dartford, Kent for 17.9 million outperformance against benchmark.
excluding costs and stamp duty at a net initial yield of 6.4% in June.
The property is a high quality, modern industrial estate in an The shopping centre portfolio, which represents 12.4% of the total area with restricted available supply.
This restricted supply and portfolio, continues to be the most challenging sub-sector, with a improving occupational demand, in addition to asset negative overall return of 6.7% for the year resulting from falling management potential from letting the vacant space and lease rental and capital values.
There has been a further reduction of restructuring, is expected to support growing income from the income and estimated rental values at the Sovereign Centre, asset and has been a positive contributor to the outperformance Weston-super-Mare which, combined with the liquidation of the of the industrial portfolio.
Menzies Hotel at The Parade in Swindon, has undermined some very good asset management work throughout the year.
Immediately following the reporting period, the Company concluded conditional missives in January 2014 for the purchase of In line with our strategy to stabilise and rebuild income for the three properties by way of forward funding and forward purchase Shrewsbury shopping centres, there was a continued focus on the commitments on the Aberdeen Gateway Business Park, Old improvement of net operating income within the Companys 10 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 231283 UKCPT pp01-pp18NEW 21 03 2014 10:26 Page 11 Wellington Road, Aberdeen.
The three predominantly industrial help stabilise values within a market which is showing some signs properties will extend to 265,000 sq.
The Companys maximum of improvement.
commitment will be 48.3 million on phased completion through At The Sovereign Centre, Weston-super-Mare longer term leases to December 2014 and will initially generate a yield of 6.0% and a were agreed with Clinton Cards and Bon Marche with a combined 19 year average weighted unexpired lease length.
All leases income of 133,000 pa. With the additional benefit of short term provide for fixed guaranteed rental uplifts.
flexible lettings, this has improved the income profile for the Centre but not by enough to sustain the overall income from the Centre, which fell throughout the year.
Within the Retail Warehouse portfolio, contracts have been exchanged with Betta Living and Multi York, who will both be granted new leases at improved levels of rent when the former Comet unit at Junction 27 Retail Park, Leeds is sub-divided, with works scheduled to complete in late March 2014.
This further example of asset management has improved values in a sector which has already benefited from some yield compression and ensured that the voids within the Companys retail warehouse portfolio remain low and comfortably below the benchmark.
In the industrial sector, successful asset management helped Artists impression of Aberdeen Gateway, Aberdeen realise an improvement in income and capital at the Dolphin Trading Estate, Sunbury.
In two separate transactions involving the This purchase demonstrates the continued recycling of cash principal tenants within the estate, Transglobal Freight realised from 2013 disposals, further supporting the Companys Management Ltd and Lubkowski Saunders & Associates Ltd, lease strategy with investment in the industrial sector within a strong re-gears improved overall rental income by 270,400 pa and underlying economy enjoying sound market fundamentals.
It also increased lease length from 4 years 2 months to 7 years 1 month.
provides the Company with further tenant diversification with the tenants involved being new to the Company and of strong covenant, operating within the dynamic and prosperous oil sector.
Asset Management Activity During the year the Company continued its drive to strengthen income streams, extend lease lengths and add value to the portfolio.
During the year 127 lease actions were completed with lease renewals, re-gears or rent reviews securing 1.9 million of annualised rental income for the Company.
A significant proportion of this asset management activity was in the shopping centre portfolio.
At The Parade, Swindon long term lettings where secured with Costa and Schuh at annual rents of 100,000 pa and 72,500 pa Dolphin Trading Estate, Sunbury respectively, improving the already strong tenant line up within that asset and reducing the void rate.
This improved tenant mix Further evidence of the strong underlying property fundamentals continues to help improve The Parades position within the towns supporting the Companys industrial portfolio can be found in the retail hierarchy and is already resulting in positive discussions with rent review award which resulted in a 7% rental increase for the other retailers who are interested in taking further space in The warehouse facility at Hatfield which, allied to an improvement in Parade.
yield, significantly boosted capital value for that asset in the final quarter of the year.
In line with our strategy to stabilise and rebuild income in the Shrewsbury Shopping Centres, new leases were completed with Within the office portfolio, the Company acquired the long The Entertainer, Ryman and Blue Inc.
In addition, lease renewals leasehold investment of a residential flat within its existing were agreed with the jeweller, F. Hinds, the Perfume Shop Ltd and ownership at 6 Arlington Street, London, SW1 for 1.75 million.
This progress has improved net operating income and will The purchase affords the Company greater control and flexibility in UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 11 231283 UKCPT pp01-pp18NEW 21 03 2014 10:26 Page 12 Investment Manager Review continued realising its strategy for the residential conversion of this office building which should, in due course, unlock further value from this prime asset, which has already provided strong performance for the Company.
Kensington High Street, London, W8 Ground Floor only As the economy has started to show signs of improvement, the number of tenant failures reduced significantly this year.
Taking into account the lease expiry profile throughout the year and Arlington Street, London, SW1 recognising the strategic sales activity, it was pleasing to see the Companys void position at 31 December 2013 reduced to 4.4%, In the regional office portfolio, leases were re-geared at Pall Mall compared to 4.8% at the end of 2012.
Allowing for tenant failures Court, Manchester and at Colmore Row, Birmingham which through administrations, the void rate increases to 6.2% 2012 ensured the continued occupation of certain tenants, improved 6.9%.
However, as we have always noted, tenant failure does not longevity of income and increased value for both assets.
This was always equate to a loss in income or value and quite often has the culmination of a number of successful asset management been a source of opportunity for the Company to attract better initiatives over recent times which have resulted in a 99% tenants on improved terms.
This was demonstrated by the failure occupancy rate within the Companys regional office portfolio.
of one tenant at the Rotunda, Kingston upon Thames, which presented the Company with an opportunity to secure Five Guys Burgers and Fries at a higher level of rent and for a longer lease duration.
This new tenant will complement the customer experience and improve footfall when the unit opens in early 2014.
The void figures remain comfortably below the IPD benchmark void rate of 7.3 %.
The covenant strength of the Companys occupiers remains a key attribute of the portfolio with average rent collection figures of 99% each quarter throughout the year.
A total of 498,000 of bad debts was written off, representing only 0.7% of rental income for the year.
Pall Mall Court, King Street, Manchester Sustainability With over-renting still a common theme throughout most sectors The Company accepts that, as a real estate business, it has a duty of the market, the majority of the 29 rent reviews within the to understand its environmental performance, to use natural portfolio were at nil uplifts.
However, rent increases were achieved resources efficiently and to set programmes in place to improve on Kensington High Street, The Rotunda, Kingston, Kew Retail Park, for the future.
Richmond and at the Distribution Facility in Hatfield, all of which helped to improve annualised income by 286,000 pa.
Furthermore, we believe that the incorporation of environmental performance into both long term plans and day-to-day operational management is now critical for success.
As a result, we have established an environmental management approach which ensures that environmental issues are integrated into our decision making processes.
12 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 231283 UKCPT pp01-pp18NEW 21 03 2014 10:26 Page 13 We are committed to continual improvement and pollution Planning to Improve prevention.
Objectives and targets have been established across The establishment of objectives and targets is core to our our business to address significant environmental risks.
Environmental Plans will be established to cover our core significant impacts.
Each multiThe Company both recognises and embraces the rapidly changing strand plan involves different parts of our business, as appropriate.
environmental landscape within the real estate industry.
We have established programmes to track legislative changes in the areas Governance where we operate.
This approach will ensure that we are not only To ensure delivery, we have established the following Governance able to meet our commitment to comply with environmental structure: legislation but also to benefit significantly from early planning.
Overarching responsibility for the environmental programme Last year we set targets to reduce consumption by between 5- sits with the Board of Directors and is delegated to Ignis 10% year on year by using low or no cost options.
We achieved Investment Services Limited who report progress against this target for electricity but letting activity and increased performance on a regular basis.
occupation across the portfolio led to increases in the consumption of water, gas and waste.
All employees, managing agents, consultants and contractors will be made aware of our policy, commitments Our Significant Environmental Impacts and, importantly, their own specific requirements.
Environmental impacts are generated across a propertys lifecycle.
A full review of the policy, environmental management From an environmental perspective, the Companys operations are systems and objectives and targets is completed on an grouped into three categories: Property and Asset Management, annual basis.
Transactional Management, Refurbishment and Re-development.
Market Outlook Property and Asset Management The supply of good quality investment stock will remain The operational phase of a buildings lifecycle generates possibly constrained and this factor, combined with continued strong the greatest environmental impact.
Accordingly we are investor demand, should ensure that downward pressure on yields introducing a programme to collect environmental performance continues through at least the first half of 2014. information from all of our assets on a monthly basis.
The information collected will be used to develop improvement Central London markets, both retail and offices, are forecast to objectives.
These improvement objectives also focus heavily on deliver double digit total returns in 2014 based on the conviction reducing electricity, gas, water and waste impacts across the that rental value growth will be converted into higher net portfolio.
Wherever relevant, environmental objectives will be incomes.
Central London yields could be bid down even lower in incorporated into individual property asset plans.
Transactional Management With the regional industrial and office markets now attracting Environmental issues are embedded into the Companys decision greater investor interest and an improving outlook for making process.
An environmental sustainability assessment, to occupational demand, performance in 2014 will primarily be evaluate both risks and opportunities, is used to assess all potential driven by further yield compression, which is expected to extend acquisitions.
Importantly, information collected during acquisition to good quality secondary property.
is used to set goals for improving operational performance.
Key Retail Warehouses, supermarkets and leisure schemes offer better environmental performance information will also be collected for prospects within the retail sector over the medium term.
Rising all assets and held in a format that ensures readiness for sale from house prices and activity in that market will support consumer an environmental perspective.
spending to a degree, but shopping centre and High Street retail returns will continue to be polarised between prime investments Refurbishment and redevelopment and secondary centres in weaker locations.
Refurbishment and redevelopment programmes generate environmental risks but also present the greatest opportunities to Overall, as a further downward yield shift occurs in the first part of improve.
An evaluation of environmental improvement the 2014 assisted by the forecast modest rise in the rate of rental opportunities is completed as part of all refurbishment or building growth, Ignis anticipates a total return of more than 11% in 2014, redevelopment plans.
ahead of the latest consensus view.
Over the medium term, the Ignis forecast suggests that all major sectors will generate capital UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 13 231283 UKCPT pp01-pp18NEW 21 03 2014 10:26 Page 14 Investment Manager Review continued value growth over a three-year horizon, pushing the All Property Given the attractive backdrop of a wider improvement in the three year annualised total return to 8.7%.
economy, improved portfolio performance and a revised dividend policy, the Company is in an excellent position to build on the very good progress achieved in 2013 and meet the long term Portfolio Strategy investment objective of providing shareholders with exposure to a The strategy to re-balance the portfolio by shifting away from core, balanced UK property portfolio with an attractive yield capital intensive and shorter income assets to improve income offering the potential for both income and capital growth.
return and lease length and to maintain voids at their current low level continues with resolve.
Robert Boag Senior Investment Director Good progress was made throughout 2013, with capital intensive Ignis Investment Services assets such as Raynes Park, South West London and Charter Place, 19 March 2014 Uxbridge, both being sold at prices well ahead of valuation.
In addition, at Shrewsbury, the Company has adopted an income retention strategy which runs in tandem with the medium term redevelopment proposals of the shopping centre asset.
Whilst this has placed the Company on a much firmer footing and benefiting from a more robust income profile, there is still much work to be done, particularly within the Companys retail shopping centre portfolio which continues to operate within a market which, whilst improving, is still not without its risks.
Some of the Companys forthcoming lease expiries will involve capital expenditure and although in some cases the prospect of improved returns can be achieved with that additional expenditure, where this is not the case then these assets should be ultimately sold.
The potential for further sales of prime lower yielding assets particularly where premium bids can be obtained in a market which continues to generate strong investor demand for reinvestment in higher yielding multi let assets should always remain a possibility but the priority must be sales of those assets that involve significant holding cost capital expenditure and where income is at risk.
The improving market outwith Central London will not only enhance the performance prospects for the portfolio but should also assist the Company in the rebalancing of the portfolio from the sale of certain assets which will, once proceeds are reinvested, improve the overall portfolio prospects.
Whilst the market is expected to remain very competitive for the best assets, the Board and the Manager are confident that further acquisitions can be secured to complement the portfolio.
The recent forward funding of Aberdeen Gateway is an excellent example of the quality of location, specification and longevity of income, with the existence of guaranteed fixed uplifts, which will be sought by the Company.
The recently announced change in dividend policy will support this strategy and afford the Company greater opportunity to improve the overall quality of the portfolio in a market which enjoys a very positive outlook.
14 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED
