Berendsen plc Report and 28 Accounts 2013 Business line review Facility.
Our Facility business line covers our Mats and Washroom operations, addressing the needs of a very broad customer base, and our Cleanroom operations focus on ensuring that our customers meet the highest quality standards.
Mats Market overview Drivers and trends The Mats business addresses a very broad customer base which includes A Mats service is sold rather than bought.
Few customers know of the retailers, wholesalers, restaurants, garages and all kinds of offices, service and most have managed to operate without it.
An active and industrial premises and government facilities.
The average customer size efficient field sales force is the determining factor in growing the market.
The key factors in marketing the concept are: The largest customers are typically cleaning companies and other facility Corporate image presenting a consistent and identifiable image companies where we are engaged in different forms of partnerships.
In general the cost of Mats services is relatively low and therefore price sensitivity is more limited than in some other sectors.
Health & Safety compliance preventing accidents and maintaining agoodenvironment for users including clean floors.
Market development up-selling of higher specification products overtime.
Economics the benefits of outsourcing non-core activities.
Washroom Market overview Drivers and trends As every kind of business requires washroom facilities, the market has Serviced washroom solutions are sold rather than bought.
Customers include retailers, restaurants, garages and the Potential customers will invariably have an existing solution or be managing full range of offices, public sector organisations and industry, with the their own sourcing and supplies.
average customer size being relatively small.
In general, the average cost ofoutsourced washroom facilities is higher.
The key factors in marketing the concept are: The chosen segments are all away from home washrooms where normal Hygiene standards research indicates that hygiene standards in shared hand washing hygiene standards are required.
The largest customers are washrooms is an increasing concern for users.
Our products and services typically cleaning companies or other facility service companies where are designed to secure personal hygiene in a shared washroom.
weare engaged in various commercial agreements.
Health & Safety compliance almost 80% of all bacteria spreads from the washroom due to poor sanitation or lack of washroom products, and low levels of hand washing.
Product innovation washroom solutions are not only the logical hygienic choice: many of our products are also designed to combine industrial practice with exclusive design.
We want to give our customers the opportunity to personalise their washrooms.
Cleanroom Market overview Drivers and trends Whereas ordinary Workwear relates to protecting people against the The core drivers are similar to those of our Workwear business.
working environment, cleanroom is also about protecting the environment Factors include: against people.
The particles associated with humans can harm products and production processes, and the businesses of many of our customers The international expansion of pharmaceutical and high-tech companies.
depend on meeting the highest quality standards.
Many customers need a combination of cleanroom services and regular Product specification technical support and tailored innovations.
Workwear services to meet hygiene requirements, such as those stipulated by ISO certification.
A cleanroom supplier is typically a vital part of a Economics larger and specialist operations purchase and maintenance quality management system that meets the needs of external regulation, drive lower unit costs.
and therefore difficult to replace.
This has resulted in high profitability Corporate image presenting a consistent and identifiable image in this segment to provide the necessary returns for our investments tocustomers.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 29 Always moving forward State-of-the-art sales tool A new iPad-based sales tool has added considerable speed to market, and a highly professional touch, to our sales process.
We have added all relevant data for the sales representatives into one single application.
The material is centrally updated, which means that prices and marketing material are always up to date.
Offers and contracts are filled out and can be signed on the spot, making us able to increase our speed to market considerably and decrease the amount of paperwork for our customer service employees.
Less wasted time for internal procedures, less administrative work for customer service employees and less errors due to direct system integration.
Christian Ellegaard Managing Director, Facility This tool makes my work life easier.
It has increased my efficiency with my customers, and I spend much less time on deskwork.
The ability to send them a detailed offer even before I leave the first meeting is great!
Kristian Bligaard Sales Representative, Denmark Strategic priorities Contracts Performance Our strategic priorities remain Mats 2013 2012 m m unchanged.
Facility offers our largest We typically supply mat services to a Revenue 243.3m 212.8m opportunity for the higher margin and customers specific requirements based return from each incremental sale.
It is Adjusted 62.5m 54.1m upon one-to three-year contractual operating profit asales-driven business and we continue agreements with provision for annual to invest in educating our salesforce Adjusted 25.7% 25.4% cost increases and self-renewing operating margin andincrease the effectiveness in order contracts.
Billing typically reflects a low tocontinue our market leadership.
invoice value and is usually determined Before exceptional items and amortisation ofcustomercontracts In Cleanroom, we are a leader in by the following factors: Restated for the introduction of IAS 19 customer-driven solutions focused k Frequency of service provided: Employee Benefits Revised on extending existing propositions to k Number of products served: new customers while expanding our service offering to existing customers.
k Range of products served: and Underpinning our market development k Length of contract.
is our expertise in operations and distributions.
k Extend our market-leading positions inmats and washroom with product innovation: k Drive performance improvement insales in mats and washroom: k Extend propositions to new customers in Cleanroom: and k Best practice development in operations and distribution.
Berendsen plc Report and 30 Accounts 2013 Business line review We want our products to stand out We have a unique washroom design using colours, shown in 3D in the new sales tool.
Having a coloured soap dispenser increases the number of hand washes by up to 50%.
2 weeks improved lead time from a signed contract to the first delivery generates a positive return on investment.
Washroom Cleanroom Operational highlights We typically supply washroom services We typically supply rental Workwear to Facility to a customers specific requirements a customers own specification based Revenue was 14% ahead of last year based upon threeto five-year upon three-year contractual agreements at 243.3 million 2012: 212.8 million contractual agreements with provision with provision for annual cost increases and adjusted operating profit at for annual cost increases and selfand residual value payments in the event 62.5 million 2012: 54.1 million was renewing contracts.
The adjusted operating profit of Workwear services is usually Billing typically reflects: margin was 30bps higher than last year determined by the following factors: at 25.7%.
On an underlying constant k Frequency of service provided: k Specification of garment: currency basis excluding acquisitions, k Supply of consumables and other revenue grew 5% and adjusted operating k Size of workforce number of users: maintenance services: profit was up 9%.
k Frequency of cleaning replacement: k Some contracts are all-inclusive with We are encouraged by the increase in full service while others charge k Delivery locations: and the organic growth rate of this segment services separately: and in the second half, which was 5% for k Length of contract.
the full year and 3% at the half year.
k There is a broad range of products We believe that the opportunities for that can be used to service the growth in Facility are strong as a large washroom.
proportion of our existing customers are not taking a fully outsourced service in Mats and Washroom.
The potential to expand or enhance the level of services to existing customers is significant.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 31 The separation of the three operations We delivered a good level of new sales, The level of new business in Germany, in of Mats, Washroom and Cleanroom which were ahead of plan.
This has more particular, has been very strong, with the is facilitating the development of than offset any reduction in volume per added focus now to improve operational our business models.
We have been contract and price pressure, although leverage and move the margin closer to particularly encouraged in the second this eased through the second half of the the average for this part of the business.
half by the progress we have made in year.
Norway in particular delivered good In May we contracted to assist one Washroom offerings, adding a number growth in revenue and operating profit.
of our major Danish pharmaceutical of service ranges and seeing good customers in establishing a plant in In the emerging markets, where we market acceptance for our fixed billing the Moscow area.
We will manage its have revenues of over 30 million, package concepts which grew 20% in Cleanroom textile operations from wesaw double-digit revenue growth the year.
Overall, our sales efficiency within the customer plant once this is in aggregate with the newer territories increased, especially in Washroom, completed, which is expected to be of the Baltics and Czech Republic withmomentum picking up throughout later in 2014.
While the revenue and growing strongly.
There was a good the year with sales in the second half scale of operations will initially be small, level of growth in Poland, our larger and of the year well ahead of those in the it will further develop our relationship more established business, and with first half.
The number of new larger with a key customer and build some the operating margin above 20%, this customers in Cleanroom has also been experience of operating in the faster is converting well to profit.
Our Baltic encouraging with a further increase in growing, emerging economies in line business is delivering improved the average number of services sold to with our strategy.
operating margins, up 7ppt in the each customer.
period to 12%, with further opportunities We expanded our contract base in each for improvement.
Plans for 2014 of our Mats and Washroom businesses, Our Cleanroom business combined Looking ahead, Facility has good with the volume of mats placements in excellent organic growth with growth opportunities.
Our management particular increasing 6% in the period.
the contribution of the German team will work on developing a best business we acquired in April 2012, practice model for Washroom, optimise toproduce revenue growth of 16% distribution and capture opportunities withimproved margins.
from our partnership with ISS.
All these will help to extend our contract base.
Growing customers in new regions One of the new contracts in 2013 included a garments solution to a site in Zagreb, from our existing plant in Germany, creating our first delivery to Croatia.
70 % volume increase in an acquired German laundry facility was the promising result after our solid optimisation efforts.
Promising potential We recently acquired a small German Cleanroom laundry facility, and subsequently invested in both organisation and production, boosting the overall capacity heavily.
From the beginning, this new laundry facility has exceeded our expectations and been a role model for realising and managing growth.
With a great ambition and a high level of motivation, this new facility realised the order take target set for 2013 in only four months, by a combination of large and small orders from new customers.
One of these new customers also created an opening for our other services like garments, clogs and our cleaning system.
The potential to develop the customer base from this What is a cleanroom?
A cleanroom is a business production environment with a very low level of dust, microbes and particles.
Our services help to ensure that the high standard is kept through supplying not only work garments but also shoes, goggles and mops.
