Berendsen plc Report and 08 Accounts 2013 Market report We are well positioned for present and future opportunities.
We make sure we understand the dynamics characteristic of our overall marketplace, so that we can identify the opportunities they provide and use these to achieve further growth.
The market in Market size and growth potential whichweoperate The value of the European textile rental market is estimated to be Euros 10.7 billion.
The market experiences a continued increase in the outsourcing of textile services Our business provides specialist service by organisations seeking to achieve efficiency gains in their non-core operations.
solutions to source, clean and maintain This trend is further accelerated by companies merging to become global players the textiles that our customers need with centralised sourcing processes and by some companies expanding into new to keep their business running.
Typically, these services are non-core In addition, the introduction of greater hygiene-related regulation coupled with to our clients activities, who outsource greater awareness of the importance of hygiene and resource efficiency among these services to specialist providers, many organisations has expanded the market for our services.
like us, who can provide cost-effective and efficient services.
Workwear is the largest Key market segments European textile rental segment.
We hold the The European textile rental market in which we operate can be broken down into six leading position in: key areas.
We organise our business by strategic focus and not by market segment k Denmark and our presence by key business line is summarised in the table below.
k Netherlands k Norway Key figures by business line: k Poland Hotels and Washroom k Sweden Workwear Healthcare Restaurants services Mats Cleanroom Mats 10% Workwear Washroom Workwear services 32% Facility 12% UK Flat Linen Hotels and restaurants Flat Linen 22% outside UK Healthcare 24% Clinical Solutions and Decontamination The supply side: Who and where?
Local operators In terms of supply the market is still The majority of market growth is still extremely fragmented.
We compete expected to come from the developed with a small number of major players countries but the role of emerging who, like us, operate across national economies is acknowledged and will boundaries.
We also come up against become increasingly important in the alarge number of small, local operators.
Other large players Given the fragmented nature of supply, there has been a significant level of Share of European consolidation in recent years through textile rental market acquisitions and we expect this trend to continue.
Market-leader position Manage Core for value growth Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 09 The demand side: Why?
Within each of our business lines Mega-trend Why Berendsen?
there are market dynamics that Client focus on efficiency The specialist services we provide are predominantly 1 will influence individual market gains in non-core operations non-core activities for our clients.
Our density and scale in our key geographies allow us to provide an expert segments e. g. the closure of NHS and cost-efficient service, meeting our clients needs laundries which could lead to revenue and allowing them to free up capital to invest in their growth for private sector operators.
These specific market trends are detailed in our Business Line review General industrial consolidation As clients expand, we can expand with them, working 2 and moving into new efficiently across national boundaries.
section on page 24. geographies, globalisation Here, we outline the five big picture Compliance with Health & Our services may be non-core but they are often trends, which will have a long-term 3 Safety regulations and more absolutely critical for the safe day-to-day running of influence on the demand for stringent hygiene standards our clients operations e. g. food industry, R&D centres, the outsourcing of our services.
Our track record in understanding evolving standards and our ability to devise innovative products Read more: and service to meet them means we are a partner of Page 49 choice in many industries.
Environmental responsibility Our economies of scale means that we can launder and 4 throughout the supply chain sterilise far more cost-effectively and efficiently than our clients.
Our focus on reducing our use of water, electricity, Read more: chemicals, oil & gas and CO2 emissions WECO not Pages 50-55 only gives us a competitive advantage but also gives our clients the confidence to use us as part of their own environmental supply chain due diligence.
What does this mean for us?
Always moving forward The overall long-term outsourcing Actions underpinning our potential Recognising trends remain extremely positive forgrowth in revenue and returns: growth potential and, whilst, medium-term growth in 1 Focus on sales effectiveness Our biggest competitor, in most parts of our the European textile service business business, is the company that manages the remains moderate, we foresee 2 Improvement in capital efficiency services we offer themselves.
In Workwear, considerable ongoing opportunities for example, we estimate that the outsourced 3 Active portfolio management in our three core growth business lines: market represents only about one-third of thetotal market.
Workwear, Facility and UK Flat Linen.
4 Development of consolidation andexpansion strategies We will continue to focus, as a priority, in these areas and in our current However, we do recognise the geographical areas of operation where importance of emerging markets and we have density, scale and a strong the role these are likely to play in the track record.
In addition to our core markets we are looking at opportunities By focusing, as a group, on the elsewhere as is evidenced by entering followingfour action areas, we aim the Russian market as a specialist.
toconvert these market opportunities intoincreased revenue and returns for the business:
