Berendsen plc Report and 34 Accounts 2013 Business line review Manage for value.
Our focus in the Manage for value businesses is on maximising the opportunities of these good businesses from their existing footprint, managing capital investment, increasing cash deliveries and improving returns.
Flat Linen outside the UK Market overview Value drivers Although our Hotels and Healthcare businesses outside the UK are k Strong businesses in their own markets relatively strong in their own markets, with many operating as market leaders, we do not currently plan for them to deliver sustained significant k These businesses are well-invested with a strong contract base growth or to achieve higher levels of return.
End markets are more k Operational efficiencies and contract management to increase margins challenging but our management teams remain focused on improving their businesses.
k Cash conversion in excess of 100% Actions k We manage our non-UK Flat Linen businesses under a separate management structure, combining hotels in Sweden and Denmark k We will drive for operational efficiencies and undertake restructuring toensure competitiveness Clinical Solutions and Decontamination Market overview Value drivers The outsourcing of integrated linen, consumables and instrument k Greater volume to leverage our well-established infrastructure decontamination services for the sterile environment of the hospital operating theatre provides opportunities for the UK health service to meet k Further contract wins its current challenges and objectives.
Actions k We engage with our customers to deliver the returns anticipated by the two decontamination contracts k We are tendering for new contracts and volumes in sterile consumables k We drive for service improvements and efficiencies in our reusable linencontracts Always moving forward A result of many years of dedicated service When Scandic Sweden was looking for a new supplier to their 76 hotels they engaged with us.
We have a long track record of high standards of delivery to Scandic Denmark, and our strategy to unify the management of Denmark and Sweden supported our ability to also deliver high quality products and service offerings in Sweden.
We were consequently chosen as their new supplier.
Our logistics analysis and set-up will save Scandic Sweden approximately 15% of time spent on room cleaning.
We deliver our products directly to the hotel room.
We provide a linen cart with the exact amount of products needed for each floor of the hotels.
By delivering this, considerable time is freed up for the room attendant, making them able to focus on their primary job.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 35 The businesses within this segment contracts and the start-up of a significant Performance have demonstrated that they have new contract contributing to a reduction 2013 2012 opportunities within their markets, in the loss for the period to 0.9 million m m notwithstanding the pricing pressure in compared to 2.2 million last year.
Flat Linen outside UK Swedish and German Healthcare, which Our service is strong and we continue Revenue 231.2m 218.0m impacted margin.
Underlying revenues to make operational improvements with increased with good new contract wins an increase in underlying volumes in the Adjusted operating profit 18.2m 21.0m in Healthcare in Germany and Austria second halfofthe year.
Adjusted and in Scandinavian hotels.
These, in One of the two core contracts is now operating margin 7.9% 9.6% addition to a number of other significant operating at a small profit and we are Clinical Solutions and contract wins towards the end of the therefore able to release 1.8 million Decontamination year, will deliver full year benefit in 2014. of the provision that we made in 2010 Revenue 69.3m 69.6m The margins on this new business will that relates to this contract.
We have grow over the next few years but there Adjusted separately disclosed this release as operating profit 4.5m 2.9m will be significant start-up costs for new an exceptional item in the Income business of this scale in the first year Adjusted Statement.
We retain 0.5 million of the operating margin 6.5% 4.2% of operation.
provision to absorb future losses on the second contract where work continues Before amortisation of customer contracts to move this to a breakeven position by and exceptional items Clinical Solutions Restated for the introduction of IAS 19 the end of 2014. and Decontamination Employee Benefits Revised Revenue was largely unchanged at Operational highlights Plans for 2014 69.3 million 2012: 69.6 million but adjusted operating profit increased Flat Linen outside the UK In 2014 our Flat Linen businesses significantly to 4.5 million compared to outside the UK will be commissioning Revenue in our Flat Linen businesses 2.9 million last year, an increase of 55%.
the significant volume we have won in outside the UK was up 6% at new contracts, especially in Sweden, Weaker sales of single-use surgical 231.2 million 2012: 218.0 million and defending our market position drapes and gowns followed the loss but adjusted operating profit in contract tenders.
Additionally, of a significant customer as a result was down 13% to 18.2 million our management teams will focus ofchanges in its circumstances.
On an underlying on improving operational and constant currency basis, revenue grew Although revenues were held back capital efficiency.
2% and adjusted operating profit was by this, we increased significantly our down 15%.
The adjusted operating Within both Clinical Solutions and profit in the period with the completion margin decreased to 7.9%.
Decontamination we expect to add of our turnaround plan for our sterile new contracts to our base and deliver consumables business.
additional sales and service into existing We continue to improve the contracts.
Additionally, we aim to performance of our decontamination achieve breakeven in our second largest contracts.
The key actions of our decontamination contract.
turnaround plan are largely delivered with new volume from the existing Considerable savings We have clear evidence that our knowledge has brought considerable savings to hotel chains.
Our customers always know exactly what they are paying for, which supports their confidence in us.
The best service possible In order for our customers to derive the maximum benefit from our services, we regularly deliver benchmark calculations analysing each hotels usage of our linen, towels, uniforms and mats.
15,020 Swedish Scandic hotel beds 76 hotels serviced by us.
