Berendsen plc Report and 32 Accounts 2013 Business line review UK Flat Linen.
Our UK Flat Linen business so called because a large part ofthe offering are the sheets, pillowcases, tablecloth etc.
thatare ironed flat covers Hotel and Healthcare customers where we hold the market-leading position.
Hotels Market overview Drivers and trends Large hotel groups are attractive customers, as lower unit prices are offset The UK hotel market continues to grow.
Closures of some small hotels in by the larger unit size, economies of volume and reduced seasonality.
the independent sector, notably in coastal holiday areas, have been more On average, a large hotel equates to the size of seven small independents, than offset by new openings by hotel groups in London and the larger which are characterised by higher transport and service costs, greater cities.
Nationally, the pipeline of new hotel projects, where construction has seasonality and some in-house capabilities.
Large independents also already commenced for 2014 opening, stands at over 10,000 new rooms, offerscale advantages.
Berendsen UK is the leader in hotel linen provision and serves most ofthe UK, although regional firms unite in associations to compete fornational contracts.
Healthcare Market overview Drivers and trends For the NHS, purchasing of linen and laundry services has been simplified In 2013, two NHS laundries closed.
In 2014, two further closures are by frameworks that set core prices and run mini-competitions for expected, increasing the revenue available to private sector operators by those suppliers eligible to bid for NHS contracts.
This development has 1 million per annum.
As in 2013, we do not expect significant investment significantly reduced the timelines from the issue of documentation in new hospital capacity in 2014.
Facility management providers play totheimplementation of new contracts.
an increasingly important role in the market and we expect this trend tocontinue in 2014.
Although the business is not seasonal, activity can fall during peak holiday periods due to a reduction in elective surgery and outpatient appointments.
Always moving forward Together we are strong In July Sunlight changed its name to Berendsen.
We accompanied this with a customer communication programme to re-emphasise, but also broaden, the underlying values and commitments of the business.
Informing customers about the change of name has given us an extra opportunity to tell our customers that the pace of innovation in products, services and processes will increase and introduce new initiatives to help deliver evenbetter service.
Speaking to our employees during the re-branding process really gave me an indication of the commitment our employees are showing.
It was great to see the enthusiasm with which the process was embraced, and the understanding ofthe benefits.
Steve Finch Managing Director, UK Flat Linen Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 33 An exciting future We are developing our products, our processes, our communications and many other aspects of our business.
Adopting the Berendsen name throughout our company sends a strong signal to our customers that the company is changing and growing stronger.
The practicalities of a re-brand We have been very pragmatic and cost-efficient in our re-branding process.
Stationery, factory signage and business 2, 000 cards have been changed, while logos hits are received per day on our customer portal at: on trucks are being changed one by www.
one when they need to be re-painted anyway.
We also used the opportunity to launch a new website combining both the Workwear and the Flat Linen websites for the benefit of future business.
Healthcare The competitive environment remains Performance tough, however, and we did experience NHS contracts are typically set for 2013 2012 a higher level of contract churn in the m m a period of three to five years, with second half, which management is occasionally the possibility of gaining Revenue 204.6m 196.7m focused on reversing.
Although gas extension periods of up to two years.
Adjusted 27.3m 25.8m prices remained at a higher level than This is longer than the contract period operating profit expected we were able to partially offset in the private sector, which tends to be Adjusted these through productivity gains in the nearer three years.
Before amortisation of customer contracts In Healthcare, we are also investing Operational highlights and exceptional items in innovation in service and product Restated for the introduction of IAS 19 enhancements.
In Healthcare, we saw Revenue was 4% ahead of last year at Employee Benefits Revised little change in underlying volumes but 204.6 million 2012: 196.7 million and we benefited from new contract wins, adjusted operating profit was 6% higher Strategic priorities add-on sales from our innovations in at 27.3 million 2012: 25.8 million.
We plan to develop our strategic product and services to the hospitals, The adjusted operating margin was customer relationships through and contractual price increases.
innovation, quality and service to further We remain well-placed to capture We are pleased with the increase in differentiate our offering.
As market further outsourcing and we are in revenue growth rate to 4% 2% in the leader we also seek to be the supplier of dialogue with a number of prospects.
year to 31 December 2012, which has choice for tenders or new outsourcing, been driven by a combination of higher especially in Healthcare.
underlying volumes, new contract Plans for 2014 k Growing strategic relationships: wins and price increases.
The business In 2014 our UK Flat Linen business continues to place innovation at the k Supplier of choice for new management will focus on extending heart of its customer service proposition.
Differentiating our In Hotels we are seeing clear signs of products and service offerings from the k Service innovation: and recovery in the UK economy with a competitors, enhancing efficiency within k Managing operational excellence.
4% increase in underlying volumes in our textile management processes and our group customers compared to the developing the customer service further Contracts same period last year and a particularly will be key areas of focus.
Our salesforce Hotels continues to improve its sales A typical initial contractual agreement management processes, particularly lasts for two or three years.
Many of our with the introduction of a new customer customers have been with us for well relationship management CRM system over a decade.
Some larger clients have leading to greater efficiency.
bespoke terms in their contracts.
