Berendsen plc Report and 06 Accounts 2013 Business model We are focusing on value creation.
We create value for our shareholders by providing added-value solutions and services for our customers, leveraging and managing these for greater efficiency.
We add value by managing our two segments differently: Core growth Manage for value Business line characteristics: Business line characteristics: k High-value k Stable margins k Organic growth k Strong cash generation k High-margin returns Growing our contract Maintaining a high base by focusing on volume and broad level sales and marketing, of contracts undeveloped markets and acquisitions Workwear Facility UK Flat Linen Flat Linen Clinical Solutions outside UK and Decontamination using our competitive strengths: k Experience and expertise of our management teams k Innovation to find and invest in solutions for our customers k Scale and location to the benefit of our customers k Development of expansion and consolidation strategies focusing on operational improvement: k Commercial effectiveness k Better buying power k Working capital efficiency k Best practice transfer... redeploying cash effectively: Cash returns Strengthening Returns to Reinvesting in our our balance sheet shareholders business to reinforce our Debt management Progressive dividend policy competitive strengths Bolt-on acquisitions Capital expenditure on tangible and intangible assets Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 07 effectively as possible by sharing best Creating value for our clients Dividend per share 28.0 pence 25.5 practice, standardising processes and 23.4 Our business is intrinsically focused drawing from our significant in-house 10% on adding value.
We create value for management experience and expertise.
our customers by providing specialist 28 pence Recent investments in a contract solutions to their non-core activities and commercial terms management more cost-effectively and efficiently.
programme and our focus on improved 2011 2012 2013 sales process and support is enabling Many of the services we provide for us to identify and manage our contract them are critical to keep their businesses Return on 9.3 base with appropriate returns.
Therefore, alongside investment 8.5 Invested Capital 7.9 in sales and distribution capabilities, post-tax % Creating value production plants and textiles, we also 9% invest in our people, innovative solutions for ourshareholders and relationships across the supply 9.3% We are a returns focused and cashchain.
This ensures that we differentiate generative business.
We are committed 2011 2012 2013 our customer service, provide peace of to maintaining a progressive dividend mind and create value for them for the policy and this is one of our main long term.
This is demonstrated by our group key performance indicators high customer retention rate.
Our growth in dividend per share is important to our investors Creating value and we are mindful of the need for our  capital allocation to meet the long-term aspirations of our shareholders.
We focus on operating as efficiently as possible, making the most of our scale, market leadership and geographical location.
We use our scale to procure products as cost-effectively as we can, and manage our operations as Always moving forward Focus on things that matter Peace of mind services We believe that through our focused business We deliver peace of mind to our customers lines we can identify specific customer needs who know that they can rely on us to service and deliver results.
In 2013 we ran a focused essential parts of their business day in, day out.
campaign for a new toilet brush service line, We manage around 153,000 contracts across selling 3,122 new brushes which is 2,000 more our business areas.
1 4 2 3,122 toilet brushes sold 3 by our new service line.
