Berendsen plc Report and 100 Accounts 2013 Directors report The Directors report of the group for Details of the number of board and Results and dividends the year ended 31 December 2013 is committee meetings held during the The financial statements set out the set out on pages 100 to 104 inclusive year and attendance by individual results of the group for the year ended and includes the sections of the Annual directors are included in the corporate 31 December 2013 and are shown on Report referred to in these pages.
governance statement on pages 65, 73 page 112.
The directors recommend a The Directors report has been drawn and 75 and the Directors remuneration final dividend of 19.2 pence per ordinary up and presented in accordance with, report on page 88. share which, together with the interim and in reliance upon, applicable United Details of the directors remuneration dividend of 8.8 pence per ordinary Kingdom company law and the liabilities and service contracts and their interests share paid in October 2013, makes a of the directors in connection with that in the shares of the company are total dividend for the year of 28 pence report shall be subject to the limitations included in the Directors remuneration 2012: 25.5 pence per ordinary share.
and restrictions provided by such law.
report which is set out on pages 80 Subject to approval by shareholders to 99.
The directors present their Annual of the recommended final dividend, Report and audited financial statements the dividend award to shareholders for for the year ended 31 December 2013.
If approved, Directors indemnity the company will pay the final dividend This Annual Report contains on 2 May 2014 to shareholders on the Article 133 of the companys Articles forward-looking statements.
of Association the Articles provides, register at 11 April 2014.
These forward-looking statements are among other things that, insofar as not guarantees of future performance.
permitted by law, every director of the Rather they are based on current views Changes in composition company or any associated company and assumptions and involve known ofthegroup may be indemnified by the company and unknown risks, uncertainties and against any liability.
The group acquired two textile other factors that may cause actual maintenance businesses during results to differ from any future results On 30 June 2006 and 30 April 2007, the year in Sweden and Ireland.
or developments expressed or implied the company executed deed polls The total consideration including from the forward-looking statements.
for each of the then and all future net financial liabilities assumed and Each forward-looking statement Chairmen, executive and non-executive deferred consideration payable speaks only as of the date of the directors of the company and its for the acquisitions was 1.1 million particular statement.
The indemnities granted under these deed polls constitute qualifying third Details of the fair value of net assets Strategic report party indemnity provisions as defined acquired and consideration paid are set The UK Companies Act 2006 requires by Section 234 of the Companies out in note 25 to the financial statements.
the company to present a fair review Act 2006 and were in force during of the business of the group during the financial year and remained so Directors the financial year ended 31 December at the date of the approval of the 2013 including a description of the financial statements.
The current directors of the company, principal risks and uncertainties facing including their biographical details, are The board believes that it is in the best the group and an analysis of the position set out on pages 60 and 61.
Each served interests of the group to provide these of the groups business at the end of throughout the year ended 31 December indemnities to its directors to ensure the financial year.
The Strategic report 2013 except Maarit Aarni-Sirvi who will that it attracts and retains high calibre canbe found on pages 4 to 55. be appointed to the board on 1 March directors through competitive terms 2014.
Per Utnegaard stepped down from ofemployment in line with the market.
Branches outside In addition, the company has arranged theUnitedKingdom In accordance with The UK Corporate appropriate insurance cover in respect Governance Code all directors will retire of legal action against its directors The group has branches in Sweden at the 2014 Annual General Meeting and officers.
and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Maarit has been appointed to the board as a director since the last Annual General Meeting and will offer herself for election by the shareholders.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 101 Share capital andcontrol Variation of rights Purchase of own shares Pursuant to Section 992 of the Subject to the Companies Acts, rights In certain circumstances, it may be Companies Act 2006, which implements attached to any class of shares may be advantageous for the company to the EU Takeovers Directive, the company varied with the written consent of the purchase its own shares.
A special is required to disclose certain additional holders of not less than three-fourths in resolution number 15 will be proposed information.
Such disclosures, to the nominal value of the issued shares of that at the Annual General Meeting on extent not covered elsewhere in the class calculated excluding any shares 24 April 2014 to seek authority from Directors report in particular, the held as treasury shares, or with the shareholders to do so, such authority Sections stated to form the business sanction of a special resolution passed to expire on the date of the next review above, include the information at a separate general meeting of the following Annual General Meeting or set out in the paragraphs below.
At every such a date 15 months from the date of the separate general meeting except an resolution, whichever is the earlier.
adjourned meeting the quorum shall be The resolution specifies the maximum Share capital two persons holding or representing by number of shares which may be proxy not less than one-third in nominal As at 27 February 2014, the companys acquired being 10% of the companys value of the issued shares of the class issued share capital consisted of issued share capital, and the maximum calculated as excluding any shares held 51,755,566 divided into 172,518,555 and minimum prices at which they may as treasury shares.
At an adjourned ordinary shares of 30 pence each be purchased.
meeting, the quorum shall be one person noshares are held in treasury.
entitled to vote and who holds shares of If the company were to purchase any of During the 12 months to 31 December the class, or his or her proxy.
its own shares, it may consider holding 2013, 205,410 ordinary shares of them as treasury shares as an alternative The rights conferred upon the holders 30pence each in the company were to cancelling them, subject to the of any shares shall not, unless otherwise issued in satisfaction of the exercise of authority allowed by resolution number expressly provided in the rights attaching employee share options under the terms 15, provided that the total number of to those shares, be deemed to be varied of the Davis Service Group 1998 Share treasury shares does not at any one time by the creation or issue of further shares Option Plan, the Davis Service Group exceed 10% of the companys issued ranking pari passu with them.
Savings Related Share Option Scheme share capital.
Companies are permitted and the Berendsen Sharesave Plan 2006 to hold shares purchased on the market for a total consideration of 880,009. in treasury with a view to possible Securities carrying disposal or transfer at a future date, As at 31 December 2013, the authority specialrights asanalternative to cancelling them.
granted to the company for the No person holds securities in the purchase of up to 17,232,018 ordinary This would allow the company to company carrying special rights with shares in the company remained dispose of or transfer the shares held regard to control of the company.
in treasury quickly and cost-effectively and would provide the company with Details of the movements in the Authority to allot shares additional flexibility in the management year are set out in note 20 to the of its capital base.
The share price on financial statements.
A resolution will be proposed to 31 December 2013 was 936.5 pence: authorise the directors to allot shares the company currently holds no shares up to approximately two-thirds of the Rights and obligations in treasury.
companys issued ordinary share capital attaching to shares in accordance with guidelines issued The board is committed to managing Subject to applicable statutes in this by the ABI on 31 December 2012. the companys capital effectively and Section the Companies Acts, any The additional one-third authority, the directors keep under review the resolution passed by the company abovethe one-third authority which can option of buying back the companys under the Companies Acts and other be used for general purposes, may only shares.
Other investment opportunities, shareholders rights, shares may be be used for rights issues.
The relevant appropriate gearing levels and the issued with such rights and restrictions resolution number 14 is set out in overall position of the company will be as the company may by ordinary full in the notice of Annual General taken into account before deciding upon resolution decide, or if there is no such Meeting.
No issue will be made which this course of action.
The directors will resolution or so far as it does not make would effectively alter the control of the only purchase the companys shares on specific provision as the board may company without the prior approval the market if they believe it is in the best decide.
Subject to the Articles, the of shareholders in general meeting.
Companies Acts and other shareholders The directors have no present intention rights, unissued shares are at the of exercising this authority.
Berendsen plc Report and 102 Accounts 2013 Directors report Restrictions on transfer of 31 December 2013 27 February 2014 securities in the company Direct No.
of indirect shares m % Indirect shares m % There are no restrictions on the transfer Silchester International of securities in the company, except: Investors Limited Direct 18.96 10.99 Direct 17.20 9.97 k That certain restrictions may from time Prudential plc Direct 16.41 9.51 Direct 16.41 9.51 to time be imposed by laws and Sanderson Asset regulations for example, insider Management Limited Direct 10.69 6.20 Direct 10.69 6.20 trading laws : and Dividends and Rights under the employee k Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the otherdistributions share scheme Financial Services Authority or the Financial Conduct Authority, as The company may by ordinary As at 31 December 2013, Appleby Trust applicable whereby certain resolution from time to time declare Jersey Limited, as trustee of the employees of the company require dividends not exceeding the amount Berendsen Employee Benefit Trust, held theapproval of the company to deal recommended by the board.
Subject to 2,837,594 shares in trust for the benefit inthe companys ordinary shares.
the Companies Acts, the board may pay of the executive directors and employees interim dividends, and also any fixed of the group.
A dividend waiver is in The company is not aware of any rate dividend, whenever the financial place in respect of Applebys agreements between holders of position of the company, in the opinion shareholding and Appleby currently securities that may result in restrictions of the board, justifies its payment.
abstains from voting the shares but it on the transfer of securities.
If the directors act in good faith, they may, upon the recommendation of the will not be liable for any loss that any company, accept or reject any offer Voting shareholders may suffer because a relating to the shares in any way it sees lawful dividend has been paid on other fit, without incurring any liability and Every member and every duly appointed shares which rank equally with or behind without being required to give reasons proxy present at a general meeting their shares.
In exercising its trustee or class meeting has, upon a show of powers, Appleby may take all or any hands, one vote and every member The board may withhold payment ofthe following matters into account: present in person or by proxy has, upon of all or any part of any dividends or a poll, one vote for every share held by other moneys payable in respect of the k The long-term interests of him or her.
In the case of joint holders companys shares from a person with beneficiaries: of a share, the vote of the senior who at least a 0.25% interest as defined in k The interests of beneficiaries other tenders a vote, whether in person or by the Articles if such a person has been than financial interests: proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion served with a restriction notice as of the votes of the other joint holder s k The interests of beneficiaries in their defined in the Articles after failure to and, for this purpose, seniority shall be capacity as employees or former provide the company with information determined by the order in which the employees or their dependants: concerning interests in those shares names stand in the register in respect required to be provided under the k The interests of persons whether ofthe joint holding.
ornot identified who may become beneficiaries in the future: and Restrictions on voting Substantial shareholdings k Considerations of a local, moral, ethical, environmental or social nature.
No member shall be entitled to vote at The table above shows the holdings any general meeting or class meeting in the companys issued share capital in respect of any share held by him or which had been notified to the company Amendment of Articles her if any call or other sum then payable pursuant to the Financial Services ofAssociation by him or her in respect of that share Authoritys or, as applicable, the remains unpaid or if a member has Unless expressly specified to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure contrary in the Articles, the Articles may been served with a restriction notice and Transparency Rules: asdefined in the Articles after failure be amended by a special resolution of the companys shareholders.
toprovide the company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
The company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 103 The company may by special resolution Appointment and Directors conflicts of interest remove any director before the replacementof directors There are procedures in place to deal expiration of that directors period of with directors conflicts of interest The directors shall be not less than office.
The office of a director shall be arising under Section 175 Companies two and there shall be a maximum vacated if: i that director resigns or Act 2006 and such procedures have of12 directors.
offers to resign and the board resolve operated effectively during the year.
to accept such offer: ii that directors The company may by ordinary Further details on these procedures are resignation is requested by all of the resolution vary the minimum and included in the corporate governance other directors and all of the other or maximum number of directors.
statement on page 65 which is deemed, directors are not less than three in Under the Articles, a director shall not in its entirety, to be included in this number: iii that director is or has been be required to hold any shares in the Directors report.
suffering from mental ill-health and the company.
Directors may be appointed board resolves that such directors office by the company by ordinary resolution be vacated: iv that director is absent or by the board.
A director appointed Significant agreements without the permission of the board by the board holds office only until the There are a number of agreements from meetings of the board whether next following Annual General Meeting that take effect, alter or terminate upon or not an alternate director appointed of the company and is then eligible a change of control of the company, by him attends for six consecutive for reappointment.
The board or any such as commercial contracts, bank months and the board resolves that committee authorised by the board loan agreements, property lease such directors office is vacated: may from time to time appoint one or arrangements, and employees share v that director becomes bankrupt more directors to hold any employment plans.
None of these are deemed to be orcompounds with his or her creditors or executive office for such period and significant in terms of their potential generally: vi that director is prohibited on such terms as they may determine impact on the business of the group as by a law from being a director: vii that and may also revoke or terminate any a whole except for the US$250 million director ceases to be a director by virtue such appointment.
US Private Placement Note Purchase of the Companies Acts: or viii that At every Annual General Meeting of the Agreement dated 25 May 2006, the director is removed from office pursuant company any of the directors who have US$259 million and 25 million US to the companys Articles.
been appointed by the board since the Private Placement Note Purchase last Annual General Meeting shall retire Agreement dated 24 November 2009 Powers of the directors from office and may offer themselves and the 535 million Multicurrency for reappointment by the members.
Revolving Credit Facility agreed on Subject to the Articles, the Companies In addition, under the Articles, any of 15 July 2011.
These agreements contain Acts and any directions given by the directors who held office at the time change of control provisions which, the company by special resolution, of the two preceding Annual General iftriggered, could limit future utilisations, the business of the company will be Meetings and who did not retire at either require the repayment of existing managed by the board who may of them, or who have held office with utilisations or lead to a renegotiation exercise all the powers of the company, the company, other than employment or of terms.
whether relating to the management executive office, for a continuous period of the business of the company or not.
Copies of executive directors service of nine years or more at the date of the In particular, the board may exercise all contracts are available to shareholders meeting, shall retire from office and may the powers of the company to borrow for inspection at the companys offer themselves for reappointment money, to mortgage or charge any of its registered office and at the Annual by the members.
However, the board undertakings, property, assets present General Meeting.
Further details on has agreed, in accordance with the UK and future and uncalled capital and to directors service contracts are included Corporate Governance Code, that all issue debentures and other securities in the report on directors remuneration of the directors wishing to continue and to give security for any debt, liability which is set out on pages 80 to 99. will retire and offer themselves for or obligation of the company or of any re-election by the shareholders at the third party.
Berendsen plc Report and 104 Accounts 2013 Directors report Greenhouse gas emissions Going concern Directors responsibilities Disclosures concerning the groups The groups business activities, together The directors responsibilities for the greenhouse gas emissions are contained with the factors likely to affect its future financial statements contained within within the Corporate responsibility development, performance and position this Annual Report and the directors report which forms part of the Strategic are set out in the Strategic report on confirmations required under the FSA report on pages 50 to 55. pages 4 to 55.
The financial position Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the group, its cash flows, liquidity DTR4.1.
12 are set out on page 105 position and borrowing facilities are butare deemed to be included in this Political donations described in the Financial review on Directors report.
In addition, note 17 to the There were no political donations during financial statements includes the groups the year 2012: nil.
Annual General Meeting objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk The notice of the Annual General Auditors and disclosure management objectives and policies: Meeting to be held at 11.00 am on of information to auditors details of its financial instruments and Thursday 24 April 2014 is being sent hedging activities: and its exposures to separately to shareholders with this The companys auditors, price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk.
The venue for the meeting is the  LLP, have Royal Aeronautical Society, 4 Hamilton indicated their willingness to continue The group has considerable financial Place, London W1J 7BQ.
in office and a resolution that they may resources together with long-term be reappointed will be proposed at the contracts with a number of customers By order of the board Annual General Meeting.
and suppliers across different David Lawler geographic areas and industries.
As far as each director is aware, there Company Secretary As aconsequence, the directors believe isno relevant audit information of which 27 February 2014 that the group is well placed to manage the companys auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director After reviewing the above and making in order to make themselves aware of enquiries, the directors have a reasonable any relevant audit information and to expectation that the company and establish that the companys auditors the group have adequate resources to areaware of that information.
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt thegoing concern basis in preparing theAnnual Report.
