GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors submit their report together with the audited consolidated and company financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2013.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS The Company is a UK listed holding company of a Group engaged in residential-led property development focusing on urban regeneration and mixed-use developments.
The Company is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales and is quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The information that fulls the requirements of the business review can be found in the Chairmans Statement on page 3, the Managing Directors Statement on page 5, the Trading and Financial Reviews on pages 41 to 51, which provide more detailed commentaries on the business during the year together with the outlook for the future, and the section on Running a Sustainable Business on pages 24 to 35.
In addition, information in respect of the principal financial and operating risks of the business is set out in the Financial Review on pages 50 and 51.
TRADING RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The Groups consolidated profit after taxation for the financial year was 209.7m 2012: 158.1m.
The Groups joint ventures contributed a loss after taxation of 1.3m 2012: loss of 2.2m.
An interim dividend of 15p per share was paid to shareholders on 19 April 2013.
A further interim dividend of 59p per share is proposed, payable on 27 September 2013 to shareholders on the register on 30 August 2013.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENT During the year, the Company reached agreement to sell 534 HCA funded residential properties within its rental fund for 105.4 million.
The properties are reported as 75.8 million of non-current assets held for resale at 30 April 2013.
The transaction, which completed on 5 June 2013, will be reported in the results for the year ending 30 April 2014.
SHARE CAPITAL The Company had 134,857,183 ordinary shares in issue at 30 April 2013 2012: 134,857,183.
The Company holds 3,577,506 of its own shares in treasury 2012: 3,577,506.
Authority will be sought from shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to renew the authority given at the 2012 Annual General Meeting for a further year, permitting the Company to purchase its own shares in the market up to a limit of 10% of its issued share capital.
Movements in the Companys share capital are shown in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements.
Information on the Groups share option schemes is set out in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
Details of the Long-Term Incentive Schemes and Long-Term Incentive Plans for key executives are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 77.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The Articles of Association set out the basic management and administrative structure of the Company.
They regulate the internal affairs of the Company and cover such matters as the issue and transfer of shares, Board and shareholder meetings, powers and duties of Directors and borrowing powers.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Directors can be appointed or removed by shareholders in a general meeting.
The Articles may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Copies are available by writing to the Company Secretary and are also open to inspection at Companies House.
DIRECTORS The Directors of the Company and their proles are detailed on pages 56 and 57.
All of these Directors served throughout the year under review.
Victoria Mitchell stood down from the Board on 5 September 2012.
The Articles of Association of the Company require Directors to submit themselves for re-election every three years.
In addition all Directors are subject to re-election at the first opportunity after their appointment to the Board.
However, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code all the Directors will offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, other than Alan Coppin, who is standing down from the Board.
The Directors interests in the share capital of the Company and its subsidiaries are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 77.
At 30 April 2013 each of the Executive Directors were deemed to have a non-beneficial interest in 237,363 2012: 237,363 ordinary shares held by the Trustees of The Berkeley Group Employee benefit Trust.
There were no contracts of signicance during, or at the end of, the financial year in which a Director of the Company is, or was, materially interested, other than those set out in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements, the contracts of employment of the Executive Directors, which are terminable within one year, and the appointment terms of the Non-executive Directors, which are renewable annually and terminable on one months notice.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The Companys practice has always been to indemnify its Directors in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the maximum extent permitted by law.
Qualifying third party indemnities, under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, were in force during the financial year and at the date of approval of the financial statements, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the maximum extent permitted by law, in respect of all costs, charges, expenses, losses and liabilities, which they may incur in or about the execution of their duties to the Company, or any entity which is an associated company as dened in Section 256 of the Companies Act 2006, or as a result of duties performed by the Directors on behalf of the Company or any such associated company.
58 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 P10 BERK AR13 Directors Report 58-60. indd 58 22 07 2013 16:50 HIGHLIGHTS BUILDING HOMES FOR EVERYONE RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRADING & FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS GOVERNANCE SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS The Company has been notied of the following interests, pursuant to Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules, as at 16 July 2013: Number of ordinary 1 shares held % of issued capital Nature of holding First Eagle Investment Management, LLC 13,092,232 9.97% Indirect BlackRock Inc. 6,699,472 5.10% Indirect Standard Life Investments Ltd 6,599,895 5.03% Indirect Direct William Blair 6,553,042 4.99% Direct Lloyds Banking Group plc 6,212,059 4.73% Indirect Anthony William Pidgley 5,602,350 4.27% Direct 1 Net of shares held in treasury.
DONATIONS During the year, donations by the Group for charitable purposes in the United Kingdom, including through the Berkeley Foundation, amounted to 0.9m 2012: 0.8m.
The Group made no political contributions 2012: nil during the year.
EMPLOYMENT POLICY The Groups policy of operating through autonomous subsidiaries has ensured close consultation with employees on matters likely to affect their interests.
The Group is rmly committed to the continuation and strengthening of communication lines with all its employees.
An Equal Opportunities Policy was introduced in 2001.
Following periodic reviews the most recent in September 2010 the policy is now an Equality and Diversity Policy with the aim of ensuring that all employees, potential employees and other individuals receive equal treatment including access to employment, training and opportunity for promotion regardless of their age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion or belief including lack of belief, sex and sexual orientation.
It is the policy of the Group to support the employment of people with disabilities wherever practicable and to ensure, as far as possible, the training, career development and promotion opportunities are available to all employees.
This policy includes employees who become disabled whilst employed by the Group.
SUSTAINABILITY The Group considers its approach to sustainability, dened as the effective management of environmental, social and economic risks and opportunities facing the company, to be an integral part of managing its business.
Our framework for the business, Vision2020, sets out our integrated approach to managing sustainability within the context of the wider aims for the business.
This approach is outlined within the Running a Sustainable Business section of this report and more extensive information is available on Berkeleys website.
This is the first year where we have provided integrated reporting on performance, with no stand alone sustainability report.
We believe that this approach demonstrates how sustainability is embedded within the day-to-day operations of our business.
We remain committed to enhancing the Groups high standards through continuous improvement.
Our Sustainability Governance Committee is responsible for setting the strategic objectives and the Main Board continues to monitor strategic development and progress against commitments and Key Performance Indicators.
The Sustainability Working Group, comprising divisional executives and managers, is responsible for delivering these objectives and reviewing progress against targets.
HEALTH AND SAFETY The Group considers the effective management of health and safety to be an integral part of managing its business.
Accordingly, the Group Main Board continues to monitor the strategic development and audit the implementation by all divisions of their Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems to ensure that, both at Group and divisional level, they remain compliant with recognised established standards.
Our Health & Safety Committee is responsible for setting the strategic objectives of the Group, and the Health & Safety Working Group, comprising divisional executives and managers, is responsible for delivering these objectives and reviewing progress against targets set for our established key performance indicators, reporting this quarterly to the Group Main Board.
ESSENTIAL CONTRACTS Berkeley has contractual and other arrangements with numerous third parties in support of its business activities.
None of the arrangements are individually considered to be essential to the business of Berkeley.
PAYMENT OF CREDITORS Each of the Groups operating companies is responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions, including terms of payment, relating to transactions with its suppliers.
This is on an individual contract basis, rather than following a standard code.
It is Group policy to abide by the agreed terms of payment where the supplier has provided the goods and services in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions of contract.
At 30 April 2013, the Company did not have any trade creditors 2012: nil.
BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2013 59 1 P10 BERK AR13 Directors Report 58-60. indd 59 22 07 2013 16:50 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT TAKEOVER DIRECTIVE AGREEMENTS Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the Company is required to disclose whether there are any significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control.
Change of control provisions are included as standard in many types of commercial agreement, notably bank facility agreements and joint venture shareholder agreements, for the protection of both parties.
Such standard terms are included in Berkeleys bank facility agreement which contains provisions that give the banks certain rights upon a change of control of the Company.
Similarly, in certain circumstances, a change of control may give Berkeleys joint venture partner, Prudential Assurance Company Limited, the ability to exercise certain rights under the shareholder agreement in relation to its St Edward Homes joint venture.
In addition, the Companys share schemes contain provisions which take effect upon change of control.
These do not entitle the participants to a greater interest in the shares of the Company than that created by the initial grant of the award.
The Company does not have any arrangements with any Director that provide compensation for loss of ofce or employment resulting from a takeover.
The remaining information required to be disclosed under the Takeover Directive can be found within notes 5 and 20 to the consolidated financial statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS AND DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and The Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company is to be held at the Woodlands Park Hotel, Woodlands Lane, Stoke DAbernon, Cobham, Surrey KT11 3QB at 11.00am on 2 September 2013.
The Notice of Meeting, which is contained in a separate letter from the Group Chairman accompanying this report, includes a commentary on the business to be transacted at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board A M Bradshaw Company Secretary 16 July 2013 60 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 P10 BERK AR13 Directors Report 58-60. indd 60 22 07 2013 16:50
