60 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Board of Directors and Executive Committee Board of Directors Sir Adrian Montague Julia Wilson Alistair Cox Willem Mesdag Simon Borrows Jonathan Asquith Richard Meddings Martine Verluyten Richard Meddings Chairman Non-executive Directors Non-executive Director since 2008 and Senior Sir Adrian Montague Jonathan Asquith Independent Director since October 2010.
Group Non-executive Director since March 2011.
Chairman Finance Director of Standard Chartered PLC since Chairman ofAXA Investment Managers and Dexion Capital plc.
2006, having joined the Board of Standard Chartered Chairman since 2010.
Chairman of Anglian Water A non-executive director of Citibank International plc PLC as a Group Executive Director in 2002.
A non-executive director of Aviva plc, Skanska andCitigroup Global Markets Limited.
of the Governing Council of the International Chamber AB and CellMark AB.
Previous experience Previous experience Non-executive director of Ashmore Group plc Previous experience Chairman of Michael Page International plc, London 20082012.
Executive director of Schroders plc Chief Operating Officer, Barclays Private Clients, Group First, Friends Provident PLC, British Energy Group PLC, from 2002 until 2008, during which time he was Financial Controller at Barclays PLC and Group Cross London Rail Links Ltd Crossrail and Deputy Chief Financial Officer and later Vice-Chairman.
Finance Director of Woolwich PLC.
Chairman of Network Rail and the UK Green Previously spent 18 years in investment banking Investment Bank plc.
Willem Mesdag with Morgan Grenfell and Deutsche Bank.
Managing Alistair Cox Partnerof Red Mountain Capital Partners LLC.
Executive Directors Non-executive Director since 2009.
Chief Executive Previous experience ofHays plc.
Simon Borrows A Partner and Managing Director of Goldman, Previous experience Sachs&Co.
Chief Executive Chief Executive of Xansa plc from 2002 to 2007, and Chief Executive since May 2012, and an Executive Martine Verluyten Regional President of Asia and Group Strategy Director Director since he joined 3i in October 2011.
Chairman Non-executive Director since January 2012.
A at Lafarge formerly Blue Circle Industries between ofthe Group Risk Committee, the Executive Committee non-executive director of Thomas Cook Group plc, 1994 and 2002. and the Groups Investment Committee.
Also a STMicroelectronics NV and Groupe Bruxelles Lambert.
non-executive director at Inchcape plc and The British Previous experience Land Company Public Limited Company.
Chief Financial Officer of Umicore, a Brussels-based Previous experience listed materials technology group, from 2006 to Formerly Chairman of Greenhill & Co International LLP, December 2011.
Before joining Umicore was Group having previously been Co-Chief Executive Officer Controller and then Chief Financial Officer of Mobistar.
of Greenhill & Co, Inc. Before founding the European operations of Greenhill & Co in 1998 he was the Managing Director of Baring Brothers International Limited.
Julia Wilson Group Finance Director Group Finance Director and member of the Executive Committee since 2008.
A member of the Groups Investment Committee since July 2012.
Joined 3i in 2006 as Deputy Finance Director, with responsibility for the Groups finance, taxation and treasury functions.
Also a non-executive director at Legal & General Group Plc.
Previous experience Group Director of Corporate Finance at Cable & Wireless plc.
Governance 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 61 Executive Committee Menno Antal Jeremy Ghose Cressida Hogg Kevin Dunn Alan Giddins Ben Loomes Executive Committee Menno Antal Alan Giddins Managing Partner, Private Equity Managing Partner, Private Equity A member of the Executive Committee and the Groups A member of the Executive Committee and the Groups Investment Committee since 2010.
Previous experience Previous experience Joined 3i in 2000 and Managing Director, Benelux, Joined 3i in 2005.
Prior to joining 3i, spent 13 years in since 2003.
Prior to joining 3i, held a broad range of investment banking, latterly as a Managing Director international managerial positions within Heineken.
Kevin Dunn Cressida Hogg General Counsel, Company Secretary and Managing Partner, Infrastructure Head of Human Resources A member of the Executive Committee and the Groups Investment Committee since 2010.
Responsible for Responsible for 3is legal, compliance, internal audit, the Infrastructure business line and for leading the human resources and company secretarial functions.
advisory relationship with the independent Board of A member of the Executive Committee since joining 3i Infrastructure plc.
Previous experience Previous experience Joined 3i in 1995.
Co-founded 3is Infrastructure Prior to joining 3i, was a Senior Managing Director, business in 2005 and became Managing Partner, running GEs European Leveraged Finance business Infrastructure in 2009. after serving as European General Counsel for GE.
Prior to GE, was a partner at the law firms Travers Ben Loomes Smith and Latham & Watkins.
Group Strategy Director Jeremy Ghose A member of the Executive Committee and the Groups Managing Partner and CEO of 3i Investment Committee since July 2012.
DebtManagement Previous experience A member of the Executive Committee since joining Joined 3i in April 2012.
Prior to joining 3i, was an 3i in February 2011 on 3is acquisition of Mizuho ExecutiveDirector within Morgan Stanleys UK Investment Management UK Limited from Mizuho investment banking business and before that was a Corporate Bank.
Principal of Greenhill & Co. International, focusing onEuropean mergers and acquisitions, financing Previous experience advisory and restructuring.
Began career at Prior to joining 3i, was with Mizuho Corporate Bank GoldmanSachs International within its European formerly The Fuji Bank since 1988 and on its investment banking division.
Founder of Mizuhos Leveraged Finance business in 1988 and of the third-party independent debt fund management business in 2005.
