Investment Advisersreview Investment Advisers review About the Investment Adviser The infrastructure asset class 3i Investments plc 3i Investments, keycharacteristics awholly-owned subsidiary of 3i Group plc Infrastructure businesses generally have a 3iGroup, acts as the investment adviser strong market position, often operating within theInvestment Adviser to the Company regulatory frameworks, or with revenues through its infrastructure investment team underpinned by strong, long-term contracts.
They can be described as essential, either because they are fundamental to economic The investment advisory team provides activity and economic growth, such as utilities adviceto the Company on the origination or transport infrastructure, or because they Cressida Hogg Managing Partner, andcompletion of new investments, on support important social functions, such as Infrastructure, 3i Investments plc themanagement of the portfolio and education or healthcare facilities.
Key features onrealisations, as well as on funding include: requirements.
The investment advisory teamis managed as a separate business line Last year we continued strong market position underpinning within 3i Group and operates from hubs in revenues eg long-term contracts, to grow the value of our London and India.
All investment professionals quasimonopolies : have significant experience investing in portfolio, crystallising some capital-intensive: infrastructure assets.
The investment advisory of this through the profitable team can also draw on 3i Groups network some degree of ination linkage: of investment professionals to originate sale of Alpha Schools.
We are low volatility through economic cycles: infrastructure investment opportunities.
developing our investment predictable, income-oriented returns 3i Group was among the subscribers to pipeline, assessing a number whenoperational: and 3i Infrastructures Initial Public Offering and subsequent Placing and Open Offer and of opportunities in our target potential for capital growth.
owns34% of the equity in the Company.
areas of core infrastructure Infrastructure assets typically have only alowcorrelation with other asset classes, and PPP.
including listed equities, real estate and xed income.
The quality and predictability of cash ows tend to result in attractive distributions to shareholders.
Social infrastructure PPP Core infrastructure Hybrid infrastructure 7%12% TARGET RETURN 8%15% TARGET RETURN 15% TARGET RETURN High ination correlation Dynamic businesses owning their Higher risk characteristics Mainly government-backed revenue asset base, not concessions with country risk streams anite life market volume risk Lower risk return prole Low volatility across economic cycles GDP correlation Strong yield when fully operational low volume market GDP risk Operational expertise in building out strong market position the assets and running the business Asset management key to driving value is more important operational expertise management of long-term performance nancing skills management incentives More on the strategic update Chairmans statement: page 6 Strategic update: page 8 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 11
