Investment Advisers review investment in the asset base to promote Contracts are often structured so as to Investment strategy growth over the long term: ensure that consortia receive payments from To achieve 3i Infrastructures return objectives, procuring authorities before the facilities continued improvements in the Investment Adviser aims to build a orassets are fully operational.
: portfolio that delivers a balance of both Primary investing therefore requires specialist yieldand an element of capital growth, by disciplined cash management to drive yield skills, a strong understanding ofthe market focusing on the PPP and coreinfrastructure for shareholders: and good relationships with primary markets.
efficient capital structures that can evolve developers.
The infrastructure asset class offers the according to market contingencies and The Investment Adviser has a strong opportunity to diversify investments across business needs: and trackrecord in primary investing, as the risk return spectrum.
As shown in the alignment of interest between management demonstrated by the successful investments diagram on page 11, we believe it can be and shareholders, ensuring management in Alma Mater, Alpha Schools and some sub-divided into three main categories: social, 2 focus on the long-term development of the projects within the I portfolio, all of which core and hybrid infrastructure.
business, rather than on short-term goals.
have now been realised successfully.
Returns and yields from these categories Primary investments of this type have allowed The Investment Adviser has a strong track typically range between 7% and 15% or more, the Investment Adviser to crystallise the record in core infrastructure investing, depending, among other things, on the risks benetsof supporting projects through their havingdelivered robust returns from the associated with the investments and on their construction phase and selling them into a Companys investments in Anglian Water state of development eg under construction very competitive secondary market when Group, Oystercatcher, Eversholt Rail Group versus fully operational.
The divestment of Alpha and, most recently, Elenia.
Schools in March 2013, is described in the Core infrastructure investing casestudy opposite.
PPP investing Core infrastructure companies are dynamic The Companys proposed investment in the Primary PPP investing involves investing in businesses which own their asset base.
Thameslink Rolling Stock Procurement projects at the start of the concession rather Investing in core infrastructure businesses Programme has many of the characteristics than secondary acquisitions in operational istherefore more complex and requires a ofprimary PPP.
Thisusually requires a financial broader set of skills, including: and Innisfree, its Thameslink XLT consortium investor to: partners, submitted a bid to the Department for a sound operational understanding of form a consortium with a primary developer Transport DfT for the delivery, maintenance thebusiness and of how to drive long-term to put together a bid: and nancing of around 1,200 vehicles, as value through investment in the asset part of a broader upgrade programme for support the consortium through a bidding base, the management of costs and the the Thameslink line.
The consortium was process, drawing on relevant financial, incentivisation of management teams: named preferred bidder in June 2011 and legaland commercial advice: in-depth knowledge of the market has subsequently been negotiating complex underpin a share of the bid costs: andregulatory dynamics: and contractual and nancing structures with the DfT and a group of banks.
shape the funding plans required for the ability to deliver an efficient theproject: nancingstructure.
Secondary PPP investing involves secondary acquisitions of projects that are already negotiate the contractual structure with An engaged portfolio management approach operational.
Due to the lower risks involved, theprocuring authority: and is key in driving value from core infrastructure returns from this type of investment tend to investments over the long term.
Before oversee the construction of the facilities or be lower than returns from primary projects.
committing to any investment, we develop assets to be provided under the contract We have a strong track record of successful acomprehensive understanding of the within the timescale and to the standards investing in secondary projects.
company, of the markets in which it operates, agreed with the procuring authority, taking In October 2012, the Company announced that its competitive dynamics and the relevant construction and ramp-up risk.
it had made a commitment of 15 million to the regulatory environment.
Primary investing involves higher risks than Dalmore Capital Fund Dalmore, which 3i Infrastructure has permanent capital and secondary investing, where financial investors specialises in investing in the UK secondary intends to drive value from its investments buy stakes in projects that have completed PFI market.
Dalmore is managed by Dalmore over long-term hold periods.
Therefore, their construction phase, are operational and Capital Limited, which is run by key members aftermaking each investment, we engage with contractual and nancing structures 2 of the team that managed I, which generated withthe management team at board level, already agreed.
In return for accepting these an IRR for the Company of 23.8% on full exit.
aswell as more informally, to develop risks and providing the necessary resources, The investment in Dalmore builds on our strategies that support: investment returns from primary projects strong track record in secondary PFI and are generally higher than secondary returns provides us with access to the specialist and can be quantied towards the upper investment skills of the team at Dalmore end of the 7%12% return bracket for social Capital in this market.
infrastructure shown in the diagram on page 11.
More on the Investment Advisers trackrecord Investment track record: page 16 12 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Investment Advisersreview D ivestment Alpha Schools About Alpha Value creation from Schools primary investing Alpha Schools Highland Limited Alpha While 3i Infrastructure, with its permanent Schools is a concession company under a capital, is set up to hold investments over 30-year PFI contract commenced in 2006 thelong term, it will sell assets where tobuild, operate and maintain 11 new schools attractive offers crystallise the value created on 10 sites in the Highland region of Scotland.
inan investment over the period of ownership, Alpha Schools receives RPIX-linked payments or where there is a strong market for that from the Highlands Council to cover services particular investment.
The construction Both these conditions were met in the case ofthe schools commenced in 2006 and was ofAlpha Schools.
HICLs offer crystallised completed in 2011. thevalue growth generated over the period The investment in Alpha Schools was part of ofownership, at a considerable uplift to the the initial portfolio seeded into 3i Infrastructure cost and the opening value of the investment, at its IPO in 2007.
The PFI investments in that against the backdrop of a competitive market initial portfolio provided balanced exposure to for secondary PFI investments.
Having both early-stage Alpha Schools, Alma Mater generated good returns from the and operational projects Octagon, a majority investmentthrough the construction phase 2 of the projects within I and through ramp-up to successful operation,.
As outlined on page 12, investments in early-stage PFI projects 3iInfrastructure sold its investment once typically generate returns that are higher ithad achieved a track record of stable compared to the returns generated by returns, which was reected in a lower operational PFI projects, reecting the higher discount rate.
construction and execution risks involved.
Both early-stage and operational PFI investments provide portfolios with lower risk, index-linked cash ows and robust yields.
Through the Investment Adviser, the Company managed its investment in Alpha Schools through the construction phase and through ramp-up, achieving a robust track record of operational performance when the facilities became fully operational.
The realisation On 25 March 2013, 3i Infrastructure announced it had sold its 50% holding in Alpha Schools toa wholly-owned subsidiary of HICL Infrastructure Company Limited HICL, which already owned the balance of the investment.
The sale of the investment, which 3i Infrastructure held through a subsidiary undertaking, generated gross proceeds of 21.2 million, representing a premium to the opening valuation of 18.5 million and to the cost of 9.1 million.
Cost 9.1m Income received in the period ofownership 6.3m Sale proceeds 21.2m IRR 33.2% Opening value at 1 April 2012 18.5m profit over value this financial year 2.7m 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 13 Investment Advisers review The investment in the India Fund has not Hybrid infrastructure investing delivered the capital growth that the Board The Company currently invests in hybrid andInvestment Adviser expected when the infrastructure through its US$250 million commitment was made.
While the operational commitment to the US$1.2 billion India Fund, development of the investments in the India managed by the Investment Adviser through Fund has proceeded broadly according to plan, a dedicated team in India.
The India Fund anumber of macroeconomic, market and reached the endof its investment period in political factors have weighed on their November 2012 and will make no new performance.
These factors are outlined in the investments.
In this post-investment phase, 3i India Infrastructure Fund review on page 36. the India Fund will focus on realising its portfolio over time and this will reduce the At 31 March 2013, the Fund was valued at Companys exposure to India.
The Companys 0.8xcost in US dollar terms and 1.0x cost in remaining commitment to this fund is rupee terms.
Rather than enhancing overall limited to 15% of the original US$250 million returns, the investment in the India Fund has commitment, or US$37.5 million and is, introduced an element of volatility to overall in practice, unlikely to be drawn in full.
portfolio valuations, as shown in Chart 1, despite the strong performance ofits The rationale for this commitment, made in social and core infrastructure portfolios.
2007, was that it would provide exposure In recognition of the higher than expected toadiversied portfolio of early-stage risks involved in hybrid infrastructure infrastructure investments in India, expected investing andspecically in infrastructure to deliver gross returns of around 20% investing inIndia, the Board established throughthe funds life but with a higher that 3i Infrastructure will make no further riskprole construction risk and country investments in India beyond the current geopolitical risk.
commitment to the India Fund.
Chart 1 Cumulative cost and value progression m European Portfolio Indian Portfolio Stable value growth 1,600 200 1,400 180 160 Valuation volatility 1,200 140 1,000 120 800 100 600 80 60 400 40 200 20 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Cumulative cost Value and proceeds Cumulative cost Value 14 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Investment Advisersreview Chart 2 Portfolio asset returns throughout holding period six years since inception, m 16 % AWG Annualised asset IRR 173 since inception to 231 12 99 Elenia formerly LNI 31 March 2013 195 206 21 Eversholt 151 154 21 55 Oystercatcher 85 141 52 Junior debt portfolio 120 135 24 3i IIF 107 99 PFI portfolio 244 89 250 45 T2C and Novera 18 10 Total cost Value including Proceeds on disposals Cash income accrued interest capital returns The calculation of the IRR Internal Rate of Return uses cash ows generated from the investments to calculate the annualised effective compound rate of return.
The calculation uses: i total cost original cost plus any further investment : ii proceeds for investments that have been sold, or from capital returns: and iii closing value for investments that have not been sold.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 15
