Prole of senior members of  team Cressida Hogg Managing Partner Stephen Halliwell CFO Neil King Partner Infrastructure Infrastructure Infrastructure Cressida co-founded 3i Groups Infrastructure Stephen is CFO for 3i Groups infrastructure Neil has responsibility for the investment advisory business in 2005 and took over the role of investment business.
He manages the operational, teams investment origination and appraisal Managing Partner in January 2009.
Cressida is financial and reporting requirements for the activities in Europe.
He has been involved in responsible for managing the investment advisory infrastructure business within 3i Group.
advising on most of the Companys new deals, team and leads the advisory relationship with the Stephen was previously Head of Financial including leading the investments into Eversholt, independent Board of 3i Infrastructure.
Cressida Planning and Analysis in 3i Groups Finance Team.
Elgin and Dalmore Capital and has had a leading oversees all aspects of 3iGroups infrastructure During 20092010, Stephen managed certain role in ensuring a consistent approach to investment business, including investment responsibilities of 3i Groups Finance Director, infrastructure investment.
Neil joined 3i Group in appraisal, portfolio management and investor whowas on maternity leave.
Qualied 2005, bringing with him more than 15 years of relations activities.
experience in the infrastructure market, including Companys interests by sitting on the board of roles at Innisfree, WestLB and Barclays Capital.
Cressida has 17 years investment experience with 3i Group, having previously worked in 3i Groups UK growth and buyout businesses.
Phil White Partner Scott Moseley Partner Infrastructure Infrastructure Phil has overall responsibility for the Investment Scott joined 3i Group in 2007.
His primary Advisers portfolio management activity.
In this focus isorigination and execution of European role he works closely with the management teams infrastructure investment opportunities.
His deals of the businesses in which 3i Infrastructure include the investments in Elenia, Eversholt and invests.
He sits on the boards of several portfolio the junior debt portfolio.
Scott is also involved in companies including Elenia, Eversholt and the Thameslink project, where 3i Infrastructure is Oystercatchers oil storage companies.
Phil joined a shareholder in the preferred bidder consortium, 3i Group in 2007, bringing 20 years of investment, Thameslink XLT.
He is a director on the boards of advisory and nancing experience to this role, Elenia and XLT.
Scott has 13years of experience in gained from roles at Macquarie, WestLB the infrastructure sector.
24 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Review of investments Review of investments 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 25
