Investment Advisers review Charts 2 and 3 illustrate the investment track Investment track record record since 3i Infrastructures inception.
The Investment Adviser has implemented its Inparticular: strategy rigorously since the Company was the core and social infrastructure portfolios set up.
As a result, 3i Infrastructure now has have generated strong returns, inline with, aportfolio that has provided: or ahead of expectations: significant income supporting the consistent the return is underpinned by substantial delivery of the Companys annual dividend cash generation in the form of income or objective: capital profits: strong capital profits from realisations: and most investments return a significant an element of capital growth underpinning proportion of their cost through income the 16% gross IRR shown in Chart 2. inarelatively short period of time: The value created through this robust where investments have been sold, they investment performance has been crystallised havegenerated good uplifts over cost, in a number of instances through well andan overall IRR of 19.3%: and managed realisations.
While the Company is the valuation of the India Fund has been structured to hold investments over the long volatile.
term, it will sell assets on an opportunistic basis, where compelling offers generate As shown in Chart 3, from investment of shareholder value, as was the case for Alma 1,092million, since the Companys inception 2 Mater in 2008, I in 2009, thejunior debt theportfolio has returned cash income portfolio in 201112 and Alpha Schools in 2013. of296million and realised proceeds of 428million.
Chart 3 Portfolio cash generation six years since inception, m 1,200 1,097.9 1,000 804.5 800 Total cash generation: 918.7 600 724.3m 296.3 400 70.4 200 428.0 profit 248.3 179.2 80.0 0 200 1,091.7 400 Net IPO and Investment Proceeds Cash Dividends Other net Conversion Cash and placing and from income paid cash ow of warrants portfolio at open offer disposals received 31 March proceeds 2013 More on the strategic update Strategic update: page 8 16 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Investment Advisersreview The UKs primary project market has The market opportunity Market and opportunities slowed down since the Conservative-Liberal incoreinfrastructure Democratcoalition government came The themes driving the market opportunity Conditions for investment intopower in 2010, although a new PFI incore infrastructure are broadly unchanged programme focused on new school and Allocations to the infrastructure asset class compared to last year.
Disposals from healthcare projects was recently launched have continued to grow as many investors corporates and financial institutions have and the Government has announced details increasingly seek opportunities that deliver a continued to provide the majority of investment of its proposed PF2 model for PPP.
Other high level of income.
This trend has intensied opportunities.
In particular, utilities as well as European governments have developed as yields in some other asset classes remain oil and gas majors are selling distribution and similar PPP models to access private sector compressed in a persistently low interest downstream assets to focus on generation and capital and outsourcing expertise, particularly rate environment.
upstream activities, while banks and other in France, Belgium and the Netherlands, with This has resulted in significant demand for financial institutions are selling assets or smaller programmes also in place in Germany infrastructure assets from specialist financial portfolios to comply with capital adequacy and Scandinavia.
investors, as well as direct investors such regulations.
as large pension funds and sovereign India Opportunities in core infrastructure are also wealth funds.
likely to derive, in due course, from the sale Infrastructure deal volumes have fallen in There were a number of major transactions ofassets by specialist financial investors.
India as a result of lower GDP growth rates, inregulated utilities across Europe last year, Some infrastructure funds, nearing the a growing scal deficit, currency volatility including OpenGrid, Wales and West Gas and endoftheir investment periods, will need and persistently high ination and high Veolia Water, but generally market activity torealise investments to return capital interest rates.
While the fundamental case in core infrastructure has been muted.
forinfrastructure development and private The deals thatwere completed continued to be involvement in this remains unaltered, there supported by the availability of capital markets The market opportunity in PPP are challenges in this market at present.
and bank debt for strong infrastructure Investment in social infrastructure is at the The India Fund reached the end of its businesses, even as liquidity in other heart of the Europe-wide political agenda to investment period in November 2012 and sectorsremained relatively constrained.
create growth and private sector funding is 3i Group, which through 3i Investments a critical element in the success ofthese As demand for infrastructure assets manages the India Fund, suspended new ambitions.
Over time, we expect resourceincreases, price points have risen.
This trend fundraising in this market.
It is likely that the constrained governments throughout Europe has been noticeable across the infrastructure Companys remaining commitment to the India to increasingly privatise oropen up essential market, with projected returns available from Fund will remain largelyundrawn.
The teams infrastructure through PPP-style transactions.
secondary PFI investments and from core focus will be on preparing the India Funds There are now over 1,000 closed PPP projects infrastructure investments in stable investments for sale in a challenging market.
across Europe, with a combined equity value economies reduced.
of around 10 billion, spanning critical sectors Outlook The broader market environment remains providing essential services including schools The infrastructure market continues to volatile.
Economies in Europe are struggling to and hospitals, as well as prisons, roads, light offer attractive opportunities.
We are seeing recover, as the sovereign debt crisis endures, rail, water treatment plants, military support good investments in both core and social the availability of credit remains constrained equipment, government accommodation infrastructure, our key areas of focus and and a number of countries, particularly in the facilities and energy projects.
we expect to be investing further over the euro periphery, continue to face significant Well over 1 billion has been raised by next year.
specialist investors over the past three years As part of the XLT consortium, we are making In this environment, we have remained ininvestment vehicles focused on this type of significant progress with the DfT on the disciplined investors and have avoided investment.
Investors continue to have much Thameslink Rolling Stock Procurement overbidding in competitive processes, focusing appetite for the long-term, low-risk and Programme.
on a narrower set of opportunities in the UK income oriented returns offered by and Northern Europe.
As a result, investment investments in PPP projects.
Investments in We are also currently focusing on a number activity has been lower than in previous years.
primary projects, in particular, have proven ofopportunities in the northern European core increasingly attractive in light of the premium infrastructure market.
While returns available returns promised by this type of investment, from infrastructure investing in our core as outlined on page 12. markets remain under pressure, we will continue to seek opportunities where we have a competitive advantage over other bidders, where we can engage at an early stage or leverage market relationships to ensure that portfolio returns are not compromised.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 17
