Review of investments Eversholt Rail Group Performance in the year Cost Opening cost 136.4m Equity interest 33.3% Closing cost 129.8m Capital repayment in the year 6.6m Opening value Income in the year 17.8m 154.2m Asset total return in the year 23.8m Closing value Valuation basis DCF 153.6m 30 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Review of investments Eversholt Rail Group Eversholt is Investment rationale Developments in the year one of the three leading rail rolling 3i Infrastructure, in consortium with Morgan Eversholt continued to perform well in Stanley Infrastructure Partners and STAR the year, with its EBITDA increasing by 2.8% stock companies in the UK and owns Capital Partners, acquired 100% of Eversholt compared to last year.
This allowed Eversholt approximately 28% of the current UK inDecember 2010. to repay an additional 6.6 million of its passenger train fleet.
Its19 eets, shareholder loan as described on page 20.
Eversholt is a well established infrastructure predominantly weighted towards The Company also accrued regular interest business and ts well with 3i Infrastructures payments of 17.8 million.
The proceeds of electric trains, areleased to 11 Train investment mandate: 6.6 million account for the difference between Operating Companies TOCs.
it has strong market fundamentals, with its opening and closing cost in the chart on the Although its primary revenue stream fully utilised eets likely to retain value in the previous page.
consists of lease payments from long term, due to strong passenger demand The cancellation by the Department for and the high cost of new trains: TOCs, Eversholt also owns a freight Transport DfT of the Intercity West Coast fleet, which accounts for less than it has high quality cash ows contracted for franchise competition and suspension of the medium term through lease agreements the wider refranchising programme was a 10% of its total value.
with the TOCs: and significant disappointment for Eversholt, as it The rolling stock companies are had been heavily involved in supporting bidders it has a defensive fleet portfolio, weighted for all affected franchises.
Eversholt has notdirectly regulated, and have towards electric trains, with a good welcomed the subsequent review of the rail instead entered into codes of operational history, leased to a diversied franchising programme led by Richard Brown, customer base.
practice, monitored by the Office which recommended early recommencement ofRail Regulation, under which of the programme along with reinforcement Achievements in the period ofthe capability and resources of the DfT.
theyagree to work fairly and ofownership InMarch 2013, the DfT announced a new reasonably with their customers.
The consortium has strengthened Eversholts timetable for future franchises, which governance through the appointment of staggers the programme over a longer period, several highly experienced non-executive necessitating a large number of relatively Directors to the Irish and UK boards and the short franchise extensions awards.
establishment of audit and remuneration Eversholt is now working proactively with committees with investor representation.
current franchise holders and prospective Further executive appointments were made bidders, asappropriate, to provide the best tothe Irish and UK businesses to bolster possible rolling stock solutions for the Eversholts technical, legal and financial travelling customer.
In particular, the timing resources, positioning it well to manage the for the East Coast franchise competition significant increase in workload as the pace has been claried to start in early 2014 ofrail franchise re-tendering accelerates.
and Eversholt has developed innovative proposals to upgrade its existing fleet Eversholts capital structure was fide-risked operating on that franchise.
through the issuance of three long-dated public bonds for a total of 1.1 billion, priced on Market developments have provided a attractive terms and attracting strong demand numberof asset management opportunities from public market investors, signicantly for Eversholt.
The company is providing asset reducing the ongoing debt servicing costs and management services to the Cross London renancing risks.
Trains XLT consortium, the preferred bidder for the Thameslink rolling stock The consortium has engaged closely with the procurement programme.
management team to assess a range of capital investment opportunities, both to add further In December 2012, Eversholt raised trains to the overall fleet and to invest in 150million in a private placement with upgrading existing assets to provide better a20-year maturity, the proceeds of which passenger experience and improved reliability, were used to repay the companys outstanding at good value for money for operators.
balance on its capital expenditure facility andto partly repay the senior bank facility.
Thisfurther extends the maturity prole of Eversholts debt and demonstrates its ability toaccess diverse sources of debt funding.
Eversholts Class 395 trains were used for the Olympic Javelin Train Service, ran by Southeastern Railways to transport passengers from St Pancras Station to the Olympic Park.
Approximately 2.4 million passenger journeys were made on this service, or over 90,000 passenger journeys a day throughout the Games.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 31
