Strategic update Key elements Our investment strategy and approach, as well as our return objectives, dated back to our IPO in 2007.
Since then, our portfolio has developed, as have the markets in which we operate.
In its strategic update this year, the Boardassessed the Companys strategy andobjectives inlight of these changes.
Thereview took anumber of factors into consideration.
Our portfolio has developed and diversied since our IPO.
We have invested well and Core portfolio have crystallised value growth through a number of realisations.
Our core European bedrock 1 portfolio has consistently delivered returns in line with, or ahead of, our expectations.
These returns have been supported by the steady value growth androbust income generation of our investments.
This portfolio provides a solid bedrock for future development.
We have been disciplined investors, maintaining our focus on core infrastructure, Target investment which has delivered the portfolio income and capital growth we expected.
There are opportunities 2 good opportunities for skilled investors in the core infrastructure market, which will remain our key area of focus.
As market conditions evolve, we also see other attractive areas to develop our business, most notably primary PPP investments.
Investment in social and energy infrastructure is at the heart of the Europe-wide agenda to stimulate growth and private sector funding is key to the implementation of these ambitions.
This will result in investment opportunities, as resource-constrained governments across Europe seek to privatise or open up essential infrastructure through PPP-style transactions.
While the case for infrastructure development in India remains unaltered, private Return volatility infrastructure investment in India has faced more political, market and 3 macroeconomic challenges than we expected when we initially made our commitment to the India Fund in 2007.
Our investment in the India Fund has not been immune to those challenges and, as a result, has suffered significant valuation volatility and has not delivered the premium returns we anticipated.
In turn, this has introduced an element of volatility to the total return.
The India Fund reached the end of its investment period in November 2012 and the Board decided that, as the Funds assets are gradually realised, the Company will not redeploy the proceeds in India.
The Company will focus its future investment activity in the core infrastructure and Portfolio balance PPP markets, where the Investment Adviser sees the best opportunities to invest.
4 Over time, as the investments in the India Fund are gradually realised, the portfolio will rebalance in favour of less volatile core and PPP investments in our focus European market, which can deliver a substantial portion of their return through income and an element of capital growth.
The Board believes that the Investment Adviser is well placed to access the target Specialist investment opportunities, with its strong track record in core infrastructure and advisoryskills 5 PPP PFI investing.
In light of the complexity and the long-term nature of infrastructure investing, portfolio management is a key area of focus for the Investment Adviser and is animportant tool in achieving our return objectives.
8 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Illustrative portfolio composition CURRENT FUTURE The portfolio composition will evolve over time: India 75%80% invested in core infrastructure 20%25% invested in PPP, with an emphasis on primary investments The India Fund portfolio will be gradually realised Core infrastructure PPP This evolution will reduce the volatility of the overall portfolio return and increase the income generation from the portfolio.
Updating our financial objectives As a result of this strategic review and of the rebalancing of risk and reward across the portfolio, we updated our financial objectives.
This also reects the composition of our existing portfolio and the market environment in which we operate.
Annual total return objective Total return objective of 12%, of 10% of opening NAV to be achieved over the long term Annual distribution yield Annual distribution yield of 5% of opening NAV of 5.5% of opening NAV Our updated objectives assume: A blended portfolio return, which reects the returns from our existing European portfolio and a re-balancing of the portfolio away from India, in favour of core infrastructure and PPP in developed markets: An evolution of the market environment in which we operate, where projected returns from new infrastructure investments are lower than in 2007, as are interest rates: and Greater portfolio income generation, as the non-yielding India Fund investments are sold and proceeds re-deployed in core infrastructure and PPP projects.
The revised total return objective also accommodates costs and incorporates our funding strategy, with an element of dilution from holding cash balances for future investment.
Building on the bedrock of our portfolio and through the rigorous focus on core infrastructure and PPP, we can deliver these objectives with reduced volatility in the years to come.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 9 Investment Advisers review 10 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013
