Review of investments Anglian Water Group Performance in the year Cost Equity interest 10.3% 161.9m Income in the year 15.5m Opening value Asset total return in the year 36.7m 209.4m Valuation basis DCF Closing value The value on an IFRS basis is 336.6 million.
230.6m 26 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Review of investments The business has experienced success Anglian Water Group Limited AWG Achievements in the period with its Keep it Clear media campaign, is the parent company of Anglian ofownership highlighting the impact of blockages caused by Water, the fourth largest water AWG has ourished under private ownership.
inappropriate waste being ushed into sewers.
Ithas refocused on its core business, selling supplyand wastewater company The incremental capital expenditure and the Morrison Utilities Services, Morrison Facilities impact on demand of record-breaking rainfall inEnglandand Wales as measured Services and much of its property portfolio.
resulted in a reduction in the dividend received by regulatory capital value.
The company has been able to adopt a more from AWGthis year.
The majority of the groups revenue efficient capital structure compared to listed The business continues to implement itscost peers and to distribute a higher proportion is earned through tariffs regulated efficiency and capital spending programmes, ofcash ows to shareholders, resulting in byOfwat and linked to RPI.
The Regulated Capital Value been able to raise debtonattractive terms RCV has grown steadily, underpinned The investment is held through throughout the year, maintaining access to byacomprehensive capital expenditure 3iOsprey LP, an intermediary diverse sourcesoffunding.
programme, which has been maintained limitedpartnership whose forthe 20102015 regulatory period.
In November 2012, AWG sold Morrison partnerscomprise other third Facilities Services to Mears for a total A new management incentive scheme parties including 3i Group, consideration of 24 million.
This will further wasputin place post investment, aligning reduce the management time dedicated to whichhas a small interest and compensation with long-term value growth, non-core activities.
asset quality and customer service rather which is managed separately than short-term earnings and share price Following the publication of its Water White by3iInvestments.
The management now balances Paper in December 2011, the Government long-term planning, for example to respond published its draft Water bill in July 2012, tothe challenges of climate change, with setting out a number of changes to the Investment rationale aclear focus on operational efficiency and structure of the industry, including the AWG was taken private in 2006 by a group customer service.
extension of competition for business ofinvestors, including Canada Pension Plan, customers, changes to the abstraction Colonial First State, Industry Funds Developments in the year regimeto encourage more efficient use Management and 3i Group, which seeded AWG continued to perform robustly ofwater resources and measures to help part of its AWG holding into 3i Infrastructure duringtheyear, with its EBITDA increasing theindustry manage bad debts.
Anglian Water when it was set up in 2007.
Anglian Water is remains proactive across the broad range strong infrastructure characteristics: making goodprogress in the implementation ofissues and will continue to engage widely a regulated near-monopoly position in of its current regulatory settlement, with a toensure that it is well placed to respond to the itsgeographical area for the provision of strong focus ona wide-ranging efficiency changes that will ensue.
During the year, there water supply and wastewater treatment: programme.
was a satisfactory outcome to negotiations with Ofwat regarding its proposed changes to stable and predictable earnings and cash Anglian Water continues to perform well licences.
This has enabled management to ows through RPI-linked tariffs: and incustomer service against its peers, focus on preparing forthe next regulatory rankingrst in Ofwats Service Incentive largely predictable operating costs.
review, for which watercompanies are Mechanism survey for the year ending required to submit draftbusiness plans by In addition, AWG has attractive fundamentals: 31 March2013.
theend of 2013. a strong management team: The principal issue facing Anglian Water The Company lowered the discount rate used attheend of March 2012 was the drought a relatively modern asset base: and to value its investment in AWG, asdescribed which followed two unusually dry winters.
onpage 23, reecting higher comparable operations in a geographic region with Inresponse, AWG had started the valuation benchmarks and supported by highpopulation growth and relatively implementation of incremental capital AWGs continued robust operational lowindustrial exposure, limiting expenditure to improve further the resilience performance and its strong track record cyclicalcorrelation.
of water supply and encourage water ofdebt raising.
The heavy rains seen since April2012 relieved the drought conditions, butput downward pressure on demand from households and small business customers, andresulted in some ooding.
Demand from small businesses was impacted further by the weak economic conditions.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 27
