Review of investments Elenia Performance in the year Cost Equity interest 39.3% 194.8m Income in the year 20.6m Opening value 1 Asset total return in the year 25.1m 201.0m Valuation basis DCF Closing value 1 Includes an unrealised foreign exchange gain of 3.9 million 205.5m The value on an IFRS basis is 235.5 million.
28 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Review of investments Elenia owns the second largest Investment rationale Developments in the year electricity distribution network in 3i Infrastructure purchased Elenia from Elenia successfully completed the postVattenfall AB in January 2012 in consortium acquisition corporate reorganisation inearly Finland.
Headquartered in Tampere, with 3i Group plc, GS Infrastructure January 2013.
The completion of this process it serves around 410,000 customers Partnersand Ilmarinen Mutual Pension allowed Elenia to distribute its first dividend and has a 12% market share.
to shareholders following the acquisition.
The business isregulated on a 3i Infrastructures share of this distribution Elenia has strong infrastructure was 20.6 million.
four-year cycle, delivering a set characteristics: return on its regulated asset base.
Elenias governance was enhanced through the electricity distribution business theappointment of new independent chairmen operatesin a stable and transparent Elenia Lmp owns and operates to the boards of each business, as well regulatory environment, with regulatory 16 local district heating networks, asthrough a number of management incentives providing opportunities for appointments to further strengthen the each with strong market shares value-accretive growth: executive teams, including a new chief in their local areas.
It has its the businesses are profitable and provide financial officer and a new chief executive headquarters in Hmeenlinna and ination linkage.
This is likely to support for Elenia Lmp.
is the main supplier of heat to the arobust yield to 3i Infrastructure over the The consortium has engaged with the long term: and town, with some ancillary electricity management team of Elenia to update and production from the Vanaja CHP Finland is an attractive market, providing enhance its capital expenditure plans to opportunities for consolidation over the improve network reliability.
District heating, which involves medium term.
the pumping of hot water directly into A number of acquisition opportunities werealso examined, with the first bolt-on homes and businesses from central acquisition, of Asikkalan Voima, completed hubs, is not regulated in Finland.
This isa small distribution company in which Elenia already owned a The investment is held through 50% holding.
Elenia purchased the remaining 3iNetworks Finland LP, an 50% of the shares from Lahti Energia.
intermediary limited partnership This acquisition affirms the Companys thesis whichis managed separately by on consolidation opportunities in the sector.
The Finnish government is seeking to implement legislation aimed at improving reliability of electricity supply in response tooutages caused by severe weather conditions in 2011 and 2012.
This is a positive development, consistent with Elenias strategy.
We expect detailed proposals from the regulator on revisions to the regulatory regimein the autumn.
Finally, the businesses were rebranded, with the new Elenia name successfully launched in May 2012, reinforcing to domestic audiences the separation from Vattenfall.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 29
