Board of Directors Peter Sedgwick Philip Austin Non-executive Director, Sir John Collins Non-executive Chairman SeniorIndependent Director Non-executive Director Between 2000 and 2006, Peter was a member of the Philip spent most of his career in banking with HSBC in Sir John Collins was previously Chairman of DSG management committee and a Vice President of the the UK and Jersey and, from 1997 to 2001, was Deputy International plc, National Power Limited, and Shell UK European Investment Bank EIB, one of the largest Chief Executive of the banks business in the Offshore plc.
He was a non-executive director of Rothschild multinational lending institutions in the world.
In 2001, he became the founding CEO of Jersey Continuation Holdings AG, and The Peninsular and also a director of the European Investment Fund from Finance Ltd, the body set up as a joint venture between Oriental Steam Navigation Company plc.
Before joining the EIB, he was a career the government of Jersey and its Finance Industry, to served as Chairman of the Advisory Committee on HMTreasury civil servant in the UK.
He also sits on the represent and promote the Industry in Jersey and Business and the Environment, Chairman of the DTIs boards of two of 3i Infrastructure plcs Luxembourg internationally.
Between 2006 and 2009, he was at Energy Advisory Panel, Chairman of the DTI DEFRAs subsidiaries, 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg Holdings Equity Trust where he had direct responsibility for Sustainable Energy Policy Advisory Board, President S. r. l. and 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg S. r. l. He was Jersey, Guernsey and Switzerland as well as being ofthe Energy Institute and as a Governor of Wellington a trustee and director of Dyslexia Institute Limited aMember of the Group Executive Committee.
trading as Dyslexia Action between 2007 and 2011 since taken a number of directorships in companies in and has been appointed Chairman of Bowel Cancer UK the financial services sector.
Chartered Institute of Bankers and a Fellow of the Institute of Management.
Paul Masterton Florence Pierre Paul Waller Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Paul spent most of his career in the printing and Florence spent the majority of her career as an Prior to his retirement, after 35 years service, Paul communications industry, holding various appointments investment banker in corporate finance.
She was was a Managing Partner at 3i Group, with specic in the UK, the US and Asia.
From 2008 to 2013, Paul was subsequently appointed Chief Executive of the French responsibility for fundraising and investor relations.
the chief executive of the Durrell Wildlife Conservation branch of Degroof Corporate Finance, a subsidiary of As a member of the senior leadership team since 1999, Trust, an international wildlife charity.
Paul has a Bank Degroof, and a Director of Degroof Corporate he also previously acted as co-chair of the rms number ofdirectorships in banking, insurance and Finance in Belgium.
At present, Florence operates as an investment committee.
Paul is a former chairman of the property development and, in 2012, was appointed as independent consultant.
She has taught economics and European Private Equity & Venture Capital Association the founding chairman for Digital Jersey, a partnership finance at Institut dEtudes Politiques in Paris and has and chairman of their Investor Relations Committee.
between the Government of Jersey and the digital published several books and articles on corporate In January 2013, Paul was appointed a Partner of sector to represent and promote the industry.
French national, resident in Belgium.
Hamilton Lane Advisors and focuses primarily on client with effect from 4April 2013, resident in Jersey.
development and overall rm marketing initiatives.
Steven Wilderspin Non-executive Director, Charlotte Valeur Chairman of Audit Committee Non-executive Director Steven has been the Principal of Wilderspin Independent Charlotte is Managing Director of GFG Ltd, which advises Governance, which provides independent directorship on investment fund governance and conducts board services, since April 2007.
He was previously a director reviews.
Prior to founding GFG in 2011, Charlotte was the of fund administrator Maples Finance Jersey Limited.
Managing Partner at Brook Street Partners Ltd. Before He has served on a number of private equity, property founding Brook Street Partners in 2003, she worked in and hedge fund boards as well as the boards of special the City of London, heading up institutional Fixed Income purpose companies engaged in structured finance sales desks at Warburg, BNP Paribas, Socit Gnrale transactions.
Before that, from 1997, he acted as Head and Commerzbank.
She began her career in of Accounting at Perpetual Fund Management Jersey Copenhagen in 1982 with Nordea as a Fixed Income Limited.
Charlotte currently serves on boards of inJersey.
anumber of listed and unlisted companies, is a member of the Institute of Directors and is regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission.
Resident in Jersey, served until 31 March 2013.
50 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013
