Review of investments Oystercatcher Performance in the year Cost Equity interest 45.0% 84.5m Income in the year 11.2m Opening value 1 Asset total return in the year 34.4m 118.2m Valuation basis DCF Closing value 1 Includes an unrealised foreign exchange gain of 1.9 million.
141.4m The value on an IFRS basis is 309.3 million.
32 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Review of investments Since investment, total capacity at the three Oystercatcher Luxco 2 S. r. l. Investment rationale terminals has increased by 23%, while annual Oystercatcher is the holding The investment was completed in August 2007. throughput has increased by 18%.
The key elements of the investment case were: company through which 3i In March 2013, 3i Infrastructure signed the Infrastructure invested in 45% stakes strong projected demand for oil and renancing of the Oystercatcher acquisition oil-related products: in three subsidiaries of Oiltanking debt facility, signicantly fide-risking its GmbH Oiltanking, located in the storage capacity is scarce and a key nancing structure see below.
component of the oil and oil product supply Netherlands, Malta and Singapore.
chain, resulting in low customer turnover: Developments in the year These businesses provide over All three terminals performed ahead of the three terminals are defensively located 3.6 million cubic metres of oil, expectations in the year, with their EBITDA inkey trading hubs in Amsterdam, Malta and petroleum and otheroil-related upby 8.4% year-on-year.
Singapore and have a strong market position: storage facilities and associated Market conditions for trading customers have contracts are let on a use-or-pay basis with services to a broadrange of clients, not been as favourable as in previous years, xed terms of up to 10 years, often with including private and state oil as trading margins remain squeezed by a tariffs linked to local ination rates, resulting shallower forward curve, as well as by lower companies, reners, petrochemical in reliable cash ows: and volatility in oil prices.
However, the strong companies and traders.
the transaction allowed 3i Infrastructure market position of allthree terminals ensured topartner with a leading player in the that customer contracts expiring in 2012 were Oiltanking is one of the worlds oilstorage market, with a strong re-let on improved terms.
Throughput levels leading independent storage .
remained high throughout the year.
partners for oils, chemicals and In Malta, the construction of an LPG pipeline Achievements in the period gases, operating 75 terminals in totransport LPG imports from Oiltankings ofownership 23 countries with a total storage jetty to a new storage facility owned by The 2007 investment case has largely been capacity of 20.3 million cubic metres.
GASCOEnergy Ltd was completed within confirmed, with the investment performing budget and the first cargo was received well.
All storage capacity has been fully let inJune 2012.
Completion of this pipeline throughout the period of investment, and isimportant, as a smooth supply of LPG throughput levels have been high.
All three isvitalto the Maltese economy.
terminals have been largely unaffected by In March 2012, the Company increased the theglobal economic slowdown, even though discount rate used to value its holding in the attening of the forward curve in recent Oystercatcher to reect an increase in the years has squeezed oil trading margins and renancing risk and greater sensitivity to increased customers focus on storage interest rate and exchange rate movements, costsduring contract renewal negotiations.
asthe acquisition facility and associated However, global trade in petroleum products hedging instruments approached maturity continues to increase, leading to further in2014.
The renancing of the acquisition growth in demand for oil storage.
debtfacility was completed in March 2013.
The Investment Adviser has been actively Asoutlined on page 23, this allowed involved in the assessment of a range of areduction in the discount rate used capital expenditure project proposals that tovalueOystercatcher as at March 2013. havedelivered long-term value accretion.
In Singapore, a 160,000 cubic metre expansion project was approved in 2008 to accommodate increasing demand from adjacent reneries and petrochemical industries.
This was completed in June 2009, with the capacity leton a use-or-pay basis under a long-term contract to an existing customer.
In Amsterdam, a 42,000 cubic metre expansion project to provide dedicated storage for biodiesel products for a new production facility adjacent to the site was completed in June 2011.
This capacity was pre-let on a use-or-pay basis.
Several smaller investments were approved to upgrade throughput and customer service.
In Malta, investment in a new 13,000 cubic metre tank was approved in 2011, completed in February 2012, and let on a use-or-pay basis to an existing customer.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 33
