Governance Directors report The Directors report contains statutory and corporate governance The investment exclusivity granted to the Company under the information for the year to 31 March 2013 the year.
Investment Advisory Agreement initially lasted for an investment periodending on the earlier of March 2012 or the full investment of the IPO proceeds the Relevant Investment Amount.
As part of the Principal activity Companys Placing and Open Offer of new shares in July 2008, the 3i Infrastructure is a closed-ended investment company that invests in terms of the agreement were amended so that the Relevant Investment infrastructure businesses and assets.
The Directors do not anticipate Amount covered the IPO proceeds and the equity proceeds raised any change in the principal activity of the Company in the foreseeable through the Placing and Open Offer, and also included the original cost future.
The Companys investment policy is set out on page 83 and the of any disposal proceeds from the investment portfolio realised up to Companys principal subsidiaries are shown on page 82.
12months from the admission of new shares issued pursuant to the Placing and Open Offer.
In December 2010 the Relevant Investment Regulation Amount was increased by 200 million and the investment period 3i Infrastructure is incorporated in Jersey and is regulated as wasextended to the earlier of i the full investment of the increased acollective investment fund under the Collective Investment Relevant Investment Amount: and ii 13 March 2015, the date of expiry Funds Jersey Law 1988.
It has a Premium Listing on the London of the Investment Advisory Agreement.
The most recent amendment Stock Exchange.
ofthe Investment Advisory Agreement, dated November 2012, further extended the Relevant Investment Amount by 47 million, to cover thecash balances available for investment at 30 September 2012.
Results and dividends The financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together 3i Group was among the subscribers to 3i Infrastructures IPO and to referred to as the Group for the year appear on pages 62 to 65. the subsequent Placing and Open Offer and owns 34.1% of the equity Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity holders inthe Company.
Fee arrangements and the amount payable to 3i plc of the parent was 92.3 million 2012: 55.0 million.
An interim dividend awholly-owned subsidiary of 3i Group for the year are set out of 2.97p 2012: 2.97p per share in respect of the year to 31 March 2013 in Note 19 Related parties on page 81.
For information on the was paid on 9 January 2013.
The Directors recommend that a final performance evaluation of the Investment Adviser, please see page 55. dividend of 3.52p 2012: 2.97p per share which, added to the interim dividend of 2.97p per share, equates to 5.5% of opening NAV be paid Other significant service arrangements in respect of the year to 31 March 2013 toshareholders on the register In addition to the arrangements described above, 3i plc and at the close of business on 21 June 2013.
Following its annual review 3i Investments, in relation to certain regulatory services, have been of strategy, the Company updated its total return objective to 10% appointed by the Company to provide support services to the Group, per annum from 12% to be achieved over the long term and its including treasury and accounting services, investor relations and dividend objective to 5.5% per annum from 5%.
The amounts payable under these The distribution of the dividend payments between interim and final arrangements are described in more detail in Note 19 on page 82. dividends is evaluated by the Board each year, according to the StateStreet Secretaries Jersey Limited has been appointed as the Companys performance and portfolio income generation.
Administrator and Company Secretary to the Company.
Operations Business review The Company has a non-executive Board of Directors and no Observing the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial employees.
The Board acts as the Companys investment committee Conduct Authority FCA requires the Company to set out in this report and is responsible for the determination and supervision of the a fair review of the business of the Company during the financial year investment policy and for the approval of investment opportunities ended 31 March 2013, including a description of the principal risks and sourced by the Investment Adviser.
The Board also supervises the uncertainties facing the Company and an analysis of the position of the monitoring of existing investments and approves divestments and Companys business at the end ofthe financial year, known as a further nancing of portfolio assets.
The information that fulls the current Business review requirements Advisory arrangements can be found on the following pages of this document which are 3i Investments plc 3i Investments, a wholly-owned subsidiary of incorporated into this report by reference: 3iGroup plc 3i Group, acts as Investment Adviser to 3i Infrastructure a fair review of the Companys business, seepages 2 to 5: through its infrastructure investment team.
The investment advisory team provides advice to the Company on the origination and completion a description of the principal risks facing the Company, see page 44: of new investments, on the realisation of investments, on funding the development and performance of the Companys business during requirements, as well as on the management of the investment the year, see page 41: portfolio.
It provides its services under an Investment Advisory Agreement which includes an investment exclusivity arrangement.
the position of the Companys business at the end of the year, Under this agreement, the appointment of the Investment Adviser seepage43: may, inter alia, be terminated by either the Company or the Investment financial key performance indicators, see page 8 to 9 and 40: Adviser giving the other not less than 12 months notice in writing to expire no earlier than 13 March 2015 provided that either party may other key indicators, see page 5: terminate the agreement on 12 months notice at any time, in the event main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, that the Investment Adviser ceases to be a member of 3i Group, or performance and position of the Company, see page 17: withimmediate effect by either party in the event of the insolvency ormaterial or persistent breach of the agreements terms by the other environmental matters and policy, including the impact of the party.
The Investment Adviser may also terminate the agreement on Companys business on the environment, see page 48: and two months notice given within two months of a change of control references to, and additional explanations of, amounts included ofthe Company.
intheCompanys annual financial statements, see page 40.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 51 Directors report Risk management objectives Directors interests A description of the risk management objectives and policies is included In accordance with FCA Listing Rule 9.8.
6 R 1, Directors interests in the in Note 10 to the financial statements and in the Returns and risks shares of the Company in respect of which transactions are notiable section on pages 44 to 45. to the Company under FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rule 3.1.
2 R as at 31 March 2013 are shown below: Share capital Ordinary shares at 1 Directors interest and beneficial interests 31March 2013 Ordinary shares Peter Sedgwick 104,653 The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2013 was Philip Austin 10,000 881,351,570 ordinary shares 2012: 881,349,570.
The small increase in the number of ordinary shares is attributable to the exercise of 2,000 Sir John Collins 19,215 warrants which had been submitted for exercise on 13 March 2012, Florence Pierre 5,000 but were not issued until 30 April 2012.
All warrants have expired, and 2 Charlotte Valeur 3,500 therefore no further conversions will take place see Warrants below.
Paul Waller 244,639 Steven Wilderspin 10,000 Warrants Under the IPO, for every 10 shares purchased, one warrant was issued.
1 No options have ever been granted since the inception of the Company.
Each warrant entitled the holder to subscribe for one ordinary share at 2 Served until 31 March 2013.
During the Note: no Directors had any interests or beneficial interests in the Companys warrants throughout the year.
year, 2,000 2012: 64,438,409 warrants were converted into shares.
Of the 70,640,980 warrants issued at IPO, 281,491 were left unsubscribed In the period from 1 April 2013 to 30 April 2013, there were no changes at expiry and were subsequently cancelled in the previous financial year.
in the interests of each serving Director.
No warrants were issued during the year and there are no dilutive securities in issue as at 31 March 2013.
Directors authority to buy back shares The Company did not purchase any shares during the year.
The current Major interests in ordinary shares authority of the Company to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of Notications of the following voting interests in the Companys the issued ordinary share capital expires at the next Annual General ordinaryshare capital as at 31 March 2013 and 30 April 2013, which Meeting AGM, to be held on 9 July 2013 the 2013 AGM.
The aredisclosable in accordance with Chapter 5 of the FCAs Disclosure Company will seek to renew such authority until the end of the AGM in and Transparency Rules, are as follows: 2014, specifying the maximum and minimum price atwhich shares can be bought back.
Any buyback of ordinary shares will be made subject to Number of Jersey law and the making and timing of any buybacks will be at the ordinary 1 absolute discretion of the Directors.
Such purchases will also only be shares as at 31 March and made in accordance with the Listing Rules of the FCA which provide that Interests in ordinary shares % 30 April 2013 the price paid must not be more than thehigher of: i 5% above the average middle market quotations for theordinary shares for the five 3i Group plc and subsidiaries 34.14 300,922,661 business days before the shares are purchased: and ii the higher of the 1 Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote.
last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange at suchtime.
Directors re-election The Companys Articles of Association provide for: a Directors to retire at the first AGM after their appointment by the Board and for the number nearest to, but not exceeding, one-third ofthe remaining Directors to retire by rotation at each AGM: and b all Directors to retire at least every three years.
Under the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, however, all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders.
As a result, all Directors, other than Charlotte Valeur, Florence Pierre and Paul Waller, will voluntarily retire and stand for election or re-election at the 2013 AGM see below.
Charlotte Valeur, who served as a non-Executive Director on the Companys Board since September 2009, completed her three year term on 28 September 2012 and was re-appointed as a non-Executive Director for a further period which ended on 31 March 2013.
Paul Masterton was appointed with effect from 4 April 2013 following approval of his appointment by the Jersey Financial Services Commission : he will resign and stand for election at the 2013 AGM.
52 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Paul Waller and Florence Pierre indicated that they wished to resign The Directors are also responsible for preparing the annual report and from the Board at the Companys 2013 AGM and are therefore not accounts and consider that, taken as a whole, this report and accounts seeking re-election.
3i Group exercised its right under the Relationship is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information Agreement to nominate a successor to Paul Waller to be the 3i Group necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, nominated Director to the Company.
On 1 May, the Board therefore business model and strategy.
appointed Ben Loomes as a Director, with the appointment taking These financial statements comply with International Financial place immediately after the 2013 AGM.
Ben Loomes will be seeking Reporting Standards and reasonable and prudent judgements and shareholder approval for his appointment at the 2013 AGM.
estimates have been used in their preparation.
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conicts of interest with the In accordance with the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Company.
The Companys Articles of Association enable Directors theDirectors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: toapprove conicts of interest and include other conict of interest provisions.
The Company has implemented processes to identify a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable potential and actual conicts of interest.
Such conicts are then accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, considered for approval by the Board, subject, if necessary, to liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group taken appropriate conditions.
asawhole: and b the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and Directors indemnities performance of the business and the position of the Group taken The Companys Articles of Association provide that, subject to the asawhole, together with a description of the principal risks and provisions of the Statutes, every Director of the Company shall be uncertainties faced by the Company.
indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all liabilities The Directors of the Company and their functions are listed on page 50. andexpenses incurred by him in the actual or purported execution ordischarge of his duties.
Statutes here refers to the Companies Going concern Jersey Law 1991 and every other statute, regulation or order for thetime being in force concerning companies registered under the The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to Companies Jersey Law 1991.
In addition, the Company has entered affect its future development, performance and position are set out in into indemnity agreements for the benefit of its Directors and these the Investment Advisers review on pages 11 to 23, in the Returns and remain in force at the date of this report.
The Company also had risks section on pages 40 to 45, and in the financial statements and Directors and officers liability insurance in place in the year.
related notes on pages 62 to 82.
The financial position of the Company, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described inthe financial statements and related notes on pages 62 to 82.
Statement of Directors responsibilities In addition, Note 10 to the financial statements includes the Companys The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and As a company listed on the London Stock Exchange, 3i Infrastructure hedging activities, and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
issubject to the FCAs Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency The Company has liquid financial resources and a strong investment Rules, as well as to all applicable laws and regulations of Jersey, portfolio providing a stable and robust income yield and an expectation whereit is incorporated.
As a consequence, the Directors Jersey Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks statements for each financial period in accordance with generally successfully.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in accepted accounting principles.
The financial statements of the operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they Company are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state ofaffairs of the Company at the period end and of the profit or loss continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual ofthe Company for the period then ended.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors should: By order of the Board Authorised signatory select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: State Street Secretaries Jersey Limited make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Company Secretary specify which generally accepted accounting principles have been 8 May 2013 adopted in their preparation: and Registered Office: Lime Grove House prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is Green Street inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
St Helier The Directors are responsible for keeping accounting records which Jersey aresufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and are Channel Islands such as to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial JE1 2ST position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements prepared by the Company comply with the requirements ofthe Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 53
