Our business Our strategy Our strategy is to invest in infrastructure businesses, making equity and junior or mezzanine debt investments.
We invest in companies with strong market positions that deliver stable underlying performance: asset-intensive businesses, providing essential services over the long term, often on a regulated basis, orwithsignicant contracted revenues.
Our objective Our objective is to provide shareholders with a total return of 10% per annum, to be achieved by building and managing a balanced portfolio of infrastructure investments.
Within this overall objective we target an annual distribution yield of 5.5% of opening net assetvalue.
Following the Boards annual strategic update, the total return objective was revised to 10% per annum from 12% when fully invested and the dividend objective to 5.5% from 5% per annum.
This reects the changing strategy of the Company as it focuses more on core and social infrastructure and reduces its portfolio in India.
More on our strategic update Chairmans statement, page 6 Strategic update, page 8 2 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Our market focus Our market focus is on core infrastructure in Europe, principally in the utilities and transportation sectors, investing in operational assets which generate long-term yield and can provide capital growth.
We also have investments in social infrastructure, as well as in hybrid infrastructure through our commitment to the 3i India Infrastructure Fund.
As the 3i India Infrastructure Fund has reached the end of its investment period, we intend to focus future investment activity on core infrastructure and to build our primary PPP portfolio.
The infrastructure asset class offers the opportunity to diversify investments across the risk return spectrum.
Social infrastructure Core infrastructure Hybrid infrastructure PPP Typically government-backed These investments typically These investments have higher concessions, mainly in provide returns between risk characteristics, usually education, healthcare and 8%15%.
Keycharacteristics through exposure to greater accommodation.
These include lowvolatility across market or geopolitical risk, and investments tend to provide economic cycles and strong as such seek to provide returns returns between 7%12%, market positions.
These tend above 15% over the long term.
mostly through income, as well to be dynamic businesses that ashigh ination correlation.
owntheir asset base in perpetuity, not concessions with a nite life.
10% 79% 11 % 89m portfolio value 731m portfolio value 99m portfolio value at31March 2013 at31March 2013 at31March 2013 More on the investment strategy Investment Advisers review, page 11 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 3
