Basis of preparation Throughout the Investment Advisers review, 3i Infrastructure holds 68.5% of 3i Osprey LP 3i Infrastructure holds two wholly-owned the Review of investments and the Financial and 87.3% of 3i Networks Finland LP, the subsidiaries, Oystercatcher Luxco 1 S. r. l. and review sections, the Investment Adviser has vehicles through which it holds its investments Oystercatcher Luxco 2 S. r. l. Oystercatcher presented the Companys net asset value and in AWG and Elenia respectively.
The remaining Luxco 1 and Oystercatcher to fund the financial results to show the return on a pro portions of these entities are held by other minority investment into three subsidiaries of forma investment basis.
This information is third parties.
3i Infrastructure is required Oiltanking GmbH.
External borrowings were in addition to the consolidated financial under IFRS to consolidate 100% of the results obtained by Oystercatcher to partly fund the statements as shown on pages 62 to 65, and balance sheet of these limited investments.
These borrowings are nonas required under International Financial partnerships into its financial statements on a recourse to 3iInfrastructure.
Under IFRS, the Reporting Standards IFRS.
The pro forma line-by-line basis.
In the investment basis results and balance sheet of the Oystercatcher investment basis presentation provides an presentation, 3i Infrastructure has recognised Luxco 1 and Oystercatcher subsidiaries are alternative representation of the Companys only its share of the income and balance sheet required tobe consolidated into 3i net asset value, shows the Companys cash of 3i Osprey LP and 3i Networks Finland LP.
Infrastructures financial statements on a utilisation for investment and differentiates This adjustment has the effect of eliminating line-by-line basis.
Inthe investment basis between non-recourse borrowings held within the non-controlling interest entitlement shown presentation Oystercatcher is not consolidated asset specic acquisition companies and in the statement of comprehensive income and but is accounted for as a portfolio asset held borrowings which may be made at the the balance sheet prepared on an IFRS basis.
for investment purposes and is held as an Company level.
The investment basis does investment at fair value accordingly.
One subsidiary of the Company, 3i Primary notconsolidate majority investments and Infrastructure 200506 LP, which held the subsidiaries formed specifically for investment investment in Alpha Schools prior to its purposes in the same way as required disposal, has investing partners who are underIFRS.
entitled to a 8.75% share of profits, once Several adjustments to the consolidated certain cash hurdle criteria are met.
Amounts financial statements prepared under IFRS due to this limited partnership are treated as have been made, in order to show returns on anon-controlling interest on an IFRS basis an investment basis.
The main adjustments butare accrued as an expense in the are set out below.
Independent assurance report Independent auditors assurance report to Respective responsibilities of the company assurance conclusion on the Statements the members of 3i Infrastructure plc on and Ernst & Young LLP prepared on the Investment Basis.
A limited review of the Statements prepared on the The Directors of the Company are responsible assurance engagement is substantially less Investment Basis for the preparation of the Summary of total inscope than a reasonable assurance This report is produced for the purpose of return and the Summary balance sheet in engagement.
The scope of our work does not reporting to the members of 3i Infrastructure accordance with the basis of preparation set enable us to obtain assurance that we would plc the company in connection with our out above.
It is our responsibility to provide a become aware of all significant matters that review of the accompanying Summary of conclusion on the Summary of total return and might be identied in a reasonable assurance totalreturn see Table 3 for the year ended the Summary balance sheet based on our engagement.
Accordingly, we do not express 31March 2013 and the Summary balance examination.
sheet see Table 4 as at 31 March 2013 Our approach Inherent limitations together the Statements.
We conducted our engagement in accordance Our examination excludes audit procedures Our work has been undertaken so that we with International Standard on Assurance such as tests of controls and verication of might report to the members those matters Engagements ISAE 3000 Assurance assets, liabilities and transactions.
A review that we have agreed to state to them in this engagements other than audits or reviews of issubstantially less in scope than an audit report and for no other purpose.
This report conducted in accordance with International historical financial information issued by the ismade solely to the companys members, as Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
International Federation of Accountants IFAC.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, Accordingly, we do not express an audit Our engagement is a limited assurance we do not accept or assume responsibility to opinion.
engagement and consists of making enquiries, anyone other than the company and the primarily of persons responsible for financial companys members as a body, for our Conclusion and accounting matters, and applying examination, for this report, or for the Based on our work described in this report, analytical and other review procedures.
nothing has come to our attention that causes The objective of a limited assurance us to believe that the Summary of total return engagement is to perform those procedures and the Summary balance sheet set out above that enable us to obtain information and are not prepared, in all material respects, in explanations that provide us with sufficient accordance with the basis of preparation set appropriate evidence to express a negative out above.
Ernst & Young LLP Jersey, Channel Islands 8 May 2013 46 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Governance 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 47
