Business model Our focus is the active management of our clients portfolios, with 95% of our net revenue coming from recurring management fees.
A diversified product range, geographic reach and client base, along with our scale and focused approach, enables us to provide effective asset management and superior client service.
How our business generates value The basis for our business is our capabilities, our international Aberdeens values and beliefs are aligned with clients reach, our clients and our people.
We aim to grow our business by growing the money managed for Four asset classes consistent AuM and existing clients and winning new clients.
We do this by explaining Process Aberdeen style: active, long-term, ows by our investment process and our track record for managing money.
asset class New business grows our AuM.
There will be a natural turnover of X money managed and we expect a level of outflows from existing Put clients needs first.
However, we aim to retain as much AuM as possible with Global network of ofces to ows by management a long-term focus on investment management and ensuring that support local client services.
region the client teams meet our clients needs.
AuM may also increase X and decrease due to market movements.
Revenue Superior investment skills through Quality disciplined research and consistent margins: We charge fees based on the levels of AuM these are based basis points investment approach globally.
on the percentage of the money managed and are expressed as basis points bps.
Fee levels depend on the capability, amount of X money managed and the channel.
This product mix has an impact Teamwork underpins investment and on the levels of revenue growth.
A strong culture unites Employees our people and clients.
All of the above is founded on our high quality teams.
When revenues grow, our cash flows grow.
We use cash generated Value to ensure that we have a strong capital base.
Thereafter, we look to increase shareholder value through strategic acquisitions and dividends and other returns to shareholders.
What we do AuM by class: bn We seek consistent long-term investment performance across Equities.
We aim to develop each of the Fixed income.
investment areas, ensuring that each desk has a disciplined Property.
investment process, centred on team based decision making Money market.
Read more on our investment process on pages 20 and 21.
16 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report 3.
Where we are Our global network of 33 offices in 26 countries supports a AuM by client domicile: bn UK.
uniformly high standard of local client service.
Where possible our client relationship teams are located close Asia Pacic.
We will continue to expand and deepen our Middle East & Africa.
distribution footprint to enhance client service and create new business opportunities.
Read more on our regional presence on pages 10 and 11.
4. Who our customers are We have a diverse client base - both by channel and nature of client.
Our institutional clients include pension funds, corporates, sovereign wealth funds, government agencies and Net new business ows insurance companies.
We typically sell to retail clients through intermediaries, also known as distributors or third party advisors, such as private banks, financial advisors, wealth managers and platforms.
We also call this the wholesale channel.
We sell products in pooled funds and segregated mandates.
Over recent years, we have seen strong growth in our wholesale channel where flows are into pooled products.
Going forward, we expect more balanced flows into segregated mandates and bn -20 -15 -10 -5 0 10 5 pooled funds.
Pooled funds Segregated mandates Ensuring that we are looking after our clients' best interests is at the core of developing our strategy.
Read more on the progress of our regional distribution teams on pages 35 to 37.
5. Who we are Aberdeen employs 2,200 people.
We are committed to recruiting and retaining talented and motivated individuals who put clients Employees by location: at the heart of our business.
UK Underpinning our global network of employees is a team structure: Europe ex.
UK this applies to all business lines, not just our investment desks.
A Asia Pacic flat management structure facilitates information flow and keeps Americas Total, the business streamlined.
We recruit new joiners to fit the Aberdeen culture, as well as running an established graduate scheme that fosters loyalty and low staff turnover rates.
Read more on our people on page 22. aberdeen-asset.
