Strategy Strategic priorities 2013 progress KPIs Future targets Risks Focus on providing the highest levels of investment Our long-term performance track record in equities remains strong.
We continue to believe that our Investment reputation and client performance and client service Where we have had shorter-term underperformance due to the macro 'fundamental' approach is well suited retention could be damaged Equities account for 113.8 billion environment, we have explained this clearly to our clients.
to offering long-term performance in by significant changes in 57% of Group AuM.
Further action taken to moderate the rate of inflows to GEM funds and Maintain and further develop our four Net inflows for EMD of 1 billion.
to ensure that the quality of the portfolio is not compromised.
We expect that the macro environment Investment mandate breach.
will continue to be challenging but we Fixed income investment process refined to ensure consistency with Loss of clients due to poor Deliver consistent long-term performance remain confident in the longer-term equities: macro and credit research strengthened.
prospects of the companies and assets We have had strong client retention through a period of turbulence for Misleading on suitability or that we invest in.
Distribution and client relationship: emerging markets.
misrepresentation of products Provide the highest levels of client service Strengthened product suite in fixed to clients.
Client relationship management team enhanced in all regions to and client management.
income and property, as well as changes augment local client service levels.
to structure of the solutions team, means that we are well positioned to win new business.
Recruit, develop and retain talent Stable leadership and fund management teams.
Our headcount grew from around Strengthened senior management Loss of key staff.
1,900 to 2,200 of which around development programme to build Recruited 43 graduates across the three regions.
Our strategy is to build Team based approach.
leadership team for the future.
from the bottom up and we believe that this fosters loyalty in future Well resourced at all levels.
Continue to improve training and development for senior managers as Robust succession plans in place.
We have added to business development teams to broaden access to we strengthen leadership our team for distribution channels, especially in the US and Europe, and have recruited the future.
to address regulatory changes in the next few years.
We continued to enhance risk and compliance teams, ready for the further regulatory changes in the next few years.
Seek cost effective growth and efficient Brand refresh and marketing campaign continued to increase awareness Revenues increased by 24% to We aim to develop and grow offerings Aberdeens capabilities are not suitable organisational structure of Aberdeen in key European, Asian, US and UK cities.
1,078.5 million: costs increased outside the three core equities products for market conditions.
Significant focus on the US stronger sales team across US Products that fail to meet clients needs.
Expand and deepen distribution footprint.
Operating margin increased from New Madrid office opened in Failure of external service providers or We focus on distribution capabilities where 40.6% to 45.4%.
Artio acquisition also strengthens our US presence across key distribution Aberdeen systems.
our strengths match market demand.
channels, as well as fixed income capability.
Net outflows of 2.5 billion, but Continue to focus distribution effort Further develop our capabilities where we product mix means that we added on largest asset pools, particularly in Reached major milestone in implementation of new global platform to have a competitive advantage.
support direct property and property multi manager.
Selective acquisitions at appropriate times in the business cycle.
Develop and maintain a comprehensive global operating model to support all services and locations.
Maintain strong balance sheet through Sufficient regulatory capital without reliance on waiver.
108% of operating profits converted We believe that increased balance sheet Major legal or regulatory event leads to consistent cash generation into core operating cash flows.
strength will support the progressive material fine or compensation payment.
Refinanced perpetuals, replacing 7.9% $400 million instrument dividend policy.
Year-end net cash of 426.6 million Group financial position weakened Maintain a progressive dividend policy.
We aim to have an appropriate buffer through failure to manage liquidity, 82.7 million convertible debt fully converted to ordinary shares.
above regulatory capital to manage credit or foreign currency risks.
Dividend per share increased by through periods of volatility.
Summary of KPIs on pages 28 and 29.
More information on outlook by More information on risks asset class and region is provided on pages 42 to 45. on pages 31 to 37.
18 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Strategic priorities 2013 progress KPIs Future targets Risks Focus on providing the highest levels of investment Our long-term performance track record in equities remains strong.
More information on outlook by More information on risks asset class and region is provided on pages 42 to 45. on pages 31 to 37. aberdeen-asset.
