Market review To borrow from British sports punditry, it has been a funny Product diversification old year.
Financial markets have broadly continued to rise: the Confronted with uncertainty over where to invest, institutional S&P 500, the benchmark US equity index, has now doubled since investors are tiring of the old 'equities or bonds?'
They are the financial crisis of 2008-2009.
Yet markets remain sensitive looking toward multi asset products that variously use alternatives to the influence of political, as much as economic decisions, and including private equity, infrastructure, commodities and volatility has persisted.
The right asset allocation has been crucial property, as well as hedge funds to generate returns.
This trend is not new, but it has accelerated.
This is, in part, due to In January 2013, as 12 months earlier, the US economy seemed a search for uncorrelated assets and behind this is often a focus on the point of sustained recovery.
Instead, high unemployment on defined outcomes such as inflation-plus returns rather than has persisted amid the fiscal debt stand-off in Congress.
Risk management is also a top priority.
the subject of the US reining in its asset purchase programme has Retail investor needs are similarly changing.
Traditional bond received widespread coverage, no changes have been made so far.
products have failed to offer sufficiently attractive yields in a zeroIt is interesting to highlight the divergence between the US and the rate investment environment.
The search for something better Eurozone: the US economy is improving yet the Federal Reserve has shifted quickly from a focus on debt products US mortgage, keeps expanding its balance sheet while the Eurozones growth Global high yield and emerging markets being favourites to more remains sluggish and the European Central Bank is shrinking diverse approaches using equities, convertibles and alternatives.
Meanwhile, a slower Chinese economy has reduced demand for commodities globally.
Investors of all types want lower costs and more transparency.
This has created a growth market for passive funds, especially As expected, the 'great rotation' from bonds to equities has exchange-traded funds ETFs, which are traded on exchanges become one from developing to developed market equities.
An explosion in strategy types has enabled investors US, European and Japanese equities where action to reflate to benchmark a much higher proportion of their portfolios the economy has followed years of drift have performed inexpensively and be more selective about where they seek best in 2013. alpha i. e. performance ahead of benchmarks.
However, this storyline is less clear-cut than it may seem.
While corporate cash flow, underpinned by cost cutting, has supported US dividends, new investment has been hesitant.
The European picture is also complex: multinationals have prospered thanks to their non-European exposure and Eurozone economic activity stopped deteriorating over the third quarter of 2013.
Emerging markets have been impacted by uncertainty over the Federal Reserve 'tapering' of Quantitative Easing QE.
Economic backdrop remains challenging Expansion of major central bank balance sheets Real GDP Ann % Chng January 2007 100 - - - - Japan US Eurozone UK US EU EM Asia Japan Source: IMF estimates, IMF, October 2013 Source: Goldman Sachs Global ECS Research, Bank of Japan, September 2013 24 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Mar Sep Mar Sep Mar Sep Mar Sep Mar Sep Mar Sep Mar Sep Strategic report Falling demand, more concentrated distribution Develop or acquire There are structural changes in demand: the 'baby-boomer' Our stance on product development is to develop capabilities generation is retiring and is looking to convert savings to income.
in new areas of investment that appear to have a permanent Their children, with 30 or 40 years of working life ahead of them demand, whether by developing that capability in-house or who can afford to take the long-term view, do not warm to acquiring it from outside.
We see this as a necessary response to investing.
Meanwhile, penetration rates in high growth areas product trends and essential to our longer-term business health.
of the world, such as Asia, have not taken off as demographics In fixed income, we have changed emphasis to more and rising wealth might have implied.
internationally diversified portfolios, for example using GDP These developments have left financial intermediaries almost rather than market cap weighted benchmark indices.
We are everywhere, be they US 'wire houses', financial advisors in the marketing sovereign and high yield capabilities that are more UK, European bancassurers or private banks in Singapore, jostling global in scope than their investment grade developed market for space.
The bigger, often global, ones are consolidating their forerunners.
Nonetheless, we have not abandoned specialist power and seeking a larger cut of fees for access to their products where there is demand.
These include our suite of high distribution platforms.
yield products, strengthened by the arrival of the Artio team.
On the investment side, the asset managers that have the brand, Above all, we have moved towards a common fixed income advertising and distribution muscle, plus the depth of expertise investment process, one which is consistent and replicable.
It to come up with products that investors want, are cornering fund is crucial for the consultant-led institutional market that we flows.
By implication, there is an over-supply of funds that are not are consistent across local and global strategies.
Even if these funds outperform, they may not be We are convinced that fixed income does not have to be paying their way.
complicated and to that end we have evolved a process that is This trend of concentration has left large numbers of both the same for macro analysis as it is for credit: that is, fundamental intermediaries and fund managers struggling.
Some private in terms of the questions we ask are we being paid for what we banks have merged their wealth management and investment own?
yet sensitive to relative value opportunities and bound by operations in response.
clear price targets and risk oversight.
Our solutions business has undergone a similar overhaul.
We How we are responding have recently consolidated our various capabilities, from private The challenge amid these upheavals is strategic as well as financial.
equity to long only fund of funds, in a functional structure under Aberdeens first priority has been to manage our core franchise a centralised investment office.
This should bring more consistency in emerging markets.
In early March we put a hard close to new and rigour to our portfolio construction process, and allow us to investors on emerging market equity funds because of capacity offer our various multi asset and alternative products constraints via a 2% front end charge for the benefit of existing more effectively.
As anticipated there was an initial sell-off in the funds At the same time it is crucial that our distribution efforts are but this has moderated.
The front end charge was also introduced aligned to our investment capabilities.
We have made the as emerging markets, in general, fell on concerns over the US promotion of fixed income and alternative products a priority Federal Reserve ending QE.
for marketing and client prospecting.
It has been encouraging We have been able to contain excessive outflows, which reflects to see new mandate wins in areas like property fund of funds, our institutional buyer base.
Unlike retail investors, professionals US high yield and emerging market corporate debt.
have now started to put money back to work.
In the medium to We expect to accelerate the launch of new products through long term, this is an opportunity to continue to grow margins next year, to prune non-performing ones or merge into new with higher margin business replacing lower fees in the back book.
strategies and to take advantage of our geographical reach.
Long-term results are still exceptional and there has been no fundamental change either to team or style.
The test will be to build performance, take market share from competitors, be opportunistic when they may be capacity Emerging market debt is a younger asset class than equities constrained and to develop scale.
It is a truism that small and one where opportunities exist across hard and local currency funds tend to struggle because bigger investors want to have sovereign issues and in corporate dollar-denominated debt.
We the comfort of investing in a larger fund.
We are prepared to see institutional investors keen to build long-term positions.
Retail seed funds in order to kick start asset gathering.
investors, on the other hand, remain guided by income returns and are more sensitive to swings in currency.
Read more about our equities asset class on See update of fixed income and solutions page 31. products on pages 32 and 34. aberdeen-asset.
com 25 Market review continued Team-led, active approach We have a team based approach across all investment desks.
In the current market environment that may sound like wishful The days of the lone individual with the alchemic touch if that thinking.
Some clients will not put up with underperformance for person ever existed in the industry are probably past.
Stars create long because of pressure to meet targets: and they may see better dependency which is dangerous when performance dips or in the opportunities elsewhere.
Nonetheless, we remain confident that event of departure.
Our emphasis on process as a bedrock for the majority of our clients believe in our investment approach.
institutional asset gathering has been learned over 15 years: it is the way to achieve consistency and reduce volatility in fund flows.
Background on our investment process and team Active management is core to our investment style.
As we have based approach are on pages 20 and 26. identified, ETFs have made considerable inroads in the industry, to the point that commentators are starting to question whether active management is worth it.
The argument is that too few Regulatory peak active managers outperform, they are hard to identify, so 'betting' Much of the legislation that was promised in the wake of the on active management means paying excess fees for valuefinancial crisis is only now coming into effect for asset managers.
It is motivated in different ways by a drive for transparency.
If anything we feel that ETFs may perversely do corollary is more reporting to both regulators and clients.
us a favour: first because their buying clusters around certain Rules that govern our stability as a firm, focusing on capital stocks, based on market capitalisation or other formulations, strength and risk management are one thrust.
These included the creating inefficiency: second, because too few active managers are new CRD IV Capital Requirements Directive, which we discuss on genuinely 'active', in the sense that they invest in shares outside page 41.
Nearly every jurisdiction of the benchmark.
Recent academic study supports our insight in which we operate has recently tightened rules on what can be that active share likely increases the chance of outperformance sold and to whom.
provided one has high conviction and takes a long-term view.
Asset classes and products most likely to be chosen by retail investors Actively managed equities and or bonds Real estate Balanced multi asset class funds Hedge funds Private equity Funds with income focus Traditional indexed funds Exchange traded funds ETFs Capital protection funds Commodity funds including gold Currency funds % of respondents -50 -40 -30 -20 -10 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Asset allocation medium-term Opportunism short-term Source: Principal Global Investors CREATE-Research Survey 2013 26 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report The futures amber The UK ban on commission payments to intermediaries will So far we have been on the right side of industry developments.
While this is not an immediate Although we are invested heavily in traditional asset classes, we problem for us as manufacturers there are broader implications are developing capabilities in new areas like alternatives and we over who compensates the advisor which are already affecting are adding scale.
product design and revenue splits.
Our concern with markets is how QE has distorted price In Europe, the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Directive signals globally.
Any hint of tapering, which would rest on a AIFMD creates additional requirements to strengthen investor 'normalisation' of recovery, is received negatively.
It would seem protection through standards, operations, governance and that QE has been good for asset prices but not for the economy at compliance for our investment trust, property and large.
The longer the situation continues the more the risk grows of alternatives products.
a repeat of the policy mistakes of the last cycle and the steeper the potential falls.
Other rules spring from wider financial market crackdowns.
These include anti-money laundering, terrorism finance At present it is very difficult to know what is priced into assets.
prevention, and client data and privacy laws.
The new US FATCA Conventional valuation yardsticks are unhelpful when the cost agreement forces global firms to be responsible for identifying of money is close to zero.
We would note that the rise in the US and reporting US citizens who buy their funds to the US Internal market price earnings ratios has come from multiples expansion, Revenue Service.
No previous 'know your client' legislation has not earnings growth.
made fund managers an agency for cross-border tax returns.
After two or more years of out-performance, developing equity markets are more expensive than developed ones.
Similar discrepancies exist within property and fixed income.
One Aberdeens risk management framework is of the challenges we face is how to exploit relative valuation discussed on page 42. opportunities when markets do not reflect fundamentals.
Market Returns local currency, total return Equities Fixed Income 10 yr US Treasury S&P 500 10 yr UK gilt FTSE All Share 10 year German bund MSCI Europe 10 year Japan Govt bond Topix TIPS MSCI Asia Pac ex Japan Global Credit USD MSCI Emerging Emerging Markets market debt % 0 10 20 30 40 50 % -10 -5 0 5 10 15 20 25 2012 performance 2013 performance YTD 2012 performance 2013 performance YTD Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream, 1 October 2013 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream, 1 October 2013 aberdeen-asset.
