Corporate governance Audit committee Composition The audit committee is chaired by Jim Pettigrew.
He is supported e recommending the re-appointment of the auditor for 2014 by three independent non-executive directors, Julie Chakraverty, and considering future audit tender requirements: Anita Frew and Jutta af Rosenborg.
f reviewing managements annual report on the Groups system Jutta af Rosenborg joined the committee in January 2013 and of internal control and its effectiveness, reporting to the Giles Weaver stepped down at the same time.
Apart from these Board on the results of this review and receiving regular changes all other members served throughout the year.
updates on key risks and controls: The Board is satisfied that all of the committees members have g receiving reports from the Group Head of Risk and the risk recent and relevant commercial and financial knowledge and committee on relevant matters that also impact internal experience to satisfy the provisions of the Code, by virtue of their controls and financial reporting: and holding or having held various executive and non-executive roles h carrying out an annual performance evaluation exercise and in other financial and asset management institutions.
Additionally, noting the satisfactory operation of the committee.
Jim Pettigrew and Jutta af Rosenborg are chartered accountants.
The audit committee has reviewed the contents of this years Responsibilities annual report and accounts and advised the Board that, in its The committees role is to assist the Board in discharging its duties view, the report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides and responsibilities for financial reporting, internal control and the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups the appointment and remuneration of an independent external performance, business model and strategy.
The committee is responsible for reviewing the scope The committee received a number of regular reports at each of and results of audit work and its cost effectiveness, and the its meetings during the year, including these from internal audit, independence and objectivity of the auditor.
The Groups external auditor also provided The committee is also responsible for reviewing the Groups regular reports, both written and oral, to each of the meetings.
The arrangements on whistle blowing, ensuring that appropriate committee continues to look to ensure that issues and matters arrangements are in place for employees to be able to raise, presented to them are resolved in a timely manner.
in confidence, matters of possible impropriety, with suitable subsequent follow-up action.
Other topics discussed included treasury, covering the Groups cash profile and the management of foreign exchange and Report on the committees activities during the year counterparty risk.
The committee received a paper on the The committee has a schedule of events which, updated regularly, Groups tax policies.
This enabled the committee to satisfy details the issues to be discussed at each of the meetings of the itself as to the policies being followed by the Group.
The schedule also allows for new items In discharging its duties to review the effectiveness of the control to be included into the agenda of any of the meetings.
environment, the committee also approved the 2012 13 Control During the year, the committee discharged its responsibilities, Assurance Report produced by PWC.
This report is available under its terms of reference, by: to clients and consultants.
The report describes the key roles a reviewing the Groups draft 2012 financial statements and in relation to Aberdeens investment management services for 2013 interim results statement prior to discussion and equity, fixed income, multi asset portfolios, and some parts of the approval by the Board, and reviewing the external auditors property portfolio.
Again, the committee were pleased to note an reports thereon: unqualified opinion, but asked for follow up on areas which they believe can be enhanced.
b reviewing the continuing appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies: c reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups 2013 financial statements, receiving and reviewing confirmations of auditor independence and approving the terms of engagement and proposed fees for the 2013 audit: d reviewing the reports of the internal audit division and agreeing action plans, audit schedules and areas for future reviewing, and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit division: aberdeen-asset.
com 59 Audit committee continued The bonus pool is approved by the remuneration committee.
Significant accounting matters The audit committee receives updates from the chairman of the During the year, the audit committee considered key accounting remuneration committee on the status of awards to ensure matters and judgements in respect of the financial statements that the accounting is in line with the remuneration strategy.
relating to: Goodwill and other intangibles impairment tests Material debt and equity transactions The Group has goodwill of 690.2 million and intangibles assets The outstanding convertible debt 81.5 million was fully of 338.9 million.
The vast majority of this has arisen from converted to ordinary shares, we issued $500 million 7.0% acquisitions.
40.2 million was added to goodwill from the Artio perpetual capital securities and repaid $400 million 7.9% and SVG deals and 65.7 million added to other intangibles.
These transactions strengthened the Groups balance sheet as well as regulatory capital.
As we explain in our accounting policy, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives 79.3 million are tested for The new $500 million perpetual capital securities meet the impairment annually and other intangible assets are tested for definition of equity, similar to the old instrument.
On repayment impairment whenever there are indicators that value has reduced.
of the old instrument, a charge of 66.0 million was recognised in equity, being the difference between exchange rates on inception Clearly, there is a level of judgement in assessing future cash and at repayment.
flows and selecting appropriate comparators to assess market The announcement that we would exercise our right to force values.
The audit committee examined the assumptions used.
The conversion of the convertible bonds triggered an interest charge committee, with managements help, also monitors any areas of of 5.1 million in the P&L in respect of unwinding the outstanding the business added through acquisition that may be performing discount and unamortised interest costs.
This is the reason why the behind expectations to consider the impact on impairment testing.
Group has a net interest charge, even though net cash balances The work on impairment is summarised in note 12. have grown and there has been no debt for much of the year.
Acquisition accounting for Artio and SVG acquisitions The committee examined the accounting to ensure that the In May, Aberdeen acquired the entire share capital of Artio for presentation in the financial statements is clear and 109.8 million and a 50.1% stake in SVG subsequently renamed understandable and consistent with accounting rules.
Aberdeen SVG for 17.5 million plus the contribution of the Groups existing fund of private equity business.
There is a put and Oversight of external auditors call option on the remaining 49.9% of Aberdeen SVG and we have The committee carried out a review of the effectiveness of the recognised an additional liability of 27.5 million as consideration external audit process and considered the re-appointment of for the minority interest.
Aberdeen SVG is treated as a subsidiary.
The review covered all aspects of the global The accounting for both deals is discussed in note 13. audit service including, amongst other factors, the quality of the staff, the expertise, the resources, and the independence of The key accounting issue for the Artio deal was treatment of KPMG Audit Plc.
The committee reviews the audit plan for the severance costs.
We recognised 10.8 million of severance costs in year carefully and subsequently considers how the auditor the acquisition costs line, following the guidance of IFRS3, Business performed to the plan.
They consider the quality of written and Combinations, on how to assess which costs are for the benefit of oral presentations and the strength and depth of the lead partners the vendor and reflected in net assets at completion and which at key locations.
The committee discussed with the engagement are for the benefit of Aberdeen and recognised in Aberdeens team the key findings of the review by the Audit Quality Review income statement.
5.3 million of the severance costs were team of KPMG.
recognised in closing net assets.
The committee reviewed and The committee took into consideration the levels of fees paid challenged the basis of the split to ensure that it is in line with for the global services provided by the auditor.
The committee the accounting standard.
refreshed its policy on the use of KPMG for non-audit services to Assumptions in bonus accruals ensure complete clarity on the detail of services permitted and The bonus charge is a mixture of cash payments and awards in not permitted and those which might require the explicit prior Aberdeen shares and Aberdeen funds.
The awards in shares and approval of the committee.
funds are deferred and vest of periods between 1 and 4 years from the date of award.
Further background is given in the remuneration report, starting on page 64.
Therefore, the bonus charge is a combination of awards from the current year pool and an element deferred from previous year bonus pools.
The audit committee examined the basis of the charge to ensure that they understood the impact of the 2013 pool on the current year charge.
60 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance As part of the discussions of the operation of the internal audit The external auditor will only be appointed to a non-audit function, the committee actively engages in selecting areas to be engagement when they are best suited to perform the work and audited.
One such example was the request by the committee for there is no threat of a conflict of interest.
Permitted non-audit an independent review of the remediation of the breaches which services include the provision of tax compliance services and acting led to the regulatory fine.
The committee also instructed internal as reporting accountant in appropriate circumstances, provided audit to conduct an audit of the Groups strategy and culture and there is no element of valuation work involved.
The provision of tax to embed such considerations in its ongoing audit work.
advisory services, due diligence transaction services and litigation services may be permitted with the committees prior approval.
Meetings and attendance The provision of internal audit services, valuation work and any The committee operates under formal terms of reference which other activity that may give rise to any possibility of self-review are reviewed annually and held five meetings during the year, are not permitted under any circumstance.
The auditor cannot act with representatives of KPMG Audit Plc in attendance at in a capacity as management or design a system or process that it each meeting.
Other regular attendees at the meetings of subsequently is required to test.
the committee included the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Finally, consideration was also given to the likelihood of a Executive, the Finance Director and the other members of withdrawal of the auditor from the market and, it was noted that the Board, the Head of Risk, the Head of Internal Audit, the there were no contractual obligations which would restrict the Compliance Officer, the General Counsel and the Deputy choice of an alternative auditor.
The committee agreed that it was appropriate to recommend There is close liaison between the audit and risk committees to the Board that KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed as auditor and this facilitates an integrated approach to risk assurance.
for a further year and, accordingly a resolution will be put to The risk committee is scheduled to hold no less than four shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting meetings per annum, each of which is to be held on the same recommending their reappointment.
days as the meetings of the audit committee, in order to facilitate appropriate interaction between the two committees.
Audit tender To assist in this interaction, there is a standing agenda item for The UK Corporate Governance Code has introduced new the meetings of the audit committee to receive an oral report recommendations that audits should be put out for tender from the chairman of the risk committee, providing an update every 10 years.
on matters relevant to the audit committee of those issues KPMG have been auditors of Aberdeen for the last 30 years.
As considered by the risk committee.
discussed above, the Audit Committee has continuously reviewed There was full attendance at all meetings by members, as shown the performance of the external auditors and has been satisfied in the table below: on both the independence of KPMG and the rigour of their audit.
Maximum We intend to run a tender process in 2015.
This is in line with possible Meetings the transitional changes in the UK Competition Committees attendance attended proposals in their report on the audit market.
These proposals require companies that last put the audit out to tender before Jim Pettigrew 5 5 2005 to tender within two years of the end of the current lead Julie Chakraverty 5 5 partner rotation period.
The current lead KPMG partner rotates Anita Frew 5 5 after this year-end.
Jutta af Rosenborg 2 2 Oversight of internal audit Reports from the internal audit division are received prior to each Giles Weaver 3 3 meeting and the Head of Internal Audit attended and presented The members of the committee also met, individually, with the at each meeting during the year.
The Committee also approved executive throughout the year, and this provided a forum for the internal audit staffing and audit plans for the year.
discussion outwith the formality of the five meetings held during The Head of Internal Audit was requested to provide more detail the year.
The chairman reports back on these meetings to the on the results of certain audit projects, together with feedback committee where appropriate.
from the management team responsible for the area subject to audit.
Periodically, the functional head of an area reviewed by the internal audit attends the committee to discuss the findings of the work.
This allows the committee to gain an understanding of the impact that the audit and the subsequent report had on the operations of the division.
com 61 Nominations committee Composition The committee again reviewed the Groups succession plans for The nominations committee is chaired by Roger Cornick and he senior executives to ensure that they remain appropriate and fit is supported by two independent non-executive directors, Anita for purpose.
As part of this review the committee employed the Frew and Simon Troughton.
All members served on the committee services of an external consultant, Ffion Hague, to engage with throughout the year.
the business in order to provide an external opinion on the extent Responsibilities and suitability of the plans in place.
The report provided by Mrs The committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and Hague was presented to and discussed by the committee.
Whilst composition of the Board and for recommending new directors for the report provided the committee with an appropriate level of appointment to the Board.
The committee carries out an annual assurance on the suitability of the plans, it also provided additional review of the membership of each of the Boards committees and thinking on the extent of the business covered by the plans and makes recommendations to the Board.
has therefore enabled the business to develop the succession plans The Board, as a whole, has responsibility for the appointment more widely throughout the Group.
Mrs Hague also provided of new directors and for nominating them for election by assistance in respect of the induction of new Board members.
shareholders at the first opportunity following their appointment.
The committee also received and commented on the senior The committee is also responsible for considering and making management development programme and they provided recommendations to the Board on succession planning for comments to the Human Relations division, under the directors and other senior executives.
supervision of Kerry Christie, our Group Head of HR.
The Report on the committees activities during the year committee received presentations on the framework which has During the year, the committee discharged its responsibilities, been established to identify all high potential employees and to under its terms of reference, by: provide them with bespoke development programmes in order to allow them to develop and take on senior roles within the a reviewing the proposals for rotation and re-election of Group.
The committee satisfied itself that the programme was directors at the Annual General Meeting: appropriate and would assist in developing a Company-wide b considering and making recommendations to the Board for talent pool of individuals who, given the necessary assistance the appointment of two new directors and for changes to and training, would be able to move into senior management the membership of the committees: positions within certain timeframes.
c reviewing the succession plans for the executive directors Board diversity and the other members of the GMB: We are long-standing supporters of diversity in the boardroom and we are supportive of the Financial Reporting Councils aims d reviewing senior management training and development: to encourage diversity in the boardroom and, more generally, e reviewing the external appointments and time commitments throughout the Group.
Our current Board is made up of fourteen of the directors: directors of whom four 29% are women.
We remain of the opinion that appointments to the Board should be made relative f discussing the results of the annual performance evaluation to a number of different criteria, including diversity of gender, exercise: and background and personal attributes, alongside the appropriate skill g examining the operations of the committee and reviewing set, experience and expertise.
We will continue to insist that long its terms of reference.
lists and short lists of possible appointments to the Board reflect that position.
In respect of the appointment of Jutta af Rosenborg, the committee appointed an external search consultant, Odgers Meetings and attendance Berndtson, which has no other connection with the Group, and The committee operates under formal terms of reference which provided a full specification of the skill set required from a new are reviewed annually and held six meetings during the year.
In addition, Jutta was interviewed by the members Chief Executive was also a regular attendee at the meetings of of the committee and other members of the Board and was the committee.
The attendance at meetings by the members is thereafter approved by the FCA prior to being appointed.
as shown in the table below: Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation MUTB advised Maximum Aberdeen that Kenichi Miyanaga would be stepping down from possible Meetings the Board and proposed that he be replaced by Akira Suzuki.
attendance attended Akira was interviewed by the committee and members of Roger Cornick 6 6 the Board.
Thereafter he was approved by the FCA prior to appointment.
Akira was previously known to the business having Anita Frew 6 5 had close contact with Aberdeen as a consequence of his role in Simon Troughton 6 6 the Fund Research and Development Division within MUTB.
62 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance Risk committee Composition The risk committee is chaired by Richard Mully, who is supported The committee had a number of specific areas of focus in the by four independent non-executive directors, Anita Frew, Julie year, including equity concentration risk where presentations were Chakraverty, Jim Pettigrew and Simon Troughton.
Julie Chakraverty received from the Head of Equities and the Head of Global Equities joined the committee in October 2012 and Giles Weaver stepped in order to gain a fuller understanding how the 'buy list' is applied down from the committee in January 2013.
Apart from these in the global equities investment progress.
changes, all other members served throughout the year.
Following discussions at Board level, the committee focused Responsibilities attention on the property business, reviewing the management, The committee has oversight of the risk management framework operations and integration of the business across all areas of its and, more specifically, the effectiveness of risk management and operations.
The business operates primarily from a number of our compliance activity within the Group.
The committee advises the European offices and the committee was able to gain significant Board on considerations and processes relevant to setting the risk assurance over the consistency of the investment process and appetite and related tolerances.
The decision was taken jointly by operations for the asset class.
The committee has requested a both the audit and risk committees that oversight of compliance number of updates on how outsourced business processes would be better supported if this became one of the key functions are overseen.
of the risk committee rather than the audit committee.
Matters The committee also received a detailed presentation on the of a compliance nature that are relevant to the audit committee issue of controls in respect of the management and oversight remit continue to be reported under the business of the audit of client assets.
The risk committee received regular updates on committee as well as the risk committee.
In addition, the the progress of the FCA fine of 7.2 million in respect of breaches committee has a responsibility to review the implementation of of the client assets rules.
The fine is included in operating expenses appropriate procedures to identify and control all fundamental for the year.
operational, financial, reputational and regulatory risks within the Group.
As in prior years, the committee has undertaken 'blue sky' risk assessment exercises with the item being discussed as part of Report on the committees activities during the year the agenda at one of the committee meetings in the year.
Issues During the year the committee discharged its responsibilities, identified, including succession planning, derivative management, under its terms of reference and, in particular: product management and reputational issues were subsequently a reviewing the effectiveness of risk management, taken forward for discussion either under this or one of the other governance and compliance activity within the Group: committees matters for discussion during the year.
b advising the Board on considerations and processes for Meetings and attendance setting the Groups risk appetite and related tolerances: The committee operates under formal terms of reference which c seeking to ensure that senior management has in place are reviewed annually and held four formal meetings during the procedures and mechanisms to identify and control all year, all of which were held on the same day as the meetings fundamental operational, financial, reputational, and of the audit committee, in order to facilitate appropriate regulatory risks: interaction between the two committees.
d reviewing and recommended the approval of the Internal In addition to the members of the committee, other regular Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP to the Board: attendees at the meetings included, the Chief Executive, the e seeking to ensure that all risks were being addressed by Finance Director, the Group Head of Risk, the Head of Internal management in line with the Groups risk appetite: Audit and the General Counsel.
Other members of the Board and representatives of KPMG Audit plc were specifically invited to f reviewing the committees terms of reference, carrying out certain meetings of the committee, dependent on the matters an annual performance evaluation exercise and noting the being discussed.
There was full attendance at all meetings by satisfactory operation of the committee: and members, as shown in the table: g reviewing the compliance departments terms of reference, their work programmes and received regular reports on Maximum their work during the year.
possible Meetings The committee received a number of regular reports at each attendance attended of its four meetings during the year.
The Group Head of Risk Richard Mully 4 4 provided updates to the committee on each area of the risk Anita Frew 4 4 divisions functions, including business, investment and market risk, as well as reporting on legal and compliance issues.
Jim Pettigrew 4 4 Members of the committee have continued to meet Simon Troughton 4 4 independently with the executive and staff from different Julie Chakraverty 3 3 divisions throughout the year.
The Heads of Market Risk, Business Risk, Compliance and the Deputy Head of Risk also Giles Weaver 2 2 attended to present on their own specific areas of responsibility.
