Our investment process Our clients access our investment expertise within three main asset classes: equities, fixed income and property, as well as a range of tailored solutions.
Equities Fixed income Aberdeens advantage lies in the consistency of our approach, Performance in fixed income is as much about avoiding losers as irrespective of market conditions.
We see equity risk in terms picking winners.
After doing research, if we do not understand of investing in a poor quality company, or overpaying for a good an investment, we do not buy it.
We invest in countries and one.
Clients understand our process and portfolios because they companies that give us attractive returns relative to the are transparent.
AuM breakdown AuM breakdown Global Asia Pacic % emerging markets % US % Asia Pacic % Money market % Global EAFE % UK % UK % Emerging markets % North America % High yield % Europe % Europe % Global % Convertibles % As at September Total.
bn Source: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Source: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Property Solutions We add value to property investment through active Solutions exists to help our clients find the right path to navigate management, top-class research, local presence and a an uncertain and complex financial environment.
We have the rigorous investment process.
We offer a wide range of wellresources to research and assess new and alternative sources of structured vehicles that provide strong risk-adjusted returns, returns and to find ways to allocate portfolio risk more efficiently.
as well as a choice of geographic and sector allocations.
We blend in-house capabilities, including our specialist teams, and third party managers.
AuM breakdown AuM breakdown Indexed equities % Nordic % Long-only UK % multi manager % Continental Europe % Multi asset % Global % Funds of private equity % Property multi manager % Funds of hedge funds % As at September Total.
bn Source: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Source: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 20 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Our investment approach Equities Fixed Income Property Solutions Style Active management.
Active management, Active management Active management Bottom-up stock picking.
multiple sources of value across sectors and of direct investment with diversified risk.
and third party manager funds.
Presence Local presence in all Local presence Local presence in all key Operating from main global markets.
in all main time international markets.
the Groups global zones markets.
investment hubs in the UK, US and Singapore.
Process Bottom-up evaluation First hand research, Advanced top-down Blend the Groups of business model and combined with clear research guiding local capabilities in management quality.
and disciplined approach structured opportunity customised portfolios.
Fundamental analysis Superior risk-adjusted Transparent delivery Low transaction costs.
is key to delivering returns, focus on quality to client-specific long-term value.
and not general investment objectives.
Structure Team approach with Teams in three regions Local investment Team approach between disciplined screening.
deliver local insight teams working to local professionals Allows cross coverage give global teams access shared risk parameters.
of portfolios and to best investment ideas.
Active management We are predominantly an active manager that aims to Our golden rules of investing: generate strong performance by using primary research and a comprehensive and robust investment screening process to Understand limitations.
Appreciate what is predictable and, Conventional thinking suggests that investing passively is more importantly, what is not.
inherently less risky than active management.
But this is only Research our investments thoroughly.
true when risk is measured as deviation from the benchmark.
This constrains the opportunity set of investments to the index Benchmark agnostic maintain focus on members, in the weights that constitute the index itself.
a relatively small number of companies.
At Aberdeen, we would argue that the debate is not about active Invest for the long term, accepting that versus passive, but about what good active management looks periods of poor short-term performance like: good active management being an approach that is agnostic may arise.
Deviating from the benchmark is the only way Stick to established processes.
that one can outperform it.
