Corporate governance Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report Substantial interests At 22 November 2013, the Company has been notified of the and financial statements for the year to 30 September 2013. following interests, other than the directors, of 3% or more in Principal activity and business review the ordinary shares: The principal activity of the Group is the provision of asset management services.
Further information on the Groups Number % of class business, which is required by section 417 of the Companies Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Act 2006, can be found in the following sections of the annual & Banking Corporation 226,032,919 18.8% report, which are incorporated by reference into this report: Appleby Trust Jersey Limited 53,894,669 4.5% Chairmans statement on pages 6 to 8 Strategic report on pages 16 to 47 Share capital Details of changes in share capital are set out in note 21 of Financial the financial statements.
The authority for the Company to The results for the year are shown in the Group income purchase, in the market, up to 118,614,792 of its ordinary statement on page 91. shares, representing approximately 10% of its issued ordinary An interim ordinary dividend of 6.0p per share was paid on 13 June share capital, expires at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 10.0p This authority was not required during the year: however, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, shareholders will be asked per share, making a total of 16.0p per share for the year to to renew such authority for a further year.
Corporate governance The proposed final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 24 January A report on corporate governance and compliance with the 2014 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, which forms 6 December 2013.
Coupon payments of 20.5 million in total part of this Directors report, is set out on pages 56 to 58. have been paid on the 7.9% perpetual capital securities before their redemption in May 2013, and on the 7.0% perpetual Report on Greenhouse gas emissions cumulative capital notes since their issue in March 2013.
Details of the Groups emissions are contained in the corporate responsibility report contained on pages 46 to 47.
Directors The names and biographical details of the present directors of the Company are given on pages 50 to 53.
Rod MacRae was appointed on 1 October 2012, Jutta af Rosenborg was appointed on 18 January 2013 and Akira Suzuki was appointed on 29 August 2013.
All will stand for election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Giles Weaver retired as a director on 17 January 2013 and Kenichi Miyanaga stepped down from the Board on 29 August 2013.
All other directors, who served throughout the year, will retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Directors interests in the share capital and equity of the Company at the year end are contained in the remuneration report on page 75. aberdeen-asset.
com 79 Directors report continued Going concern 2014 Annual General Meeting The strategic review discusses the Groups business activities, A separate document, the Notice of Annual General Meeting together with the factors likely to affect its future development, 2014, covering the Annual General Meeting of the Company to performance and position and sets out the financial position of be held on 16 January 2014 at noon, will be sent or made available the Group, its cash flows and liquidity.
Note 30 of the financial to all shareholders and will contain an explanation of the business statements sets out the Groups objectives, policies and processes before that meeting.
for managing capital and its financial risk management objectives, Electronic proxy voting together with details of financial instruments and exposure to Registered shareholders have the opportunity to submit their credit risk and liquidity risk.
votes or abstain on all resolutions proposed at the Annual The Group has considerable financial resources and a strong cash General Meeting by means of an electronic voting facility position.
The Board has prepared forecasts, including rigorous operated by the Companys registrar, Equiniti Limited.
This sensitivity analysis, which demonstrate that the Group will facility can be accessed by visiting www.
continue to operate within its available resources.
CREST members may appoint a proxy or proxies by using the CREST electronic appointment service.
After making these enquiries, the Board considers that the Group has adequate resources to meet its business needs and Electronic copies of the annual report and financial it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in statements and other publications preparing these financial statements.
Copies of the 2013 annual report and financial statements, the notice of Annual General Meeting, other corporate publications, Acquisition of shares by the employee benefit trust press releases and announcements are available on the Groups During the year, the Employee Benefit Trust, funded by the website at aberdeen-asset.
Shareholders are encouraged to Company, purchased 36,610,766 ordinary shares in the take advantage of the provisions allowing the Group to deliver Company, which have an aggregate nominal value of 10p each, notices of meetings and associated documentation electronically for a consideration of 138.9 million.
The shares were purchased by email, or via the Groups investor relations webpages in order to hedge the Groups future commitment in relation to the at aberdeen-asset.
vesting of awards under the Groups deferred share award scheme.
Company Information Directors indemnities The Company is registered in Scotland No.
82015 and The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance its Registered Office is located at 10 Queens Terrace, which provides appropriate cover for any legal action brought Aberdeen, AB10 1YG.
Audit information The directors who held office at the date of approval of this By order of the Board Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that Scott E Massie the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Secretary 10 Queens Terrace Political donations Aberdeen AB10 1YG It is the Groups policy not to make donations for political purposes.
22 November 2013 80 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
