goveRnAnce BoARd of diRectoRs geRAld BReon Alex coRBett coRcoRAn geRsh Mike fRu iAn Mctighe hAzlitt dyson josh peteR hAnnAh jAckson 30 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Key: Committee memberships Please see a Audit Committee corporate.
com b Nomination Committee about-us board-profiles.
aspx c Remuneration Committee for full Board biographies d Market Disclosure Committee e Corporate Responsibility Committee Gerald Corbett Fru Hazlitt b Chair b c e Chair Non-Executive Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director Gerald Corbett is the Companys Chairman, a position he assumed External appointments: Managing Director of Commercial and in March 2012 having joined the Betfair Group as Deputy Online at ITV plc and Director of the Advertising Association.
Previous experience: CEO of GCAP Media Plc, Chief Executive External appointments: Chairman of Britvic plc, of Virgin Radio and a Managing Director of Yahoo UK and Moneysupermarket.
com Group plc and Towry Holdings Limited.
Fru has been a Director of Betfair since 23 March 2005.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of the investment and stockbroking business, Numis Corporation Plc.
Ian Dyson a Chair c Independent Non-Executive Director Previous experience: Over a long business career, Gerald External appointments: Non-Executive Director of Punch has been a director of 12 public companies, five of which Taverns plc.
His most recent role was as Chairman of SSL International plc between 20052010.
His executive career Previous experience: CEO of Punch Taverns plc, Group Finance included Group Finance Director roles with Redland plc & Operations Director at Marks and Spencer Group plc and and Grand Metropolitan plc, and he was Chief Executive Finance Director of The Rank Group plc.
Prior to this he was of Railtrack between 19972000.
Group Financial Controller of Hilton Group plc.
He joined Hilton from Le Meridien, a division of Forte plc, where he had been Breon Corcoran Finance Director.
His early career was spent with Arthur Chief Executive Officer Andersen, where he qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1986 Breon Corcoran is the Companys Chief Executive Officer, and was promoted to be a Partner of the firm in 1994.
Ian was a position he assumed on 1 August 2012 and he has no external a Non-Executive Director of Misys plc until September 2005. appointments.
Ian has been a Director of Betfair since 1 February 2010.
Previous experience: Chief Operating Officer of Paddy Power plc Josh Hannah and previously Managing Director, Non Retail and Development Non-Executive Director and also Commercial Director.
Before joining Paddy Power, External appointments: General Partner of Matrix Partners Breon was a Vice President with J P Morgan having started and a Director of JustFabulous, Huddler, Huddle, Taulia Inc, his career with Bankers Trust.
Breon has an MBA INSEAD Klip, Inflection and Koding.
and is a graduate of Trinity College, Dublin.
Previous experience: Josh Hannah was Chief Executive Alex Gersh and co-founder of Flutter.
com which merged with the Betfair d Chair Chief Financial Officer Group in 2002.
He has been a Director of Betfair since Alexander Gersh is the Companys Chief Financial Officer, 21 February 2002. a position he assumed on 3 December 2012.
Peter Jackson Previous experience: Chief Financial Officer of NDS Group, a Independent Non-Executive Director Chief Financial Officer of Flag Telecom and Chief Financial External appointments: Chief Executive of Travelex Limited.
His early career was spent with Ernst & Young where he qualified as a Certified Public Accountant.
Previous experience: Managing Director, Consumer Banking at Lloyds Banking Group plc.
Before that he held a number Mike McTighe of roles at HBOS plc in retail.
Peter started his career with a b c Chair Senior Independent Director McKinsey & Company.
He holds an MEng from the University External appointments: Board member of Ofcom the UKs of Cambridge.
He has been a Director of Betfair since regulator of the broadcasting, telecommunications and wireless 24 April 2013. communication sectors where he is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
He is Chairman of Volex plc and WYG plc.
He is also a director of Nujira Ltd, Traitrealm Limited, Cheshire Mortgage Corporation Limited, Arran Isle Limited, Jerrold Limited and Gortmullan Holdings Limited.
Previous experience: Mikes executive career included being Chairman and CEO of Carrier 1 International SA and Executive Director of Cable & Wireless plc.
During the recent past he has been a member of the Audit Committees of Alliance & Leicester plc and London Metals Exchange Holdings Limited.
Mike has been a Director of Betfair since 17 October 2008. corporate.
