BetfAiR cAsino offeR fRoM Business RevieW octoBeR 2012 gAMing Greater emphasis was placed on Gaming in FY13.
Operational developments Product improvements, marketing focus and better cross-sell Following new content deals signed during the year, we have delivered an improved performance and we believe this significantly increased the number and range of games offered segment is now well placed to contribute to Betfairs growth.
on our site and increased the rate at which content is refreshed.
In the year, we updated our mobile Casino app and launched Overview of results a dedicated Arcade app to meet the strong demand in this While total Gaming revenues were down 6% in the year, led by channel.
We saw strong growth throughout the year and a 26% decline in unregulated jurisdictions following market exits, revenues from the channel were up over 500% compared sustainable revenues were up 10%.
This was helped by our to the prior year.
first ever television campaign focusing on Casino and a greater focus on cross-selling our Gaming products to Sportsbook and We are investing to drive further growth in the segment.
We have recently hired a number of outstanding people from within the industry to fill skills gaps, including a new VIP team.
Following the launch of the Sportsbook in February the number of customers cross-sold to Gaming has increased substantially In Q4, we added Bingo to our product suite and began on the corresponding period in the prior year.
the process of migrating customers to the iPoker network.
This platform has greater liquidity than our previous network, particularly in newly regulating regions.
The migration will be completed in July and while this has caused an initial fall in customers, it provides us with a better product and should lead to higher revenues in the longer term.
How we make money Our products in our Gaming segment we act as both principal and agent: Betfair offers products such as casino and arcade games in which customers are playing against the house.
Revenue is generated through an inbuilt margin, with the odds favouring the operator: and in other games, like poker, players compete against each other and Betfair takes a share of the winnings.
12 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 corporate.
