stAteMent of diRectoRs ResponsiBilities in Respect of the AnnuAl RepoRt And the finAnciAl stAteMents The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect and the Group and Parent Financial Statements in accordance of the Annual Report with applicable law and regulations.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 31 and 35 of this Annual Report, confirm that, Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit law, and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial or loss of the Company and the undertakings included statements in accordance with UK accounting standards and in the consolidation taken as a whole: and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial and performance of the business and the position of the Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each risks and uncertainties that they face.
of the Group and Parent Financial Statements, the Directors By order of the Board of Betfair Group plc are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Alexander Gersh Director make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the Parent Company Financial Statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company Financial Statements: and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Compliance statement This review has been prepared in accordance with section 417 of the Companies Act 2006.
The reviews intent is to provide information to shareholders and stakeholders.
It should not be relied upon by any other party or for any other purpose.
Where this review contains forward-looking statements, these are made by in good faith based on the information available at the time of this report.
These statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties underlying any such forward-looking information.
Other information Additional financial and non-financial information, including press releases, can be accessed on our website, corporate.
34 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
