pRice coMpARison Business RevieW AdveRtiseMent folloWing ApRil 2013 gRAnd nAtionAl exchAnge The Exchange has enabled Betfair to generate and sustain Operational developments a market-leading position in the UK for over a decade.
We are focused on reducing the complexity and improving the The Exchange enjoys excellent brand affinity with its users, ease of use of the Exchange, while still allowing our customers to who demonstrate higher levels of Average Revenue Per User, benefit fully from its unique characteristics and value.
Cash Out is ARPU, and lower customer churn than typical sports an example of a simplification of a complex concept and has been betting customers.
extended to cover around 90% of football markets and is now available across all major mobile platforms.
We strongly believe that the Exchange remains the most innovative product in our industry, offering better value Mobile performance was strong, with around 50% of active and greater flexibility than the traditional bookmaker model.
Exchange customers placing a bet via mobile in the year.
It can be further strengthened by the addition of our Our in-house development teams have continued to enhance Sportsbook, which will provide new customers and liquidity our apps, adding unique features such as push notifications, for the Exchange.
which provide customers with goal alerts and betting prompts.
In October 2012, we launched an advertising campaign focussing Overview of results on our unique Cash Out feature.
This tool, which allows Exchange revenues in the year fell 1%, after the withdrawal customers to lock in profits or losses at the touch of a button, of the product from Greece, Germany and Spain following greatly simplifies user experience.
Following the launch of the regulatory changes.
Revenues were also affected by the decision campaign, the number of users Cashing Out has increased taken to cease investment in jurisdictions with unsatisfactory significantly, with 38% of football customers using it in the year.
The decline in revenues from these countries, however, was less than expected and is further In May 2013, we changed the base level of commission from the evidence of the affinity of the Exchange with our customers standard 5% to between 4% and 7.5% in five countries and have and the stickiness of the product.
recently extended these trials to a further 18 countries.
This will provide a better understanding of the effect of different pricing Revenues from sustainable markets were up 2% in the year.
structures on the Exchange ecosystem and revenues.
Football revenues benefited from the European Championships in June 2012 and an increase in the number of second-tier We are also investing to improve our products for our matches offered.
Horseracing, however, suffered from a high sophisticated customers.
Betfair has a number of high-value level of cancellations in the year due to the poor weather customers using third party applications and automatic trading conditions 151, up from 49 in FY12.
programs, which utilise our Application Program Interface API to directly access the Exchange.
We have recently launched a Activity on the Exchange remained vibrant with 1.2bn 10% new API to allow these vendors to build out more sophisticated bets matched and 52bn 8% of matched volume in the year.
trading tools to provide an improved user experience for this important customer segment.
How we make money Our products we bring customers together to provide betting opportunities: this agency model eliminates the financial risk borne by sportsbooks, so we do not apply a margin to odds on the Exchange: it means that the odds that customers enjoy are more likely to represent the true probability of an outcome and are often better than those offered by traditional bookmakers: and Betfair earns a commission on the net profits of any individual customer on each market regardless of the outcome of the event.
8 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 BEST PRICED RUNNERS AT THE 2013 GRAND NATIONAL 0 BOOKIES 40 BEST PRICE ON AURORAS ENCORE 66 1 BOOKIES 126 1 corporate.
com investor-relations annual-reports 9 Industry SP vs Betfair SP at the o.
5% commission deducted from Betfair SP 2-5% typical.
