goveRnAnce diRectoRs RepoRt The Directors present their Report and the audited financial Employees statements for the year ended 30 April 2013.
The Directors Report The responsibility for formulating, implementing and ensuring should be read in conjunction with the other sections of this Annual adherence to employment policies and relevant legislation is the Report: the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executive Officers Review, responsibility of Human Resources.
The Company fully supports Financial Review, Principal Risks and Uncertainties, Corporate the principle of equal opportunity for all employees and opposes Governance Statement, Corporate Responsibility Report and the all forms of discrimination and has policies to ensure it meets its Directors Remuneration Report, all of which are incorporated into legal obligations.
It is also Group policy to give full and fair this Directors Report by reference.
consideration to the recruitment of disabled persons.
The Company believes in open and continuous communications Principal activities as an important part of the employee engagement process.
Betfair is one of the worlds leading online betting and The Company has an intranet and various internal communication gaming operators.
channels for informing employees about financial results, business At the heart of Betfair is its pioneering Betting Exchange, development and other news concerning Betfair and its people.
where customers come together in order to bet at odds set Further information can be found on pages 20 to 27 in the by themselves or offered by other customers, instead of with Corporate Responsibility Report.
The Betting Exchange usually provides customers with better pricing and more choice and flexibility Conflicts of interests than competing products, which has resulted in Betfairs The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to customers showing greater levels of loyalty than its competitors consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a Director with significantly higher customer satisfaction rates.
has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the Betfair additionally offers a range of other sports betting products, interests of the Company Situational Conflicts.
The Board has casino games and poker.
As at 30 April 2013, Betfair had more a formal system in place for Directors to declare Situational than 6 million registered customers worldwide and processes over Conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those Directors a billion transactions on the Betting Exchange each year.
who have no interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted Betfair also owns Betfair US, which comprises TVG a licensed Directors are required to act in the way they consider would US horseracing wagering and television broadcasting business, be most likely to promote the success of the Company for and 33% of LMAX, which operates an exchange platform for the benefit of all shareholders, and they may impose limits online retail financial trading which has evolved from Betfairs or conditions when giving authorisation, or subsequently, if they exchange platform technology.
In addition, Betfair has a 50% think this is appropriate.
The Board believes that the systems it holding in Betfair Australia, a joint venture which operates has in place for reporting and considering Situational Conflicts a licensed betting exchange business in Australia.
Directors Related party transactions Details of the Directors as at 30 April 2013 can be found on Internal controls are in place to ensure that any related party pages 30 and 31 and the Board composition and any changes transactions involving Directors or their connected persons are to it throughout the year are detailed in full in the Corporate carried out on an arms length basis and are properly recorded.
Governance Statement on pages 35 to 40.
Interim dividend All of the Directors stand for re-election or for the two new The Company declared an interim dividend on 13 December Directors election as Directors at the Annual General Meeting 2012 of 4.0 pence 2012: 3.2 pence per share which was paid AGM.
Further details can be found in the Notice of Meeting on 25 January 2013. which is enclosed with these financial statements.
Final dividend Articles of Association The Company has declared that a final dividend of 9.0 pence The Articles of Association can only be amended by special 2012: 7.0 pence per share will be paid in respect of the year resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No amendments ended 30 April 2013. are proposed to be made to the existing articles at the 2013 AGM.
Share capital Directors indemnity The Company has a single class of shares in issue divided into As permitted by the Articles of Association the Directors have the ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each.
As at 30 April 2013 the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity Companys issued share capital was 104,221,610. provision as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The indemnity was in force throughout the last financial year, and The ordinary shares carry the right to the profits of the Company remains in force.
The Company also purchased and maintained available for distribution and to the return of capital on a winding throughout the financial year, Directors and Officers liability up of the Company.
The ordinary shares carry the right to attend insurance in respect of itself and its Directors.
and speak at general meetings of the Company: each share holds the right to one vote.
At the year end there were no shares held Corporate Governance Statement in treasury and the Companys employees share trust held The Corporate Governance Statement is made in accordance 934,307 shares.
with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs 7 and the Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Authority to purchase shares Council in May 2010.
The new edition of the Corporate The Company currently has the authority to purchase a maximum Governance Code was published in September 2012 by the of 10,238,142 of its own shares.
This authority will expire at close Financial Reporting Council, and it is envisaged that the new of the 2013 AGM or the earlier of the 2013 AGM or 18 months provisions therein will be adopted in the 2014 Annual Report.
from the date of resolution.
32 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Major shareholdings Change of control provisions As at 27 June 2013, the Company had been notified, in accordance There are no significant agreements which contain provisions with DTR Rule 5 of the UK Listing Authority, of the following entitling other parties to exercise termination or other rights major shareholdings in the ordinary share capital of the Company: in the event of a change in control of the Company.
The rules of certain of the Companys share plans include Number of Percentage of provisions which apply in the event of a takeover or reconstruction.
Shareholder shares held issued shares Supplier payment policy Mr Edward Wray 11,624,602 11.13 It is the Groups policy to comply with the terms of payment agreed with its suppliers.
Where payment terms are not Softbank Capital Partners 11,033,109 10.57 negotiated, the Company endeavours to adhere to suppliers standard terms.
Mr Andrew Black 6,597,721 6.32 Going concern, responsibilities and disclosure Mr Richard Koch 6,504,254 6.23 After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have Balderton Capital 4,227,170 4.05 adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the MFS Investment 3,923,470 3.76 going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Share transfer restrictions Funding and liquidity risk There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company.
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach Annual General Meeting to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, on 5 September 2013 is contained in a circular sent out to under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring shareholders with this Report.
The Notice of Meeting contains unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
full details of the resolutions that will be put to shareholders.
The Group also spreads its cash reserves across several highly rated banks and investments to mitigate counterparty risks.
Political donations The Group performs regular cash flow projections to ensure At the 2012 AGM, shareholders passed a resolution to authorise that it has sufficient cash on demand to meet expected the Company to make political donations and or incur political operational expenses for a period of at least 90 days.
expenditure as such terms are defined in sections 362 to 379 The Group has no committed lines of credit.
of the Companies Act 2006, in each case in amounts not exceeding 50,000 in aggregate.
As the authority granted will Auditors expire on 5 September 2013, renewal of this authority will be KPMG Audit plc KPMG, the Companys external auditors, sought at this years AGM.
Further details are available in the have expressed their willingness to be reappointed as auditors Notice of AGM.
The definitions of political donations and political of the Company.
Upon the recommendation of the Audit expenditure used in the Companies Act 2006 are broad in nature Committee, resolutions to reappoint KPMG as the Companys and this authority is sought to ensure that any activities auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their undertaken throughout the Groups businesses, which could remuneration will be proposed at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
otherwise be construed to fall within these provisions, can be undertaken without inadvertently infringing them.
Disclosure of information to auditors Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval During the year, the Group made no EU political donations of the Directors Report confirms that so far as they are aware, 2012: 14,907. there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys In accordance with applicable US state and federal laws, the auditors are unaware, and that they have taken all steps that they Group has made 76,190 2012: 107,944 of contributions ought to have taken as a Director to make them aware of any to support candidates for nomination and or election to public relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys office.
The Group has fully complied with jurisdictional reporting auditors are aware of that information.
of these contributions and such contributions in the US are By order of the Board accepted normal business practice.
Betfair is committed to working with governments in the EU, US and other jurisdictions in which it operates.
Alexander Gersh Charitable donations Director The Group donated 241,000 2012: 384,700 for charitable Registered office purposes within the UK during the financial year.
The Companys Betfair Group plc charitable activities are described within the Corporate Waterfront Responsibility section on pages 20 to 27.
Hammersmith Embankment Chancellors Road access on Winslow Road Contractual arrangements London W6 9HP The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third United Kingdom parties in support of its business activities.
The disclosure in this Report of information about any of those third parties is not Registered number 6489716 considered necessary for an understanding of the development, performance or position of the Groups businesses.
