tigeR insuRAnce offeR AheAd Business RevieW of 2013 us MAsteRs spoRts The launch of our Sportsbook in FY13 provides an opportunity Operational developments to accelerate growth.
Betfair has managed to gain a substantial The Sportsbook was launched in February.
The product was market share amongst sophisticated bettors through the developed and launched in just 13 weeks, with the customer Exchange.
The Sportsbook allows us to increase our share facing front-end built using our in-house development team of the growing recreational segment with an easy-to-use based in Porto and the underlying platform making use of product that new customers are already familiar with.
The Sportsbook also fills the product gaps that previously The next stage of the standalone Sportsbook is to broaden led our customers to use competitors sites, allowing Betfair our coverage of in-play markets and new sports.
to capture more of their betting activity.
We are differentiating our Sportsbook by using our Exchange technology to provide unique features and better value.
Overview of results For example, in recent weeks we launched Cash Out on the In the full year, risk volumes increased by 36%, leading Sportsbook and are developing Best Price Execution, where to revenue growth of 33%.
customers may automatically receive better odds if they are As a result of our product developments in the second half of available on the Exchange.
FY13, activity on our Sports risk product increased significantly.
The Sportsbook adds to our promotional capability.
For example, Following the release of the Sportsbook, risk volumes in the UK during the 2013 Cheltenham Festival, we offered market-leading & Ireland were up 150% in March and April.
offers including cashback on horses finishing second.
This has The number of customers placing fixed-odds bets in FY13 was proven to aid customer acquisition and retention.
up 85% on the prior year, driven by 129% growth in the UK During April 2013, we completed the acquisition of certain assets & Ireland.
of Blue Square to gain additional scale.
The new customers are Initial evidence suggests that the Sportsbook is complementary being serviced without increased operating costs, highlighting to the Exchange, with 24% of UK football customers in the operating leverage inherent in the business model.
March and April placing bets on both the Exchange and Sportsbook products.
We also launched a separate sports betting app to complement our Exchange app.
In the final quarter, the mobile channel delivered the majority of new customer activations and 31% revenues in Sports.
How we make money Our products on our Sportsbook, we act as principals in each transaction so customers are betting directly against Betfair: the Sportsbook can therefore lose money on any particular market with revenue being dependent on sporting outcomes: and to reflect the risk we are taking, we build a margin into our odds and apply other risk management techniques.
Over time, we expect these margins to allow us to generate revenue.
10 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 corporate.
