RegulAtion uk inteRnAtionAl Recognising that a high quality racing product is necessary for The regulatory environment across Europe continues to evolve, our business to flourish, we continue to support the industry.
with countries taking a range of approaches to the regulation In FY13 we replaced voluntary Horserace Betting Levy of online gaming.
Betfair continues to engage in these contributions with a pioneering new five-year commercial deal processes with the aim of achieving workable and fair with the sport.
The payment to the Horserace Betting Levy regulation.
We have recently seen positive steps towards Board totalled 7.6m in the 2012-2013 Levy year.
Both British the regulation of exchanges in Italy and Spain.
Racing and the UK Government see this as a template to help In Italy, a ministerial decree entered into force on 24 May secure the long-term funding of British Racing.
2013 that regulates betting exchanges with ring-fenced national Separately, following a lengthy consultation, the Levy Board liquidity.
Whilst some further decided in June 2011 that it would not seek to impose a levy procedural steps remain, we hope to launch our Exchange on the customers of betting exchanges.
After unsuccessfully product in Italy during FY14.
seeking to overturn this decision through Judicial Review In Spain, we received a Sportsbook licence in June 2012 and proceedings in the High Court in July 2012, William Hill appealed as part of the licensing conditions were required to make our this decision in the Court of Appeal.
In May 2013, the Court voted Exchange unavailable in the country.
In April 2013, the gambling unanimously to support the original decision of the Levy Board regulator announced that betting exchanges will be regulated that customers are not liable to pay the Horserace Betting Levy.
and we look forward to participating in this process.
This brings to an end years of uncertainty and legal fees for both Betfair and the industry.
Regulatory and fiscal changes in Greece, Germany and Cyprus, meant that we had to make some of our products unavailable The Department for Culture, Media and Sport and HM Treasury in these countries during FY13.
have been conducting reviews of the licensing and taxation of online gambling in the UK.
The current legislation operates In November 2012, following a decision by the Greek Gaming on a point of production basis, with licences and tax determined Commission to impose financial penalties and criminal sanctions by the location of the operators key equipment rather than against gaming operators, we withdrew all products from the location of the customer.
This incentivises operators to move the market.
their businesses outside the UK and, to achieve a level playing field Germany introduced a law that applies a 5% tax on stakes with competitors who had already made the move, Betfair moved on both online and offline sports betting, which led us to block its UK business to Gibraltar in March 2011.
The Government has the Exchange to customers in Germany in November 2012. indicated an intention to change the basis of licensing and taxation to a point of consumption basis, so that all operators selling into In July 2012 the Cypriot government introduced gambling the UK market, whether based domestically or overseas, will legislation restricting online casino and poker, and certain be required to hold a Gambling Commission licence to transact other betting products including horseracing.
This resulted with, and advertise to, British consumers and to pay betting duty in a significant reduction in our revenues from the country.
on UK gross gaming revenue GGR.
The exact details of licensing Betfair is continuing to engage with the Cypriot authorities and taxation regimes have yet to be announced but are expected to achieve a workable online regulation.
to come into effect in late 2014.
Betfair is engaging with There have been positive developments in the US.
The California the Government and stressing the requirement for effective Horseracing Board has published exchange wagering regulations enforcement of any new rules to ensure player protection for public comment.
If passed, the regulations will be submitted and fair competition in the marketplace.
for approval by the California Office of Administrative Law OAL.
The New Jersey Racing Commission is expected to publish draft rules for stakeholder input and formally begin the regulatory process for the introduction of betting exchanges in the coming months.
Discussions with stakeholders in other states regarding exchange wagering remain at the preliminary stage.
The year has seen significant developments in the effort to bring legalised online gaming to the US.
In February both Nevada and New Jersey signed legislation to allow online gaming, starting in 2013.
Other states are progressing legislation on online gaming and we will continue to monitor developments.
