106297 ASCOT Txt PRINT 106297 ASCOT Txt V12 28 01 2014 15:25 Page 21 Directors Report The Directors submit their Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Directors The Directors of the Company during the financial year are listed on page 20.
As stated in the separate Corporate Governance Report, all Directors seek re-election every year and, as a result, all Directors retire at the AGM to be held on 27 February 2014.
All Directors, with the exception of Mr Nimmo who will retire at the forthcoming AGM, offer themselves for re-election and biographical details for each are shown on page 20.
Details of Directors shareholdings are shown on page 35.
Objective, Investment Policy, Investment Strategy and Risks These are explained fully in the Strategic Report on pages 4 and 5.
Return and Dividends The total return attributable to Shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2013 amounted to a gain of 394,311,000 2012 gain of 188,183,000.
The net asset value per Ordinary Share at 31 December 2013 was 1,193.22p 2012 802.76p.
Your Board is pleased to declare a final dividend of 16.15p total of 15,404,000, which produces total dividends for the year of 23.5p total of 22,427,000, an increase of 5.6% over the previous year.
The final dividend of 16.15p per share, subject to Shareholder approval, will be paid on 6 March 2014 to Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 7 February 2014.
Company Status The Company is an investment company as defined within the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and manages its affairs so as to qualify as an investment trust under Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
It has a fixed share capital although, subject to Shareholder approval sought annually, it may purchase its own Shares.
The Company is listed and its Shares trade on the London Stock Exchange.
Furthermore the Company is subject to the laws and regulations relating to UK listed companies.
It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure that there is effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
In common with the majority of investment trusts, the Company has no executive directors nor any employees.
However, the Board has engaged external firms to undertake the investment management, secretarial and custodial activities of the Company.
The Corporate Governance Report within this Annual Report contains a thorough review of the Companys stance on corporate governance.
Investment Trust Status The Company is exempt from corporation tax on capital profits, provided it qualifies as an investment trust.
The key requirements include: the Company must invest in shares, land or other assets with the aim of spreading investment risk and giving members of the Company the benefit of the results of the management of its funds: the Companys Ordinary Shares must be listed on a regulated market such as the London Stock Exchange: the Company must not retain in respect of each accounting period more than 15% of its total income: and the Company must not be a close company.
The Company has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2013 subject to the Company continuing to meet the eligibility conditions.
The Company will continue to conduct its affairs as an investment trust.
Continuation of the Company The Company has no fixed duration.
However, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the Companys Shareholders are asked every three years to vote on the continuation of the Company and an ordinary resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 27 February 2014.
The Directors are recommending that the Companys Shareholders vote in favour of this resolution.
If such resolution is not passed, the Directors will prepare and submit to Shareholders for approval by special resolution proposals for the unitisation or appropriate reconstruction of the Company.
In putting forward such proposals the Directors will seek, inter alia, to provide Shareholders with a means whereby they can defer any Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 21 106297 ASCOT Txt PRINT 106297 ASCOT Txt V12 28 01 2014 15:25 Page 22 Directors Report liability to capital gains tax on their investment at that time.
If these proposals are not approved, Shareholders will, within 180 days of the relevant Annual General Meeting, have the opportunity of passing an ordinary resolution requiring the Company to be wound up.
On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the surplus assets will be paid to the holders of Ordinary Shares and distributed, pro rata, among such holders.
Management Aberforth Partners LLP the firm act as investment managers and secretaries to the Company.
The predecessor business, Aberforth Partners, was established in 1990 to provide institutional and wholesale investors with a high level of resources focused exclusively on small UK quoted companies.
Since then funds under management have grown to 2.2 billion as at 31 December 2013.
The firm is wholly owned by six partners five investment managers including three founding partners, and Alan Waite, who is responsible for the firms administration.
The founding partners have been managing the portfolio since the Companys inception in December 1990.
Six investment managers work as a team managing the Companys portfolio on a collegiate basis.
The six managers are Andrew Bamford, Euan Macdonald, Keith Muir, Richard Newbery, David Ross and Alistair Whyte.
These services can be terminated by either party at any time by giving six months notice of termination.
Compensation fees would be payable in respect of this six month period only if termination were to occur sooner.
Aberforth Partners LLP receives an annual management fee, payable quarterly in advance, equal to: i 0.8% of the net assets of the Company up to 800m: plus ii 0.7% of the net assets of the Company between 800m and 1 billion if any : plus iii 0.6% of the net assets of the Company greater than 1 billion if any.
The Company also pays a secretarial fee, payable quarterly in advance, which amounted to 75,569 excluding VAT during 2013.
The secretarial fee is adjusted annually in line with the Retail Prices Index and is subject to VAT, which is currently irrecoverable by the Company.
The Board reviews the Companys investment management and secretarial arrangements on an on-going basis and formally at its October meeting, where each Director completes a Managers Evaluation questionnaire.
The Board then considers the results of the questionnaire and discusses the following matters, amongst others, in its review: investment performance in relation to the investment objective, policy and strategy: the continuity and quality of personnel managing the assets: the level of the management fee: the quality of reporting to the Board: the alignment of interests between the investment manager and the Companys Shareholders: the administrative services provided by the Secretaries: and the frequency and quality of presentations to the Companys larger Shareholders.
Following the most recent review, the Board was of the opinion that the continued appointment of Aberforth Partners LLP as investment managers, on the terms agreed, remains in the best interests of Shareholders.
Capital Structure and Share Buy-Backs At 31 December 2013, the Companys authorised share capital consisted of 333,299,254 Ordinary Shares of 1p of which 95,382,792 were issued and fully paid.
During the year, 310,000 shares with a nominal value of 3,100 were bought back 0.3% of the Companys issued share capital and cancelled at a total cost of 2,758,000.
No shares are held in treasury.
Subject to the requirement that purchases by the Company of its own shares will be made only at a level that enhances the net asset value NAV, the principal objective of any such purchase will be to seek to sustain as low a discount between the Companys NAV and share price as seems possible.
Accordingly, it is the Boards intention to continue to use the share purchase facility within guidelines established from time to time by the Board.
Bank Debt Facility On 4 May 2011, the Company entered into a three year unsecured bank debt facility of 100 million with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
This facility can be used at any time.
As at 31December 2013, the Company had drawn down 32.0 million under the facility.
Further information can be found in Note 11 to the Financial Statements.
22 Governance Report 2013 106297 ASCOT Txt PRINT 106297 ASCOT Txt V12 28 01 2014 15:25 Page 23 Directors Report Going Concern In accordance with the report Going Concern and Liquidity Risk : Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 issued by the Financial Reporting Council, the Audit Committee has undertaken and documented an assessment of whether the Company is a going concern.
The Committee then reported the results of their assessment to the Board.
The Companys business activities, capital structure and borrowing facility, together with the factors likely to affect its development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report.
In addition, the Annual Report includes the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Companys assets comprise mainly readily realisable equity securities which, if necessary, can be sold to meet any funding requirements, though funding flexibility can typically be achieved through the use of the bank debt facility.
The Company has adequate financial resources to enable it to meet its day-to-day working capital requirements and the Directors believe that Shareholders are likely to support a recommendation for the Companys continuation.
The Directors believe the Company is well placed to continue to manage its business risks and has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In summary and taking into consideration all available information, the Directors have concluded it is appropriate to continue to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Corporate Governance Report The Corporate Governance Report, which details compliance with the UKCorporate Governance Code, issued in 2013, can be found on pages 26 to 29 and forms part of this report.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions As the Board has engaged external firms to undertake the investment management, secretarial and custodial activities of the Company, the Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions-producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Voting Rights of Shareholders At Shareholder meetings and on a show of hands, every Shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote and, on a poll, every Shareholder present in person has one vote for each share he she holds and a proxy has one vote for every share in respect of which he she is appointed.
The deadline for proxy appointments is 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting, or any adjourned meeting.
The Board is pleased to offer electronic proxy voting, including CREST voting capabilities.
Shareholders may therefore complete the enclosed form of proxy and return it to Capita Registrars, the Companys registrar, or alternatively, they may register their vote on-line www.
Further details can be found in the Notice of the AGM.
Substantial Share Interests The Board has received notifications of the following interests in 3% or more of the voting rights of the Company as at 31 December 2013 and 28 January 2014.
The total number of votes amounted to 95,382,792 at each of these dates.
Interested person Percentage of Voting Rights Held Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 8.0 Rathbone Brothers plc 5.5 Brewin Dolphin Limited 5.1 Lloyds Banking Group plc including discretionary investment management 4.2 Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 23 106297 ASCOT Txt PRINT 106297 ASCOT Txt V12 28 01 2014 15:25 Page 24 Directors Report Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held onThursday, 27 February 2014 at 6.30 p. m. at 14 Melville Street, Edinburgh EH3 7NS.
The following special resolution will be proposed at the AGM: Purchase of Own Shares The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the issued Ordinary Shares of the Company expires at the end of the AGM.
Resolution 14, as set out in the Notice of the AGM, seeks renewal of such authority until the AGM in 2015.
The price paid for Shares will not be less than the nominal value of 1p per Share and the maximum price shall be the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the Shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
Any Shares purchased under the authority will be automatically cancelled, rather than being held in treasury, thereby reducing the Companys issued share capital.
There are no outstanding options warrants to subscribe for equity shares in the capital of the Company.
As mentioned above, subject to the requirement that purchases by the Company of its own Shares will be made only at a level that enhances NAV, the principal objective of any such purchase will be to seek to sustain as low a discount between the Companys NAV and share price as seems possible.
Directors Recommendation The Directors consider each resolution being proposed at the AGM to be in the best interests of Shareholders as a whole and they unanimously recommend that all Shareholders vote in favour of them, as they intend to do so in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
Financial Instruments The Companys financial instruments comprise its investment portfolio, cash balances, debt facilities, debtors and creditors that arise directly from its operations, such as sales and purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The main risks that the Company faces arising from its financial instruments are disclosed in Note 18 to the Financial Statements.
Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 The following information is disclosed in accordance with Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006: The Companys capital structure and voting rights are summarised on pages 22 and 23.
Details of the substantial Shareholders in the Company are listed on page 23.
The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association and are discussed on page 28.
Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association and powers to issue shares on a non pre-emptive basis or buy back the Companys shares requires a special resolution to be passed by Shareholders.
There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no agreements to which the Company is party that might affect its control following a takeover bid.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
Bribery Act 2010 The Company has zero tolerance towards bribery and is committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly and openly.
The Managers also adopt a zero tolerance approach and have policies and procedures in place to prevent bribery.
Independent Auditor Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution proposing their reappointment will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
24 Governance Report 2013 106297 ASCOT Txt PRINT 106297 ASCOT Txt V12 28 01 2014 15:25 Page 25 Directors Report Disclosure of Information to Auditor The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make them aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Future Developments The future success of the Company is dependent primarily on the performance of its investments.
Although the Company invests in companies that are listed or quoted in the United Kingdom, the underlying business of those companies are affected by various economic factors, many of an international nature.
The Boards intention is that the Company will continue to pursue its investment objective and the stated investment strategy and policy.
By Order of the Board Aberforth Partners LLP, Secretaries 28 January 2014 Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 25
