106297 ASCOT Txt PRINT 106297 ASCOT Txt V12 28 01 2014 15:25 Page 9 Managers Report Introduction With an NAV total return in 2013 of 52.4%, ASCoT enjoyed its best ever year of absolute performance since its launch in 1990.
This return is analysed in detail in the Investment Performance section of this report, but the principal influences were the general buoyancy of equity markets, the particular strength of small companies and a re-emergence of the value style.
In the UK, the FTSE All-Share recorded a total return of 20.8%.
Large companies have now exceeded their previous peak levels, set in 2007, in both capital only and total return terms.
Small companies, measured by the NSCI XIC, entered new territory some time ago and in 2013, with a total return of 36.9%, extended their record of out-performance against large companies since the global financial crisis.
Indeed, the period since the crisis has witnessed small companies best five year performance against large companies in ASCoTs history.
The roots of these returns from small companies were in the very low valuations ascribed to riskier assets as they emerged from the recession and global financial crisis.
In the immediate aftermath, investors tended to crave certainty and thus eschewed the more illiquid or, what they perceived as, more volatile small companies.
The risk-on, risk-off phenomenon of recent years acted as a further discouragement.
In 2013, impetus was given to the performance of small companies by improving confidence amongst investors, as evidence mounted that the global macro economy is stabilising, if not improving.
The Eurozone stopped getting worse, though the buoyancy of the core at the expense of the periphery continues and thus probably raises the future threat to the integrity of the currency union.
In the US, the recovery proceeds, despite the best efforts of the politicians and uncertainty over the tapering of quantitative easing.
With the US current account deficit showing less inclination to expand than in previous recoveries, China has experienced pressure on its still high growth rates, though there is some optimism that the new leadership regime is determined to effect a rebalancing of the economy towards domestic demand.
The UKs economy confounded the majority of expectations that prevailed at the start of the year.
The recovery became more firmly entrenched as the coalitions growth initiatives, together with less difficult export markets, started to take effect.
Help-to-buy divides opinion but there is little doubt that it is influential, directly on the housing market and indirectly on areas such as general confidence and tax revenues.
The concern is that a recovery based on higher lending is ephemeral, so examination of movements in real incomes will intensify in 2014.
While interest rates are likely to remain extremely low until 2015, scrutiny of Mark Carney and his own tapering tactics will increase over coming months.
The pick-up in confidence arising from improving world economies has, in turn, engendered a willingness among investors to venture into long-neglected parts of the stockmarket, which has been accompanied by a shift in investment style towards the value approach of your Managers.
But enthusiasm continues to be tempered by the influence of todays very loose monetary conditions: the extent of the real economys reliance on quantitative easing and low interest rates is unclear.
In an investment world confronted by tapering, the prevailing mind-set of investors would appear to be that good news, from the perspective of the real economy, is bad news for asset prices.
However, with anything approaching a long term investment horizon, should not a normalisation of monetary conditions, associated with an improving economy, be cause for encouragement?
Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 9 106297 ASCOT Txt PRINT 106297 ASCOT Txt V12 28 01 2014 15:25 Page 10 Managers Report Investment performance ASCoTs NAV total return in 2013 was 52.4%, which is the best calendar year result in the trusts history.
Gearing, which averaged 5.4% through the year, was helpful, as the table below demonstrates.
For the 12 months ended 31 December 2013 Basis points Stock selection 1,264 Sector selection 25 Attributable to the portfolio of investments, based on mid prices 1,239 after transaction costs of 51 basis points Movement in mid to bid price spread 75 Cash gearing 321 Purchase of ordinary shares 5 Management fee 91 Other expenses 6 Total attribution based on bid prices 1,543 Note: 100 basis points 1%.
Total Attribution is the difference between the total return of the NAV and the Benchmark Index i. e. NAV 52.36%: Benchmark Index 36.93%: difference is 15.43% being 1,543 basis points.
Sectors The distinction between stock and sector selection shown in the preceding table may give a false impression of your Managers investment process.
The vast majority of companies enter the portfolio through a bottomup assessment of their individual merits: it is very unusual for top-down considerations to affect the portfolios profile.
However, collections of decisions on individual businesses can result in an exposure of the portfolio to sector themes.
At the current time, one such theme would be the portfolios relatively low weighting in resources.
This reflects a concern that the cheap money available to this sector over the past decade and consequent substantial investment has resulted in an imbalance of supply and demand for several commodities.
Few company boards within the small company resources arena have as yet woken up to the new environment of greater capital discipline that is exemplified by some of their larger peers.
That said, if they do, opportunities may emerge.
With an exposure of 11.4% against 7.8% for the NSCI XIC, the portfolios largest over-weight sector position is in Technology.
This very much reflects an aggregation of decisions on individual businesses, rather than a particular optimism for spending on technology.
In 2013, this positioning was unhelpful to ASCoTs relative return as the market was led by sectors more likely to benefit from a domestic cyclical recovery.
Style Your Managers tendency to revisit the influence of investment style is due to their consistent adherence to their value investment philosophy.
The stockmarket is more fickle and oscillates between periods of favouring either the growth or the value style.
Between the global financial crisis and the beginning of 2013, the growth style was in the ascendancy, as tough economic conditions and heightened uncertainty favoured companies with secular, albeit often modest, growth characteristics.
However, the rising confidence of 2013 encouraged a more general re-acquaintance with the cheaper smaller small companies that have inhabited ASCoTs portfolio for some time.
Aberforth employs two third party style models to gauge style influences on the performance of the NSCI XIC.
These give mixed messages about the precise performance of the value style in 2013.
However, your Managers would suggest that the extent of ASCoTs out-performance against the NSCI XIC would have been difficult to achieve without a following wind from style.
Strong balance sheets The national accounts show that the UK corporate sector has been a net saver for over a decade.
The global financial crisis and recession only added to the reluctance of boards to utilise their cash and so balance sheets have strengthened significantly over the past five years.
Small companies have been part of this trend: one 10 Strategic Report 2013 106297 ASCOT Txt PRINT 106297 ASCOT Txt V12 28 01 2014 15:25 Page 11 Managers Report third of Aberforths tracked universe is represented by companies with net cash on their balance sheets.
While cash provides strategic flexibility, it drags down returns on equity, particularly in the present low interest rate environment.
Companies with net cash on their balance sheets account for 37% of ASCoTs portfolio.
In many cases, cash levels are more than sufficient even in the eventuality of another recession.
Your Managers are therefore keen to see more of that financial strength employed.
The preference is clearly organic investment.
Failing such opportunities, acquisitions might make sense, though only if they compare favourably with the benchmark of low risk returns of cash to shareholders.
fide-equitisation The good performance of small companies in 2013 came despite a dearth of M&A activity.
Only five deals within the NSCI XIC were completed: of these, ASCoT held one.
This was by some distance the quietest year for M&A in ASCoTs history.
With balance sheets strong across much of the global corporate landscape and with the valuations of the majority of small companies relatively attractive, the explanation for the lack of M&A probably lies in low levels of confidence around board tables in the early part of the year.
However, with confidence now picking up, it is likely that the frequency of M&A will increase in 2014, but then again it can hardly decline.
Though they were deprived of M&A fees, it is difficult to feel too sorry for the investment bankers since the IPO market has been resurgent: 15 IPOs eligible for inclusion in the NSCI XIC were completed in 2013.
Enthusiasm for these deals was boosted by the desire of investors to increase exposure to the often illiquid part of the stockmarket represented by the NSCI XIC.
Moreover, in the early stages of the IPO market at least, valuations were attractive as vendors had to accept lower prices in order to ensure that the listing would take place.
ASCoT participated in four IPOs through 2013, two of which were still in the portfolio at the year end.
Experience suggests that such opportunities will become fewer as the IPO market gains momentum.
Dividends Small companies have not traditionally been the first port of call for income investors, despite income characteristics substantially accounting for the superior total return over the long term of small companies against large.
However, it is plausible that a wider recognition of small companies income credentials has played a role in the particularly strong recent performance of the asset class.
At work have been two dynamics.
First, the prevailing low interest rate environment has starved the investment world of yield.
With extra impetus from quantitative easing, higher yielding assets have attracted the attention of income investors and have seen their yields drop as a result.
This phenomenon, dubbed by some yieldfall, has benefited higher yielding denizens of the NSCI XIC.
Encouraging the process has been the second dynamic: dividend growth, which has averaged close to 10% per annum in the years since the global financial crisis.
However, it is important to put this rate of dividend growth in perspective: the base year, 2009, was the worst for small company dividends since 1955.
Band Nil Down Flat Up New Other No.
of holdings 20 8 11 47 3 3 ASCoTs income account has benefited from this rising tide and from special dividends.
The most recent dividend experience is shown in the table above, which categorises the portfolio according to each investee companys most recent dividend action.
Encouragingly, around half of the holdings raised their dividends.
New denotes those companies that started paying dividends for the first time or that, having cut to zero, have resumed payments.
The Other category contains those companies whose most recent dividends have no relevant comparison, such as the two 2013 IPOs.
The Nil category contains those companies that do not currently pay dividends: it may act as a reminder that ASCoT is not an income fund, though your Managers value style tends to bring superior income characteristics across the portfolio as a whole.
Most of the members of the Nil category should be capable of paying dividends over the next few years.
As they do, ASCoT should enjoy a boost to its income and the portfolios average dividend cover, which at 3.2x is the highest in ASCoTs history, will fall closer to the long term 2.4x average.
Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 11 106297 ASCOT Txt PRINT 106297 ASCOT Txt V12 28 01 2014 15:25 Page 12 Managers Report Valuations 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 Characteristics ASCoT NSCI XIC ASCoT NSCI XIC Number of companies 92 363 90 389 Weighted average market capitalisation 646m 833m 511m 748m Price earnings ratio historic 13.6x 16.8x 10.5x 12.8x Dividend yield historic 2.3% 2.2% 3.0% 2.8% Dividend cover 3.2x 2.7x 3.1x 2.8x Small companies experienced a sharp re-rating in 2013.
Share prices climbed, but profits across the asset class fell slightly over the year.
This disappointing profit performance reflects sluggish macro economic demand conditions in the earlier part of the year and the particular difficulties faced by many of the resources companies in the benchmark.
The historic PE of the NSCI XIC moved from 12.8x to 16.8x, crossing the average over ASCoTs 23 year history of 13.3x.
Therefore, the valuation credentials of small companies, which made them such an attractive asset class in the wake of the global financial crisis, are no longer so compelling.
However, there are mitigating factors.
The stockmarket is forward-looking and, with macro economic demand picking-up and cost bases still lean, the prospects for profit growth in 2014 are good: consensus estimates suggest a 10% increase in profits across the small company universe.
Moreover, the weakness of 2013 makes comparisons somewhat easier.
ASCoT is actively managed and is not condemned to track the NSCI XIC, something that the experience of recent years amply demonstrates, both on the upside and the downside.
Your Managers strive to keep the portfolio different from the benchmark.
A statistical measure of this is Active Money, which has been the focus of much academic research in recent years.
Active Money is the sum of the differences between the portfolio weight and the benchmark weight for each stock held in the portfolio.
Your Managers aim to keep the ratio above 70%.
Given this definition of Active Money, it is impossible to reach 100% without holding companies that are not part of the benchmark index.
This is a practice that ASCoT has not pursued: it invests in companies that are members of the benchmark or are likely to become members on future rebalancing.
Value stretch is an important concept in a value investment philosophy and may be thought of as the degree to which growth companies are more highly rated than value companies.
If the value stretch is wide, then value investors should be presented with an abundance of investment opportunities.
As the stockmarket valuations of these opportunities move to reflect more fairly the underlying worth of the companies, the value investor should enjoy good relative performance, other things being equal.
Your Managers believe that although the value style was helpful in 2013, the value stretch remains at attractive levels.
This may be demonstrated in two ways.
First, from a historical perspective, the average portfolio PE of 13.6x sits 19% lower than the NSCI XIC s 16.8x.
Over ASCoTs history, the average discount has been 10%, which suggests that there remain many attractively valued companies within the investment universe.
2013 EV EBITA ratio 34 growth companies 257 other companies Tracked Universe ASCoTs portfolio 14.8x 10.8x 11.3x 9.5x Second, as demonstrated by the preceding table, forward valuations also demonstrate a significant gap between the valuation of the portfolio and that of small companies as a whole.
In comparing the valuations of businesses, your Managers favour the ratio of enterprise value to earnings before interest, tax and amortisation EV EBITA, since it is unaffected by balance sheet structure and is also the metric commonly used in M&A situations.
The table above shows the 2014 EV EBITA ratio for four categories of 12 Strategic Report 2013 106297 ASCOT Txt PRINT 106297 ASCOT Txt V12 28 01 2014 15:25 Page 13 Managers Report company.
The Tracked Universe represents 98% of the NSCI XIC by value and comprises the 291 companies that are followed closely by your Managers.
These are subdivided into 34 growth companies and 257 other companies.
The average EV EBITA of the former group, which tended to perform well in the aftermath of the global financial crisis, is 37% higher than that of the latter group.
The premium of the growth stocks to ASCoTs portfolio is higher, at 56%.
Outlook & conclusion The improving performance of economies around the world, not least the UKs, has challenged the orthodoxy that dominated financial markets in the aftermath of the global financial crisis.
Thus the focus has started to shift from the relative safety of bonds returns to their skimpiness, and there are indications, albeit not yet great, of a rotation from bonds into equities.
Within equity markets themselves, investors now seem more prepared to explore areas that were overlooked in the aftermath of the global financial crisis.
Within the context of the NSCI XIC, this means that interest has started to broaden from the exclusive cadre of mid caps whose secular growth characteristics or underlying steadiness of business model appealed in a financial world craving certainty.
Companies not displaying such quality and whose valuations were consequently penalised are now attracting interest, which is to the benefit of the value investment style and therefore to ASCoT.
Given the strength of returns over 2013, it is natural to question the attractiveness of todays valuations.
Your Managers take heart from what seems still to be a wide value stretch.
Moreover, there is evidence of broader valuation anomalies still in place within the NSCI XIC.
Smaller small companies remain more lowly rated than the mid cap components of the index: the weighted average market capitalisation of the highly rated growth companies described in the Valuations section above is 1.2bn, considerably higher than the portfolios 0.6bn.
There is also evidence that the craving for certainty continues to affect the valuations of companies with more volatile share prices: since the global financial crisis, companies with more volatile share prices are valued at a discount to those with lower volatility: prior to 2009, the reverse was the case.
This phenomenon represents an opportunity for those funds, such as ASCoT, that are ready and able to adopt a longer term investment horizon.
For these reasons, your Managers are optimistic that the NSCI XIC remains set up in a manner that can benefit ASCoTs relative performance.
However, as recent years have made all too clear, the absolute returns that ASCoT generates in 2014 and beyond will be heavily influenced by global financial and macro economic factors that can seem very distant from the parochiality of small UK quoted companies.
With global debt levels still elevated and the precise effects of quantitative easing difficult to assess, a normalisation of the financial world is not without risk, but your Managers struggle to see tapering as anything other than good news for equities in general and the value style in particular over the medium to long term.
The events of the global financial crisis and its aftermath have taught many lessons.
Among these, from ASCoTs perspective, it has been shown again that the long term out-performance of the value investment style can come in violent bursts.
Determining when the value stretch reaches its limits is difficult it was easy to miss the opportunities of 2009 or 2013.
Your Managers seek to minimise such risk by adhering at all times to their value investment philosophy.
This can result in years of poor performance relative to the benchmark index, notably the TMT period and more recently the aftermath of the global financial crisis.
However, history suggests that consistent application of such an investment approach does work over time.
With its closed end structure and ability to utilise gearing, ASCoT is well placed to exploit shorter term swings in stockmarket sentiment to the benefit of its longer term returns.
Aberforth Partners LLP Managers 28 January 2014 Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 13
