BUSINESS MODEL, OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGY [ T PU HE L G LO RO UT U PS BUSINESS MODEL, T O O B BJEC E S TU IV P E P S L A IEN DD ] STRATEGY Described by Henry Engelhardt, Admiral Group CEO The Customer, The Customer 1 2 A GREAT Place to Work!
TheCustomer Very simply, if Admiral didnt have any customers it wouldnt Admiral has a simple philosophy when it comes to staff: need a Strategic Report.
With that in mind it just stands to ifpeople like what they do, theyll do it better.
So we reason that everything we do every day revolves around gooutof our way to make this a GREAT place to work.
attracting, keeping, satisfying and ensuring customers get Thereare four pillars to our culture: communication, value for money.
It is upon these pillars that theperformance of our staff rests.
Our share scheme is an important part of our culture.
Wewant every member of staff to feel like they own a bitofthe Company, so we give them a bit of the Company t too oow wn n. I.
In t n th he c e co or re s e sh ha ar re s e sc ch he em me e e ev five er ry m y me em mb be er o r of s f st ta af ff f g ge et tst sth he s e sa am me n e nu um mb be er o r of s f sh ha ar re es s, b, be ec ca au us se e e ev five er ry j y jo ob a b at t A Ad dm miir ra al i l is i s im mp po or rt ta an nt t.. 4 4 P Pr ro o t t F Fo oc cu us s A Ad dm miir ra al i l is f s fo oc cu us se ed o d on b n bo ot tt to om l m liin ne p e pr ro o t ta ab biilliit ty i y in t n th he s e sh ho or rt t, m me ed diiu um a m an nd l d lo on ng t g te er rm m. T. Th hiin ng gs l s liik ke s e siiz ze e, g, gr ro ow wt th a h an nd m d ma ar rk ke et t s sh har are e ar are e b by y- -p pr roduc oduct ts s, n no ot t d dr riv ive er rs s, o of f d deci ecis siio on ns s.. A Ad dm miir ra al G l Gr ro ou up p p pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 13 3 12 12 x ADM ar13 front.
indd 12 10 03 2014 11:23:55 S STR TRA ATE TEG GIC IC C CO OR RPO POR RA ATE TE F FIINAN NANC CIAL IAL O OTHE THER R IIN NT TR ROD ODU UC CTI TION ON R REP EPOR ORT T G GO OV VER ERN NA ANC NCE E S STAT TATE EM ME EN NT TS S IIN NF FORM ORMA ATI TION ON DIVISIONAL STRATEGIES UK CAR AND HOME INSURANCE 3 Risk Aversion Stay ahead of the competition which leads to the ability to price forpro tand or growth.
There are five elements in order to sustain competitive advantage: Part of Admirals strategy is to share Be a great company to work for so staff want to come to work risk and reward where possible.
This everyday and naturally give that little bit extra which makes all means we have a number of partners thedifference to consumers who are supporting us in the hope that Give great customer service which leads to enhanced customer retention we provide them with good returns.
and the ability to sell other products and services to customers This does mean that Admirals absolute pro ts are somewhat lower than Be creative in solving problems theGroup actually generates at the Dont waste money 100% level, but it also means that Admiral does not need to put up Be opportunistic.
Dont ignore chances for expansion if we can provide allthe capital with which to run its consumers with something of value business.
The result is a superior return on capital forAdmiral shareholders and financial support ifthings were to go wrong.
INTERNATIONAL CAR INSURANCE Wecallitthe Sleep Easy model.
The internet is an irresistible force.
Young consumers in places like Austin, TX.
Salamanca, Torino and Chartres are using the internet for virtually everything they do and eventually they will use it for buying car insurance.
So, being in the right distribution channel for the future is the first key for success.
However, we believe further advantage can be attained through: Using advanced pricing techniques already established in the UK Creating of ce environments to help motivate staff combining the best of whats been learned over time in the UK with local habits and traditions Acting and reacting quickly to an ever-changing world.
Its important that these businesses act as speedboats in a world of super-tankers 5 Dividends Maintaining financial discipline, even if it results in slower growth Admiral believes that having excess cash in a company can lead to poor PRICE COMPARISON decision-making.
So we are Provide consumers with a valuable service that saves them time and, committed to returning surplus possibly, money.
This service is not limited to car insurance comparison capital to shareholders.
We believe oreven insurance comparison.
that keeping management hungry forcash keeps them focused on the most important aspects of the business.
We do not starve our businesses but neither do we allow them the luxury of trying to decide what to do with excess capital.
Read more about what Admiral Group does for its staff and customers at: www.
co. uk culture csr A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 13 3 A Ad dm miir ra al G l Gr ro ou up p p pllc c 13 13 x ADM ar13 front.
