STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER INTRODUCTION REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Statutory Disclosures Group Results and Dividends The profit for the year, after tax but before dividends, amounted to 286.9 million 2012: 258.4 million.
The Directors declared and paid dividends of 255.8 million during 2013 2012: 219.3 million refer to note 11b for further details.
The Directors have declared a final dividend of 139.6 million, 50.6 pence per share, payable on 30 May 2014.
Employee Policies Detailed information on the Groups employment practices is set out in the Strategic Report and on the corporate website.
The Group purchases appropriate liability insurance for all staff and Directors.
Contractual Arrangements The Group considers its co-insurance and reinsurance contracts, as described in the Strategic Report section on page 23, to be essential tothe running of the Groups business.
No other contractual arrangements are considered to be essential.
Financial Instruments The objectives and policies for managing risks in relation to financial instruments held by the Group are set out in note 6 to the financial statements.
Directors and their Interests The present Directors of the Company are shown on pages 38 to 39 of this Report, whilst Directors interests in the share capital of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 64.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions The annual level of greenhouse gas emissions, resulting from activities for which the Group is responsible, in 2013 was 8,163 CO E, 2 1 equivalent to 1.26 tonnes per average employee.
The data has been prepared with reference to the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition and in accordance with the guidance for corporate reporting issued by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Defra.
Data was collected for the first three quarters of 2013 and extrapolated to calculate the full year emissions figure.
There are no material exclusions from this data.
Exclusions included figures for gas and air conditioning because the information was not available from the managing agents of the Groups multiple office locations.
In addition two offices in France and one office in New Delhi have been excluded due to difficulties in obtaining complete and accurate data.
These three offices together total less than 1.5% of Group headcount and are therefore considered immaterial.
Detailed information on the Groups environmental performance and the methodology for the measurement of Greenhouse Gas emissions is available on the corporate website, www.
1 Average employee number excludes employees from three offices for which data could not be collected.
Going Concern The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In considering the appropriateness of this assumption, the Board has reviewed the Groups projections for the next twelve months and beyond, including cash flow forecasts and regulatory capital surpluses.
Share Capital, AGM and Related Matters Major Shareholders Other than as stated below, as far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the Company.
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
At 31 January 2013, the Company had received notifications in accordance with the FCAs DTRs of the following notifiable interests, in the voting rights in the Companys issued share capital: Number of shares % Munich Re 27,899,400 10.10% Mackenzie Financial Corporation 11,697,235 4.24% Morgan Stanley 11,157,123 4.04% Manning & Napier Advisors 10,534,021 3.81% BlackRock, Inc 9,866,508 3.57% The interests of Directors and officers and their connected persons in the issued share capital of the Company are given in the Remuneration Report.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Admiral Group plc 65 x ADM ar13 middle.
indd 65 10 03 2014 11:25:35 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Share Capital, AGM and Related Matters continued Additional Information for Shareholders Where not provided previously in this Directors Report, the following provides the additional information required for shareholders asaresult of the implementation of the Takeovers Directive into UK law.
At 31 December 2013, the Companys issued share capital comprised a single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares.
Details of the share capital and shares issued during the year can be found in note 11d.
On a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The notice ofthe general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy notice or present in person or by proxy in relation toresolutions to be passed at general meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the Annual General Meeting and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the FCA whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal intheCompanys securities The Company has not purchased any of its own shares during the period.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
There are a number of agreements that alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts.
None is considered to be significant in terms of their impact on the business of the Group as a whole except for the long term co-insurance agreement in place with Great Lakes Reinsurance UK plc.
Details relating to this agreement are contained in the Strategic Report.
Power to Issue Shares At the last Annual General Meeting, held on 25 April 2013, authority was given to the Directors to allot unissued relevant securities in the Company up to a maximum of 89,535 equivalent to one third of the issued share capital as at 18 March 2013.
This authority expires on the date of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 9 April 2014 and the Directors will seek to renew this authority for the following year.
A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted authority to the Directors to allot equity securities in the Company up to a maximum of 5% of the issued share capital of the Company for cash, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This authority also expires on the date of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 9 April 2014 and the Directors will seek to renew this authority for the following year.
Appointments of Directors The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the Directors power to appoint and replace Directors.
Under the Terms of Reference ofthe Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the Board of Directors.
The Articles also require Directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting following appointment and all Directors who held office at the time of the two preceding Annual General Meeting, to submit themselves for re-election.
However, in accordance with the requirement under the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code for annual election of Directors all Directors will submit themselves for re-election at the Groups Annual General Meeting on 9 April 2014.
Articles of Association The Articles may only be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Power of the Directors The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the Company and may exercise all powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, to any directions given by special resolution and to the Companys Memorandum and Articles.
The Articles, for example, contain specific provisions and restrictions concerning the Companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the issuing of new shares are also included in the Articles and such authorities are renewed by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting each year.
Annual General Meeting AGM It is proposed that the next AGM be held at Cardiff City Hall, Cathays Park, Cardiff CF10 3ND on Wednesday 9 April 2014 at 2.00pm, notice of which will be sent to shareholders with the Annual Report.
Reporting, Accountability and Audit UK Corporate Governance Code Admiral is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council and available on their website, www.
The edition of the Code published in September 2012 applied throughout our financial year ending 31 December 2013, butthe Financial Conduct Authority has yet to change the Listing Rules and therefore requires that certain compliance statements are made in relation to the predecessor edition of the Code, issued in June 2010.
The Companys Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, addresses the requirements of both editions of the Code.
During the year to 31 December 2013, the Company has in all respects complied with the provisions of both editions of the Code.
The Directors confirm that the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides theinformation necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 66 x ADM ar13 middle.
indd 66 10 03 2014 11:25:35 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER INTRODUCTION REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Reporting, Accountability and Audit continued Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted bythe EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU For the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility Statement The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as awhole The management report required by DTR 4.1.
8R contained in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face Disclosure of Information to Auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor KPMG Audit plc informed the Company that they wished to formally change the entity which conducts the Companys audit from KPMGAudit plc to KPMG LLP.
KPMG Audit plc has indicated therefore that it will not stand for reappointment at the Companys 2014 AGM, however KPMG LLP will seek election at this meeting.
It is proposed that KPMG LLP are appointed auditors of the Company and theywill hold office from the conclusion of the AGM in April 2014 until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laidbefore the Company.
By order of the Board, Mark Waters Kevin Chidwick Company Secretary Chief Financial Officer 4 March 2014 4 March 2014 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Admiral Group plc 67 x ADM ar13 middle.
