80 Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Other DisclOsures There are a number of legal and regulatory hold.
Shareholders may cast votes either Company, disclosable under DTR 5, had been requirements with which BG Group must personally or by proxy and a proxy need not notified to theDirectors: comply, such as the Companies Act 2006 beashareholder.
Under the Articles, only theAct, the Listing Rules LRs and the shareholders who have paid the Company BlackRock Inc. 257 226 573 7.54% Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs, allcalls, and all other sums, relating to their Norges Bank 171 519 906 5.03% whichare addressed inthis section.
shares that are due at the time of the meeting, may attend and vote.
The detail relating to No change in voting interests in the ordinary Incorporation and constitution theappointment of proxies and registration share capital of the Company, disclosable BG Group plc is domiciled in England and ofvoting instructions is set out on page 154. under the DTRs, have been notified to the incorporated in England and Wales under Directors between 31December 2013 Alteration of share capital and variation Company Number 3690065. and19March 2014. ofrights the shareholders can by ordinary resolution: a consolidate, or consolidate and The Companys Articles of Association Important events since 31 December 2013 then divide, all or any of the Companys share theArticles may only be amended by andprofit estimates capital into new shares of a larger nominal aspecial resolution at a general meeting On 27 January 2014, the Group declared a Force amount than the existing shares: and b divide ofshareholders and are available online Majeure under its LNG Agreements in Egypt some or all of the Companys share capital atwww.
com reflecting the diversions of gas volumes to the intoshares that are of a smaller nominal value domestic market in excess of the agreements.
The Company may Share capital The Group made an announcement the same reduce or vary the rights attaching to its The Companys share capital consists of day, in which it also announced anticipated sharecapital by special resolution.
However, ordinary shares with a nominal value of 10p non-cash, post-tax impairments of around such matters are subject to the relevant each.
Details of the Companys share capital, $2.4billion for 2013 associated with Egypt provisions ofthe Articles and applicable law together with details of the movements in around $1.3 billion and the USA around and regulations.
Further details in relation theshare capital during the year, are set out $1.1billion and updated its outlook for 2014 torights and restrictions applying to the innote 21 on page 124. to2015.
For 2014, the Group announced Companys shares are set out inthe Articles.
itexpected production volumes to be Shareholders rights and obligations 590-630kboed, E&P unit operating costs to Profit and dividends Rights and restrictions applying to the be$15.50-16.25 per boe, E&P unit depreciation The shareholders can declare final dividends Companys shares are as follows: costs to be $12.25-13.00 per boe and LNG byordinary resolution.
No dividend can exceed Shipping & Marketing total operating profit the amount recommended by the Directors.
Restrictions on shareholders rights Subject tobe $2.1-2.4 billion at Reference Conditions.
Dividends are paid based on the amounts to the Articles, and unless the Directors decide TheGroup announced that, for 2015, it expected thathave been paid up on the shares in otherwise, if a shareholder has failed to supply production volumes to be 710-750 kboed and therelevant period.
information about interests in shares after forthe Group to be free cash flow positive.
receiving a notice issued by the Company, The Directors can recommend that the theshareholder shall not be entitled to attend The Group also made the following statements shareholders pass an ordinary resolution to orvote at a shareholders meeting for as long in the 27 January 2014 announcement which direct all or part of a dividend to be paid by as the default continues.
Any person who are regarded as profit estimates for this reporting distributing specific assets.
The Directors must acquires these shares is subject to the same year for the purposes of Listing Rule 9.2.
18. give effect to such a resolution.
In addition, if the shareholders Inrespect of the Groups full year results for may invest unclaimed dividends, or these interest represents 0.25% or more of the 2013, it expected to report: maybe forfeited, subject to the relevant existing shares further restrictions apply.
LNG Shipping & Marketing total operating Restrictions on holding securities There profit of approximately $2.6 billion: areno restrictions under the Articles or The Trustees of the BG Group plc Employee underUK law that either restrict therights Share Trust and the BG Group Share Incentive Business performance earnings ofUK resident shareholders to hold, or Plan have waived their right to receive dividends of approximately $4.4 billion around 130 cents limittherightsof non-resident or foreign over 3 327 603 and 4 843 ordinary shares per share : and shareholders to hold, or vote the Companys respectively, as at 19 March 2014.
For the year Total results earnings post impairments ordinary shares.
ended 31 December 2013, the total profit ofapproximately $2.2 billion around 65 cents forthe Group before tax was $3 889 million Transfer There are no restrictions on the per share.
A final dividend of 15.68 cents transfer of shares beyond those required by per ordinary share is proposed 2012: 14.26 cents, applicable law, under the Articles or under The Groups final results for 2013 showed: making a full year dividend for 2013 of 28.75 anyapplicable share dealing code.
The results are dealt LNG Shipping & Marketing total operating Voting Subject to any special rights or with more fully inthe Financial statements profit of $2 643 million: restrictions, at any general meeting on a poll, onpages 84 to 143. every shareholder on the Register not less Business performance earnings of than48 hours excluding non-working days Substantial shareholders $4374million 128.6 cents per share : and before the time fixed for a general meeting, As at 31 December 2013, the following voting Total results earnings post impairments will have one vote for every share that they interests in the ordinary share capital of the of $2 205 million 64.8 cents per share.
Free cash flow is defined in the Glossary, page 147.
Guidance isprovided at the Groups Reference Conditions as shown onpage147.
Business performance excludes disposals, certain re-measurements and impairments asexclusion oftheseitems provides a clear andconsistent  operating performance oftheGroups ongoing business.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Other disclosures 81 Significant contracts change of control toimprove understanding of carbonate fields.
consumption in our operated businesses There are a number of agreements that take BGGroup continues its increasing technology byapplying a country-specific default emission effect, alter or terminate upon a change of investment in Brazil as part of the R&D Levy grid factor from IEA CO Emissions from 2 control of BG Group following a takeover bid.
Framework, and Group Technology expects FuelCombustion 2012 Edition, Electricity tomove to theGlobal Technology Centre andHeat Generation, IEA, Paris.
These are It is possible that the Republic of Kazakhstan inRiode Janeiro inthe second half of 2014. updated in our database on an annual basis.
may claim to have a right to acquire the Groupsinterest in the Final Petroleum Sharing Greenhouse gas emissions In respect of equity share emissions, the Agreement governing the operation of the The BG Group scope 1 and 2 greenhouse Groupreports GHG emissions from operated, Karachaganak oil and gas condensate field gas GHG emissions from Group-operated joint-operated, and non-operated businesses BGGroup currently 29.25% or the shares businesses for 2013 were 7.0 mt CO e and 15.1kt in which we have an interest, calculated on an 2 inthe company holding that interest in the CO e, respectively, compared with 7.7 mt CO e equity-share basis.
We collect GHG emissions 2 2 event of a change of control of BG Group and 18.6kt CO e, respectively in 2012.
Our data from our non-operated business on an 2 following a takeover bid.
combined operated scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions annual basis.
Total GHG emissions per facility intensity for the year was 17.5 mt ofCO e per are multiplied by our financial stake % in the 2 As at 31 December 2013, BG Energy Holdings mmboe, compared with 16.6 mt CO e per mmboe facility to calculate our equity share emissions.
2 Limited had committed borrowing facilities with in 2012, an increase of 5%.
CO e emissions on This data is then summed and reported at 2 anumber of financial institutions inan aggregate an equity share basis, including operations Group level.
amount of i $5.2 billion, whichareundrawn where BGGroup is an investor but not an and ii $2.7 billion, whicharedrawn.
operator, were 8.3 mt CO e in2013, compared We use emissions intensity per unit of gross 2 with 9.6mt CO e. Emissions intensity fell from production mmboe as a ratio to relate 2 When taken together, these facilities are 2012 to 2013 by 1%, from 22.9to 22.6 mt CO e emissions to our activities.
Emissions intensity 2 significant to the ongoing liquidity of the Group per mmboe.
isan indication of the energy efficiency of a and repayment or cancellation of any or all facility or process.
This normalisation allows ofthem may be demanded upon a change The Group reports in line with the GHG Protocol usto see whether our activities are more or ofcontrol of BG Group.
Corporate Accounting Reporting Standard less carbon intensive.
Gross production data 2004 and the IPIECA Oil and Gas Industry includes gross upstream production, liquefaction No other agreements that take effect, Voluntary Guidance on Sustainability Reporting and regasification volumes, electricity production, alterorterminate upon a change of control 2010.
All of the Groups operated and shipping cargos and throughput volumes ofBGGroup following a takeover bid are joint-operated businesses report quarterly frompipelines converted into mmboe using considered to be significant in terms of their onfuel use, flaring, venting and fugitives into default calculation values for all activities.
potential impact on the business of the acentral environmental database to calculate Groupas a whole.
carbon dioxide CO, methane CH and nitrous Branches 2 4 oxide N O emissions.
In respect of Operated BG Group, through various subsidiaries, has 2 Research and development emissions, the Group reports 100% of data established branches in a number of different In 2013, BG Group invested $76.5 million in where it is the operator and 50% of the data countries in which the business operates.
research and development R&D projects, where it is joint operator.
It reports from upfrom $51.8 million in 2012.
2013 saw the offices with more than 100 people and or Employees contracting of two major projects more than fromthose sites capable of influencing and Engagement Employees are informed $20 million in total with investments in South monitoring GHGemissions.
aboutsignificant business issues, BG Groups Americas first academic supercomputer to performance, and other matters of concern to support the Full Waveform Inversion FWI The Group uses emission factors supplied them, using webcasts, the Groups intranet and seismic project and development of an Enhanced bythe IPIECA API OGP Petroleum Industry in-house publications, as well as at face-to-face Oil Recovery EOR laboratory at the Federal Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse Gas briefing meetings at each business location.
University of Rio fide Janeiro.
An agreement Emissions 2011 wherever they are available, in When appropriate, consultation with employee hasbeen signed with FAPESP, Brazils leading line with good industry practice.
These emission and union representatives also takes place.
funding agency for scientific research, to factors are built into the calculations in our Employees are given an opportunity to become selectproposals fromuniversity consortia environmental reporting database as default shareholders in the Company and many tobuildaResearch Centre for Gas Innovation, values.
While the Group uses generic emission participate in BG Groups share plans.
inSoPaulo state, demonstrating support factors as a default, it aims to improve the Disabilities BG Group remains committed forjoint university and industry research.
accuracy of calculations by inputting other tothe full and fair treatment of people with Inaddition, several large projects have been information specific to the fuel and the facility disabilities in relation to job applications, initiated with the Brasilian Institute of Robotics inquestion, as different fuel compositions training, promotion and career development.
In total, by willresult in different emission levels.
Where existing employees become disabled, theend of 2013, morethan $300 million of our policy is to provide continuing employment projects have been contracted or approved.
The calculation we use to derive scope 1 and training wherever practicable.
The Group The multidisciplinary Hub programme continues direct GHGs from all emissions sources is: encourages itspartners to take a similar todevelop, research and execute field trials GHG or CO e CO CH x 21 N O x 310.
2 2 4 2 approach to these issues where Group tosupport coal seam gas operations in QGC These are the three Kyoto protocol gases Policiesor Standards are not able to be andBG Groups exploration activities, and relevant to our businesses.
We calculate scope implemented directly.
2 indirect CO emissions from electricity 2 Corporate governanCe
