16 Strategic report BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our strategy How we work our business is built on partnerships with all our stakeholders, from governments and communities to our own employees and wider society.
Meeting their changing expectations and winning their respect is essential to our present and future business.
Our business principles our Business Principles set out our commitment to work ethically, respectingthe needs and concerns of others and the environment.
Conduct Our people Society Environment We act with integrity, We treat people We work to ensure that We make a positive .
withfairness, respect neighbouring communities contributionto the anddecency.
benefit from our presence protection ofthe We comply with legal, onanenduring basis.
regulatory and licence We help employees requirements.
We listen to neighbouring We go beyond communities and take compliancewith local We do not tolerate We believe that all accountoftheir interests.
environmental regulation corruption in any form, .
tomeet internationally whether direct orindirect.
We support human We provide healthy, accepted bestpractice.
rightswithinour areas Our investment criteria safeand secure ofinfluence.
We reduce to the take account of economic workenvironments.
minimum practicable returns, environmental anyadverse effects impacts, social ofouroperations consequences and ontheenvironment.
High standards of corporate governance are integral tothe way we manage ourbusiness.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Our strategy: How we work 17 Workers at the Hannibal gasprocessing plant, tunisia BG Group is Tunisias largest gasproducer.
The Hannibal plantprocesses gas from theMiskar field for sale into theTunisian gassystem.
Our sustainability priOrities Safety, health Environment and People and andconduct climate change communities A secure and safe workplace We aim to minimise our The success of our business with high ethical standards impact on the environment, depends on our people and is fundamental to protect using best available the communities where our business and our people.
We commit to Everyone at BGGroup climate change target andare treat people that work with hastofollow our global investing inresearch into us fairly and with respect, Safety, Health and Ethical lower-carbon technologies.
helping them develop their Conduct Standards, potential, and to listen to whichwe assure and the communities where reviewregularly.
we work, taking their interests into account.
Our sustainability repOrt Find the full report online at: www.
com sustainability Strategic report 18 Strategic report BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our strategy: HOW We WOrK cOntinueD saFety, HealtH enVirOnMent anD increased flaring of gas inthe run-up to full anD cOnDuct cliMate cHange production.
We continued tomonitor global climate change policy and trends and took Health and safety Environmental performance actiontoimprove measurement and We are committed to providing a safe and We continued to roll out and assure our systems management ofmethane emissions.
In 2013, we met our targets for environmental management.
We maintained for the majority of the safety key performance our 100% certification to ISO14001 for our We supported research into lower carbon indicators KPIs that we track.
In 2013, we had no major technologies and worked with Imperial College environmental incidents.
London on plans for aSustainable Gas Institute.
Our occupational safety performance seepage 22 for further details improved Climate change and energy efficiency Water and biodiversity significantly in 2013, reflecting effort across Climate change remains a critical, long-term issue We continued implementing our water the Group, inparticular ouroperations in for the oil and gas industry.
Thiswas the first year strategy by establishing water management Australia.
Sadly, there wasone fatality in Tanzania of our new five-year greenhouse gas GHG plans in Australia, Egypt and India where in December, where amaintenance supervisor emissions intensity reduction targets.
The targets wehave identified higher water risk.
working for alocalcontractor died in hospital we have set arean 8%reduction in GHGs per following a roadtraffic accident.
Wehad no barrel of oil equivalent for E&P activities and a We continued to implement biodiversity major releases ofgasor liquid, maintaining 15% reduction in GHGs perbarrel of oil equivalent actionplans in Australia, Bolivia and Kazakhstan.
Thisequates to In Trinidad and Tobago, wecompleted a five-year a10%overall reduction of our GHG emissions reforestation projectandstarted work on Security intensity perbarrel.
Achievement of these anew five-year biodiversity action plan.
In In 2013, we faced challenges arising from targets is sensitive tochanges in our production Tanzania, we worked with an environmental terrorism, crime, piracy, political instability mix andbusiness portfolio.
consultancy toexplore the seabed, where we andother security threats.
The most significant are drilling, andgain greater understanding threat was faced in Egypt, but we also responded During the year, all ouroperations prepared ofthe sub-sea ecosystem.
to events in Kenya, Tanzania and Thailand.
five-year energy management plans, which identify Oursecurity personnel supported our early how they plan to deliver against our target.
In Australia, we are committed to a major development activities in Honduras, where we scheme toprotect more than 25 000 hectares promoted theVoluntary Principles on Security Full disclosure of our GHG emissions during ofCurtis Island, where we are constructing an and Human Rights VPSHR withthe countrys theyear is set out on page 81.
This involves purchasing landtobe military and local police.
designated asaprotected area andcontributing GHG emissions intensity for our operated tothe ongoing costs ofthereserve.
Ethical conduct assets for 2013 was 105% of 2012.
However, We strengthened our procedures for managing thiswas offset by relatively lower emissions Unconventional gas ethical conduct and fraud risk.
We assessed intensity from non-operated assets.
The overall Debate about the environmental impact of corruption risk in possible new markets, emissions intensity for 2013 was 99% of 2012. unconventional gas continued during 2013. includingColombia and Honduras.
OurSpeak Theincrease in GHG emissions intensity from Up whistleblowing facility receivedreports our operated assets reflects the impact of In the USA, we continued work with Exco of106 cases, compared with120in2012 lowerthroughput from some operations, Resources to optimise the chemicals used in and134in 2011. increased energy required to extract gas hydraulic fracturing.
We also set up the Energy inmaturing fields, and increased emissions Water Initiative, an energy sector group, which inAustralia, where we have temporarily seekswater management solutions.
The targets commit us to reducing GHG emissions per unit of production and apply to our equity share of emissions fromoperated and non-operated businesses.
Shipping activities are not included.
Kenya Water treatment Measuring our performance ourscore overall increased plant, Queensland, australia BG Groups environmental, from 3.5 inMarch 2012 to with capacity to treat social and governance eSG 4.2in March2013.
The score 92million litres a day, performance is measured increased again in September thekenyawater Treatment byanumber of indices.
2013 to 4.7. our supersector Plantis now providing treated score, which ranks us water to approximately we have been included in relativeto other oil and 20farmers for the irrigation theDow Jones Sustainability gascompanies inthe index, ofcrops, with the rest Indices DJSI each year since increased from the 94th ofthesupply piped tothe their launch in 1999.
In 2013, percentile in March 2012 to Condamine river, from which the average score for the the 98th percentile inMarch it can be drawn for use by oiland gas sector was 42%.
2013 and again tothe 100th local towns and industry.
weachieved the best score percentile in September 2013, inour sector, at 83%.
This making usthe leading oil and made us the energy Industry gas company in the index.
Leader, and the only Uk company to be included on The Carbon Disclosure the DJSI Leadership Group.
projectproduces two indices: our score improved by two aCarbon Performance points over the previous year.
Leadership Index CPLI andthe Carbon Disclosure we have qualified for the Leadership Index CDLI.
FTSe4Good Index every year In2013, we improved our sinceits creation in 2001. scorein the CPLI performance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Our strategy: How we work 19 In Queensland, weinvested more than Our local contribution technology, engineering andmaths STEM US$6.3million in socialprojects, installed more In 2013, we made voluntary social investments education inBrazil, Kazakhstan, Trinidad than 80% of ourprogrammed monitoring bore totalling 16.1 million.
We also invested in andTobago, and the UK.
network to monitor changes in aquifer status, infrastructure, notably the upgradeof Mtwara and commissioned a major reverse osmosis port in Tanzania and themaintenance and Human rights water treatment plant, which now provides improvement of roadsinQueensland.
Since the establishment of the UN Guiding water for local use.
Principles on Business and Human Rights there We continued our support for the Extractive has been increasing pressure on businesses Industries Transparency Initiative EITI, and todemonstrate how they manage human peOple anD arepreparing for compliance with the new rights risks and impacts.
BG Groups Human cOMMunities Accounting Directive approved by the European Rights Policy recognises these principles, Parliament in June.
We worked with many withclear statements of commitment on People and skills for the future suppliers where we operate, providing training howwe implement our Policy.
The effectiveness As at 31 December 2013, we employed 5422people and development opportunities including to ofthe Policys implementation is reviewed worldwide.
Resourcing, talent management indigenous companies in Australiaand local regularly by a cross-functional task force.
We devised businesses in Tanzania.
Wecontinued to strengthen our relationship anew approach to workforce planning to provide with the Institute for Human Rights and insight into future requirements and potential Our Group Technology team, which isbased inRio Business IHRB.
This included jointly participating skills gaps, and put inplace a new panel of fide Janeiro and leads our R&D activities, aimsto with IHRB, the Danish Institute for Human recruitment suppliers with greater global reach.
develop solutions to technology gaps and needs Rights and Oxfam America on aside-session Forour Graduate Development Programme, we across our assets, with a particular focus in Brazil, attheUN Guiding Principles Annual Forum on recruited graduates representing 12 nationalities by developing capabilities and knowhow with developing a human rights impact assessment and from 58 universities worldwide.
In developing local businesses, technology start-ups, institutes methodology.
We also commissioned our first ourcurrent talent, we continued to identify and universities.
As an example, the Energy desktop human rights impact assessment highpotential individuals for development and Efficiency Programme is funding, in collaboration ofa country Myanmar.
progression, and as a result have delivered with local universities, research projects into succession plans for our top roles.
non-conventional waste heat recovery cycles BG Group isa member of the VPSHR initiative.
and low carbon power forFPSO vessels.
TheGroup carried out formal VPSHR assessments We took a number of steps to improve diversity inBolivia and Kazakhstan, and inour global and inclusion.
We published an aspiration to Working with communities shipping operations, and worked with the increase the percentage of women in leadership We signed afive-year global partnership military and local police in Honduras to promote positions to 20% by 2020and approved a agreement withYouth Business International awareness of the VPSHR there.
YBI to foster youth entrepreneurship, We developed a diversity code of conduct employment and economic growth in countries Public positions forour recruitment providers, commissioned where wework.
We expect to invest atleast We have engaged with stakeholders to diversity research and formed corporate $16million in projects through this agreement.
developpublic positions on climate change partnerships to support ourdiversity ambitions.
We engaged with indigenous people in Bolivia, and unconventional gas, which set out the Australia, Canada and Honduras and continued keyprinciples we follow.
As at 31 December 2013, 17% of the Board and to develop abest-practice grievance mechanism 28% of total employees were female.
We evaluated the socialimpact information on diversity see page 55 of our FurtHer Detail?
ofpotential LNGplants in Canada and Tanzania.
We continued to run key programmes topromote Read about our sustainability performance skills and build employment inAustralia, Brazil, and public positions in our Sustainability Tanzania andTunisia, andtopromote science, Report online: www.
com sustainability index, achieving an A band BG Group employees as at 31 December 2013 based in country rating compared with B in2012.
The CPLI measures 71 performance against three 8 nOrWAy main criteria: GHG emissions 1 488 reductions inthe year, having CAnAdA 160 UK and meeting a GHG target 19 KAzAKHSTAn and remuneration being 380 CHinA linked toGHG reductions.
220 US wewere one of only two EGypT 398 26 energy sector companies TUniSiA 459 THAilAnd inthis index.
TrinidAd 312 AndTOBAGO indiA 60 SinGApOrE 223 73 83 BrAzil TAnzAniA 1 421 BOliviA AUSTrAliA Note: in addition to the employees shown above there are a further 21 at other locations.
