14 Strategic report BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 our strategy How we Deliver value we will deliver value through active portfolio management, improving our project development and operations capability, andsimplifying our organisation.
Methane alison victoria lng vessel at atlantic lng terminal, trinidad and tobago The total LNG production capacity of Atlantic LNG is approximately 15mtpa.
BG Group supplies around two thirds of its gas production from Trinidad and Tobago to the plant for export.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Our strategy: How we deliver value 15 M anaging our portfolio we expect that strong production growth lean and agile More actively willenable around25% of our discovered organisation resources to be monetised over the next we are focused on creating a balanced 10years.
weexpect active portfolio we are focused on embedding a culture portfolio of 10-15 high-quality and management to monetise afurther 25%, ofclear personal accountability throughout valuableassets.
bringing the total nearer to 50%ofdiscovered theorganisation.
we expectour resource additions we have a rich opportunity set and expect one of our key strengths is our commercial tobe roughly in balancewith the rate of tohave more potential projects than our agility.
in order to foster andmaintain this, resource monetisation.
this faster recycling of investment capacity.
this should enable wemust have a lean and agile organisation.
discovered resources will enable us to deliver ustobe selective about the projects in value to shareholders more quicklyand provide Matt Schatzman, executive vice President, whichwechoose toparticipate and at what forhigher levels ofinvestment in early-stage Global energy Marketing & Shipping, equitylevel.
we will make these decisions exploration andnew business development.
andSamiiskander, chief operating officer tomaximisecapital discipline and efficiency: formerlyexecutive vice President operations, thatis, to seek to maximise the value we we monetised more than one billion barrels now report directly to chris Finlayson.
candeliver for each dollarof investment.
during 2013, 231 million barrels through Byprioritising projects onthis metric, we can production, and around another 860 million a level of regional organisation has been maximise the value we generate from our barrels through disposals, principally the removed to ensure rapid decision making.
investment capacity and ensure we only QclNG sell-down to cNooc.
our organic assets report directly to the chief investin projects with rates ofreturn well reserves replacement ratio on Sec operatingofficer to ensure improved aboveour cost of capital.
measurement was 115% on a one-year projectand operational performance basisand179% on a three-year basis.
a small team in in practice, this means we will focus on theoffice of the chief operating officer areaswhere we create most value: the total capital to be released from our isfocused onsimplifying internal processes divestment programme in 2012 and 2013 we aim to enter new projects at an early and standardising reporting acrossall assets.
amounts to $8.5 billion, significantly exceeding stage and seek, where possible, to maintain our $5billion target.
Further details are high levels ofcontrol to optimise the oil, included inthe financial review on page 32. gasand lNG value chains.
we will then take further detail?
forward to development and operation Find out more on example themost capital efficient projects.
principal risks on page 38 wewilldivest from some projects at iMproving our capability thispre-project sanction stage.
indevelopingprojects as we approach the project sanction andoperations anddevelopment phase, we will review opportunities to reduce our equity position, our project and operations capability and bring in strategic partners, tomanage spansawide range of settings, including risk, realise value and, as appropriate, highpressure high temperature, deepwater secure buyers of lNG or gas.
and unconventional gas, as well assome ofthelargest projects in the industry such in the early production phase, we will asKarachaganak in Kazakhstan, one of the capture opportunities for further value worlds largest gas and condensate fields.
creation through high-return expansion projects and satellite tie-backs into our these capabilities give us the credibility existing operations.
toinfluence our partners in non-operated ventures, and make us an attractive partner later in the life of the asset, our ability forgovernments and key stakeholders.
toadd value through lNG optimisation continues but other opportunities tend on project development, we have developed todecline.
Some assets will be held and refined astandardised approach which toprovide cash flow but others will be emphasises early, upfront planning and divested to allow capital to be re-invested assurance activities in order that the risks ordistributed to shareholders.
andbenefits of rapidproject development canbe considered and managed.
on operational performance, we are implementing common systems and strengthening our maintenance programmes.
this will improve the efficiency of our production over time and, in turn, the reliabilityof futurecash flows.
