82 Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Other DisclOsures cOntinueD DisclOsure statement Appointment and removal of Directors Borrowing powers So far as the Act allows, statement OF DirectOrs respOnsibilities The Board may appoint any person to be a the Directors can exercise all the powers of director of the Company and such director shall theCompany to: a borrow money: b issue Financial statements and accounting records hold office only until the next AGM, when he debentures and other securities: and c give The Directors are responsible for preparing or she shall be eligible for re-appointment by any form of guarantee or security for any debt, theAnnual Report, the Directors Remuneration the shareholders.
The Articles provide that, liability or obligation of the Company or of report and the Financial statements in accordance ateach AGM, all these directors who were anythird party, subject to the limits asdefined with applicable lawand regulations.
elected, or last re-elected a director at or before in the Articles.
Such limits may be exceeded the AGM held in the third calendar year before ifthe Companys consent has been given in The Companies Act 2006 the Act requires the current year shall automatically retire advance by an ordinary resolution passed theDirectors to prepare Financial statements fromoffice.
However, in accordance with the atageneral meeting.
Under the Act, provisions of the Code, all Directors of the theDirectors have prepared the Group and Company are subject to annual re-election.
Directors conflicts of interest theparent Company Financial statements The Company has procedures in place to inaccordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Donations manage Directors conflicts of interest and European Union and as applied in accordance Charitable During 2013, BG Group donated potential conflicts of interest, which the with the provisions of the Act.
The Financial around $361 391 to registered charities in Boardconsiders operate effectively.
All statements are required by law to give theUK.
More information on the Groups Directors have a duty to avoid situations atrueand fair view of the state of affairs social performance and social investment thatconflict with the interests of the Group.
oftheGroup and the Company and of the activities canbe found in the 2013 Directors are required to notify BG Group profitorloss of the Group for that period.
Sustainability Report, available online at when they become aware of a conflict of www.
com sustainability interest or potential conflict of interest.
The Directors consider that, in preparing Oncenotified, all matters are considered by theFinancial statements on pages 88 to 143, Political The Groups policy is not to make theNominations Committee and an appropriate theCompany has used appropriate accounting donations for political purposes.
In 2013, recommendation is made to the Board on policies consistently applied and supported nodonations were made to any EU member whether to authorise such conflict of interest byreasonable and prudent judgements and state for political purposes, nor contributions orpotential conflict of interest.
Certain estimates, and all applicable accounting made to any non-EU political parties.
safeguards apply when the Directors consider standards have been followed.
The Company Directors powers theconflict of interest or potential conflict hascomplied with UK disclosure requirements The Directors are empowered to exercise all ofinterest: a only Directors who have inthis report in order to present a consistent thepowers of the Company subject to any nointerest in the matter are able to take picture to all shareholders.
restrictions in the Articles, the Act and therelevant decision: b in taking any anyspecial resolution.
decision, theDirectors must act in a way The Directors have responsibility for ensuring thatthey consider, in good faith, will be most that the Company keeps accounting records Repurchase of shares The Company did not likely topromote the Companys success: that disclose with reasonable accuracy the repurchase shares during the year.
At the 2013 and c theDirectors are able to impose limits financial position of the Company and of AGM, theCompany was given authority to orconditions when giving such authorisation, theGroup and that enable them to ensure make market purchases of up to 340 374 317 ifthey think this is appropriate.
thatthe Financial statements and the ofits own issued share capital at a maximum Directors Remuneration report comply with price per share of 105% of the average middle Directors indemnities and insurance theAct and, as regards the Group Financial market closing price of the shares for the five BG Group maintains liability insurance statements, Article 4 of the International trading days prior to the relevant purchase.
The Directors, Accounting Standard Regulation.
Thisauthority will expire at the conclusion of Company Secretary and members of the the 2014 AGM and approval from shareholders GEChave also been granted a qualifying The Directors have general responsibility willbe sought at that meeting to renew the third-party indemnity, under the Act, which fortaking such steps as are reasonably open authority for a further year.
Neither the Companys tothem to safeguard the assets of BG Group indemnity nor insurance provides cover in and to prevent and detect fraud and other Pre-emptive rights and new issues At the theevent that the indemnified individual irregularities, and have adopted a control 2013 AGM, the Directors were given the power isproved to have acted fraudulently framework for application across the Group.
to allot shares up to a maximum nominal ordishonestly.
amount of 113 424 772, representing The Directors, having prepared the Financial approximately 1 3 of the Companys issued statements, have asked the auditors to take share capital excluding treasury shares as at whatever steps, and to undertake whatever 28 March 2013, together with ordinary shares inspections, they consider to be appropriate outstanding under BG Groups share option forthe purposes of enabling them to give schemes.
This authority will expire at the theiraudit report.
The Directors confirm that conclusion of the 2014 AGM and approval from theAudit Committee continues to review shareholders will be sought at that meeting theadequacy of the system of internal torenew the authority for a further year.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Disclosure statement 83 A copy of the Financial statements of the Going concern Directors report principal disclosures Company is placed on the BG Group website.
BG Groups business activities, together with The Directors report is pages 2 to 83.
The work carried out by the auditors does factors likely to affect its future development, notinvolve consideration of the maintenance performance and position, are set out in The following information, which forms part ofthe BG Group website and, accordingly, theStrategic report on pages 2 to 43.
The of theDirectors report, can be found on the theauditors accept no responsibility for financial position of the Group, its cash flows, detailed pages: anychanges that may have occurred to the liquidity position and borrowing facilities, Appointment and removal of Directors 82 Financial statements since they were initially aswell as the Groups objectives, policies and Branches 81 presented on the website.
processes for managing capital, are described Charitable donations 82 on pages 2 to 43.
Financial risk management Corporate governance report 52 Legislation in the UK governing the objectives, details of financial instruments Directors details 48  of Financial andhedging activities and exposures to credit Directors conflicts of interest 82 statements may differ from legislation riskand liquidity risk are described in note 18, Directors indemnities and insurance 82 inotherjurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Directors interests 76 Groups business activities and financial Directors powers 82 Directors responsibility statement resources ensure that it is well placed to Directors responsibilities 82 Pursuant to Rule 4.1.
12 of the DTRs, each of the manage its business risks successfully.
Disclosure of information to auditors 83 Directors, thenames and functions of whom Employee engagement 81 are set outon pages 48 and 49, confirms The Directors are satisfied that: Employees with disabilities 81 thattothebest of his or her knowledge: Employee equal opportunities 55 the Groups andthe Companys activities Employees gender disclosure 55 the BG Group Financial statements, which aresustainable for the foreseeable future, Employee share schemes 66 have been prepared in accordance with andthat the business isa going concern: and Financial instruments 117 IFRS, asadopted by the EU, give a true and that it is appropriate to continue to adopt Future developments 30 fairviewof the assets, liabilities, financial agoing concern basis in the preparation Going concern 83 position andprofit or loss of the Group: and oftheFinancial statements.
Greenhouse gas emissions 81 the management report represented by Important events and profit estimates 80 theDirectors report includesafair review The Boards review of the system Incorporation and constitution 80 ofthe development and performance of internal control Payments to Directors employees on a takeover 69 ofthebusiness and the position ofthe The Board, with the advice of the Audit Political donations 82 Group, together with a description Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness Profit and dividends 80 oftheprincipal risks and uncertainties ofthe Groups risk management and internal Repurchase of shares 82 thattheGroup faces.
control system for the period 1 January 2013 Research and development 81 tothe date of this report, and is satisfied Restrictions on the transfer of shares 80 The Directors have concluded that the thatthe Group complies in this respect Restrictions on voting rights 80 AnnualReport and Accounts, taken as a withInternal Control: Guidance to Directors Risk management 38 whole, isfair, balanced and understandable formerly the Turnbull Guidance.
It should be Share capital 80 and provides theinformation necessary for noted that the Groups assessment of the risk Shareholders rights and obligations 80 shareholders toassess BG Groups performance, management and system of internal control Significant contracts change of control 81 business model and strategy in accordance injoint ventures over which BG Group does Strategic report and principal activities 2 with theUKCorporate Governance Code.
not exercise control is limited by the degree Substantial shareholders 80 ofinfluence and access to information Statement of disclosure of information andresources that the Group has within toauditors thatjointventure.
As required by Sections 418 and 419 of the Act, each of the Directors has approved this The Strategic report and Directors report have report and confirmed that, so far as they are been approved by the Board and signed on its aware, there is no relevant audit information behalf by the Chief Executive and Chief being information needed by the auditors Financial Officer on 19 March 2014. inconnection with preparing their audit report of which the Companys auditors are By order of the Board unaware, and they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director inorder to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Chris Finlayson that the Companys auditors are aware ChieF exeCutive ofthatinformation.
simon lowth ChieF FinanCial oFFiCer 19 March 2014 Registered office: 100 Thames Valley Park Drive, Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT, UnitedKingdom Corporate governanCe 84 BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 85 Financial statements, notes and other key data.
86 Independent auditors report 88 Principal accounting policies Primary statements 92 Consolidated income statement 93 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 94 Balance sheets 96 Statements of changes in equity 97 Cash flow statements Crane operations on 98 Notes to the accounts thePoinsettia production platform, Trinidad and Tobago134 Supplementary information The Poinsettia platform, gas and oil unaudited whichis the largest structure 141 Historical production unaudited inTrinidadian waters, is located 142 Five-year financial summary 40kilometres off the north unaudited coast of Trinidad.
