10 Strategic report BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 our strategy How we create value our strategy is driven by two distinctive capabilities our world-class exploration and our unique lNG business.
we create value through these core strengths, each facilitated by our commercial agility.
World-class exploration exploration is at the heart of what we do.
our exploration strategy, which has been consistent over the last 15 years, is in two parts.
existing areas neW basins Where we are already actively operating and or We seek large frontier acreage, where we exploring, welook fornew opportunities by canfindgiant oilandgas opportunities at capitalising on: arelativelylowcost of entry.
our detailed knowledge of local geology: We have wide geological and technicalexpertise.
our infrastructure already inplace: and Our people and our culture are important partsofour competitive advantage.
our relationships with governments and others affected by or involved inour operations.
We also have simple, consistent and robust screening processes that enable us to make fast decisions, and then establishpositions rapidly.
We have the capabilities of a major, but we can move at the pace of a small company.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Our strategy: How we create value 11 employee on bg groups uKtrading floor, at our headquarters in Reading.
unique lng business we are well positioned to capitalise on the rapidly evolving and growing lNGmarket, through our competitive advantage in commercialising gas and our uniquelNGmodel.
Introduction Competitively Flexible High value priced resources portfolio markets BG Groups LNG strategy our lng strategy creates and delivers value in three Ways We have a portfolio We have aunique, flexible portfolio Our market knowledge and Deep knowledge & relationships in high value markets ofcompetitively priced supply that enables us to optimise these extensive customer relationships sources and an attractive set supply and market positions to enable usto build strong positions Portfolio of competitively priced resources ofnew supply options.
maximise value and ensure reliable inhigh-value, growing LNG markets.
Flexibility to supply markets from multiple sources supply for our customers.
Underpinned by safe, reliable fleet of 25 LNG ships Differentiates BG in LNG industry Our knowledge of gas markets and skills across the whole gas chain enable us to unlock resources quickly 2012 data 2 and connect them to markets.
Strategic report 2013 SPE-PRMS 2013 SEC 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 12 Strategic report BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 our strategy: hoW We create value continued World-class Our wide geological skillset gives us confidence ratewith nine consecutive discoveries and exploration to enter and explore a range of new basins.
We fiveappraisal wells, three of which included have had great success finding and developing drill stem tests showing high flow rates.
Proven industry-leading explorer carbonate fields.
Carbonates make up more Totalgross recoverable resources across Since 1997, we have participated in 16 giant, than half of our discovered resources, such as Blocks1, 3 & 4, offshore southern Tanzania, orsuper-giant, hydrocarbon discoveries.
the Karachaganak field and the Santos Basin arenow estimated to be around 15 tcf, Eachofthese fields has recoverable resources fields inBrazil.
We also have experience withfurther exploration upside: greater than 500mmboe, or 3tcf, of gas.
In intertiary deltas, high pressure and high We entered Kenya in 2011, and initial drilling thisperiod, we have added more than 10 billion temperature prospects and knowledge and hascommenced in 2014: boe of resources to our portfolio and have experience withunconventional resources.
been successful in converting these resources We won a competitive bid round in Uruguay into economic reserves.
We have also achieved An extensive portfolio of existing hubs in2012.
We started 3D seismic acquisition astrong reserves replacement ratio over this Within our current portfolio, we have identified sixweeks after the blocks wereawarded, period.
Wood Mackenzie ranks BGGroup material opportunities around existing hubs.
andfinished the first phase inMay 2013. second only to Petrobras in terms of value These hubs are Australia, Bolivia, Brazil, Egypt, Drillingis expected from the endof 2015: creation see charts below.
the North Sea, Thailand and Trinidad and Tobago.
In Honduras, we have signed a licence Within these hubs, we hold an extensive toexplore frontier acreage.
Weexpect to The most prominent discoveries are in the portfolio of more than 100 leads and prospects commence with a gravity surveyahead Santos Basin in Brazil, which has added with anet risked resource potential of more ofseismic acquisition in 2015: significant high-margin oil resources.
This will than2billion barrels of oil equivalent.
beBGGroups most important development In Brazil, we acquired 10 blocks in the programme for the foreseeable future.
Exploring and appraising new basins Barreirinhas Basin: and While we have a global capability, we are In January 2014, we signed an agreement Basis of long-term success disciplined about where we choose to invest.
toacquire a 30% equity interest in Guajira We have an entrepreneurial culture, where Weconsider political and licence tooperate Offshore 3 Block, offshore Colombia.
ourteam of more than 300 geoscientists risk upon new country entry, werequire constantly generates new ideas.
Recruiting, afiscalframework that provides anattractive, These new basins demonstrate our ability retaining anddeveloping good people is risk-adjusted return, and we seek opportunities toidentify geological opportunities, but criticaltoour future success.
alsoour commercial capability to secure access, quickly, and on good commercial We have a consistent and robust screening We are currently exploring and appraising terms.
We expect tocontinue this approach process.
In 2013, we evaluated more than 100 sevennew material basins.
With the exception withthe target ofentering one new basin opportunities using basin framework analysis, of Australia and Tanzania, these are primarily eachyear.
play evaluation and statistical analysis.
Those oil prospects: that progress through these initial screens are Exploration activity in 2014-2016 subject to a subsurface assurance process and In Australia, we are drilling the Bowen coal Between 2014and 2016, weexpect to acommercial screening.
The end result for seam gas and deep tight gas sands.
We have drill50-60 conventional exploration and 2013 was that, ofthe 100 opportunities that also shot 3D seismic and are drilling on our appraisal wells and target 12-17 high-impact we evaluated, nine were presented to senior acreage in the Cooper Basin: wells.
Inaddition, weexpect todrill 20-50 management andapproved.
An extensive exploration and appraisal unconventional exploration wells, campaign of 14 wells, which started in 2010 mostlyinAustralia.
offshore Tanzania, has had a 100% success c d BG Group organic reserve 3-year total proved reserve replacement New eld value creation 2003-12 a and resource additions mmboe SEC data $bn 2 500 2 221 300% 2 000 1 652 1 604 1 500 200% 1 058 1 000 837 762 692 392 500 326 214 100% 100 49 0 -312 -500 0% -10 0 10 20 30 110 2002 2007 20122013 BG Group Majors Peers Combined companies BG Group b Note: 2013 data for combined companies unavailable d Source: Wood Mackenzie Exploration Company Benchmarking net value creation, excluding organic a Source: BG Group.
Peer group includes Super Majors, unconventionals and DROs 2003-12 excluding National b See page 134 for further details.
and US and European Integrated Majors.
Oil Companies, but including Petrobras and PETRONAS.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Our strategy: How we create value 13 unique lng Against this diverse supply base, we have Optimising the portfolio business astrong portfolio of sales contracts into the We now have around 100 Master Sales high-value Asian markets, including contracts Agreements and around 80 terminals How our LNG portfolio was built tosupply China, representing more than 40% pre-certified, allowing us to react quickly During the early 2000s, we acquired LNG ship ofour term sales, which will make BG Group tomarket opportunities.
This enables us to capacity and regas rights at the Lake Charles thelargestsupplier ofLNG to China.
optimise our portfolio in anumber of ways, import terminal in the USA that enabled us to beit managing how our long-term supply build an independent LNG marketing business We have intentionally left some of our portfolio volumes are allocated between our sales into theUS market.
It also provided a flexible uncontracted.
This provides flexibility that contracts, backfilling term sales with gas market upon which to base our portfolio isfundamental to our LNG model.
In 2013, spotsupply, managing our ship capacity business model.
allofour uncontracted volumes were sold requirements or determining which type intothespot market.
offuel we use in our ships.
From 2002 to 2007, we started lifting long-term equity LNG from Trinidad and Tobago and Approximately 80% of our 2014 sales are Our aim is to match the best supply with Egypt, as well as third-party long-term LNG expected to bemade under medium and thebest market at the lowest delivery cost cargoes fromEquatorial Guinea and Nigeria.
This trend will continue through our global marketing operation From 2007, we shifted our deliveries away over the next few years as our supply base working principally out of Singapore with from the USA and began capturing higher grows.
Ofthis 80% in 2014, the vast majority proximity to our Asia Pacific customers value forour LNG portfolio by entering into ispriced indexed to oil.
We expect the andtheUK, with support activities in the mid-termsales contracts into the growing LNGmarket to remain tight and for any USAandJapan.
uncontracted future volumes to be sold intohigh-value markets.
This flexibility and scope for optimisation Between 2008 and 2011, we continued building provides long-term value forBGGroup asustainable and diversified global business, Benefits of our flexible LNG portfolio atthreelevels: including the launch of our next wave of All of our equity LNG supply is contracted supply, sanctioning QCLNG in Australia, and directly to BGGroup for onward marketing it enables us to get closer to customers and signing the first US export supply contract andsale, and most of our sale contracts can respond to structural shiftsinthe industry: from the Sabine Pass liquefaction project.
besupplied from any of our term sources or it enables us to create significant value from spot supply.
This means that we are able fromshipping optimisation and short-term Supply and sales to optimise supply and markets continually market opportunities: and Almost all of our current LNG supply has full tomaximise our margins and ensure reliable destination flexibility, with various arrangements supply for our customers.
To date, we have it allows us to accelerate growth by with suppliers to share the additional revenue bought supply from a total of 12 out of buildingnew markets and launching fromdiversions.
andwe have sold LNG to 25 of the 27 This portfolio provides a diverse, importingcountries.
With supply from sixsources on three continents, we have In addition, we have one of the largest LNG extensive global reach and diversification.
fleets of the IOCs, with more than 25 ships onthe water each day.
This gives usflexibility toaccess allsupply sources andmarket delivery points.
