62 Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CorPoratE GovErnanCE ComPlianCE WitH tHE uk CorPoratE GovErnanCE CodE The Board of Directors and BG Group remain fully committed to the principles of best practice in corporate governance and throughout 2013 havecomplied fully, and continue to comply fully, with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which can be found at www.
uk The notes below are intended to assist with the evaluation of the Groups compliance during 2013, although they should be read in conjunction withthe Corporate governance report as a whole.
A live version of this document is maintained at www.
1 The composition of the Board The Board is responsible to BG Groups shareholders Baroness Hogg was Senior Independent Director There are currently 11 Non-Executive Directors, fordelivering the long-term success of the Company during 2013 and was succeeded by Dr John Hood inaddition to the Chairman andtwo Executive and the operation of effective governance arrangements.
The responsibilities of the Directors on the Board.
The steps the Board takes to facilitate this are SeniorIndependent Director include meeting outlined inthe Corporate governance reporton majorshareholders as an alternative contact to During 2013, including as part of the Boards internal pages 46 to83.
theChairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial evaluation process, the Board reviewed the overall Officer.
The role is clearly established and a balance of skills, experience, independence and The Board oversees the Groups strategy and descriptionofthekey responsibilities is published knowledge ofBoard and Committee members and ensuresthat necessary resources are available, and atwww.
The Senior Independent their diversity, including gender, and subsequently that appropriate controls, values and standards are in Director is expected to commit three to four made anumber of changes to ensure that Committee place, to deliver it.
As well as oversight responsibility daysperyear to the role, andsignificantly more membership was appropriately refreshed.
Chris Finlayson for financial performance, internal control and risk inexceptional circumstances.
This is in addition joined the Sustainability Committee, LimHaw-Kuang management of the Group, there is a full list of the totheexpected time commitment of a joined the Audit Committee and MarkSeligman joined matters reserved to the Board for decision which Non-Executive Director.
Further changes made ispublished at www.
com governance to the composition oftheBoardand Committees are In accordance with the Code, the Non-Executive set out in the Nominations Committee report on page 61.
The Board held nine scheduled meetings during Directors are urged to challenge constructively and 2013andholds additional meetings, as required.
help develop proposals on strategy, scrutinise the The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Alldirectors are expected, wherever possible, to performance of management in meeting agreed Directorsto be independent and free of any business attend all Board and relevant Committee meetings, goalsand objectives and monitor the reporting of relationships that could compromise the exercise and the AGM.
Details of Board attendance for 2013 performance.
They should satisfy themselves on the ofindependent and objective judgement.
In making are setout on page 47.
Details of Board Committee integrity of financial information and that financial thisdetermination, the Board considered in particular attendance are set out in the relevant Committee controls and systems of risk management are the role of Pam Daley as a non-executive director report pages 56 to 71. robustand defensible.
The Board was satisfied, on the basisthat the BlackRock board does not make any All Directors are covered by the Groups Directors Baroness Hogg and the Non-Executive Directors investment decisions regarding individual companies, andOfficers Insurance policy.
considered, without the Chairman present, the that Miss Daley is independent.
The Board was also Chairmans performance.
The next performance satisfied that Andrew Goulds roles at Saudi Aramco A.
2 Division of responsibilities evaluation will take place during 2014 as part and L1 Energy Fund in no way compromise his The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive oftheexternally facilitated Board evaluation.
responsibilities and duties as Chairman of BGGroup.
areseparate and full descriptions, including Inaccordance with the Code, the Board undertakes  of each, are published at The Chairman also met with Non-Executive anannual review of theindependence ofits www.
com  Directorswithout the Executive Directors being Non-Executive Directors.
presenton several occasions during 2013, and Andrew Gould, the Chairman, leads the Board individuallywith each Non-Executive Director.
Martin Houston retired from the Board on andisresponsible for the balance and composition 13November2013 and Den Jones stepped down on ofthe Board and its Committees, enabling them During the year, the directors had no unresolved 2December 2013.
By the date of the 2014 AGM, Peter tooperate effectively.
Chris Finlayson, the Chief concernsabout the running of the Company Backhouse will have served on the Board for almost Executive, leads the business and manages the oranyproposed action.
It is Company policy that 14years and willstep down at the conclusion of Groupwithin theauthorities delegated by the Board anysuch unresolved concern must be recorded themeeting.
Mr Backhouse was considered by the todevelop and implement strategy successfully.
Board to have retained independence of character and judgement throughout his tenure as a Director.
3 The Chairman Baroness Hogg will have served nine years with The Chairman manages the Board and sets theBG Group Board in January 2014 and, in theBoards agenda for the year.
Board meetings accordance with the Code, the Board has determined arearranged to ensure sufficient time is available that Baroness Hogg has retained independence forthediscussion of all items and the Board meet ofcharacter and judgement and has not formed annually for a planning conference at which associations with the Company that might strategicissues are considered in depth.
Details compromise her ability to exercise independent ofthe2013Board Planning Conference are set judgement, notwithstanding her length of service.
Further details concerning Baroness Hoggs continued appointment are set out on pages 46 and62.
In accordance with the Code, the Chairman was independent on appointment andtheongoing test of B.
2 Appointments to the Board independence for theChairman isnotappropriate.
Simon Lowth was appointed as Chief Financial Officer on2 December 2013.
The succession process andultimate appointment were overseen by the Board.
Further details are set out on pages 46 and 61.
Inaddition, Pam Daley and Martin Ferguson were appointed as Non-Executive Directors in January 2014.
Further details on their appointments are setout on page 61.
The Boards policy on diversity isset out on page 55.
3 Commitment During 2013, the Board considered the external commitments of its Chairman, Senior Independent and other Non-Executive Directors and is satisfied BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Corporate governance 63 B: EFFECTIVENESS C. ACCOUNTABILITY D. REMUNERATION that these do not conflict with their duties and C. 1 Financial and business reporting D. 1 The level and components of remuneration timecommitments as Directorsof the Company.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities The Remuneration Committee report on pages Itisthe Companys policy to allow each Executive regarding the Financial statements, including 64to 79 outlines the activities of the Committee Director toaccept one non-executive directorship thestatus of the Company as a going concern, during 2013 and sets out the Companys forward ofanothercompany.
issetouton pages 82 and 83, with an explanation looking Directors Remuneration Policy, oftheGroups strategy and business model, includingrelevant remuneration components B.
4 Development togetherwithrelevant risks and performance andhow they support theachievement of the A full induction programme is provided to all Directors metrics, setouton pages 2 to 43. strategic objectives of the Group.
The Annual appointed to the Board which takes into account their Remuneration Report outlines the implementation qualifications and experience.
Details of the induction A further statement is provided on page 83 ofremuneration during 2013 including salary, programme provided to Lim Haw-Kuang are set out confirming that the Board considers that the bonusand share awards and payments for loss onpage 54.
Tailored induction programmes for AnnualReport andAccounts, taken as a whole, ofoffice paid to Directors.
PamDaley and Martin Ferguson were co-ordinated isfair, balanced and understandable and provides bythe Company Secretary in January 2014 and will theinformation necessary for shareholders The Board believes that the Groups proposed bereported in the 2014 Annual Report.
toassessthe Companys performance, Remuneration Policy, as set out on pages 66 to 70, businessmodeland strategy.
hasa responsible approach to Directors pay and Each year, the Directors receive a number of teach-ins.
thatthe Remuneration Policy is appropriate Details of some of those provided in 2013 are set out The Board gave regard to therequirements of andfitfor purpose.
The Directors also met individually with TheStewardship Code andTheSharman Inquiry theChairman and the Company Secretary to discuss ongoing concern .
D. 2 Procedure andagree their training and development needs.
The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities C. 2 Risk management and internal control to the Remuneration Committee, including conception B.
5 Information and support The Board has established processes designed to of the Groups overall remuneration policy and strategy The Directors have full access to the advice and allowit to assess the effectiveness of the internal and setting the remuneration arrangements for the services of the Company Secretary and may obtain control environment with the Group.
Further Executive Directors and GEC.
Full details are set out independent professional advice at the Companys detailscan be found on pages 58 and 83. inthe terms of reference for the Committee published expense if they believe it may be required in the at www.
com  furtherance of their duties.
The Board determines the Companys risk appetite andannually reviews and assesses the effectiveness During 2013, no individual was present when their The Company Secretary is responsible to the ofthe systems in place to manage risk.
Further own remuneration was being discussed.
Boardonanumber of issues and full details on the detailsare set out on pages 58 and 59.
CompanySecretarys responsibilities are published at www.
The removal of the BG Group operates a reasonable, rather than CompanySecretary is a matter for the Boardasawhole.
absolute, assurance system designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve Guidelines are in place concerning the content, business objectives.
timeliness and presentation of Board and Committee papers from management to ensure that the Board C. 3 Audit Committee and auditors isbriefed effectively.
The Audit Committee report on pages 56 to 59 sets outdetails of the composition of the Committee, B.
6 Evaluation including the expertise of members, and outlines E. RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS In 2013, performance evaluations of the Board, howthe Committee has discharged its itsCommittees and individual Directors were carried responsibilities during 2013.
E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders outinternally.
External evaluation last took place in 2012 The Board recognises that meaningful engagement and will take place again in 2014.
Theevaluation considered The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities with its institutional and retail shareholders is independence, conflicts ofinterest, balance of skills, tothe Audit Committee including: oversight of the integral to the continued success of the Company.
knowledge of the Company and all types ofdiversity.
Groups financial reporting processes: management Throughout 2013, the Board has sought actively to Further details ofthe evaluation can befoundon page 52. ofthe external auditors: and management of engage with shareholders on a number ofoccasions internalrisk management processes.
Full details are through meetings, presentations androadshows, The Non-Executive Directors evaluated the setout in the terms ofreference for the Committee thedetails of which are set out on page 53 and performance of the Chairman.
com auditcommittee copiesof relevant presentations may be viewed atwww.
com investors Following the evaluation, the Directors concluded that theBoard and its Committees operated effectively E. 2 Constructive use of the AGM andthat each Director contributes effectively and The AGM will be held on 15 May 2014 and is an demonstrates commitment to theirrole.
opportunity for shareholders to vote on certain aspects of Group business, in person.
7 Election Re-election valuesthe AGM as anopportunity to meet Each Director is subject to election at the first AGM withthose shareholders able to attend and take following their appointment, and re-election at theirquestions.
The Notice ofAGM is sent to all eachsubsequent AGM.
Accordingly, Simon Lowth, shareholders who have requested to receive hard Pam Daley and Martin Ferguson will stand for copy documentation from the Company and is electionatthe 2014 AGM.
The Directors unanimously setouton pages 150 to 155 of this report or may recommend the re-election of all other members beviewed at www.
com NOM ofthe Board with the exception of Peter Backhouse who has chosen not to stand for re-election and willstand down from the Board at the conclusion ofthe meeting.
Fullbiographical details for all Directors can be foundon pages 48 and 49.
