60 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 the Company.
Katherine Garrett-Cox became a member Payments on loss of office of the Supervisory Board of Deutsche Bank AG in 2011 for which an annual fee is payable and is retained by the Executive Directors Service Contracts Director.
In 2013 she received fees of 66,000 in respect Notice Notice of the previous year.
Date of from the to the Provision of contract Company Company compensation Katherine 20 04 07 Twelve Six Loss of office Non-Executive Directors Garrett-Cox months months up to one years salary, pension Each Non-Executive Directors appointment is governed allowance and benefits by written terms which are available for inspection at the Alan Trotter 01 02 10 Twelve Six Loss of office Companys registered office and are also available at the months months up to one years Annual General Meeting.
Non-Executive Directors are salary, pension allowance appointed subject to annual re-election at the Companys and benefits AGM and their appointment may be terminated at any time by notice given by three quarters of the other Directors.
The Executive Directors have service contracts which may Fees payable to Non-Executive Directors are set out in the be terminated on twelve months notice from the Company table opposite.
or six months notice from the Director.
The contracts contain specific mitigation provisions should their contracts be terminated.
The mitigation provisions are structured Consideration of shareholder views to provide monthly payments, during the notice period, against which any income received during the period is We maintain a regular dialogue with our shareholders offset.
The monthly payment would be based on current on all aspects of performance and governance, including salary, pension allowance and benefits.
Service contracts do remuneration issues.
not contain a default normal retirement age.
A Directors service contract may be terminated without notice and Consultation with our employees without any further payment or compensation, except for sums accrued up to the date of termination, on the The Company regularly seeks the views of its employees occurrence of certain events such as gross misconduct.
and specifically targets feedback on reward structures and whether pay outcomes are fair and reasonable given the Any share-based entitlements granted to an Executive level of responsibilities and contributions made throughout Director under the Groups share plans will be determined the year.
Feedback from our people is an important measure based on the relevant plan rules.
The default position is that of success in our reward strategy.
any outstanding awards lapse on cessation of employment.
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as Our people are also shareholders in our business, as we death, injury or disability, redundancy, retirement or other activily encourage share ownership, through our AESOP circumstances at the discretion of the Committee taking scheme and partnership shares, which are matched in into account the individuals performance and the reasons part by the Company.
We fundamentally believe that for their departure good leaver status can be applied encouraging share ownership not only gives our people but individuals will wait until normal date of vesting and a voice, as shareholders of the business, but it aligns the awards will normally be pro-rated for length of service.
interests of our people with our external shareholders.
The rules of the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan contain a change of control clause, which crystallises External advisers the share awards, subject to pro-rating of awards within the three year cycle based on days worked and to the The Remuneration Committee receives independent advice participant giving up their entitlement for replacement from Towers Watson and New Bridge Street consultants.
shares in any new company.
Towers Watson and New Bridge Street abide by the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct, which requires them to provide objective and impartial advice.
External directorships Towers Watson and New Bridge Street were appointed by The Company has a policy of permitting its Executive the Committee and they do not provide other services to Directors to hold one paid external directorship in another the Group.
Total fees charged by Towers Watson for the year company where this does not conflict with their duties to were 84,000 and New Bridge Street 62,000.
