20 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 The conviction to innovate Our Larger or multi-national businesses can struggle to be Platform Purpose flexible in how they operate.
By contrast, we are a business values which is big enough to have strong resources but small enough to be flexible and enterprising.
We consistently aim Profile Performance to look for improvements in how we do business as well Our values are shared as opportunities in our markets that can offer value for our beliefs within the People shareholders and customers in the short and longer term.
business that drive We listen and are open to other peoples ideas, finding our culture and the best solution for the business.
We stretch ourselves to provide a framework constantly improve and be the best we can.
for decisions and behaviours: a compass for our actions, initiatives and how we behave.
They are central to everything we do and Relationship focused underpin our focus on the delivery of long-term value for our shareholders.
Our focus has always been on building long term, mutually beneficial alliances with shareholders, customers and business partners who trust us to deliver.
We understand Social impact this kind of trust and loyalty has to be earned.
We aim to do this through understanding and listening to our audiences, We are committed to creating a sustainable future for ensuring they feel valued, exceeding their expectations and our shareholders, customers and communities.
We are ultimately, doing the right thing for our shareholders and committed to a strategy of responsible investment and have customers.
As well as focusing on our customers, we listen, a key role to play in supporting a stable capital market.
co-operate and collaborate to support each other.
We do We develop our employees to realise their full potential.
what we say we will, building trust with our colleagues.
We We manage the impact of our direct operations on the recognise and celebrate success.
environment, minimising our carbon footprint and we will begin to influence the actions of our suppliers.
We play our part in supporting the communities in which we operate.
Championing clarity We actively promote a sense of social responsibility in our own people and encourage our people to get involved and The investment world is built upon an ever-growing volume give something back to society.
of complex information that can often feel daunting.
Yet, all audiences want quality of insight over quantity of information.
They also seek clear messages and open, not Independence of thought closed, doors.
We aim to stand out as a business which takes the time and effort to be clear in our messages and As an independent company, rather than part of a wider to make complex information easier to digest for our financial services group, we can chart our own course.
We shareholders, customers and employees.
Internally, we aim are not afraid to challenge the norm and are courageous in to communicate face to face, avoiding email where we can.
the way we think and the way we do things.
We aim to be We are open and honest.
distinctive in our approach, in order to deliver better value for shareholders and customers.
We are not afraid to ask one another tough questions - in a constructive and supportive way.
We encourage our people to drive ideas forward with passion, energy and commitment and we see things through - we dont wait to be told.
