34 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Other investments Private equity Our private equity interests are predominantly in lower to Several of the fund managers are signatories to the mid-market European private equity buy-out funds which United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment, and invest across a range of sectors and countries.
In addition resource efficiency is a common investment theme in the to our fund holdings, we also have small direct investments majority of the funds.
The total committed to private equity funds at The private equity portfolio demonstrates our willingness 31 December 2013 was 161m, of which 133m has been and ability to invest for the long term, with our funds often invested.
Distributions to us from the funds are expected committed for longer than 10 years.
Our commitment to to accelerate as the funds mature over the next few years.
responsible investment is also reflected in the portfolio.
Mineral rights The Trust owns the mineral rights to land in the Southern from this land and have valued the assets on the basis of and Mid Western United States.
These are legacy positions the revenue it has generated.
Over the last 12 months, we from the time when Alliance Trusts principal activity was have seen an increase in leasing activity which has led to an that of a mortgage bank, focused on lending to farmers in increase of 115% in the revenue received and this in turn the United States.
Historically, we have generated royalty has led to an increase in the valuation of the portfolio by income from the oil and natural gas that has been extracted around 48%, despite the strength of Sterling.
Property Alliance Trust reduced its exposure to property late in 2013 The Climate Change Property Fund Limited Partnership, as part of the continued strategy to exit from direct real which we have held since 2008, has made some asset estate investment.
The sale of 107 George Street, Edinburgh disposals in 2013 and as a result distributions are starting to for 5.0m was completed in December.
flow back to Alliance Trust as a limited partner.
The valuation stood at 10.2m at the end of the year.
The market value of Monteith House, 11 George Square, Glasgow fell from 4.9m to 4.5m.
The market valuation was primarily derived using comparable recent market transactions on arms length terms and in accordance with RICS guidelines, undertaken by an independent professional valuer.
