s s e s s A M o n i t o r y f i t Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 3 Business Model Alliance Trusts business model as a self-managed investment trust is focused on maximising the return on our shareholders investment while seeking to protect its value in more challenging economic conditions.
We achieve this by investing in a range of assets including equities, fixed income, private equity, property and mineral rights.
Unlike most other investment trusts we have developed investment management and savings platform businesses to generate capital growth and, in time, dividend income.
Through borrowing we can enhance returns when market conditions permit.
Alongside the Alliance Trust portfolio our fund managers also invest third party funds in equities and fixed income through our asset management subsidiary, Alliance Trust Investments.
Our savings platform subsidiary, Alliance Trust Savings, provides an investment platform to the private investor both directly and through intermediaries.
How we create value for shareholders What makes To create total Our business What we do us distinctive shareholder return Unconstrained Investment We invest in: Capital growth: investment Management Global equities Investment style portfolio Investment Fixed income Stock selection Trust Alliance Trust emphasis Sustainable & Savings Alliance Responsible Focus on global Trust Investments Alliance Trust themes Investments Investments Other assets Responsible investment Income growth Long-term funded by: investment in subsidiaries Dividends and income from the Trust portfolio Profit from Alliance Trust Savings and Alliance Trust Investments Flat rate Savings We offer charging Platform retail Narrowing structure investors: of discount: Alliance Transparent & Trust Savings Investment Through increased competitive platform demand for pricing our shares Quality of service To find out more about: Our strategy Our values and priorities Our KPIs Risks to our business Go to pages 8 and 9 Go to pages 4 to 7 Go to pages 11 to 20 Go to pages 36 to 39 Risk Process Platform Purpose Profile Performance People n e d I M i t i g a t e t r o p e R 4 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Where we are now... Alliance Trust Savings has been restructured: the business The Trust is strong and performing simplified, returned to profit and is now well positioned consistently.
Our share price has risen and to capitalise on opportunities as a result of the Retail our discount is narrowing.
The changes made Distribution Review.
to our investment process in 2012 are now Alliance Trust Investments has come a long way in a short time and weathered tough market conditions.
It now has embedded and the global team is settled 2.2bn of Assets Under Management and three distinct and working hard to deliver strong offerings in Global Equities, Sustainable and Responsible long-term investment performance.
Investment SRI and Fixed Income.
The SRI investment team and funds were integrated seamlessly and are already attracting new business.
At the same time we have transformed our business, streamlining, simplifying, and creating a unified organisational structure with a shared service model.
We have a common set of values and behaviours and a strong risk and control framework.
We show below how our values and priorities combine to provide us with a compass to guide the way we operate our business.
Our Values Our Priorities Social impact Purpose Creating a sustainable future Creating wealth and security for our investors Independence of thought Performance Challenging the norm Delivering strong and sustainable Platform Purpose investment performance Conviction to innovate People Improving the way we Making Alliance Trust an Profile Performance do business employer of choice Relationship focused Profile People Building long-term alliances Raising awareness of Alliance Trust among our target market Championing clarity Platform Being clear in our messages Building a robust operating and control framework to support growth Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 5... and where we aim to be in 2020 With the business well positioned to grow, we have focused our own people to achieve prosperous financial futures.
Our on what the next seven years for Alliance Trust might look strategy also recognises that while profits and growth are like.
Vision 2020 is the result of that work: it builds upon our key, with success comes a responsibility to play an important current strengths, shows where we want to be in 2020 and role in supporting the communities we operate in and being the steps we need to take to get there.
mindful of the impact we have on our carbon footprint.
We will be an employer of choice and a sought after destination By 2020 we will be widely recognised as a trusted investment for key talent.
Our shares will be in strong demand, trading and savings business.
Our investment business will be a at a narrower discount than our peer group, and providing a market-leading specialist, offering solutions to clients and with strong return on investment for our shareholders.
Our savings business will have grown significantly and be delivering a strong profit stream.
We Vision 2020 is ambitious but attainable.
The route map below will be recognised as an organisation that places customers that we are using to engage with our people sets out the at the heart of everything we do and that leads the market journey ahead, but it also represents the beginning of the in sustainability.
Our Investing for Generations strategy is process, not the end.
The hard work of transforming our focused upon ensuring that our business remains strong and vision into reality has already begun, and we look forward to profitable and enables us to help our investors, clients and reporting on our progress through 2014 and beyond.
Extract from our internal communication of Vision 2020
