22 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Portfolio Review Description of themes Our investment process has at its heart Environment the belief that markets are inefficient and We need to use the planets resources as efficiently as possible and we that fundamental, insightful research can seek out those companies which seek to benefit from more efficient resource usage.
The Agricultural productivity: investment team identifies and capitalises With more mouths to feed and a finite world to feed them from, we on these inefficiencies across global markets will continue to need to produce more and more food.
We invest in companies that enable farmers to increase productivity.
adding to shareholder value regardless of market cycles or a benchmark.
Sustainable transportation: We must learn to do more with less within transportation industries.
Searching out innovation and efficiency gains should always be on This philosophy leads us to a high conviction approach, a companys priority list.
We are also aware that there is additional investing in a long-only portfolio of equities from both pressure from regulators around the world who mandate stringent developed and emerging markets.
In line with our emissions targets for vehicles in their markets.
unconstrained approach, the team analyses the companies in Subsea oil: which we invest on a seamless, global thematic basis, rather In order to supply the worlds oil needs, producers are searching and than by country of domicile.
Based on this process and longextracting from sources that are increasingly hard to reach.
This is an term investment horizon, the portfolio will tend to have a area of exciting growth and requires companies with the expertise and technologies for tough environments.
growth with sustainable income bias over time.
As part of this sustainable approach we have a filter mechanism to screen our possible investment universe of Demographics over 7,500 stocks down to around 750.
The initial screen will look to align our preferred themes and sustainability criteria With the population of the world over seven billion and continuing to rise, we also see living standards and life expectancies rising, particularly in Asia.
with the universe of stocks.
This allows us to analyse in depth the list of possible holdings for conviction and valuation to Lifestyle: produce the final portfolio of around 100 companies.
Changes in lifestyle in the emerging markets have led to an increase in the incidence of what were traditionally viewed as western diseases.
Within this theme, healthcare companies, in particular, can help counter these diseases.
7500 Financial services penetration: Rising incomes and life expectancies increase the means and desire for financial services and savings products like pensions and life insurance.
Emerging luxury: Rising disposable incomes provide the means and encourage the desire to buy luxury items.
Themes Sustainability Asian automation: The downside of rising personal incomes for Asian companies is that this increases their costs.
A way to offset this is through increased automation in manufacturing processes.
750 Screening Global realignment We continue to see a shift of power from West to East.
Opportunities exist for companies to expand in these more vibrant environments.
Banking consolidation: The global financial crisis of 2008 ushered in a new era of banking regulation and change of business models.
Turnaround: 100 Inevitably, from time to time some companies must face up to Valuation Conviction dramatic change as a result of structural shifts in their industry or competition from innovative new methods or technologies.
With thorough research on a business and its management, we can identify companies where the market has been too quick to judge the companys model as a failure, and ignored its potential for rebirth.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 23 List of stocks in theme Portfolio position BASF We maintained our positions in the US based Oceaneering International BorgWarner, an auto components maker, and Cummins, BorgWarner Perusahaan Gas Negara a global leader in the design, manufacture and China Gas Praxair distribution of track engines and power generation Cummins Rolls-Royce systems.
Over the year we increased our exposure to the subsea oil theme.
This was done by starting new Enterprise Products Partners Schlumberger positions in Schlumberger and Technip.
Glencore Xstrata Schneider Electric Integrated Waste Solutions Seadrill Melrose Industries Technip Monsanto Volkswagen Noble Energy Aberdeen Asset Management Grupo Financiero Banorte We continued to hold Novo Nordisk in Denmark, which focuses on diabetes care and offers insulin delivery AmerisourceBergen Humana systems as well as other diabetes products.
We created a Bangkok Bank Hyundai Mobis new position in Reckitt Benckiser, which is continuing to Charoen Pokphand Foods Komercni Banka develop its consumer healthcare offering.
Elsewhere in the UK, we sold the brewer SABMiller and the insurer RSA.
Coach Mattel CVS Caremark Novo Nordisk Diageo Prudential Experian Reckitt Benckiser Express Scripts Unilever Fanuc WPP Fomento Economico Mexicano Aviva Kraft Foods We continue to hold Henkel, a German adhesives and household & personal care company as its turnaround Barclays Mitsubishi UFJ Financial progresses.
We also started a position in Kraft, which BNP Paribas Pfizer is refocusing its business to perform solely in the wellCiti Standard Chartered developed US market.
Henkel The Toronto-Dominion Bank HSBC Wells Fargo 24 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Portfolio Review Description of themes Investing with an unconstrained approach allows the team Innovation to look across global equity markets without reference to a benchmark.
The team adopts a disciplined investment Innovation is what drives economies and humanity forward.
We process which assists in generating ideas for the long-term.
favour companies that are setup in such a way to constantly produce The emphasis is first and foremost on stock specific innovative new products or methods of working.
At the same time the team aims to identify specific opportunities and complementary structural themes Smart communications: which assists it in analysing and forecasting long-term Smartphones continue to be an essential accessory to day-to-day life sustainable corporate development and financial and, as the technology and networks evolve, more and more users gain performance.
The typical investment horizon is three to five access to greater opportunities for communication and commerce.
However, within the boundaries of this disciplined Cloud computing: investment and risk management process, the team can Computing is constantly evolving and the latest step a move to also take opportunistic and shorter-term investment the cloud and the internet of things provides opportunities for decisions.
ESG scores are provided to us by MSCI for the companies and consumers to use data, systems and shared services large majority of the equity universe along with supporting more effectively.
We capture these scores within our investment process and they are reviewed for all Personalised medicine: companies we invest in or consider investing in.
As a result of the fascinating discoveries related to the human genome, we continue to see progress in the area of personalised medicine, with several drugs being approved in the last few years.
The cost of DNA sequencing continues to fall and we believe that we Company are still at the beginning of this journey.
meetings, site 100 Companies visits, on the High conviction ground fact nding Income Steady, sustainable income generation can be obtained from a few In house: sectors and industries.
Valuation Model, Research Stock Selection, meetings Research Energy income: Centre Many large oil majors offer relatively high dividends as they convert their significant oil reserves into free cash flow.
Meanwhile, further discoveries and the emergence of US shale give expectation of increasing additions to their portfolios.
Idea Validation Property income: A real estate investment trust REIT owns assets, such as offices, apartments or even communications towers, which generate a Idea Portfolio steady stream of income.
Portfolio Generation Construction Risk Management We are committed to building and maintaining relationships with the companies in which we invest and as such, endorse the updated UK Stewardship Code, which promotes dialogue between shareholders and boards.
We are signatories to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment UN PRI which advocate environmental, social and corporate governance considerations when taking investment decisions.
We actively engage with other investors through the UN PRI initiative as part of an international network of investors working together to promote a more sustainable global financial system.
We are particularly concerned to ensure that the companies in which we invest comply with relevant employment legislation and their human rights obligations.
We do not participate in any stock lending activities.
We have a link to our Stewardship Policy Statement on the Company website as well as a report on all our voting activities which are also detailed on page 21.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 25 List of stocks in theme Portfolio position Accenture Qualcomm We continue to hold Qualcomm and Samsung.
We added to Accenture, a leading provider of global management Amgen Roche Holding consulting outsourcing and IT services.
We sold Cadence Design Systems Samsung Electronics Microsoft, the US software company.
Cerner Sanofi We continued to hold Roche of Switzerland.
Amgen Danaher SAP is another holding increasingly interested in the GlaxoSmithKline Twenty-First Century Fox personalised medicine approach as evidenced by their acquisition of deCODE genetics, a global leader in Google United Technologies analysing and understanding the human genome, Intuitive Surgical Visa based in Iceland.
Liberty Global Walt Disney American Tower Plum Creek Timber We continued to build a position in M1, a Singapore mobile voice, data communications, broadband and fixed Ascendas Real Estate Resolution Limited communications services company in Singapore.
We sold Investment Trust Rogers Communications Axiata, a Malaysian telecommunications company.
Ashmore Global Royal Dutch Shell We started a new position in Wisconsin Energy, a US utility Opportunities Swedbank company that operates in a benign regulatory environment.
bpost Taiwan Mobile Deutsche Post Telecom New Zealand Eni Total Gtech Vodafone Legal & General Vtech M1 Wisconsin Energy Marsh & McLennan Zurich Insurance National Grid Och-Ziff Capital Management Energy Turnaround income Property Banking income consolidation ENVIRONMENT Smart Personalised communications medicine Agriculture GLOBAL Cloud DEMOGRAPHICS INCOME productivity REALIGNMENT computing Financial Asian services automation penetration INNOVATION Eating Subsea oil habits Emerging Sustainable luxury transportation % t i l p s e u n % 26 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Portfolio Review Reckitt Benckiser Demographics Total Return -1%.
Position acquired in May June 2013 Reckitt Benckiser is a global consumer goods Rogers Communications company with leading brands in Health, Hygiene and Home products.
The heart of its growth strategy is Income to shift its focus towards the faster growing consumer Total Return 8%.
Initial investment in health and hygiene markets.
They will also benefit June 2013 from rising income and favourable demographic Rogers Communications operates as a diversified trends in developing countries where they are communications and media company in Canada, investing heavily emerging markets will account for through three segments: Wireless, Cable, and Media.
about 50% of non-pharmaceutical sales in 2015.
The company was founded in 1960 and is based in Toronto, Canada.
Walt Disney Innovation Total Return 31%.
Initial investment in February 2013 Walt Disney is a leading US media content business which benefits from growing Pay TV penetration in emerging markets as well as a very healthy US Pay TV ecosystem.
Its strong media franchises such as Disney, Marvel, Cars and Star Wars can also be leveraged through its parks and resorts as well as its consumer and games business.
Geographical weight The geographical weight of our core equity portfolio is based on the region in which the company is listed, while the revenue split analyses the segmental reporting of revenue by the companies in which Alliance Trust 12.4 invests.
Analysis excludes segmental non-specific income such as Rest of the World 11% as the definition varies from company to company.
29.0 18.2 North America Europe 33.9 47.2 UK Asia & Emerging Markets 6.6 19.5 22.2 e t h g v i e w e c i h R p a r g o e G Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 27 China Gas Environment Total Return 85%.
Position reduced as price performed China Gas is one of the major gas distributors in BNP Paribas Global Realignment China, which has seen volumes grow by 20% annually.
Net purchase of 200,000 The Chinese Governments drive to increase gas usage shares during the year at the expense of coal is due to the huge pollution BNP Paribas attracts deposits and offers commercial, problems the country has now and which it fears will retail, investment, private and corporate banking worsen.
Therefore the Government has set out a key services.
The Bank also provides asset management policy on supply gas growth, from which China Gas and investment advisory services to institutions and is well positioned to benefit.
individuals in Europe, the United States, Asia and the Emerging Markets.
We believe that BNPs level of capital, the integration of Fortis and its global and pan-european footprint is underappreciated.
