Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 61 Non-Executive Directors Purpose Operation Opportunity Help recruit and retain Reviewed periodically The current basic Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors.
with levels set with regard Directors fee is 35,000. to responsibilities and fees The Articles of Association set a market movement.
maximum of 224,000 on fees The Company takes advice payable to directors.
from independent consultants Note this does not include who advise on fees and issues salary payments to Executive of comparability between Directors, the Chairs fee or fees the Company and other paid for serving on or chairing similarly sized companies, and Committees, or for other companies operating in the additional responsibilities.
same sector, to ensure that the Non-Executive Directors and Chair are remunerated at a level which reflects the time commitment and responsibilities of the role.
The Remuneration Committee determines the Chairs fee The Board excluding the Non-Executive Directors who take no part in the process determines the Non-Executive Directors fees.
Reflects individual experience Reviewed annually with In 2014 fees are paid for service Additional and role.
levels set with regard to on committees as follows: responsibilities and market fees Membership of Audit movement.
Committee 3,000 The Company takes advice Membership of from independent consultants Remuneration who advise on fees and issues Committee 3,000 of comparability between Membership of Board Risk the Company and other Committee 3,000 similarly sized companies, and Chair of Remuneration companies operating in the Committee 7,500 same sector, to ensure that the Non-Executive Directors Chair of Audit and Chair are remunerated Committee 11,000 at a level which reflects Senior Independent the time commitment and Director 5,000 responsibilities of the role.
Chair of Board Risk The Remuneration Committee Committee 7,500 determines the Chairs fee.
Chair 120,000 The Board excluding the no other fees are payable Non-Executive Directors who to the Chair take no part in the process determines the Non-Executive Directors fees.
To support the Chair in the Secretarial assistance is Secretarial execution of her duties.
provided in relation to activities related to the support to Alliance Trust Group.
