32 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Alliance Trust Savings has delivered a profit for the first time in eight years, and is now very well positioned to We deliver award continue its growth in the platform market and deliver increasing profits.
Our continuing platform business winning products generated an operating profit of 0.4m excluding the gain on sale of the Full SIPP business and non-recurring RDR expenditure as outlined below.
The Alliance Trust Savings proposition is to offer a high quality trading platform for direct and intermediary customers, which delivers value for money together with award winning service.
The platform business has made strong progress with assets under administration increasing by 33%, which includes a 405% increase in new accounts from the intermediary market.
We incurred non-recurring expenditure of 2.0m to promote the RDR readiness of the business.
We made a net gain of 5.4m from the sale of the Full SIPP business which completed in the early part of the year.
The disposal of the Full SIPP has allowed the business to focus on the growth and development of the platform.
2014 will see the implementation of the next phase of the Retail Distribution Review RDR, with platform charging transparency becoming effective from 6 April.
Alliance Trust Savings has always been transparent and with its flat-fee structure is in an excellent position to take advantage of this change.
We have taken the opportunity to realign our pricing and to strengthen our flat-fee structure with a more inclusive annual fee.... and service To take advantage of these changes and our excellent proposition, we plan to promote our offering in both the direct and intermediary channels through a significant advertising and marketing campaign over the next two years.
We are also investing in the business through new technology which will help deliver increased functionality, initially in the intermediary market, with a much improved customer experience and efficiencies across the whole business.
One-off costs associated with this investment are expected to be around 2m, with ongoing variable costs based on volumes.
Continuing operations Assets under Administration Revenue Dec 13 5.4bn Dec 13 10.9m Dec 12 4.1bn Dec 12 9.6m Dec 11 3.3bn Dec 11 6.9m Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 33 Key strengths Financial performance continuing operations We have a number of key strengths which position us well in the market: Revenue Fixed-fee pricing we have a simple fixed-fee structure.
Revenue increased 14% reflecting the introduction of Investment choice we have one of the widest ranges of quarterly charges on the Investment Dealing Account investments in the platform market.
from August 2012 and a 16% increase in dealing volumes.
Net interest income, which accounts for only Quality of service we have won a number of service 16% of revenue, reduced to 1.8m despite an increase in level awards during the year.
average customer deposits reflecting the reduced deposit Alliance Trust we have the backing of a strong rates paid by banks.
parent, independent of banks and life company product providers.
Expenses Expenses increased by 5% to meet customer service Retail Distribution Review we already offer growth and the increased cost of regulatory compliance.
Net assets Strategy There were no capital injections into Alliance Trust Savings during the year.
The key drivers for the business are customer account numbers and trading volumes.
Our strategy is to grow 2013 2012 Continuing operations m m both over the coming years by a continued focus on our customer proposition in both the direct and Revenue 10.9 9.6 Expenses 10.5 10.0 intermediary markets.
Operating profit loss 0.4 0.4 To continue to improve technology and simplify the Fair valuation 26.7 24.6 business to improve efficiencies and customer experience.
Core Tier 1 Ratio 20.5% 20.7% To enhance our intermediary proposition to position Total Capital Ratio 27.1% 27.6% ourselves as one of the leading platforms in the market.
Excluding the revenue and expenses relating to the Full SIPP business which was sold in January 2013 and non-recurring RDR expenditure.
The fair valuation methodology and assumptions are described in Note 23.8 on page 109.
The cumulative capital investment in Alliance Trust Savings is 52.8m.
