Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 35 Outlook Looking forward into 2014, we believe that equities remain globe.
The Scottish political landscape will also be under relatively good value, particularly when compared to other close scrutiny culminating in an independence referendum asset classes.
Although stock markets can no longer be in September.
Although our focus will continue to be on described as cheap, at a company level we continue to see a stockpicking, these and other issues will keep us vigilant range of interesting investment opportunities in well managed throughout the year.
companies with strong balance sheets and sustainable Importantly, even though we constantly monitor global business models.
These are the investments we seek and they macroeconomic developments, the portfolio continues to still offer value and the prospect of above average returns, be focused on core holdings that are underpinned by longparticularly for long-term investors such as Alliance Trust.
Our assessment of the global economic backdrop has Demographic change represents a critical backdrop for improved and most commentators agree that global output several companies that we are invested in.
The emergence will expand in 2014.
The recent World Bank forecast suggests of new middle classes in developing economies is very global economic growth will be 3.2% and it has issued a supportive for the current and future growth of, for more favourable outlook for Europe.
This backdrop will help example, Reckitt Benckiser and Unilever.
Greater penetration underpin investor confidence as well as business investment, of financial services in countries like Mexico and Indonesia which slowed in 2012 and 2013.
However, there are risks will lead to superior value creation for our holdings in Grupo inherent in the financial system and we are not complacent Financiero Banorte and Prudential, respectively.
about the potential consequences that the unwinding of quantitative easing might bring, as witnessed at the start of Challenges associated with the environment and the use 2014.
Other areas that still cause concern are the US debt of natural resources can represent a source of opportunity ceiling, Abenomics in Japan and the risk of a hard landing for companies that provide the right solutions.
Monsanto in China: none of these should be underestimated.
We is helping to address the long-term issue of food scarcity, believe that the best way to protect and grow shareholder through its advanced seed technology.
Sustainable value is to focus on the stock-specific risks and our rigorous transportation is enabled by companies that increase fuel and thematic bottom-up approach brings to light companies efficiency, like BorgWarner.
The high level of pollution in that will be successful throughout the economic cycle.
We are China will be tackled by a progressive shift from coal to confident that we can maintain a portfolio of companies that natural gas as the primary source of energy our holding in are well placed to drive future returns for the Trust.
China Gas is well placed to benefit from that transition.
Innovation is another area of focus for the portfolio.
Cloud In addition to our equity portfolio we continue to hold computing is forcing the corporate world to revisit their IT investments in mineral rights and private equity.
While our strategies - many Fortune 500 companies are supported investments in private equity do not generate income we by Accenture in a multi-annual process of transformation.
expect significant capital distributions in the future.
Income Exciting developments in personalised medicine open from our legacy mineral rights continues to increase as we new growth opportunities for companies with first-class actively manage these historic assets.
Despite the prospect of further tapering, global monetary In line with our tradition, our emphasis remains focused policy will remain loose and fiscal policy should become less on stocks with potential for sustainable capital growth restrictive as economies gather momentum.
We believe that this will provide remains an issue in some areas although domestic demand is consistent returns and a rising dividend over the long term.
increasing in others, particularly in the UK, the US and parts of Europe.
Productivity needs to rise in 2014 but an increase in business investment and subdued wage inflation will help.
It promises to be a very interesting year.
With an improving economic backdrop and the prospect of the US Federal Reserve reducing the amount of stimulus it provides, there could be a negative impact on equity markets across the Strategic Report The Strategic Report pages 2 to 39 of this document has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Katherine Garrett-Cox, Chief Executive 6 March 2014
