18 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Profile Purpose Platform We believe that we are in a unique position Profile Performance at Alliance Trust in that we offer products People and services that should appeal to a broad cross-section of investors and meet a range of their investment requirements.
We provide for investors who use collective investment vehicles.
We offer a globally diversified investment trust and a range of open-ended funds.
We also provide a savings platform upon which these, and other, investments may be held in a tax-efficient manner.
We have been proactively promoting our products and services to consumers, intermediaries and institutions for a number of years and this has gone a long way to building our company brand awareness to date.
We believe that it is important that shareholders have all the information that they may reasonably need in order to make an informed decision and provide more disclosures than are required in order to assist this understanding.
The flat-fee pricing structure in Alliance Trust Savings also provides transparency and certainty for retail investors.
However, with the introduction of the Retail Distribution Review, there are a large number of investors who are looking to manage their own portfolios.
For them and others, education is going to play an important role in answering their questions.
If we can be seen to provide assistance in this area, then we can engender trust and build up brand awareness by becoming recognised for providing valuable insight and guidance.
With that in mind, we have launched an online hub, in association with the Daily Telegraph, that has quality educational content focusing on topics such as introduction to investment planning, products in a portfolio, global diversification, retirement planning, planning for your family future etc.
In 2014, we will be launching a group wide brand campaign focusing on education and guidance aiming at individual investors.
We will be advertising these themes heavily with the objective of building brand awareness and, importantly, trust in our brand.
Our Investment Focus online hub.
