54 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Executive Directors Purpose Operation Change in year To help recruit, retain and Reviewed annually with We changed the annual review Base Salary motivate high performing levels set to reflect individual date from 1 January to 1 April employees.
Salary increases were experience and performance not back-dated.
role and importance of the individual to the business as A market benchmarking a whole.
exercise will be undertaken each year to ensure that salaries remain around the median of the market level, for roles of similar size and complexity.
To help recruit and retain Benefits currently received by Car allowances will be Benefits employees.
directors include: discontinued in 2014 and incorporated into basic To provide market competitive Paid holidays salary.
This decision was benefits which add a level of taken in order to simplify Life insurance protection and preventative the benefit package.
Travel insurance Private health insurance Permanent health insurance Subsistence allowance Car allowance Subscriptions to professional bodies or other relevant organisations To encourage and reward For Executive Directors, No change Short term delivery of the companys individual awards are currently strategic goals and to align assessed at least 50% against Incentives the interests of directors Corporate KPIs and no more closely with interests of than 50% against a set of shareholders and clients.
business objectives linked to the Company strategy.
Variable compensation Individual awards are constitutes a significant determined by a rigorous proportion of the total assessment of achievement compensation award to against defined objectives, and ensure the company remains are reviewed and approved by able to flex its cost base and the Committee.
Executive Directors are required to defer at least 50% of any cash bonus into the LTIP.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 55 Opportunity Performance measures and reasons for selection Salaries are reviewed annually Not applicable and increases are effective from 1 April.
It is our intention to target salaries around the market median of similar sized businesses.
Any increases will consider UK Retail Prices Index and market conditions and will typically be in line with increases offered to our wider population of employees.
Any increases will be based upon performance in role and level of responsibilities and experience of the individual concerned.
Year on year increases are unlikely to be more than twice the rate of increase in the RPI.
The Company provides a Not applicable range of market benchmarked benefits.
The costs of these benefits may change year on year due to external insurance costs.
Should we recruit a Director from overseas, flexibility will be retained to provide benefits which would typically have been provided in their country of origin.
These may include school fees, and relocation costs.
For the financial year 2014 In 2014 the performance measures are: the annual bonus is capped 50% of Annual Bonus based on at 150% but the Committee have discretion to increase the NAV Total Return % change in NAV against a peer group over one year maximum to 200% in Total Shareholder Return % change in TSR against a peer group over one year future years.
Delivery of progressive dividend growth Prudent management of Company costs These targets have been selected as they are the key financial metrics which determine value creation for our shareholders.
50% of Annual Bonus based on individual business targets set for each Director.
The Committee has chosen to direct the performance of Executive Directors through key strategic and leadership targets which they believe will drive the success of the company strategy over the long term.
These business and strategic objectives will change year on year.
The Committee can set different performance measures and or targets provided that, in the opinion of the Committee, the proposed changes are not significant.
If changes are contemplated, the Committee will consider whether it is appropriate to consult with the Companys main shareholders.
56 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Executive Directors Purpose Operation Change in year To drive the execution of There are two categories of No change Long-term our long-term strategy award which can be made through close alignment of under the LTIP.
Matching Awards: these Incentivises long-term entitle the participant to value creation.
receive shares at nil cost with the number of shares being Aligns the interests of the calculated with reference to Executive Directors with those the amount of deferred bonus of the shareholders.
which is used to purchase shares in the Company Promotes long-term and which are deposited in investment by Directors the plan.
At least 50% of and creates a higher level of the annual bonus must be retention as a result.
Deferred bonuses held in company stock attract dividend payments, if payable.
Performance Awards: these are based on a multiple of salary, and subject to the same longterm performance measure as the matching awards.
To ensure that reward This enables the Committee The Committee will Malus and structures do not encourage to recover awards in introduce a clawback excessive risk taking.
the exceptional event mechanism in 2014, which Clawback Policy of: misstatement or will enable previously vested misleading representation of awards to be recovered performance: a significant where deemed necessary.
failure of risk management and control: or serious misconduct of an individual.
To align interest of all HMRC approved All Employee From May 2013 the Company AESOP employees to the success of Share Ownership Plan.
has matched the purchase the business.
of shares up to 20 per All employees can receive month to encourage greater To encourage all employees to shares dependent upon the employee share ownership.
build long term savings in performance of the business a tax efficient way.
in each year and can elect to purchase up to the HMRC limit of partnership shares from pre-tax income each tax year.
To offer market competitive Directors receive a cash No change Pension pension benefits and retain key payment instead of a employees over the long term.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 57 Opportunity Performance measures and reasons for selection The maximum that can be This is based on a combination of two separate performance measures one relating to growth in NAV and received in a matching award is another to TSR each of which will determine the extent to which 50% of an award vests.
Under these twice the number of shares that conditions, the TSR and NAV growth of the Company will be measured over a period of three consecutive could be purchased with the financial years commencing with the financial year in which the award in question is granted and then gross value of the annual bonus compared to the corresponding performance of each company in a comparator group comprised of AIC at the time of the award.
The maximum number of At the end of this period, two separate ranking tables will be produced one for the TSR element of shares which can be awarded the award and another for the NAV element with Alliance Trusts position in each table determining the in a performance award is extent to which the relevant part of the award vests as follows: calculated on twice the annual TSR NAV Performance against Peer Group Vesting between median and upper quartile is based salary of the participant at the % of share awards that vest on a vesting curve.
We have chosen a vesting curve to date of the award.
align the interests of LTIP participants to Alliance Trusts Below Median 0 traditional low risk investment philosophy and to reflect Median 25 our belief that performance which consistently falls Between Median and Top Quartile 25-100 between median and upper quartile will, over time, Top Quartile 100 translate into long-term upper quartile performance.
These targets have been selected as they are LTIP awards from 2011 onwards the key financial metrics which determine value Vest % creation for our shareholders.
100 The Committee can make minor changes to 75 the performance condition.
Any significant change will require shareholder approval.
50 The LTIP is measured on a smoothed basis i. e. 25 using a rolling 30 day average at the start and 0 end of the performance period.
This reduces Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 the impact of short term volatility.
Peer Group Ranking A clawback principle applies to The malus and clawback policy can be applied: short and long-term incentives If it is discovered that: and applies to both unvested awards and awards which have the Company materially misstated its results for the last whole financial year comprised in the applicable vested within the past 3 years.
performance period: or a material error was made in assessing the relevant performance conditions, and, in either case, the Committee considers that this resulted in a higher number of shares vesting than would otherwise have been the case.
100 If it is discovered that, prior to the vesting date of the award, the participant committed an act which was unknown to the Committee on that date but which, if it had been known, could have resulted in dismissal for gross misconduct.
The award is determined by the Committee based on overall corporate performance.
50 Maximum value of free This measure has been selected as the most appropriate having regard to the application of this award to all shares that can be awarded: employees within the group.
25 The Committee can set different performance measures and or targets provided that, in the opinion of the Committee, the proposed changes are not significant.
Our employees can purchase partnership shares up to a maximum of currently 1,500, 0 from 6 April 2014 1,800 31 29 27 25 23 21 19 17 15 13 11 9 7 5 3 1 and the Company currently matches up to 20 per month but could increase matching up to HMRC limits in future.
A maximum of 25% of salary Not Applicable can be awarded in lieu of pension contribution.
58 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Executive Directors Purpose Operation Opportunity To secure the highest We would not expect any new Variable Pay: New directors Recruitment performing talent from the director to receive a salary, car will participate in short-term industry and or from internal allowance, pension allowance and long-term incentive and promotion succession plans.
This policy or holiday entitlement more plans with the same would also cover situations than 50% higher than the maximum opportunities as whereby the Chair or another current maximum payments existing directors.
Non-Executive Director steps which could be received by For internal promotions, into an Executive role on a the previous role holder.
the Committee reserves the temporary basis.
right to satisfy pre-existing executive incentive awards and other obligations which may be in place at the time of appointment.
Benefits: We would not normally expect to provide any benefits at any different level of provision than those set out in the policy table currently received by the Directors.
Should it be appropriate to recruit a director from overseas, flexibility is retained to provide benefits that take account of those typically provided in their country of residence or to provide additional benefits such as a relocation allowance or tax equalisation.
Remuneration for new appointments will be set in accordance with the policy table.
Where appropriate, the Remuneration Committee may offer additional remuneration, such as shares or cashbased awards, to replace remuneration the individual has given up in order to be able to join the Company.
The Committee will endeavour to offer such payments in the form of long-term incentives to ensure alignment with shareholders and retention of key employees.
To align the interests Executive Directors are required The Committee has increased Share of Executive Directors to build up the equivalent the share ownership guideline with shareholders.
of 150% of salary in Alliance from 100% to 150% in 2014. ownership Trust PLC shares and it is expected that this would be reached within five years.
Only shares without performance conditions are included.
Executive Directors are required to retain half of post tax shares vesting under the LTIP until the guideline is met.
