Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 19 Alliance Trust has applied to the Financial Conduct Authority FCA for authorisation as a Manager under the Platform Directive.
As a self-managed trust we will act as our own Purpose Platform manager and, as required, will appoint a third party as a During the year we Depositary for the Trusts assets.
The principal duties of have addressed a the Depositary are to ensure the safekeeping of investors Profile Performance number of issues which assets and to oversee the processes and procedures of the would otherwise have manager.
The costs associated with implementation and People affected our ability to the ongoing charges associated with the Directive will be continue investing and borne by the Trust.
Savings platform Outsourcing middle and back office Alliance Trust Savings has entered into an agreement with investment functions GBST to deliver its platform technology solution.
GBST is a leading global provider of securities transaction and online We reported last year that we had entered into an trading technology.
The technology will be fully integrated outsourcing agreement with BNY Mellon BNYM with a within the business to improve the offering to customers view to BNYM taking on the administration of certain of and intermediaries, deliver operational efficiencies and our middle and back office investment functions.
During support the growth of the business.
The aim is to launch the year, the project has progressed and we are on track to the new technology for intermediary new business in the deliver the first phase of the project during 2014. early part of 2015, followed by the migration of existing The outsourcing arrangements, which are not expected to customers towards the end of 2015. result in material cost savings, will however enable us to focus on managing the investment portfolio and also to ensure that middle and back office investment functions Information technology are delivered in a single, scalable and cost effective manner We believe that it is important that the technology we use by our third party provider.
It will also ensure that these provides us with the tools that we need to run our business services will develop in line with industry best practice.
efficiently but is also secure.
In the course of the year we reviewed our IT systems, in conjunction with external security consultants, and enhanced controls to improve Regulatory change Alternative data security and to reflect industry developments.
Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD The AIFM Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive was conceived in the aftermath of the financial crisis in 2008.
Its objective was to ensure that previously unregulated collective investment activities would be subject to regulatory oversight.
Although the primary target was hedge funds, the legislation is broadly written to regulate a wide range of collective investments including investment trusts.
Unlike many other investments in this category, investment trusts were already regulated by both the Companies Acts and the Listing Rules which apply to companies traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The presence of an independent Board also acts to safeguard the interests of shareholders.
