Introduction from the Chair I am delighted to present Alliance Trusts 126th Annual Report.
We report on our performance for the year ended 31 December 2013.
We also explain our strategy, business model and long-term priorities.
Our focus is on the long-term and we have set out our ambitions for Alliance Trust in our Vision 2020, as explained in this report.
The focus of the Trust has long been to deliver a combination of capital growth and a consistently rising dividend.
In the year, the total return to shareholders was 22.7%.
This return ranks the Trust as median within its peer group of Global trusts over one year and the Trust is also ranked above median over three years.
The NAV Total Return was 18.4%, which ranked in the third quartile, while it was ranked above median over three years.
In line with our dividend policy we are declaring a fourth quarterly dividend of 2.387p and a special dividend of 1.282p, giving a total dividend for the year of 10.83p, an increase of 12.5%.
This is our 47th consecutive year of dividend increases, a record matched by only a handful of other listed companies.
During the year our discount narrowed significantly from 15.6% to 12.9%, driven principally by increased demand for the shares.
During the year we bought back 1.485m shares, or 0.3% of the opening number of shares in issue, at a total cost of 6.7m.
2014 will see voters in Scotland going to the polls to make a decision on their future, either within or outside the United Kingdom.
We recognise that regardless of the outcome we have a duty of care to our shareholders, customers and employees.
The main areas likely to impact our customers and our business are: Jurisdiction and taxation of individual savings and pension plans Financial services regulation and consumer protection Currency Membership of the European Union Alliance Trust is focused on serving our shareholders and customers across the United Kingdom from our offices in Dundee, Edinburgh and London.
To remove any uncertainty, we have started work to establish additional companies which will be registered in England, in order to provide operational flexibility and to complement our existing business in Scotland.
This gives all our customers, regardless of their location, full confidence that we will be able to provide continuity of service and protection for their investments and savings.
We continue to focus on the creation of long-term value for shareholders through investment performance and the development of our subsidiary businesses.
We will see the impact of recent regulatory change, in particular the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, which will apply to Alliance Trust along with other investment trusts from July 2014, and the Retail Distribution Review.
In each case the regulators have as their objective the protection of investors and we share that concern, but regulation must also avoid imposing unnecessary costs which are ultimately borne by these same investors.
In the rest of this Annual Report, which reflects recent changes to regulation and governance best practice, we discuss all of these issues in more detail.
My fellow directors and I hope you find it useful and informative.
In the meantime we thank you for your continuing support of Alliance Trust.
Our focus is on Karin Forseke long-term value creation for our shareholders to continue to earn your trust 2 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 For us, everything starts with trust.
It is in our name and it is key to a winning long-term strategy.
Our Vision: To be the UKs most trusted investment and savings business.
Our Mission: In an investment world full of uncertainty and mistrust, we aim to stand out as a business that builds customer and investor loyalty through being closer to their needs and serving them in a more engaging way.
Our philosophy is summed up in our name.
We build success through building stronger, deeper, more sustainable relationships.
Going the extra mile to better serve customers and investors.
Finding the best possible ways to communicate clearly with all our audiences.
Bringing a refreshingly warm, open and engaging manner to the world of investment.
We build trust by earning it, not asking for it.
Understanding customers and investors needs and then delivering.
Focusing at all times on excellence and in securely growing and administering customers and investors wealth in a sustainable manner.
Bringing genuine integrity and an open, transparent approach to how we do business.
Working hard to build understanding and respect for our actions.
This is what drives us and can set us apart in the eyes of clients, customers and shareholders.
This is how we build loyalty and advocacy amongst them.
This is why we are Alliance Trust.
Our Purpose: Our purpose is to provide products and services that enable clients to create wealth and security for a more sustainable financial future.
People will do business with us because: we help them achieve long-term financial security we understand their needs and deliver what we say we will we offer a best value, easy to use platform we have a clear investment focus and grow wealth in a sustainable manner we provide strong thought leadership and our values are central to everything that we do we are easy to do business with we have ethical and transparent processes and we produce high quality information to make informed choices
