Alliance Alliance Trust Trust PLC PLC Report & Report & Accounts 2013 | Accounts 2013 | 11 11 We offer a best value, easy to Purpose use platform Purpose Platform Alliance Trust Savings administers a multi-award winning We know that almost platform, which provides its clients with a cost-effective 70% of our shares are means of managing their portfolio.
We charge a flat fee Profile Performance held, either directly for the service, as it basically costs us the same amount to or beneficially, by People administer a portfolio of 50,000 as to administer a portfolio private individuals and of 500,000.
As a result our customers have greater around 90% of the transparency over the charges levied.
clients of Alliance Trust Savings make their own investment decisions.
Most of our investors are private We operate in a way that will allow our individuals.
We see our purpose as being to provide products shareholders and customers to trust us and services that enable our shareholders and clients to Trust among private investors in financial service providers create wealth and security for a stronger financial future.
has been severely dented by some of the events of the last People will invest in us and do business with us because: five years.
Alliance Trust is determined to create the environment whereby investors can feel that they can trust Alliance Trust to be clear about what it will do and how it We help them achieve long-term will do it.
We will achieve this by being transparent in what financial security we do and how we communicate and relate to our clients.
From the conversations and correspondence we have with our shareholders, we know that stability and We are easy to do business with sustainability of capital and income returns are important factors in their decision to invest in us.
we have ethical and transparent processes and we produce high quality information We understand their needs and deliver what we say we will The Association of Investment Companies AIC has recognised Alliance Trust as the trust which provides We have been investing the capital of our shareholders the Best Information to Shareholders of any generalist for over 125 years and the families of a number of our investment trust for the last two years.
While at Alliance shareholders have been invested in Alliance Trust for Trust Savings we provide a clear charging structure, with generations.
Whether we are talking to shareholders who no hidden charges or retained fees, and we have won a have invested directly with us, or to customers who invest in number of awards for the quality of the service that we our funds or use our platform, we do not forget who provide to our clients.
our owners are, nor the importance of professional, but personal, customer service.
We have a clear investment focus and grow wealth in a sustainable manner Our equity portfolio consists of around 100 holdings and before an investment decision is made we undertake a rigorous research process to understand the drivers of that companys potential performance.
We know that our shareholders invest in us for the long term and our investment focus is to try to match their investment horizon.
We focus on identifying companies which are trading at significant discounts to their intrinsic value, and which we believe exhibit a superior or more sustainable return profile for many years to come.
