44 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Board The boards of its subsidiaries are required to seek Purpose of Board endorsement from the parent Board for any strategic The Board sets the long-term objectives of the Company decisions including: and approves its business plans and strategic direction.
It business plans and annual budgets is responsible for ensuring that a framework of prudent controls is in place to enable risk to be managed effectively.
approval of directors and officers It provides leadership and reviews business performance.
acquisition or disposal of part of any business Details of the Board members can be found on pages 40 launch of new or material changes to existing funds and 41. or products The Board delegates certain decisions to committees significant contracts comprising Non-Executive Directors, Executive Directors or a combination of these and management as explained in Through the matters reserved to the Board, the powers of more detail on page 43. individual Directors are restricted to the extent necessary to ensure good governance.
The areas of decision making that the Board has reserved to itself are: In addition to the reports submitted by the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary strategy and investment policy other regular reports include Key Performance Indicators new subsidiary businesses and joint ventures and Risk.
Other matters considered during the year include risk appetite, banking facilities, Budgets and Business Plans, annual budget Directors and Officers insurance, changes to Committees approval of treasury policies, banking counterparties and terms of reference.
and counterparty exposure limits Group borrowing limits and the maximum amounts and nature of new bank borrowing facilities major contracts asset classes in which any Group company may invest derivative instruments which any Group company may use material changes to gearing and the percentage mix of asset allocation by class and geography major changes in employment and remuneration structures political and charitable donations any material litigation or civil proceedings Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 45 Key area of focus Decision taken The Board held a strategy day in September at which it considered a range of options for Strategy the future development of the investment trust and the subsidiary businesses and approved the Vision 2020 strategy.
The Board requested regular presentations by its investment managers and the managing Investment directors of Alliance Trust Savings and Alliance Trust Investments.
These presentations included not only the reporting of performance but areas of strategic importance which are performance reserved to the Board of the PLC for decision.
These presentations allowed the Directors to be fully engaged with the management team responsible for delivery of the strategy.
The Board approved the business plans of the Company and also of the subsidiary Business plans companies, challenging the submissions made by management and requiring certain revisions to be made.
In the course of the year decisions were taken to close two funds which were not core to Alliance Trust Investments future strategy.
We reported in our last Report and Accounts that the Board had approved an amended Dividend policy policy to maintain a steadily rising dividend and, under normal circumstances, to pay out all our current years earnings either as ordinary or special dividends.
We also agreed that unless there were exceptional circumstances we would not pay dividends out of our capital reserves.
The Board agreed to apply to become registered as an Alternative Investment Fund Regulatory matters Manager.
This was as a result of a European Directive requiring certain investment firms to adopt specific operating requirements.
Although Alliance Trust already had the basic framework in place, this has meant considerable work and contributed to an increased cost of compliance.
The Board also approved the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process and Alliance Trust Savings Recovery and Resolution Plan and Individual Liquidity Systems Assessment.
The Board considered on a number of occasions the implications of the referendum Scottish on Scottish Independence and set up a working group to monitor and report on developments.
The Board identified the key areas which will impact our customers and independence business and the actions that may be necessary.
The Board decided to outsource certain of its middle and back office investment activities Outsourcing for both Alliance Trust PLC and Alliance Trust Investments to BNY Mellon.
A decision was also made to appoint a depositary as a custodian of the assets of the company as part of the preparations for the implementation of AIFMD.
The Board approved investigations into alternative long-term options for funding of Gearing investment activities in addition to the existing banking facilities.
The Board decided that Executive succession should be considered by the full Board rather Executive succession than by the Nomination Committee.
During the year they reviewed the current succession planning arrangements and considered them to be appropriate.
The Board considered a proposal from Alliance Trust Savings to carry out a major review Price change of its pricing structure in preparation for the changes to the market from the Retail Distribution Review.
The Board agreed to endorse the changes having satisfied itself that they were fair and would represent a clear and transparent charging structure for a number of years.
