4 Board of Directors and Group Management Committee 4.1 Board of Directors Jac Nasser AO, BBus, Hon DT, 65 Other directorships and offices current and recent : Director of 21st Century Fox since June 2013.
Chairman and Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive advisory partner since March 2010 of One Equity Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2006.
Partners Partner from November 2002 until March 2010.
Appointed Chairman of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc on 31 March 2010.
Member of the International Advisory Council of Allianz Aktiengesellschaft since February 2001.
Skills and experience: Following a 33-year career with Ford Motor Former Director of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Company in leadership positions in Europe, Australia, Asia, South from November 2002 to November 2012.
America and the United States, Mr Nasser served as a member of the Board of Directors and as President and Chief Executive Officer Board Committee membership: of Ford Motor Company from 1998 to 2001.
He has more than three Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee.
decades of experience in large-scale global businesses and a decade of private equity investment and operating expertise.
Andrew Mackenzie BSc Geology, PhD Chemistry, 56 Other directorships and offices current and recent : Director of the Grattan Institute from May 2013.
Non-independent Director of the International Council on Mining and Metals Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since May 2013. from May 2013 Mr Mackenzie was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 10 May 2013.
Former Director of Centrica plc from September 2005 to May 2013.
Skills and experience: Mr Mackenzie has over 30 years experience in oil and gas, petrochemicals and minerals.
He joined BHP Billiton Board Committee membership: in November 2008 as Chief Executive Non-Ferrous and commenced None.
as Chief Executive Officer in May 2013.
Prior to BHP Billiton, Mr Mackenzie worked at Rio Tinto, where he was Chief Executive of Diamonds and Minerals, and BP, where he held a number of senior roles, including Group Vice President for Technology and Engineering and Group Vice President for Chemicals.
Marius Kloppers BE Chem, MBA, PhD Materials Science, 51 Other directorships and offices current and recent : Former Chairman of the International Council on Mining Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc and Metals from October 2011 to May 2013 and former from January 2006 to May 2013.
Mr Kloppers resigned as a Director Deputy Chairman from October 2008 to October 2011. on 10 May 2013.
Mr Kloppers was Chief Executive Officer from 1 October 2007 to 10 May 2013.
Skills and experience: Mr Kloppers has extensive knowledge of the mining industry and of BHP Billitons operations.
Active in the mining and resources industry since 1993, he was appointed Chief Commercial Officer in December 2003 and Group President Non-Ferrous Materials and Executive Director in January 2006.
Malcolm Broomhead MBA, BE, 61 Other directorships and offices current and recent : Chairman of Asciano Limited since October 2009.
Independent Non-executive Director Former Director of Coates Group Holdings Pty Ltd Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since March 2010. from January 2008 to July 2013.
Skills and experience: Mr Broomhead has extensive experience in Board Committee membership: running industrial and mining companies with a global footprint and broad global experience in project development in many of Member of the Sustainability Committee.
the countries in which BHP Billiton operates.
Mr Broomhead was Member of the Finance Committee.
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Orica Limited from 2001 until September 2005.
Prior to joining Orica, Mr Broomhead held a number of senior positions at North Limited, including Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer and, prior to that, held senior management positions with Halcrow UK, MIM Holdings, Peko Wallsend and Industrial Equity.
124 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 4.1 Board of Directors continued Sir John Buchanan BSc, MSc Hons 1, PhD, 70 Other directorships and offices current and recent : Chairman of ARM Holdings Plc UK since May 2012.
Senior Independent Director, BHP Billiton Plc Chairman of Smith & Nephew Plc since April 2006 and former Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since Deputy Chairman from February 2005 to April 2006.
Chairman of the International Chamber of Commerce UK Skills and experience: Educated at Auckland, Oxford and Harvard, since May 2008.
Sir John has broad international business experience gained in large Member of Advisory Board of Ondra Bank since June 2009. and complex international businesses.
He has substantial experience Chairman of the UK Trustees for the Christchurch Earthquake appeal.
in the petroleum industry and knowledge of the international investor community.
Sir John has held various leadership roles in strategic, Former Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director of financial, operational and marketing positions, including executive Vodafone Group Plc from July 2006 to July 2012 and Director experience in different countries.
He is a former Executive Director from April 2003 to July 2012. and Group Chief Financial Officer of BP, Treasurer and Chief Executive Former Director of AstraZeneca Plc from April 2002 to April 2010. of BP Finance and Chief Operating Officer of BP Chemicals.
Board Committee membership: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Nomination and Governance Committee.
Carlos Cordeiro AB, MBA, 57 Other directorships and offices current and recent : Advisory Director of The Goldman Sachs Group Inc Independent Non-executive Director since December 2001.
Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since Non-executive Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia LLC February 2005. since December 2001.
Skills and experience: Mr Cordeiro brings to the Board more than Board Committee membership: 30 years experience in providing strategic and financial advice to corporations, financial institutions and governments around the Member of the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Cordeiro was previously Partner and Managing Director of Goldman Sachs Group Inc and Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia LLC.
AO, BComm, LLB, FCA, FCPA, 69 Other directorships and offices current and recent : David Crawford Chairman of Australia Pacific Airports Corporation Limited Independent Non-executive Director since May 2012.
Director of BHP Limited since May 1994.
Director Chairman of Lend Lease Corporation Limited since May 2003 of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001. and Director since July 2001.
Skills and experience: Mr Crawford has extensive experience Former Chairman from November 2007 to December 2011 in risk management and business reorganisation.
He has acted and former Director from August 2001 to December 2011 as a consultant, scheme manager, receiver and manager and of Fosters Group Limited.
liquidator to very large and complex groups of companies.
Mr Crawford was previously Australian National Chairman Board Committee membership: of KPMG, Chartered Accountants.
Chairman of the Finance Committee.
Pat Davies BSc Mechanical Engineering, 62 Other directorships and offices current and recent : Former Director from August 1997 to June 2011 and Independent Non-executive Director Chief Executive from July 2005 to June 2011 of Sasol Limited.
Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2012.
Board Committee membership: Skills and experience: Mr Davies has broad experience in the natural Member of the Remuneration Committee.
resources sector across a number of geographies, commodities and markets.
From July 2005 until June 2011, Mr Davies was Chief Executive of Sasol Limited, an international energy, chemical and mining company with operations in 38 countries and listings on the Johannesburg and New York stock exchanges.
Mr Davies began his career at Sasol in 1975 and held a number of diverse roles, including managing the groups oil and gas businesses, before becoming Chief Executive in July 2005.
He is a former Director of various Sasol Group companies and joint ventures.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 125 4 Board of Directors and Group Management Committee continued 4.1 Board of Directors continued Carolyn Hewson AO, BEc Hons, MA Econ, 58 Other directorships and offices current and recent : Director of Stockland Group since March 2009.
Independent Non-executive Director Director of BT Investment Management Limited Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since since December 2007.
Member of the Advisory Board of Nanosonics Limited Skills and experience: Ms Hewson is a former investment banker and since June 2007. has over 30 years experience in the finance sector.
Ms Hewson was Director of Australian Charities Fund Operations Limited previously an Executive Director of Schroders Australia Limited and since June 2000. has extensive financial markets, risk management and investment Director and Patron of the Neurosurgical Research Foundation management expertise.
Ms Hewson is a former Director of Westpac since April 1993.
Banking Corporation, AMP Limited, CSR Limited, AGL Energy Limited, the Australian Gas Light Company, South Australian Water and the Trustee and Chairman of the Westpac Buckland Fund since Economic Development Board of South Australia.
January 2011 and Chairman of Westpac Matching Gifts Limited since August 2011, together known as the Westpac Foundation.
Former Director of Westpac Banking Corporation from February 2003 to June 2012.
Board Committee membership: Member of the Risk and Audit Committee.
Lindsay Maxsted DipBus Gordon, FCA, FAICD, 59 Other directorships and offices current and recent : Chairman of Westpac Banking Corporation since December 2011 Independent Non-executive Director and a Director since March 2008.
Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since Chairman of Transurban Group since August 2010 March 2011. and a Director since March 2008.
Skills and experience: Mr Maxsted is a corporate recovery specialist Director and Honorary Treasurer of Baker IDI Heart who has managed a number of Australias largest corporate insolvency and Diabetes Institute since June 2005. and restructuring engagements and, until recently, continued to undertake consultancy work in the restructuring advisory field.
Board Committee membership: He was the Chief Executive Officer of KPMG Australia between 2001 Chairman of the Risk and Audit Committee.
Mr Maxsted is the Boards nominated audit committee Member of the Finance Committee.
financial expert for the purposes of the US Securities and Exchange Commission Rules, and the Board is satisfied that he has recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Wayne Murdy BSc Business Administration, CPA, 69 Other directorships and offices current and recent : Director of Weyerhaeuser Company since January 2009.
Independent Non-executive Director Former Director of Qwest Communications International Inc Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2009. from September 2005 to April 2011.
Skills and experience: Mr Murdy has a background in finance and Board Committee membership: accounting, where he has gained comprehensive experience in the financial management of mining, oil and gas companies during his Member of the Risk and Audit Committee.
career with Getty Oil, Apache Corporation and Newmont Mining Member of the Finance Committee.
He served as the Chief Executive Officer of Newmont Mining Corporation from 2001 to 2007 and Chairman from 2002 to 2007.
Mr Murdy is also a former Chairman of the International Council on Mining and Metals, a former Director of the US National Mining Association and a former member of the Manufacturing Council of the US Department of Commerce.
Keith Rumble BSc, MSc Geology, 59 Other directorships and offices current and recent : Director of Enzyme Technologies Pty Limited since Independent Non-executive Director September 2011.
Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since Director of Elite Wealth Pty Limited since August 2010.
Board of Governors of Rhodes University since April 2005.
Skills and experience: Mr Rumble was previously Chief Executive Trustee of the World Wildlife Fund, South Africa since Officer of SUN Mining, a wholly owned entity of the SUN Group, October 2006. a principal investor and private equity fund manager in Russia, Former Director of Aveng Group Limited from September 2009 India and other emerging and transforming markets.
Mr Rumble to December 2011. has over 30 years experience in the resources industry, specifically in titanium and platinum mining, and is a former Chief Executive Board Committee membership: Officer of Impala Platinum Pty Ltd and former Chief Executive Officer Member of the Sustainability Committee.
of Rio Tinto Iron and Titanium Inc in Canada.
Mr Rumble began his career at Richards Bay Minerals in 1980 and held various management positions before becoming Chief Executive Officer in 1996.
126 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 4.1 Board of Directors continued John Schubert AO, BCh Eng, PhD Chem Eng, 70 Other directorships and offices current and recent : Chairman of Garvan Institute of Medical Research since May 2013.
Independent Non-executive Director Former Chairman of G2 Therapies Pty Limited from November 2000 Director of BHP Limited since June 2000 and a Director to April 2013. of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Former Director of Qantas Airways Limited from October 2000 Skills and experience: Dr Schubert has considerable experience in the to November 2012. international oil industry, including at Chief Executive Officer level.
Former Chairman from November 2004 to February 2010 and Dr Schubert has had executive mining and financial responsibilities Director from October 1991 to February 2010 of Commonwealth and was Chief Executive Officer of Pioneer International Limited for Bank of Australia.
six years, where he operated in the building materials industry in 16 countries.
Dr Schubert has experience in mergers, acquisitions and Board Committee membership: divestments, project analysis and management.
He was previously Chairman of the Sustainability Committee.
Chairman and Managing Director of Esso Australia Limited and Member of the Remuneration Committee.
President of the Business Council of Australia.
Baroness Shriti Vadera MA, 51 Other directorships and offices current and recent : Director of AstraZeneca Plc since January 2011.
Independent Non-executive Director Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since January 2011.
Skills and experience: Baroness Vadera brings wide-ranging experience in finance, economics and public policy, as well as extensive experience of emerging markets and international institutions.
In recent years, she has undertaken a number of international assignments, including advising on the Eurozone crisis and working with the Korean Chair of the G20.
Baroness Vadera was a Minister in the British Government from 2007 to 2009 in the Department for International Development, the Business Department and the Cabinet Office, where she was responsible for the response to the global financial crisis.
She was on the Council of Economic Advisers, HM Treasury from 1999 to 2007 focusing on business and international economic issues.
Prior to her time in the British Government, Baroness Vadera spent 14 years in investment banking at UBS Warburg, where she specialised in advisory work in emerging markets.
Jane McAloon BEc Hons, LLB, GDipGov, FCIS, 49 President, Governance and Group Company Secretary and Chairman of the Disclosure Committee Skills and experience: Ms McAloon was appointed to the Group Management Committee as President, Governance and Group Company Secretary in May 2013 after serving as Group Company Secretary since July 2007.
Ms McAloon joined the BHP Billiton Group in September 2006 as Company Secretary for BHP Billiton Limited.
Prior to joining BHP Billiton, she held the position of Company Secretary and Group Manager External and Regulatory Services in the Australian Gas Light Company.
She previously held various Australian State and Commonwealth government positions, including Director General of the New South Wales Ministry of Energy and Utilities and Deputy Director General for the New South Wales Cabinet Office, as well as working in private legal practice.
She is a Non-executive Director of Energy Australia, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and a Director of the Australian War Memorial.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 127 4 Board of Directors and Group Management Committee continued 4.2 Group Management Committee Andrew Mackenzie BSc Geology, PhD Chemistry, 56 Peter Beaven BAcc, CA, 46 Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director President, Copper Chairman of the Group Management Committee Member of the Group Management Committee Mr Mackenzie commenced as Chief Executive Officer in May 2013.
Mr Beaven was appointed President, Copper in May 2013.
He joined BHP Billiton in November 2008 as Chief Executive Previously he was the President of Base Metals and prior to Non-Ferrous.
Prior to BHP Billiton, he worked at Rio Tinto, where that appointment, in November 2010, President of BHP Billitons he was Chief Executive of Diamonds and Minerals, and BP, where Manganese business, and Vice President and Chief Development he held a number of senior roles, including Group Vice President for Officer for Carbon Steel Materials.
Mr Beaven joined BHP Billiton Technology and Engineering and Group Vice President for Chemicals.
He has wide experience across a range of regions and businesses in BHP Billiton and UBS Warburg.
Tim Cutt, BSc, 53 Dean Dalla Valle MBA, 54 President, Petroleum and Potash since 2 July 2013 President Coal Member of the Group Management Committee Member of the Group Management Committee Mr Cutt was appointed President, Petroleum and Potash in July 2013.
Mr Dalla Valle was appointed President, Coal in May 2013.
He has He joined BHP Billiton in 2007 as the President of the Production 36 years experience in BHP Billiton, having joined the Group in Division in the Petroleum business.
Mr Cutt was appointed to the January 1977.
Mr Dalla Valle was previously the President of the position of President, Diamonds and Specialty Products in 2011.
Uranium business for three years and prior to that held the positions Before joining BHP Billiton, Mr Cutt had a successful 24-year career of Asset President, Olympic Dam, Asset President of the Cannington with ExxonMobil in roles of significant oil and gas responsibility, silver mine and Vice President Ports for Iron Ore.
He was also the including President of ExxonMobil fide Venezuela and President General Manager of the Appin, Tower and Westcliff Collieries for of Hibernia Management and Development Company.
Mike Fraser BCom, MBL, 48 Geoff Healy BEc, LLB, 47 President, Human Resources since 27 August 2013 Chief Legal Counsel Member of the Group Management Committee Member of the Group Management Committee Mr Fraser joined the Group Management Committee in August 2013 Mr Healy joined BHP Billiton as Chief Legal Counsel in June 2013. as President, Human Resources.
He was previously Head of Group Prior to BHP Billiton, Mr Healy was a partner at Herbert Smith Human Resources.
Before becoming Head of Human Resources, Freehills for 16 years, and a member of its global Council, and worked Mr Fraser was Asset President Mozal, based in Mozambique.
widely across its network of Australian and international offices.
His previous roles with the Group His core field of expertise is complex corporate and regulatory included Human Resources Vice President for the Aluminium and advisory work, risk management, investigations and disputes.
Energy Coal businesses and for South Africa.
Mike Henry BSc Chem, 47 Graham Kerr BBus, FCPA, 42 President, HSEC, Marketing and Technology Chief Financial Officer and Chairman of the Investment Committee Member of the Group Management Committee and Financial Risk Management Committee Member of the Group Management Committee Mr Henry joined the Group in 2003 and was appointed President, HSEC, Marketing and Technology in May 2013.
Prior to this, he was Mr Kerr joined the Group in 1994 and was appointed Chief Financial Chief Marketing Officer.
His earlier career with BHP Billiton included Officer in November 2011.
Prior to this, he was President of Diamonds various business development and marketing roles, including and Specialty Products.
Mr Kerr has worked in a wide range of Marketing Director for Petroleum, Marketing Director for Energy finance, treasury and operational roles across the Group, and Coal and Freight and Vice President, Business Development for has held the positions of Chief Financial Officer of Stainless Steel the Energy Coal Customer Sector Group.
Prior to joining BHP Billiton, Materials, Vice President, Finance BHP Billiton Diamonds and Mr Henry worked for Mitsubishi Corporation, where he held Finance Director for EKATI.
In 2004, Mr Kerr left BHP Billiton for a number of commercial roles.
a two-year period, when he was General Manager Commercial for Iluka Resources Ltd. 128 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 4.2 Group Management Committee continued Jane McAloon BEc Hons, LLB, GDipGov, FCIS, 49 Daniel Malchuk BEng, MBA, 48 President, Governance and Group Company Secretary President, Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel and Chairman of the Disclosure Committee Member of the Group Management Committee Member of the Group Management Committee Mr Malchuk was appointed President Aluminium, Manganese and Ms McAloon was appointed to the Group Management Nickel in May 2013.
Previously, he was the President of Minerals Committee as President, Governance and Group Company Exploration, a position he held from July 2012.
He worked for Secretary in May 2013, after serving as Group Company Secretary the Company between 1996 and 1998 in BHP Copper, in the since July 2007.
Ms McAloon joined the BHP Billiton Group in United States, and has held a number of roles in the Base Metals September 2006 as Company Secretary for BHP Billiton Limited.
business since he rejoined BHP Billiton in 2002.
In 2006, he took the role of Asset Leader Joint Ventures and a year later was appointed Vice President, Strategy and Development in Base Metals.
Jimmy Wilson BSc Mechanical Engineering, 51 Karen Wood BEd, LLB Hons, FCIS, 57 President, Iron Ore President, Public Affairs Member of the Group Management Committee Member of the Group Management Committee Mr Wilson was appointed President, Iron Ore in March 2012.
He joined Ms Wood joined BHP Billiton in 2001.
Her previous positions BHP Billiton in March 1991.
He has had an extensive career in the were Chief Governance Officer, Special Adviser and Head of Group mining industry, and held key managerial and operational roles Secretariat and Group Company Secretary.
She assumed responsibility throughout BHP Billiton including President, Energy Coal 200912 for Human Resources in 2007, when she was appointed Chief People and President, Stainless Steel Materials 200709.
On 27 August 2013 she handed her Human Resources roles, Mr Wilson was President and Chief Operating Officer Nickel accountabilities to Mike Fraser.
In 2010 she assumed responsibility West, President and Chief Operating Officer Samancor Chrome and for Public Affairs.
Before joining BHP Billiton, she was General Counsel General Manager of Billitons Bayside Aluminium.
and Company Secretary for Bonlac Foods Limited.
She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries.
J Michael Yeager BSc, MSc, 60 Group Executive and Chief Executive Petroleum until 1 July 2013 Member of the Group Management Committee Mr Yeager joined the Group in April 2006 as Chief Executive Petroleum after 25 years with Mobil and later ExxonMobil.
Mr Yeager was previously Vice President, ExxonMobil Development Company, and held the roles of Senior Vice President, Imperial Oil Ltd and Chief Executive Officer, Imperial Oil Resources, Vice President Africa, ExxonMobil Production Company, Vice President Europe, ExxonMobil Production Company and President, Mobil Exploration and Production in the United States.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 129 O v e f R e i x r n I t C s e a S e r O n n K e c a s i M l a a & l a M r n u e d I A d p i T t o m U T o r r o t, E D i n r n I E i i g s t T, k o r s D E L O E R v G r E e e A r T C m M s I O u e O N U e n s e M N r a a M E n t i d I o R T n A m T p o T E o I n l E i i O t c y o N r s G R C O H U I O P E & v F s M e N u r C E G A B c s O X c r N O e O e e E e A s M O n V M s s C G e i I E E a o U A w M N 5 Corporate Governance Statement 5.1 Governance at BHP Billiton Dear Shareholder Welcome to BHP Billitons Corporate Governance Statement.
We do not see governance as just a matter for the Board.
This section of our Annual Report outlines the corporate Good governance is also the responsibility of executive governance processes of BHP Billiton.
management and is embedded throughout the organisation.
At BHP Billiton, we have a governance framework to which we are Our BHP Billiton Charter is core to the governance framework held accountable that goes beyond an interest in governance or our of BHP Billiton it embodies our corporate purpose, strategy and need to fulfil regulatory requirements.
Our approach is to adopt what values, and defines when we are successful.
We foster a culture we consider to be the highest of governance standards in Australia, that values and rewards high ethical standards, personal and the United Kingdom and the United States.
That is because we corporate integrity and respect for others.
believe that high-quality governance supports long-term value We live the values enshrined in Our Charter and demonstrably creation.
Simply put, we think good governance is good business.
adhere to the standards of conduct required by our BHP Billiton Governance influences how the objectives of the Company are set and Code of Business Conduct.
achieved, how risk is monitored and assessed, and how performance is optimised.
Therefore, our corporate governance structure encourages the creation of value, while providing accountability and control systems commensurate with risks involved.
BHP Billiton governance SHAREHOLDERS structure Appointment of Andrew Mackenzie Continuous improvement On 10 May 2013, Andrew Mackenzie was appointed Chief Executive The Board has a commitment to ongoing improvement in the way Officer of the Group and became our new Executive Director.
Last year, the continued evolution of the His appointment was the result of our long-established leadership Board and its committees resulted in the formation of the Finance development and succession process.
The Board made a commitment to evaluate the role and function of the Finance Committee 12 months after its Our planned and considered approach involves attracting formation.
In the past year, the Committee has focused on capital and developing the best global talent over a sustained period.
management planning, including capital allocation and funding, This ensures that we have a deep pipeline of leaders at all levels as well as due diligence on divestments.
Given our continued in the Company, including for succession to Chief Executive.
focus on capital management, the Board believes that the Finance The Board decided that Mr Mackenzie is the right person to lead Committee adds considerable value to the governance of the BHP Billiton in a changing global environment.
He brings a unique Group and will continue to operate under its terms of reference.
combination of deep industry knowledge and global management Further details are set out in section 5.13. skills to the CEO role, with over 30 years experience in the oil During the year, our Board Governance Document and Committee and gas, petrochemicals and minerals industries.
terms of reference were reviewed and updated to reflect changing Ongoing renewal market practice.
We are continuously focused on enhancing the diversity of I hope you find this description of our corporate governance useful perspective on the Board.
We do this in a structured manner, and look forward to receiving any feedback that fellow shareholders looking out over a five-year period at the skills, backgrounds, may have.
knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board.
The right blend of skills, experience and perspective is critical to ensuring the Board oversees BHP Billiton effectively for shareholders.
The Board has set a goal of increasing the number of women on the Board to at least three.
This remains our target, and, while we did not achieve this target by the end of FY2013, we continue to work to identify future candidates for the Board.
More details about the Jac Nasser AO Boards diversity of skills and experience are set out in section 5.7.
Chairman 130 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 n n R a T M I d l I A E p N T l V a N T R a m T A n E T I n o d E n O N C i O D n E O n i N C F t g M o F E I r M s C I T E T R E E O S m v U a e t r C S e s r e T O i e a A l s M I H a N M S n E d I A A C T C B m T m C I o E O a L n t U I E i t t N T e o T r Y r A s s B I L I T Y c a O p v i e t r a C s l d F e O s u I t e r e s M N u d a c i A t M l n i u g d N I r e T e C n m, T c f E o E e u n E n i t d o i n r s g, 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report Key members of management, including the CEO and CFO, are 5.2 Shareholder engagement present and available to answer questions.
The External Auditor Part of the Boards commitment to high-quality governance attends the AGMs and is also available to answer questions.
is expressed through the approach we take to engaging and Proceedings at shareholder meetings are webcast live from our communicating with shareholders.
Copies of the speeches delivered by the Chairman and CEO to make their views known to us.
to the AGMs are released to the stock exchanges and posted to our Our shareholders are based across the globe.
A summary of proceedings and the outcome of voting on Annual General Meeting AGM, the Board uses a range of formal the items of business are released to the relevant stock exchanges and informal communication channels to understand shareholder and posted to our website as soon as they are available following views to ensure it can represent shareholders in governing the completion of the BHP Billiton Limited meeting.
Regular proactive engagement with institutional shareholders and investor representative organisations takes Information relating to the 2012 AGM is available online place in Australia, South Africa, the United Kingdom and the at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com home inv estors United States.
This is led by: shareholderinfo Pages Meetings.
the Chairman, supported by the President, Governance and Group Company Secretary strategy, governance and remuneration: 5.3 Role and responsibilities of the Board the Remuneration Committee Chairman and Senior Independent Director governance and remuneration: The Boards role is to represent the shareholders.
It is accountable the Chief Executive Officer CEO, Chief Financial Officer CFO, to them for creating and delivering value through the effective senior management and the Investor Relations team strategy, governance of the Group.
This role requires a high-performing financial and operating performance.
Important briefings are Board, with all Directors contributing to the Boards collective webcast live from our website: w w w. bhpbilliton.
In addition, shareholders can contact us at any time through The Board Governance Document is a statement of the practices our Investor Relations team, with contact details available on and processes the Board has adopted to discharge its responsibilities.
It includes the processes the Board has implemented to undertake its own tasks and activities: the matters it has reserved for its own Feedback from shareholders is regularly reported to the Board.
consideration and decision-making: the authority it has delegated Shareholder and analyst feedback is shared with the Board through to the CEO, including the limits on the way in which the CEO can the Chairman, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee execute that authority: and provides guidance on the relationship also the Senior Independent Director, other Directors, the CEO between the Board and the CEO.
In addition, the Head of Investor Relations provides regular reports to the Board on shareholder feedback and analysis.
The Board Governance Document also specifies the role This approach provides a robust mechanism to ensure Directors are of the Chairman, the membership of the Board and the role aware of issues raised and have a good understanding of current and conduct of Non-executive Directors.
Annual General Meeting As part of our ongoing commitment to continuous improvement, the Board made high-level changes to the Board Governance Document The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders to ask questions of the Board.
The changes reflect revisions to the corporate purpose, enhance clarity and adopt emerging market practice without Our Dual Listed Company DLC structure means that we hold two impacting accountability of roles.
The AGMs are important dates in the BHP Billiton calendar.
In October each year, the BHP Billiton Plc meeting is held in the United Kingdom, and in November, the BHP Billiton Limited The Board Governance Document is available online meeting is held in Australia.
These meetings provide an update for at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com home aboutus shareholders on the Groups performance and offer an opportunity ourcompany Pages governance.
asp x. for shareholders to ask questions and vote.
Shareholders vote on important matters affecting the Group, including the election of Directors, any changes to our constitutional documents, the receipt Allocation of decision-making authority of annual financial statements and incentive arrangements for the The matters that the Board has specifically reserved for Executive Director.
Shareholders may appoint proxies electronically its decision are: through our website, and the Notice of Meeting describes how this appointments to the position of CEO and approval of the can be done.
As described above, a key part of our approach to appointment of executives reporting directly to the CEO: governance is that shareholders views are heard and understood.
approval of strategy and annual budgets of the Group: The AGM provides an important forum to enable this.
determination of capital and non-capital items in accordance Questions can be registered prior to the meeting by completing the with the approved delegations of authority: relevant form accompanying the Notice of Meeting.
Shareholders determination and adoption of documents including the can also email the Group at investor.
publication of reports and statements to shareholders Questions can be lodged ahead of the meeting and the answers that are required by the Groups constitutional documents, to the most frequently asked questions are posted to our website.
by statute or by other external regulation.
SHAREHOLDER FEEDBACK Regular investor meetings CHAIRMAN SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR AND GOVERNANCE Correspondence AND COMPANY SECRETARIAT TEAM Regular investor meetings BOARD CEO, CFO, MANAGEMENT AND INVESTOR RELATIONS Correspondence Annual General Meeting AGM BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 131 5 Corporate Governance Statement continued entering into a definitive agreement with PetroChina International 5.3 Role and responsibilities of the Board continued Investment Australia Pty Ltd to sell our 8.33 per cent interest The Board is free to alter the matters reserved for its decision, in the East Browse Joint Venture and 20 per cent interest in the subject to the limitations imposed by the constitutional West Browse Joint Venture, located offshore Western Australia, documents and the law.
with final proceeds from the sale of US$1.7 billion: The CEO is delegated authority to take all decisions and actions the sale of the 37.76 per cent non-operated interest in Richards that further the corporate purpose of creating long-term shareholder Bay Minerals to Rio Tinto for cash proceeds of US$1.7 billion value through the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing after adjustments: of natural resources.
This is subject to limits imposed by the Board entering into a definitive agreement to sell the Pinto Valley on the CEOs decision making authority and set out in the Board mining operation and the associated San Manuel Arizona Railroad Governance Document, and the matters the Board has specifically Company to Capstone Mining Corporation for an aggregate cash reserved for its decision, including in the Groups authorities consideration of US$650 million: framework.
The CEO remains accountable to the Board for the entering into a definitive agreement to sell the diamonds business, authority that is delegated and for the performance of the Group comprising the interests in the EKATI Diamond Mine and Diamonds with the expectation that the CEO works in a constructive partnership Marketing operations, to Harry Winston Diamond Mines Ltd for with the Board.
The Board monitors the decisions and actions of final proceeds of US$553 million: the CEO and the performance of the Group to gain assurance that the issuing of a two tranche 2.0 billion bond, and a two tranche progress is being made towards the corporate purpose within the 1.75 billion bond, the issuing of a five-year A$1.0 billion note limits imposed through the Groups governance assurance framework.
under the Australian Medium Term Note Program, the issuing The Board also monitors the performance of the Group and assesses of a 750 million bond and the issuing of a C$750 million bond: its risk profile through its committees.
Reports from each of the the sale of the wholly owned Yeelirrie uranium deposit in committees are set out in section 5.13.
Western Australia to Cameco Corporation for final proceeds The CEO is required to report regularly in a spirit of openness and of US$430 million: trust on the progress being made by the Group.
The Board and the extension of the long-term joint venture relationship with its committees determine the information required from the CEO ITOCHU Corporation and Mitsui & Co. Ltd. through the investment and any employee or external party, including the External Auditor.
by those two joint venture partners of approximately US$822 million Open dialogue between individual members of the Board and the and US$720 million, respectively, in shares and loans of BHP Iron CEO and other members of the management team is encouraged Ore Jimblebar Pty Ltd, representing an eight per cent and to enable Directors to gain a better understanding of our Company.
seven per cent interest in the Jimblebar mining hub and resource: after the year-end, an investment of US$2.0 billion to sustain Independent advice operations at Escondida in Chile, by constructing a new 2,500 litre The Board and its committees may seek advice from independent per second sea water desalination facility: experts whenever it is considered appropriate.
Individual Directors, the investment of US$2.6 billion, spread over a number of years, with the consent of the Chairman, may seek independent to finish the excavation and lining of the Jansen Potash project professional advice on any matter connected with the discharge production and service shafts, and to continue the installation of their responsibilities, at the Groups expense.
of essential surface infrastructure and utilities.
Strategic focus and review Succession Within this framework, at the start of the calendar year, the Board For BHP Billiton, succession of the CEO is an ongoing process, which agrees its strategic focus and priorities for the year ahead.
This has worked well for over a decade.
This year, Mr Kloppers retired ensures that the work of the Board is aligned with the corporate as CEO and Mr Mackenzie was appointed CEO from 10 May 2013. purpose and takes into account the relevant external environment, such as the markets in which we operate, and changes to the A critical component of succession at Group Management external and regulatory environment.
Committee GMC level and below is the existence of a robust senior leadership program that operates across multiple organisational The Board also evaluates its activities on a regular basis taking levels to build, develop, renew, recruit and promote our leaders.
into account: While the program was driven, during FY2013, by the CEO and matters considered by the Board including time spent President, People and Public Affairs, the Board is actively engaged on those matters : and oversees President succession and the development of the legal and governance requirements of the Board and senior team.
Following his appointment, Mr Mackenzie announced its committees: the new senior management team and the removal of a layer of feedback from shareholders and other stakeholders: management to bring the operations closer to the CEO and ensure the outcomes of its evaluation process.
alignment between strategic and managerial leadership.
The Board is satisfied that it has discharged its obligations as set out in the Board Governance Document.
5.4 Board membership Key activities during the year The Board currently has 13 members, each of whom must seek BHP Billitons strategy to own and operate large, long-life, low-cost, re-election by shareholders annually.
Of these, 12, including expandable, upstream assets diversified by commodity, geography the Chairman, are independent Non-executive Directors.
and market remains the foundation for creating shareholder value.
The Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to To extend our track record and create a more productive and capital be independent of management and free from any business efficient organisation, we have concentrated our efforts on those relationship or other circumstance that could materially interfere world-class basins where we enjoy economies of scale and a with the exercise of objective, unfettered or independent competitive advantage.
Further information on the process for assessing independence is in section 5.9.
In addition to the productivity gains delivered during the period, the Group applied strict capital discipline.
No major growth projects During the year, the composition of the Board changed with the were approved during FY2013.
Our commitment to maintain a solid appointment of Mr Mackenzie as CEO and Executive Director and A credit rating remains unchanged.
Within this context, the Board the retirement of Mr Kloppers from the Board.
approved a range of business decisions, including: In terms of Non-executive Directors, the Nomination and Governance the investment of US$520 million in the Longford Gas Conditioning Committee retains the services of external recruitment specialists Plant LGCP project as part of the Gippsland Basin Joint Venture, to continue to assist in the identification of potential candidates located in Victoria, Australia.
This investment adds carbon dioxide for the Board.
removal capacity to the Longford Gas Plant, which is necessary to condition production for the Turrum offshore development project: 132 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 5.4 Board membership continued 5.7 Director skills, experience and attributes The Board considers that there is an appropriate balance between Skills, experience and attributes required Executive and Non-executive Directors to promote shareholder The Board considers that a diversity of skills, backgrounds, interests and govern the business effectively.
While the Board knowledge, experience, geographic location, nationalities and includes a smaller number of Executive Directors than is common gender is required in order to effectively govern the business.
for UK-listed companies, its composition is appropriate for the The Board and its committees work to ensure that the Board DLC structure and is in line with Australian-listed company practice.
continues to have the right balance of skills, experience, In addition, the Board has extensive access to members of senior independence and Group knowledge necessary to discharge management, who frequently attend Board meetings where they its responsibilities in accordance with the highest standards make presentations and engage in discussions with Directors, of governance.
answer questions, and provide input and perspective on their In order to govern the Group effectively, Non-executive Directors areas of responsibility.
The Board also deliberates in the absence must have a clear understanding of the Groups overall strategy, of management at the beginning and end of each meeting, which together with knowledge about the Group and the industries is chaired by the Group Chairman.
Non-executive Directors must be sufficiently The Directors of the Group are: familiar with the Groups core business to be effective contributors Mr Jac Nasser Chairman Ms Carolyn Hewson to the development of strategy and to monitor performance.
Mr Andrew Mackenzie CEO Mr Lindsay Maxsted The Board Governance Document requires that Directors Mr Malcolm Broomhead Mr Wayne Murdy demonstrate unquestioned honesty and integrity, preparedness Sir John Buchanan Mr Keith Rumble to question, challenge and critique, and a willingness to understand and commit to the highest standards of governance.
Directors must Mr Carlos Cordeiro Dr John Schubert commit to the collective decision-making processes of the Board.
Mr David Crawford Baroness Shriti Vadera Individual Directors are required to debate issues openly and Mr Pat Davies constructively, and are free to question or challenge the opinions The biographical details of the Directors are set out in section 4.1 of others.
Directors must also commit to active involvement of this Annual Report.
in Board decisions and the application of strategic thought to matters in issue.
Directors must be clear communicators and good listeners who actively contribute to the Board in a collegial manner.
5.5 Chairman Each Director must ensure that no decision or action is taken that The Chairman, Jac Nasser, is considered by the Board to be places his or her interests in front of the interests of the business.
He was appointed Chairman of the Group from Directors must be prepared to commit sufficient time and 31 March 2010 and has been a Non-executive Director of the resources to perform their role effectively.
The Nomination and Group since 6 June 2006.
Mr Nasser was last re-elected at the Governance Committee takes account of the other positions held 2012 AGMs and, in accordance with the Groups policy that by each potential Director candidate.
It assesses whether they each Director stand for election annually, will stand for will have adequate time to devote to the Board, prior to making re-election in 2013. a recommendation to the Board on whether to appoint them The Chairmans role includes: as a Director.
In addition, Directors are required to consult with the Chairman before accepting any additional commitments that could leading the Board and ensuring that it is operating to the conflict with or impact on the time Directors can devote to their role.
highest governance standards: encouraging a culture of openness and debate to foster The Nomination and Governance Committee is required to assist a high-performing and collegial team of Directors that the Board in ensuring that the Board is comprised of high-calibre operates effectively: individuals whose background, skills, experience and personal ensuring strategic issues, relevant stakeholder and shareholder characteristics will augment the present Board and meet its future views are regularly reviewed, clearly understood and underpin needs and diversity aspirations.
the work of the Board: Current Board profile facilitating the relationship between the Board and the CEO: The following table sets out the key skills and experience ensuring the provision of accurate, timely and clear information: of the Directors and the extent to which they are represented setting agendas for meetings of the Board, in consultation on the Board and its committees.
As a Board, the Non-executive with the CEO and Group Company Secretary, that focus on the Directors contribute: strategic direction and performance of the Groups business: international business and senior executive experience: ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion on relevant operating experience: all agenda items: understanding of the sectors in which we operate: leading the Board and individual Director performance assessments: knowledge of world capital markets: speaking and acting for the Board and representing the Board regulatory and government policy experience: to shareholders.
an understanding of the health, safety, environmental and The Board considers that none of Mr Nassers other commitments community challenges that we face.
set out in section 4.1 of this Annual Report interfere with The Executive Director brings additional perspectives to the the discharge of his responsibilities to the Group.
The Board Boards work through a deep understanding of the Groups business.
is satisfied that he makes sufficient time available to serve the Group effectively.
In addition to the skills and experience set out in the table, the Board considers that each Director has the following attributes: The Group does not have a Deputy Chairman, but has identified unquestioned honesty and integrity: John Schubert to act as Chairman should the need arise at short notice.
a proven track record of creating value for shareholders: time available to undertake the responsibilities: 5.6 Senior Independent Director an ability to apply strategic thought to matters in issue: The Board has appointed John Buchanan as the Senior Independent a preparedness to question, challenge and critique: Director of BHP Billiton Plc in accordance with the UK Corporate a willingness to understand and commit to the highest standards Governance Code.
Sir John is available to shareholders who have of governance.
concerns that cannot be addressed through the Chairman, CEO or CFO.
As Senior Independent Director, he also provides a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for other Directors if necessary.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 133 5 Corporate Governance Statement continued 5.7 Director skills, experience and attributes continued Nomination Skills and experience Board Risk and Audit and Governance Remuneration Sustainability Finance Total Directors 13 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors Executive leadership Sustainable success in business at a very senior executive 12 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors level in a successful career.
Global experience Senior management or equivalent experience in multiple 13 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors global locations, exposed to a range of political, cultural, regulatory and business environments.
Governance Commitment to the highest standards of governance, 13 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors including experience with a major organisation that is subject to rigorous governance standards, and an ability to assess the effectiveness of senior management.
Strategy Track record of developing and implementing a 13 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors successful strategy, including appropriately probing and challenging management on the delivery of agreed strategic planning objectives.
Financial acumen Senior executive or equivalent experience in financial 13 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors accounting and reporting, corporate finance and internal financial controls, including an ability to probe the adequacies of financial and risk controls.
Capital projects Experience working in an industry with projects 11 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors involving large-scale capital outlays and long-term investment horizons.
Health, safety and environment Experience related to workplace health and safety, 12 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors environmental and social responsibility, and community.
Remuneration Board Remuneration Committee membership 13 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors or management experience in relation to remuneration, including incentive programs and pensions superannuation and the legislation and contractual framework governing remuneration.
Mining Senior executive experience in a large mining organisation 5 Directors 1 Director 0 Directors 1 Director 2 Directors 2 Directors combined with an understanding of the Groups corporate purpose to create long-term shareholder value through the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of natural resources.
Oil and gas Senior executive experience in the oil and gas industry, 5 Directors 1 Director 2 Directors 3 Directors 1 Director 1 Director including in-depth knowledge of the Groups strategy, markets, competitors, operational issues, technology and regulatory concerns.
Marketing Senior executive experience in marketing and a detailed 11 Directors 2 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors understanding of the Groups corporate purpose to create long-term shareholder value through the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of natural resources.
Public policy Experience in public and regulatory policy, including 13 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors how it affects corporations.
134 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report S K I L L S Female Remuneration Australia South Africa HSEC E C N Europe E I R E P US X E Capital projects 9 years themselves that the systems for the identification and management 5.7 Director skills, experience and of risks are robust and appropriate.
Directors are also expected to attributes continued commit sufficient time to carry out their role and to participate in Renewal continuous improvement programs and internal reviews to support ongoing development.
The letter of appointment also makes it clear The Board plans for its own succession, with the assistance that Directors are required to disclose circumstances that may affect, or of the Nomination and Governance Committee.
In doing this, be perceived to affect, their ability to exercise independent judgement the Board: so that the Board can assess independence on a regular basis.
considers the skills, backgrounds, knowledge, experience and diversity of geographic location, nationality and gender necessary to allow it to meet the corporate purpose: A copy of the terms of appointment is available assesses the skills, backgrounds, knowledge, experience online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com home aboutus and diversity currently represented: ourcompany Pages governance.
asp x. identifies any inadequate representation of those attributes and agrees the process necessary to ensure a candidate is selected who brings them to the Board: Diversity reviews how Board performance might be enhanced, both The Board is committed to ensuring gender diversity is actively at an individual Director level and for the Board as a whole.
pursued and implemented in terms of current and future Board composition.
Diversity is a core consideration in ensuring that The Board believes that orderly succession and renewal is achieved the Board and its committees have the right balance of skills, as a result of careful planning, where the appropriate composition experience, independence and Group knowledge necessary to of the Board is continually under review.
The right blend of perspectives When considering new appointments to the Board, the Nomination is critical to ensuring the Board oversees BHP Billiton effectively and Governance Committee oversees the preparation of a position for shareholders.
specification that is provided to an independent recruitment In 2011, the Board outlined its aspirational goal of increasing organisation retained to conduct a global search.
Independent the number of women on the Board to at least three over the search firms are instructed to consider a wide range of candidates, following two years, having appointed Carolyn Hewson and including taking into account geographic location, nationality and Baroness Shriti Vadera in 2010 and 2011 respectively.
In addition to the specific skills, knowledge and experience remains committed to this goal, and continues to work towards deemed necessary, the specification contains the criteria required by it in a structured manner, looking out over a five-year period at the Board Governance Document.
the skills, backgrounds, knowledge, experience and diversity on The Board has adopted a letter of appointment that contains the terms the Board.
Independent search firms in the US, UK and Australia on which Non-executive Directors will be appointed, including the have been retained over the last few years to specifically consider basis upon which they will be indemnified.
The letter of appointment potential female candidates.
Short-listed candidates are considered clearly defines the role of Directors, including the expectations in terms by the Nomination and Governance Committee.
of independence, participation, time commitment and continuous Our goal is, however, unlikely to be achieved until FY2015.
In summary, Directors are expected to constructively As disclosed in last years Annual Report, our immediate challenge: set values and standards of the Group: monitor the business imperative in FY2012 was to appoint an additional performance of management and of the Group: satisfy themselves Director with skills and experience in the oil and gas sector.
as to the adequacy and integrity of financial statements: and satisfy Board skills, experience and diversity 0% 25% 50% 75% 100% 75% 50% 25% 0% Note: Percentages in the diagram reflect the number of Directors represented in each category.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 135 69 years 36 years Financial acumen 03 years D G I V E E N R D Strategy S Public policy E I T R Y L Marketing O Governance C A T I O N Global O and gas il T E N U R E Mining Executive leadership 5 Corporate Governance Statement continued Non-executive Directors also participate in continuous improvement 5.7 Director skills, experience and programs, in accordance with their terms of appointment.
Programs attributes continued are designed to maximise the effectiveness of the Directors throughout The candidate search actively considered both potential female their tenure and link in with their individual Director performance candidates and other diversity considerations, including background, evaluations.
The Training and Development Program covers a range experience and culture.
Ex SASOL CEO Pat Davies was appointed of matters of a business nature, including environmental, social and to the Board in 2012, bringing specific oil and gas experience.
FY2013, we have continued to seek additional oil and gas sector Structured opportunities are provided to build knowledge through experience, given the natural succession planning of the Board.
initiatives such as visits to BHP Billiton sites and briefings provided While the work of the Nomination and Governance Committee has at Board meetings.
Non-executive Directors also build their Group continued, we did not appoint any new Non-executive Directors and industry knowledge through the involvement of the GMC and female or male during the year.
other senior employees in Board meetings.
The Board also considers that it is important to continue to Briefings, site visits and development sessions underpin and support develop the potential of women at all levels of the Company, and the Boards work in monitoring and overseeing progress towards part of the Boards role is to consider and approve the Groups the corporate purpose.
We therefore continuously build Directors measurable objectives, and oversee the Groups progress towards knowledge to ensure that the Board remains up to date with these objectives.
Following the changes to the GMC, female developments within our Businesses, as well as developments representation has now increased to 18 per cent.
Further information, in the markets in which we operate.
in relation to the initiatives in place to address diversity across the broader Group, and the impact they are having, is contained During the year, Non-executive Directors participated in the following activities: in section 5.17. briefings intended to provide each Director with a deeper understanding of the activities, environment and key issues 5.8 Director induction, training and development and direction of the Businesses.
These briefings are provided The Board considers that the development of industry and Group to the Board by senior executives, including GMC members and other team members with operational and non-operational knowledge is a continuous and ongoing process.
They are comprehensive briefings on the Upon appointment, each new Non-executive Director undertakes commodities, assets and markets in which we operate, including an induction program specifically tailored to their needs.
health, safety, environment and community HSEC, and public policy considerations.
The briefings provided during FY2013 covered metallurgical coal, potash, iron ore and next generation A copy of an indicative induction program is available mining.
When briefings were combined with a site visit, they took online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com home aboutus place on-site, otherwise they took place at Board meetings where ourcompany Pages governance.
asp x. the relevant executives joined Directors: development sessions on specific topics of relevance, such as climate change, commodity markets, world economy, BHP Billitons long-stated strategy is to own and operate large, long-life, low-cost, expandable, upstream assets diversified changes in corporate governance standards, Directors duties and shareholder feedback: by commodity, geography and market.
The Boards development activity reflects this diversification through the provision of regular updates to Directors on each of the Groups commodities, geographies and markets.
Director site visits, on-site briefings and Business Group RAC meetings 20112013 2011 2011 2013 Jansen London 2013 2011 2012 San Juan 2013 2012 Shale gas Houston 2013 Olympic Dam Western Sydney Australia 2013 2011 2011 Iron Ore Escondida 2011 2012 Wessels 2013 2012 2013 2012 Santiago 2013 2011 Minerva Melbourne Director site visit, including briefing BG RAC Meeting 136 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report Tenure 5.8 Director induction, training and Three Directors, David Crawford, John Schubert and John Buchanan, development continued have each served on the Board for more than nine years.
Mr Crawford, visits to Western Australia Iron Ore: the Jansen Potash Project, Dr Schubert and Sir John are standing for re-election at the 2013 Canada: the Wessels manganese mine in South Africa: and the AGMs, having each undergone a formal performance assessment.
San Juan coal mine in New Mexico, United States, including Although Mr Crawford was first appointed to the BHP Limited Board briefings on the assets and other relevant issues, and meetings in 1994, the Board considers that he makes a significant contribution with key personnel: to the work of the Board and that his deep knowledge of the Group addresses by external speakers, who are generally experts and broad international business experience remains especially in their field.
important, in particular in his role as Finance Committee Chairman.
Director involvement and continuous development through site visits, Dr Schubert was first elected to the Board of BHP Limited in Business Group Risk and Audit Committee Business Group RAC 2000.
The Board is of the view that Dr Schubert continues to meetings and on-site briefings are summarised in the map on the make a valuable contribution through his role as Chairman of previous page.
the Sustainability Committee, his roles on the Remuneration and Business Group RAC meetings take place twice yearly as part of Nomination and Governance Committees, as well as to the work our financial governance framework.
Directors who are members of the Board more broadly.
Dr Schuberts extensive experience of the Boards Risk and Audit Committee, chair the Business Group as an executive, particularly in the international oil industry, RAC meetings.
Further information on Business Group RACs is at and subsequently as a public company director across multiple section 5.13.1. industries, adds significantly to the skills and expertise of the Board.
The Nomination and Governance Committee oversees the Directors Sir John was first appointed to the Board and as Senior Independent Training and Development Program, and as part of the yearly review Director in February 2003.
The Board believes that he continues process, the Chairman discusses development areas with each to act independently in the best interests of the Group.
Board committees in turn review and agree their training and broad international experience materially enhance the skills and needs.
The benefit of this approach is that induction and learning experience profile of the Board and he continues to make a substantial opportunities can be tailored to Directors committee memberships, contribution in his roles, as a member of the Board, Chairman as well as the Boards specific areas of focus.
In addition, this of the Remuneration Committee, a member of the Nomination approach ensures a coordinated process in relation to succession and Governance Committee and as Senior Independent Director.
planning, Board renewal, training and development and committee The Board does not believe that Mr Crawfords, Dr Schuberts composition, which are all relevant to the Nomination and or Sir Johns tenure materially interferes with their ability to act Governance Committees role in securing the supply of talent in the best interests of the Group.
The Board also believes that to the Board.
each of them has retained independence of character and In addition, each Board committee provides a standing invitation judgement and has not formed associations with management for any Non-executive Director to attend committee meetings or others that might compromise their ability to exercise rather than just limiting attendance to committee members.
independent judgement or act in the best interests of the Group.
Committee agendas are provided to all Directors to ensure that Retirement plan Directors are aware of matters to be considered by the committees, As former Directors of BHP Limited, prior to the merger with and can elect to attend meetings where appropriate.
Billiton Plc, which formed the Group in 2001, Mr Crawford and Dr Schubert participated in a retirement plan approved by 5.9 Independence shareholders in 1989.
The plan was closed on 24 October 2003.
Benefits accrued to that date, together with interest earned on The Board is committed to ensuring a majority of Directors the benefits, have been preserved and will be paid on retirement.
The Board considers that all the current The Board does not believe that the independence of any Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, are independent.
participating Director is compromised as a result of this plan.
Process to determine independence Relationships and associations The Board has a policy that it uses to determine the independence Lindsay Maxsted was the CEO of KPMG in Australia from 2001 of its Directors.
This determination is carried out upon appointment, until 2007.
The Board considers that this prior relationship with annually and at any other time where the circumstances KPMG does not materially interfere with Mr Maxsteds exercise of a Director change such as to warrant reconsideration.
of objective, unfettered or independent judgement, or his ability to act in the best interests of the BHP Billiton Group.
The Board has determined, consistent with its policy on the independence A copy of the policy on Independence of Directors of Directors, that Mr Maxsted is independent.
The Board notes is available online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com home in particular that: aboutus ourcompany Pages governance.
asp x. at the time of his appointment to the Board, more than three years had elapsed since Mr Maxsteds retirement from KPMG.
Under the policy, an independent Director is one who is: The Director independence rules and guidelines that apply to independent of management and any business or other relationship the Group which are a combination of Australian, UK and that could materially interfere with the exercise of objective, US rules and guidelines all use three years as the benchmark unfettered or independent judgement by the Director or the cooling off period for former audit firm partners: Directors ability to act in the best interests of the BHP Billiton Group.
Mr Maxsted has no financial e. g. pension, retainer or advisory fee or consulting arrangements with KPMG: Where a Director is considered by the Board to be independent, Mr Maxsted was not part of the KPMG audit practice after but is affected by circumstances that appear relevant to the 1980 and, while at KPMG, was not in any way involved in, or Boards assessment of independence, the Board has undertaken able to influence, any audit activity associated with BHP Billiton.
to explain the reasons why it reached its conclusion.
In applying the independence test, the Board considers relationships with The Board considers Mr Maxsteds financial acumen and extensive management, major shareholders, subsidiary and associated experience in the corporate restructuring field to be important in companies and other parties with whom the Group transacts business the discharge of the Boards responsibilities.
His membership of the against predetermined materiality thresholds, all of which are set Board and Chairmanship of the RAC are considered by the Board out in the policy.
A summary of the factors that may be perceived to be appropriate and desirable.
to impact the independence of certain Directors is set out below.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 137 5 Corporate Governance Statement continued Conflicts of interest 5.9 Independence continued The UK Companies Act requires that BHP Billiton Directors avoid Mr Crawford was a partner of KPMG in Australia until his retirement a situation where they have, or can have, an unauthorised direct in June 2001.
He has had no commercial relationship with KPMG or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the since that time and the Board does not consider Mr Crawfords Companys interests, unless approved by non-interested Directors.
independence to be compromised as a result of this association In accordance with the UK Companies Act, BHP Billiton Plcs Articles that ended more than 12 years ago.
of Association allow the Directors to authorise conflicts and Some of the Directors hold or previously held positions in companies potential conflicts where appropriate.
A procedure operates to ensure the disclosure of conflicts and for the consideration and, with which we have commercial relationships.
Those positions and companies are set out in the Director profiles in section 4.1 of this if appropriate, the authorisation of them by non-conflicted Directors.
The Nomination and Governance Committee supports the Board Annual Report.
The Board has assessed all of the relationships between the Group and companies in which Directors hold or held in this process, both by reviewing requests from Directors for authorisation of situations of actual or potential conflict and positions and has concluded that in all cases the relationships do not interfere with the Directors exercise of objective, unfettered making recommendations to the Board, and by regularly reviewing any situations of actual or potential conflict that have previously or independent judgement or their ability to act in the best interests of the Group.
been authorised by the Board, and making recommendations regarding whether the authorisation remains appropriate.
A specific instance is Malcolm Broomhead, who, during the year In addition, in accordance with Australian law, if a situation under review, was a Non-executive Director of Coates Group arises for consideration in which a Director has a material personal Holdings Pty Limited, a company with which BHP Billiton has interest, the affected Director takes no part in decision-making.
Coates Group provides equipment hire to the mining and resources industry among others.
Prior to and since 5.10 Board evaluation the appointment of Mr Broomhead as a Director of BHP Billiton, the Board has assessed the relationship between BHP Billiton and The Board is committed to transparency in determining Board Coates Group and remained satisfied that Mr Broomhead was able membership and in assessing the performance of Directors.
to apply objective, unfettered and independent judgement and The Board evaluates its performance through a combination act in the best interests of BHP Billiton.
In addition, no commercial of both internal peer and externally facilitated assessments.
dealings with Coates Group were discussed at Board or Board Contemporary performance measures are considered an committee level.
Since year-end, Mr Broomhead has stepped down important part of this process.
Directors performance is from the Board of Coates Group with effect from 29 July 2013. also measured against their individual development plans.
A second instance is David Crawford, who is an Advisory Board The Board conducts regular evaluations of its performance, member for the commercial law firm Allens, which advises the performance of its committees, the Chairman, individual BHP Billiton on specific matters from time to time, but is not one Directors and the governance processes that support the Boards of BHP Billitons relationship law firms.
Mr Crawfords role is as a work.
The Board evaluation process comprises both assessment and member of the Advisory Board, a wholly advisory body that does review, as summarised in the diagram below.
This includes analysis not have decision-making authority for Allens.
The Board has of how the Board and its Directors are functioning, the time spent assessed the relationship and remains satisfied that Mr Crawford is by the Board considering matters and whether the terms of reference independent in mind and judgement and is able to apply objective, of the Board committees have been met, as well as compliance with unfettered and independent judgement and act in the best interests the Board Governance Document.
In addition, the allocation of business to Allens The assessment of the Boards performance is conducted by focusing was not discussed at Board or Board committee level, and to on individual Directors and Board committees in one year and the the extent it is in the future, Mr Crawford will absent himself Board as a whole in the following year.
Our approach has been to fully from those deliberations.
conduct an externally facilitated review of the Board of Directors Transactions during the year that amounted to related-party and committees at least every two years.
This year, due to the transactions with Directors or Director-related entities under appointment of the new CEO and the changes to the management International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS are outlined in structure, the FY2013 Board assessment was internally rather than note 31 Key Management Personnel to the financial statements.
The next external review will be conducted in early FY2014.
This will provide an opportunity for the new structure Executive Director to become sufficiently established for a meaningful review, while The Executive Director, Andrew Mackenzie, is not considered also adhering to our commitment of continuous improvement.
independent because of his executive responsibilities.
Mr Mackenzies appointment as Chief Executive Officer was announced on 20 February In addition, each year the Board, with the assistance of the 2013, and took effect from 10 May 2013.
He does not hold Nomination and Governance Committee, conducts a review of the directorships in any company included in the ASX 100 or FTSE 100, performance of each Director seeking re-election and uses the results but he previously served as Non-executive Director of Centrica Plc of that review when considering whether to recommend the re-election from September 2005 to May 2013. of each Director.
As the Board has adopted a policy of annual election, this effectively means that all Directors are subject to a performance review annually should they wish to remain on the Board.
Evaluation process ASSESSMENT REVIEW Year one: Each year, review of: Committee and individual Director assessment.
 Board and committees for compliance Year two: with the Board Governance Document Whole Board assessment.
and committee terms of reference.
May be internally or externally facilitated assessment.
Our approach is to conduct an externally facilitated review of the Board or Directors and committees at least every two years, but no less than every three.
138 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report new items for the training and development of Directors: 5.10 Board evaluation continued updating the format of materials provided to the Board.
Directors provide anonymous feedback on their peers performance The review of the Board as a whole also indicated that the Board and individual contributions to the Board, which is passed on to is continuing to function effectively and in accordance with the the relevant Director via the Chairman.
In respect of the Chairmans Board Governance Document.
performance, Directors provide feedback directly to either Dr Schubert or Sir John Buchanan as Senior Independent Director to be passed Director assessment on anonymously to the Chairman.
External independent advisers are As reported last year, an externally facilitated assessment of engaged to assist these processes, as necessary.
The involvement each Director was completed in FY2012.
Therefore, the FY2013 of an independent third party has assisted in the evaluation processes review was internally facilitated and the overall findings were being rigorous, fair and ensuring continuous improvement in the presented to the Board and discussed.
Each Director was provided operation of the Board and committees, as well as the contributions with feedback on their individual and collective contribution to of individual Directors.
the Board and its committees.
This review supported the Boards Director evaluation decision to endorse all retiring Directors standing for re-election.
The evaluation of individual Directors focuses on the contribution Committee assessment of the Director to the work of the Board and the expectations The assessment conducted this year focused on matters assessed of Directors as specified in the Groups governance framework.
against terms of reference, time spent by the committees in The performance of individual Directors is assessed against considering matters, quality of information received, time management a range of criteria, including the ability of the Director to: and composition, the work of each committee, quality of Board and consistently take the perspective of creating shareholder value: committee interface, and compliance with corporate governance contribute to the development of strategy: requirements.
These reviews utilised an electronic survey tool understand the major risks affecting the Group: provided by Lintstock and were focused to draw out views on work, overall effectiveness, decision-making and other processes.
provide clear direction to management: Outcomes and recommendations from each committee will be contribute to Board cohesion: considered and approved by the Board prior to implementation.
commit the time required to fulfil the role and perform their responsibilities effectively: In addition, as part of the process for reviewing the Board Governance Document, the opportunity was taken to review each committees listen to and respect the ideas of fellow Directors and members terms of reference to ensure the Groups existing practices remain of management.
A summary of the changes made to the terms of Board effectiveness reference of each committee is set out under the relevant committee The effectiveness of the Board as a whole and of its committees report in section 5.13. is assessed against the accountabilities set down in the Board Enhancements following previous evaluations Governance Document and each committees terms of reference.
Board and committee evaluations conducted in recent years have Matters considered in evaluations include: led to a number of enhancements to Board meeting processes: the effectiveness of discussion and debate at Board and Chairmans matters: For some time, the Board has held a closed committee meetings: session at the end of Board meetings.
An additional closed session the effectiveness of the Boards and committees processes has been incorporated so that all Board meetings start with and relationship with management: a closed session of all Directors there are no members of the the quality and timeliness of meeting agendas, Board and GMC present other than the Executive Director and the President committee papers and secretariat support: Governance and Group Company Secretary.
This allows the the composition of the Board and each committee, focusing Chairman to outline matters to be considered by the Board and on the blend of skills, experience, independence and knowledge set the context for the meeting.
It is also an opportunity for of the Group and its diversity, including geographic location, Directors to raise the items of business they believe warrant nationality and gender.
particular attention or any other relevant issues.
The process is managed by the Chairman, but feedback on the Assurance items: The Board agenda provides more time for Chairmans performance is provided to him by Dr Schubert.
reports from the committee chairmen to the Board.
This ensures that the Board is properly and formally informed of the work Information about the performance review process for executives of its committees and relevant committee papers are also is set out in section 5.15. provided to the Board.
Where appropriate, presentations made Evaluations conducted in FY2013 to committees are also presented to the Board during its meeting.
During the year under review, the Board conducted a Board Training and development: Sessions are scheduled during the performance assessment, an assessment of each Director Board meeting program.
and reviewed the work and performance of the committees Closed session: Directors continue to have the opportunity to in accordance with the processes outlined above, all of which raise matters during the closed session at the end of each Board were internally facilitated.
meeting, which is attended only by the Non-executive Directors.
Board assessment The internal review, conducted over three meetings, covered 5.11 Board meetings and attendance effectiveness of Board meetings, the nature and the format of The Board meets as often as necessary to fulfil its role.
Directors are Board materials, as well as training and development.
A range required to allocate sufficient time to the Group to perform their of improvements to the Boards work and effectiveness were responsibilities effectively, including adequate time to prepare for agreed, including: Board meetings.
During the reporting year, the Board met 11 times, introducing formal strategy days to the Board program to with five of those meetings being held in Australia, three in the support the discussions of strategy that currently take place United Kingdom and three in the United States.
Regularly scheduled between management and the Board at each meeting: Board meetings run over three days including committee meetings implementing an updated plan for Board engagement and Director training and development sessions.
on strategy, execution and monitoring: Members of the GMC and other members of senior management effective methods for engaging on the increasing number attended meetings of the Board by invitation.
Senior managers of Board matters considered out of session: delivered presentations on the status and performance of our increased use of the committee report-out process, which is Businesses and matters reserved for the Board, including the approval used for committee chairmen to summarise the key discussions: of budgets, annual financial statements and strategy.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 139 5 Corporate Governance Statement continued 5.11 Board meetings and attendance continued Attendance at Board and Board committee meetings during the year ended 30 June 2013 is set out in the table below.
Attendance at Board and Board committee meetings during the year ended 30 June 2013 Nomination and Board Risk and Audit Governance Remuneration Sustainability Finance A B A B A B A B A B A B Malcolm Broomhead 11 11 7 7 11 11 John Buchanan 11 10 6 5 9 9 Carlos Cordeiro 11 11 9 7 David Crawford 11 11 11 11 Pat Davies 11 10 9 9 Carolyn Hewson 11 11 12 12 Marius Kloppers 7 6 Andrew Mackenzie 1 1 Lindsay Maxsted 11 11 12 12 11 11 Wayne Murdy 11 11 12 12 11 11 Jac Nasser 11 11 6 6 Keith Rumble 11 10 7 7 John Schubert 11 11 6 6 9 9 7 7 Shriti Vadera 11 11 12 11 Column A indicates the number of scheduled and ad-hoc meetings held during the period the Director was a member of the Board and or committee.
Column B indicates the number of scheduled and ad-hoc meetings attended during the period the Director was a member of the Board and or committee.
5.12 Director re-election 5.13 Board committees The Board has adopted a policy consistent with the UK Corporate The Board has established committees to assist it in exercising Governance Code, under which all Directors must seek re-election its authority, including monitoring the performance of the by shareholders annually, if they wish to remain on the Board.
Group to gain assurance that progress is being made towards This policy took effect at the 2011 Annual General Meetings.
the corporate purpose within the limits imposed by the Board.
It replaced the previous system, as set out in the Constitution Each of the permanent committees has terms of reference of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association of under which authority is delegated by the Board.
BHP Billiton Plc, under which Directors are required to submit themselves to shareholders for re-election at least every three years.
The adoption of annual re-election reflects the Boards The terms of reference for each committee are long-standing commitment that where governance principles available online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com home vary across jurisdictions, the Board will adopt what it considers aboutus ourcompany Pages governance.
asp x. to be the higher of the prevailing standards.
The Board believes that annual re-election promotes and supports accountability to shareholders, and the combined voting outcome of the The office of the Company Secretary provides secretariat services BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited 2012 AGMs meant for each of the committees.
Committee meeting agendas, papers that each Director received more than 97 per cent in support and minutes are made available to all members of the Board.
Subject to appropriate controls and the overriding scrutiny of the Board, committee chairmen are free to use whatever resources Board support for reappointment is not automatic.
Directors who they consider necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
are seeking re-election are subject to a performance appraisal overseen by the Nomination and Governance Committee of Reports from each of the committees follow.
Annual re-election effectively means all Directors are subject to a performance appraisal annually.
The Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination and Governance Committee, makes a determination as to whether it will endorse a retiring Director for re-election.
The Board will not endorse a Director for re-election if his or her performance is not considered satisfactory.
The Board will advise shareholders in the Notice of Meeting whether or not re-election is supported.
BHP Billiton does not apply or implement a no vacancy rule in relation to Board appointments.
Accordingly, Director candidates can be elected to the Board by ordinary resolution and are not required to out-poll an incumbent Director in order to be elected.
140 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report B R U C I S B S I O N K E O M S S C G & M E G A M R O I C O A T R U P U T R E D D A E C I s T D E L E G A T I O N 5.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report Role and focus The role of the RAC in the context of the Boards broader governance framework is summarised in the diagram below.
The role of the Risk and Audit Committee RAC is to assist the Further information about our approach to risk can be found Board in monitoring the decisions and actions of the CEO and the in sections 1.7 and 5.14.
Group and to gain assurance that progress is being made towards the corporate purpose within the limits imposed by the Board, as BHP Billiton governance structure Risk and Audit Committee set out in the Board Governance Document.
The RAC discharges its responsibilities by overseeing: the integrity of the Groups financial statements: SHAREHOLDERS the appointment, remuneration, qualifications, independence and performance of the External Auditor and the integrity of the audit process as a whole: the plans, performance, objectivity and leadership of the internal audit function and the integrity of the internal audit process as a whole: the effectiveness of the systems of internal controls and risk management: the Groups systems for compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements within the RACs area of responsibility: the CEOs compliance with the relevant CEO limits.
The RAC met 12 times during the year.
Information on meeting attendance by Committee members is included in the table in section 5.11 and information on their qualifications is included in section 4.1.
In addition to the regular business of the year, the Committee discussed the proposals for change in the regulatory environment across the jurisdictions in which our securities are listed.
These included revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code, Financial Reporting Council concerns about the reporting of risk and the proposals in respect of audit from the European Commission and the UK Competition Commission.
A statement in relation to tendering for external audit is set out below.
The RAC continues to monitor the debate around reform proposals in relation to the audit regime and the role of risk and audit committees from Europe, and will continue to review and assess the Groups response to the updated recommendations as they progress.
Business Group Risk and Audit committees To assist management in providing the information necessary to allow the RAC to discharge its responsibilities, Business Group Risk and Audit committees have been established, incorporating each Business, and for key functional areas such as Marketing and Treasury.
These committees, known as Business Group RACs, operate as committees of management, but are chaired by members of the RAC.
The responsible member of the GMC participates in those meetings.
Business Group RACs perform an important monitoring function in the overall governance of the Group.
Significant financial and risk matters raised at Business Group RAC meetings are reported to the RAC by the Head of Group Reporting and Taxation and the Head of Group Risk Assessment and Assurance.
Risk and Audit Committee members during the year Name Status a Lindsay Maxsted Chairman Member for whole period Carolyn Hewson Member for whole period Wayne Murdy Member for whole period Shriti Vadera Member for whole period a Mr Maxsted is the Committees financial expert nominated by the Board.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 141 A C C O U N T A B I L I T Y 5 Corporate Governance Statement continued 5.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report continued Activities undertaken during the year Auditor evaluation Integrity of financial statements The RAC evaluates the performance of the External Auditor during its term of appointment against specified criteria, including The RAC assists the Board in assuring the integrity of the financial delivering value to shareholders and the Group.
The RAC evaluates and makes recommendations the integrity, independence and objectivity of the External Auditor.
to the Board about the appropriateness of accounting policies This review includes: and practices, areas of judgement, compliance with Accounting Standards, stock exchange and legal requirements and the confirming that the External Auditor is, in its judgement, results of the external audit.
It reviews the half-yearly and annual independent of the Group: financial statements and makes recommendations on specific obtaining from the External Auditor an account of all actions or decisions including formal adoption of the financial relationships between the External Auditor and the Group: statements and reports the Board should consider in order to monitoring the number of former employees of the External maintain the integrity of the financial statements.
From time Auditor currently employed in senior positions within the Group to time, the Board may delegate authority to the RAC to approve and assessing whether those appointments impair, or appear the release of the statements to the stock exchanges, shareholders to impair, the External Auditors judgement or independence: and the financial community.
considering whether the various relationships between the The CEO and CFO have certified that the 2013 financial statements Group and the External Auditor collectively impair, or appear present a true and fair view, in all material respects, of our to impair, the External Auditors judgement or independence: financial condition and operating results and are in accordance determining whether the compensation of individuals employed with applicable regulatory requirements.
by the External Auditor who conduct the audit is tied to the provision of non-audit services and, if so, whether this impairs, External Auditor or appears to impair, the External Auditors judgement The RAC manages the relationship with the External Auditor or independence: on behalf of the Board.
It considers the reappointment of the reviewing the economic importance of the Group to the External Auditor each year, as well as remuneration and other External Auditor and assessing whether that importance terms of engagement, and makes a recommendation to the impairs, or appears to impair, the External Auditors judgement Board.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict or independence.
the RACs capacity to recommend a particular firm for appointment as auditor.
The External Auditor also certifies its independence to the RAC.
The last audit tender was in 2002, at which time the Group had Non-audit services three external auditors following the completion of the DLC Although the External Auditor does provide some non-audit merger.
The tender resulted in KPMG and  services, the objectivity and independence of the External being appointed as joint auditors for FY2003 and a reduction Auditor is safeguarded through restrictions on the provision in audit providers.
A competitive audit review was undertaken of these services.
For example, certain types of non-audit in 2003, which resulted in KPMG being appointed as the External service may only be undertaken by the External Auditor with Auditor by the Board on the recommendation of the RAC.
the prior approval of the RAC as described below, while other services may not be undertaken at all, including services where Following the outcome of the Financial Reporting Councils the External Auditor: consultation on the UK Corporate Governance Code and Guidance on Audit Committees, the Committee considered the new Code may be required to audit its own work: provision for tendering the external audit, including the transitional participates in activities that would normally be undertaken provisions of the Code.
The Committee is watching developments by management: with keen interest given the necessity for the Groups auditor to is remunerated through a success fee structure: have international capability and reach, and intends to keep this acts in an advocacy role for the Group.
The RAC has adopted a policy entitled Provision of Audit The lead audit engagement partners in both Australia and the UK and Other Services by the External Auditor covering the have been rotated every five years.
The current Australian audit RACs pre-approval policies and procedures to maintain engagement partner was appointed for the FY2010 year-end, the independence of the External Auditor.
and therefore FY2014 will be his last year of involvement before transition to a new engagement partner.
The UK audit engagement partner was appointed for the FY2013 year-end, and therefore Our policy on Provision of Audit and Other Services FY2017 will be his last year.
by the External Auditor can be found on our website The Committee has evaluated the External Auditors performance at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com home aboutus and independence, as set out below.
142 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 5.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report continued In addition to audit services, the External Auditor will be permitted Internal Audit to provide other non-audit services that are not, and are not The Internal Audit function is carried out internally by Group perceived to be, in conflict with the role of the External Auditor.
Risk Assessment and Assurance RAA.
The role of RAA is to In accordance with the requirements of the US Securities Exchange determine whether risk management, control and governance Act and guidance contained in Public Company Accounting processes are adequate and functioning.
The Internal Audit Oversight Board PCAOB Release 2004-001, certain specific function is independent of the External Auditor.
The RAC activities are listed in our detailed policy which have been reviews the mission and charter of RAA, the staffing levels pre-approved by the RAC.
and its scope of work to ensure that it is appropriate in light of the key risks we face.
It also reviews and approves the The categories of pre-approved services are as follows: annual internal audit plan.
Audit services work that constitutes the agreed scope of the statutory audit and includes the statutory audits of the Group The RAC also approves the appointment and dismissal of the and its entities including interim reviews.
The RAC will monitor Head of Group Risk Assessment and Assurance and assesses the audit services engagements and approve, if necessary, his or her performance, independence and objectivity.
The role any changes in terms and conditions resulting from changes of the Head of Group Risk Assessment and Assurance includes in audit scope, Group structure or other relevant events.
achievement of the internal audit objectives, risk management policies and insurance strategy.
The position was held throughout Audit-related assurance services work that is outside the the year by Stefano Giorgini.
Mr Giorgini reported to senior required scope of the statutory audit, but is consistent with management and had all necessary access to management and the role of the external statutory auditor.
This category includes the RAC.
Following a decision to appoint Mr Giorgini to a line work that is reasonably related to the performance of an audit management role in the Group, the Committee appointed or review and is a logical extension of the audit or review scope, Alistair Mytton as Head of Group Risk Assessment and Assurance, is of an assurance or compliance nature and is work that the effective from FY2014.
Mr Mytton was formerly Vice President, External Auditor must or is best placed to undertake.
Tax services work of a tax nature that does not compromise the independence of the External Auditor.
Effectiveness of systems of internal control and Other advisory services work of an advisory nature that does risk management not compromise the independence of the External Auditor.
In delegating authority to the CEO, the Board has established CEO limits set out in the Board Governance Document.
Limits on the Activities not listed specifically are therefore not pre-approved CEOs authority require the CEO to ensure that there is a system and must be approved by the RAC prior to engagement, regardless of control in place for identifying and managing risk in the Group.
of the dollar value involved.
Additionally, any engagement for The Directors, through the RAC, review the systems that have other services with a value over US$100,000, even if listed as been established for this purpose and regularly review their a pre-approved service, can only be approved by the RAC, effectiveness.
These reviews include assessing whether processes and all engagements for other services, whether pre-approved continue to meet evolving external governance requirements.
or not, and regardless of the dollar value involved, are reported quarterly to the RAC.
The RAC is responsible for the oversight of risk management and reviews the internal controls and risk management systems.
While not specifically prohibited by our policy, any proposed In undertaking this role, the RAC reviews the following: non-audit engagement of the External Auditor relating to procedures for identifying business and operational risks internal control such as a review of internal controls or assistance and controlling their financial impact on the Group and the with implementing the regulatory requirements, including the operational effectiveness of the policies and procedures US Securities Exchange Act must obtain specific prior approval related to risk and control: from the RAC.
With the exception of the external audit of the Group financial report, any engagement identified that contains budgeting and forecasting systems, financial reporting systems an internal control-related element is not considered to be and controls: pre-approved.
In addition, while the categories shown above policies and practices put in place by the CEO for detecting, include a list of certain pre-approved services, the use of the reporting and preventing fraud and serious breaches of business External Auditor to perform such services shall always be subject conduct and whistle-blowing procedures: to our overriding governance practices as articulated in the policy.
procedures for ensuring compliance with relevant regulatory and legal requirements: An exception can be made to the above policy where such an exception is in our interests and appropriate arrangements are put arrangements for protecting intellectual property and other in place to ensure the integrity and independence of the External non-physical assets: Auditor.
Any such exception requires the specific prior approval operational effectiveness of the Business Group RAC structures: of the RAC and must be reported to the Board.
No exceptions overseeing the adequacy of the internal controls and allocation were approved during the year ended 30 June 2013. of responsibilities for monitoring internal financial controls.
In addition, the RAC approved no services during the year ended For further discussion on our approach to risk management, 30 June 2013 pursuant to paragraph c 7 i C of Rule 2-01 of the refer to sections 1.7 and 5.14.
Fees paid to the Groups External Auditor during the year for audit and other services were US$29.6 million, of which 61 per cent comprised audit fees, 33 per cent related to legislative requirements including Sarbanes-Oxley and six per cent was for other services.
Details of the fees paid are set out in note 35 Auditors remuneration to the financial statements.
Based on the review by the RAC, the Board is satisfied that the External Auditor is independent.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 143 5 Corporate Governance Statement continued 5.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report continued During the year, the Board conducted reviews of the effectiveness Managements assessment of our disclosure controls of the Groups systems of risk management and internal controls and procedures for the financial year and up to the date of this Annual Report in Our management, with the participation of our CEO and CFO, has accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code including performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and the Turnbull Guidance and the Principles and Recommendations operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of 30 June published by the Australian Securities Exchange ASX Corporate 2013.
Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide Governance Council.
These reviews covered financial, operational reasonable assurance that the material financial and non-financial and compliance controls and risk assessment.
During the year, information required to be disclosed by BHP Billiton, including management presented an assessment of the material business in the reports that it files or submits under the US Securities risks facing the Group and the level of effectiveness of risk Exchange Act of 1934, is recorded, processed, summarised and management over the material business risks.
The reviews were reported on a timely basis and that such information is accumulated overseen by the RAC, with findings and recommendations reported and communicated to BHP Billitons management, including our to the Board.
In addition to considering key risks facing the Group, CEO and CFO, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding the Board received an assessment of the effectiveness of internal required disclosure.
Based on the foregoing, our management, controls over key risks identified through the work of the Board including the CEO and CFO, has concluded that our disclosure committees.
The Board is satisfied that the effectiveness of the controls and procedures are effective in providing that internal controls has been properly reviewed.
Managements assessment of our internal control over There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system financial reporting of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined and procedures.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls in Rule 13a-15 f and 15d-15 f under the US Securities Exchange and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of Act of 1934.
Under the supervision and with the participation achieving their control objectives.
of our management, including our CEO and CFO, we have Further, in the design and evaluation of our disclosure controls evaluated the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and procedures, our management was necessarily required to over financial reporting based on the framework and criteria apply its judgement in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship established in Internal Controls Integrated Framework, issued of possible controls and procedures.
by the Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission Committee review COSO.
Based on this evaluation, management has concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective The assessment of the RAC conducted this year focused on as at 30 June 2013.
There were no material weaknesses in matters assessed against its terms of reference, time spent the Groups internal controls over financial reporting identified by the Committee in considering matters, quality of information by management.
received, time management and composition, the work of the Committee, quality of interface between Board and Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial the Committee and compliance with corporate governance reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements and, even requirements.
The review utilised electronic surveys and was when determined to be effective, can only provide reasonable focused to draw out views on work, processes and overall assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and effectiveness.
Outcomes and recommendations from the presentation.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness review will be considered and approved by the Board prior to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become to implementation.
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Terms of reference review The opportunity was also taken to review the terms of reference BHP Billiton has engaged our independent registered public for the RAC, to ensure the Groups existing practices remain accounting firms, KPMG and KPMG Audit Plc to issue an audit appropriate.
While the terms of reference remained fit for purpose, report on our internal control over financial reporting for inclusion it was considered prudent to update them to take account of our in the financial statements section of our Annual Report on Form existing practices that have developed since the last substantive 20-F as filed with the SEC.
review of the terms of reference, including in relation to Committee There have been no changes in our internal control over financial report-outs to the Board: more closely reflect the UK Corporate reporting during FY2013 that have materially affected, or are Governance Code and the ASX recommendations, while still taking reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over into account the relevant US rules: and streamline and re-order financial reporting.
some of the material to improve the structure and readability of the document.
The CEO and CFO have certified to the Board that the financial statements are founded on a sound system of risk management and internal control and that the system is operating efficiently and effectively in all material respects.
The updated terms of reference for the RAC are available online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com home During the year, the RAC reviewed our compliance with the aboutus ourcompany Pages governance.
asp x. obligations imposed by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including evaluating and documenting internal controls as required by section 404 of the Act.
144 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report D R E L E E G C M A T O B I O U N M O N C M E E A O I R T R T A E T D I E O N 5.13.2 Remuneration Committee Report Role and focus The Remuneration Committee met nine times during the year.
Information on meeting attendance by Committee members is The role of the Remuneration Committee is to assist the Board included in the table in section 5.11. in overseeing: the remuneration policy and its specific application to the Full details of the Committees work on behalf of the Board, CEO and the CEOs direct reports, and its general application including the review of our remuneration structures conducted to all employees: by the Committee during FY2013, are set out in the Remuneration the adoption of annual and longer-term incentive plans: Report in section 6. the determination of levels of reward for the CEO and approval Remuneration Committee members during the year of reward to the CEOs direct reports: Name Status the annual evaluation of the performance of the CEO, by giving guidance to the Group Chairman: John Buchanan Chairman Member for whole period the preparation of the Remuneration Report for inclusion in Carlos Cordeiro Member for whole period the Annual Report: Pat Davies Member for whole period compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements associated with remuneration matters: John Schubert Member for whole period the review, at least annually, of remuneration by gender.
The role of the Remuneration Committee in the context of Committee review BHP Billitons broader governance framework is summarised The assessment of the Remuneration Committee conducted this in the diagram below.
year focused on matters assessed against its terms of reference, time spent by the Committee in considering matters, quality BHP Billiton governance structure Remuneration Committee of information received, time management and composition, the work of the Committee, quality of interface between Board and the Committee and compliance with corporate governance SHAREHOLDERS requirements.
The review utilised electronic surveys and was focused to draw out views on work, processes and overall effectiveness.
Outcomes and recommendations from the review will be considered and approved by the Board prior to implementation.
Terms of reference review The opportunity was also taken to review the terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee, to ensure the Groups existing practices remain appropriate.
While the terms of reference for the Committee remained fit for purpose, it was considered prudent to update them to take account of changes to the external corporate governance environment: for example, by including the new New York Stock Exchange NYSE Dodd Frank requirement to consider certain independence factors in relation to remuneration advisers: take account of changes to our own governance practices, including in relation to Committee report-outs to the Board: and streamline and re-order some of the material to improve the structure and readability of the document.
The updated terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee are available online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com home aboutus ourcompany Pages governance.
asp x. BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 145 A C C O U N T A B I L I T Y D E L E G A T I O N & N C G O B O O M O V M I E A N M 5 Corporate Governance Statement continued 5.13.3 Nomination and Governance Committee Report Role and focus The Nomination and Governance Committee met six times during the year.
Information on meeting attendance by Committee The role of the Nomination and Governance Committee is to members is included in the table in section 5.11. assist in ensuring that the Board comprises individuals who are best able to discharge the responsibilities of a Director, having There were changes to the composition of the Board during the regard to the highest standards of governance, the strategic year with the appointment of Mr Mackenzie as CEO with effect direction of the Group and the diversity aspirations of the Board.
from 10 May 2013 and the retirement of Mr Kloppers from the It does so by focusing on: Board.
Further details relating to the succession process are set the succession planning process for the Board and its out in section 5.3.
The Nomination and Governance Committee committees, including the identification of the skills, experience, retained the services of external recruitment specialists, Heidrick independence and knowledge required on the Board, as well as & Struggles, to continue to assist in the identification of potential the attributes required of potential Directors: candidates for the Board and remains committed to the target set for Board diversity as set out in more detail in section 5.7. the identification of suitable candidates for appointment to the Board, taking into account the skills, experience and diversity The Nomination and Governance Committee also oversaw the required on the Board and the attributes required of Directors: Director Training and Development Program for FY2013.
the succession planning process for the Chairman: Nomination and Governance Committee members during the year the succession planning process for the Chief Executive Officer and periodic evaluation of the process: Name Status Board and Director performance evaluation, including evaluation Jac Nasser Chairman Member for whole period of Directors seeking re-election prior to their endorsement by the John Buchanan Member for whole period Board see section 5.12 : the provision of appropriate training and development John Schubert Member for whole period opportunities for Directors: Committee review the independence of Non-executive Directors: The assessment of the Nomination and Governance Committee the time required from Non-executive Directors: conducted this year focused on matters assessed against its terms the authorisation of situations of actual and potential of reference, time spent by the Committee in considering matters, conflict notified by Directors in accordance with the Articles quality of information received, time management and composition, of Association of BHP Billiton Plc see section 5.9 : the work of the Committee, quality of interface between Board the Groups corporate governance practices: and the Committee, and compliance with corporate governance the preparation of a report by the Committee to be included requirements.
The review utilised electronic surveys and was in the Annual Report.
focused to draw out views on work, processes and overall effectiveness.
Outcomes and recommendations from the The Board outlined its aspirational goal of increasing the number review will be considered and approved by the Board prior of women on the Board to at least three.
While we have not to implementation.
appointed any new Non-executive Directors during the year, we remain committed to achieving this target.
The Nomination Terms of reference review and Governance Committee continues to take diversity into The opportunity was also taken to review the terms of reference account in its deliberations and works continuously to identify for the Nomination and Governance Committee, to ensure the future candidates for the Board.
Groups existing practices remain appropriate.
Key changes that were made as part of the update were to add a new section Information regarding the Boards policy on diversity and the Committees role in this regard is set out in sections 5.7 and 5.17. extending the role of the Committee to cover the Groups Corporate Governance practices and changing its name to the The Nomination and Governance Committee also has oversight Nomination and Governance Committee: take account of changes of training and development activity for all Directors.
The Board to our own governance practices, including in relation to believes this enhances the Committees ongoing consideration Committee report-outs to the Board: and streamline and re-order and review in relation to the appropriate skills mix for the Board.
The role of the Nomination and Governance Committee in the context of BHP Billitons broader governance framework is The changes relating to the Groups Corporate Governance practices summarised in the diagram below.
include formal recognition of the Nomination and Governance Committees role in reviewing and recommending the Corporate BHP Billiton governance structure Nomination and Governance Statement for the Boards approval: advising the Governance Committee Board on applicable governance requirements: recommending the appropriate explanation for departures from comply or explain standards: advising the Board periodically with respect to significant SHAREHOLDERS developments in the law and practice of corporate governance: and making recommendations to the Board on all matters of corporate governance, including any proposed changes to existing structures or practices.
These amendments mean that the terms of reference for the Nomination and Governance Committee now meet the requirements of Section 303A of the Listed Company Manual followed by US companies, in that it includes the purpose for developing and recommending to the Board a set of Corporate Governance principles applicable to the Company.
This reflects the Boards commitment to continuous review.
The updated terms of reference for the Nomination and Governance Committee are available online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
146 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 R I A N T R T T A I D E O N E N C E A C C O U N T A B I L I T Y 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report S e o l c D E L p i E G A e T o I O N t e y P 5.13.4 Sustainability Committee Report Role and focus Our approach to sustainability is reflected in Our Charter, which defines our values, purpose and how we measure success, The role of the Sustainability Committee is to assist the Board and in our sustainability performance targets, which define our to take reasonable steps in overseeing the: public commitments to safety, health and environmental and adequacy of the Groups HSEC framework, which consists of: social responsibility.
Further information is set out in the Groups the CEO limits, which delegate authority to the CEO, Sustainability Report.
The Committee provides oversight of including for HSEC matters: the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability Report the Committee itself and its terms of reference: by management, including oversight of internal control systems a robust independent assurance and audit process, relevant to the preparation of the Sustainability Report.
established by the RAC: The role of the Sustainability Committee in the context of independent legal and specialist advice on HSEC matters: BHP Billitons broader governance framework is summarised the Groups HSEC Management System: in the diagram below.
adequacy of the Groups HSEC Management System, which is BHP Billiton governance structure Sustainability Committee designed and implemented by management.
It incorporates the systems and processes, resources, structures and performance standards for the day-to-day identification, management and reporting of HSEC risks and obligations, which are articulated SHAREHOLDERS in Group Level Documents: Groups compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements associated with HSEC matters: Annual Sustainability Report: performance, resourcing and leadership of the HSEC function: Groups performance in relation to HSEC matters, including the HSEC component of the GMC scorecard.
Sustainable development governance The Sustainability Committee met seven times during the year.
Information on meeting attendance by Committee Our approach to HSEC and sustainable development governance members is included in the table in section 5.11. is characterised by: the Sustainability Committee overseeing material HSEC matters During the year, the Sustainability Committee continued to and risks across the Group: assist the Board in its oversight of HSEC issues and performance.
management having primary responsibility for the design and This included consideration of strategic environmental and implementation of an effective HSEC management system: community issues, HSEC audits and trends, and the findings and action items from accidents and other incidents.
management having accountability for HSEC performance: the HSEC function providing advice and guidance directly, The key areas on which the Committee, management and the as well as through a series of networks across the Group: HSEC function focus are outlined in the diagram below.
seeking input and insight from external experts such as our Forum for Corporate Responsibility: clear links between remuneration and HSEC performance.
Keeping our people and operations safe Conducting business transparently Focusing on the health and wellbeing of our people Operating with integrity Developing our people Our focus areas Making a positive Climate change contribution and energy to society Biodiversity Respecting and land human rights management Supporting Water and engaging management with our communities BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 147 E S e U n C S c B O T v A O n M I C i G A N M E M a r I O A C A R T C C B T o n O D I E U L N E r I T n A T B I e L Y I T m Y v e o n G t 5 Corporate Governance Statement continued 5.13.4 Sustainability Committee Report continued In addition to our focus on the health, safety and wellbeing Sustainability Committee members during the year of our people, the Committee spent considerable time considering Name Status environment and climate change scenarios and the actions being taken to manage the implications of climate change regulation, John Schubert Chairman Member for whole period in light of the Groups public target for emissions through Malcolm Broomhead Member for whole period to FY2017 as set out in section 2.8.
Keith Rumble Member for whole period We also continued to monitor our progress in relation to our community contribution and met our target for investments in Committee review community programs, with such investments consisting of cash, The assessment of the Sustainability Committee conducted this in-kind support and administration.
This was the equivalent of year focused on matters assessed against its terms of reference, one per cent of our pre-tax profits, calculated on the average time spent by the Committee in considering matters, quality of the previous three years pre-tax profit.
In total, we invested of information received, time management and composition, US$245.8 million in community programs, including US$106 million the work of the Committee, quality of interface between contributed to the BHP Billiton Foundation.
Board and the Committee, and compliance with corporate The Committee reviewed and recommended to the Board the governance requirements.
approval of the annual Sustainability Report for publication.
The review utilised electronic surveys and was focused to draw The Sustainability Report identifies our targets for HSEC matters out views on work, processes and overall effectiveness.
Outcomes and our performance against those targets, with an emphasis and recommendations from the review will be considered and on fact-based measurement and quality data in setting targets.
approved by the Board prior to implementation.
The Committee reviewed and recommended to the Board the public targets for FY2013FY2017.
Terms of reference review The opportunity was also taken to review the terms of reference In order to link HSEC matters to remuneration, 15 per cent of the for the Sustainability Committee, to ensure the Groups existing short-term incentive opportunity for GMC members was based on practices remain appropriate.
Key changes that were made HSEC performance during the year.
For FY2014 performance, the as part of the update were to more clearly reflect the specific weighting of this metric will move to 20 per cent.
The Sustainability responsibilities of the Committee and management having Committee assists the Remuneration Committee in determining regard to the due diligence obligations specified in the Australian appropriate HSEC metrics to be included in GMC scorecards, and Model Work Health and Safety legislative reforms: and to ensure also assists in relation to assessment of performance against those that the nature and form of material and advice to be presented measures.
The Board believes this method of assessment is for consideration by the Committee is clear and referable to the transparent, rigorous and balanced, and provides an appropriate, terms of reference and obligations of the Directors.
objective and comprehensive assessment of performance.
Further information on the metrics and their assessment is set out in the Remuneration Report.
The updated terms of reference for the In addition, during the year, the Committee considered Directors Sustainability Committee are available duties under the Australian Model Work Health and Safety online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
The current approach taken by the Board, aboutus ourcompany Pages governance.
asp x. the Committee and GMC allows Directors and Officers of the Group to meet the due diligence requirements.
A copy of the Sustainability Report and further information can be found on our website at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com home aboutus sustainability Pages default.
148 | BHP BIllITOn AnnUAl REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report D E L E G A T I O N 5.13.5 Finance Committee Report Role and focus The Committee met 11 times during the year.
Information on meeting attendance by Committee members is included The role of the Finance Committee is to assist the Board in its in the table in section 5.11. consideration for approval and ongoing oversight of matters pertaining to: During the year, the Finance Committee continued to assist capital structure and funding: the work of the Board by considering matters relating to capital capital management planning and initiatives, including structure and funding, capital management planning and capital allocation: initiatives, capital expenditure prioritisation, divestments and other matters referred to the Committee.
The Committees due diligence on acquisitions and investments, including considerations resulted in recommendations to the Board proposals that may have a material impact on the Groups on the matters considered.
capital position: matters the Board may refer to the Committee from time Finance Committee members during the year to time in connection with the Groups capital position.
Name Status Upon its establishment in April 2012, the Board made a David Crawford Chairman Member for whole period commitment to evaluate the role and function of the Finance Committee 12 months after its formation.
In the past year, the Malcolm Broomhead Member for whole period Committee has focused on capital structure, funding, capital Lindsay Maxsted Member for whole period management planning and due diligence on divestments, including the Yeelirrie uranium deposit, EKATI Diamond Mine, our interest Wayne Murdy Member for whole period in the East and West Browse Joint Ventures, the Pinto Valley copper mine and the extension of the long-term joint venture relationship Committee review at the Jimblebar iron ore mine.
Given our continued focus on The assessment of the Finance Committee conducted this year capital management, the Board believes that the Committee adds focused on matters assessed against its terms of reference, value to the governance of the Group and should continue to time spent by the Committee in considering matters, quality operate under its terms of reference.
Recognising that the focus of information received, time management and composition, of the Committees activities encompasses matters of strategy the work of the Committee, quality of interface between Board reserved for the Board, the Committee does not, as a matter and the Committee, and compliance with corporate governance of course, have a decision-making role.
Instead, its focus is to requirements.
The review utilised electronic surveys and was advise the Board and make recommendations.
The Board may, focused to draw out views on work, processes and overall where it considers it appropriate, delegate decision-making effectiveness.
Outcomes and recommendations from the power to the Committee in relation to specific matters.
review will be considered and approved by the Board prior The Board recognised that in establishing a new Board committee, to implementation.
it is important to avoid introducing complexity or overlap in the Terms of reference review current governance framework.
The matters specified for the The opportunity was also taken to review the terms of reference consideration of the Finance Committee are not within the current for the Finance Committee, to ensure the Groups existing practices scope or mandate of any of the other Board committees because remain appropriate.
While the terms of reference for the Committee they were previously dealt with by ad-hoc committees.
However, were adopted in 2012, and remained fit for purpose, it was to avoid any perceived overlap of responsibilities, the terms of considered prudent to conduct a detailed review.
A clause relating reference of each of the Finance Committee and the Risk and Audit to capital allocation was specifically added reflecting the work Committee allow the respective committee chairmen to agree the of the Finance Committee.
Other changes were made to harmonise most appropriate committee to fulfil the obligation in question.
clauses in the meetings procedures section with the RACs terms The role of the Finance Committee in the context of BHP Billitons of reference.
broader governance framework is summarised in the diagram below.
BHP Billiton governance structure Finance Committee The updated terms of reference for the Finance Committee are available online SHAREHOLDERS SHAREHOLDERS at w w w. bhpbilliton.
asp x. aboutus ourcompany Pages governance BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 149 A C C O U N T A B I L I T Y C B F O I O N M G C A A M E M N O C I R T C T D E E E 5 Corporate Governance Statement continued Management has put in place a number of key policies, processes, 5.14 Risk management governance structure performance requirements and independent controls to provide We believe that the identification and management of risk is assurance to the Board and the RAC as to the integrity of our central to achieving the corporate purpose of creating long-term reporting and effectiveness of our systems of internal control shareholder value.
Our approach to risk is set out in section 1.7. and risk management.
Some of the more significant internal control systems include Board and management committees, The principal aim of the Groups risk management governance Business Group RACs and internal audit.
structure and internal control systems is to identify, evaluate and manage business risks, with a view to enhancing the value Business Group Risk and Audit Committees of shareholders investments and safeguarding assets.
The Business Group RACs assist the RAC to monitor the Groups obligations in relation to financial reporting, internal control Each year, the Board reviews and considers the risk profile for the whole Group.
This risk profile covers both operational structure, risk management processes and the internal and external audit functions.
The risk profile is assessed to ensure it supports the achievement of the Groups strategy while Board committees maintaining a solid A credit rating.
Directors also monitor risks and controls through the RAC, The Board has delegated the oversight of risk management the Remuneration Committee and the Sustainability Committee.
to the RAC, although the Board retains overall accountability Management committees for the Groups risk profile.
In addition, the Board specifically Management committees also perform roles in relation to requires the CEO to implement a system of control for identifying risk and control.
Strategic risks and opportunities arising from and managing risk.
The Directors, through the RAC, review the changes in our business environment are regularly reviewed systems that have been established for this purpose and regularly by the GMC and discussed by the Board.
The Financial Risk review their effectiveness.
The RAC regularly reports to the Board Management Committee FRMC reviews the effectiveness of to enable it to review the Groups risk framework.
internal controls relating to commodity price risk, counterparty The RAC has established review processes for the nature and credit risk, currency risk, financing risk, interest rate risk and extent of material risks taken in achieving our corporate purpose.
Minutes of the GMC and the FRMC meetings are These processes include the application of materiality and tolerance provided to the Board.
The Investment Committee provides criteria to determine and assess material risks.
Materiality criteria oversight for investment processes across the Company and include maximum foreseeable loss and residual risk thresholds and coordinates the investment toll-gating process for major are set at Group, Business and Asset organisational levels.
Reports are made to the Board on findings by criteria additionally assess the control effectiveness of material risks.
the Investment Committee in relation to major capital projects.
The Disclosure Committee oversees the Groups compliance The diagram below outlines the risk reporting process.
with securities dealing and continuous and periodic disclosure requirements, including reviewing information that may require disclosure through stock exchanges and overseeing processes to ensure information disclosed is timely, accurate and complete.
BOARD BUSINESS GROUP BOARD GROUP RISK BOARD FUNCTION SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT RAC RISKS COMMITTEE PLAN HSEC ONLY HALF-YEARLY BUSINESS ASSET BUSINESS GROUP GROUP GMC RISK GROUP RISK RISK GROUP RISK PROFILES RACS PROFILE PROFILES PROFILE REVIEW HALF-YEARLY 150 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report M A N A F I G N E A M N E C N I T A L C O R I M S K M G I T R T E O E U P M A N A I C N G O V M E E S M T M The GMC now comprises: 5.15 Management Chief Executive Officer: Andrew Mackenzie Below the level of the Board, key management decisions are made President, Copper: Peter Beaven by the CEO, the GMC, other management committees and individual President, Petroleum and Potash: Tim Cutt members of management to whom authority has been delegated.
President, Coal: Dean Dalla Valle Following the appointment of Andrew Mackenzie as CEO, President, Human Resources: Mike Fraser a new senior management team was announced, effective from Chief Legal Counsel: Geoff Healy 10 May 2013.
Following the changes, Mike Henry, Graham Kerr and President, HSEC, Marketing and Technology: Mike Henry Karen Wood remain as GMC members, ensuring a strong balance of existing and new membership of the team, and both Mr Henry and Chief Financial Officer: Graham Kerr Mr Kerr have assumed enhanced responsibilities.
The new GMC also President, Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel: Daniel Malchuk has a strong emphasis on functional excellence, with the addition of President, Governance and Group Company Secretary: Jane McAloon two roles.
Geoff Healy, formerly a partner of Herbert Smith Freehills, President, Iron Ore: Jimmy Wilson joined the GMC as Chief Legal Counsel and Jane McAloon joined President, Public Affairs: Karen Wood as President, Governance and Group Company Secretary.
The diagram below describes the responsibilities of the CEO and On 27 August, Mike Fraser was appointed to the GMC as President, four key management committees.
Human Resources: part of the role previously held by Karen Wood, who remains a member of the GMC as President, Public Affairs.
Having completed the transition activities associated with the appointment of Andrew Mackenzie as CEO, she continues to assist Andrew on a range of specific corporate and Board issues, including development and succession and executive remuneration.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Chief Executive Officer  Holds delegated authority from the Board to achieve the corporate purpose.
 Authority extends to all matters except those reserved for the Boards decision.
 CEO has delegated authority to management committees and individual members of management but CEO remains accountable to Board for all authority delegated to him.
Group Management Committee  Established by the CEO, the GMC is the Groups most senior executive body.
 Purpose is to provide leadership to the Group, determining its priorities and the way it is to operate, thereby assisting the CEO in pursuing the corporate purpose.
 Is a forum to debate high-level matters important to the Group and to ensure consistent development of the Groups strategy.
Financial Risk Management Committee  Purpose is to assist the CEO to monitor and oversee the management of the financial risks faced by the Group, including:  commodity price risk:  currency risk:  interest rate risk:  counterparty credit risk:  financing risk:  insurance.
Investment Committee  Purpose is to assist the CEO in ensuring rigorous and consistent investment processes are in place and working effectively, so that:  investments are aligned with Groups priorities and strategy:  key risks and opportunities are identified and managed:  shareholder value is maximised.
Disclosure Committee  Purpose is to assist the CEO in overseeing the Groups compliance with securities dealing and continuous and periodic disclosure requirements, including:  reviewing information that may require disclosure to stock exchanges:  overseeing disclosure processes to ensure information disclosed is timely, accurate and complete.
