1 Key information 1.1 Our Company We are BHP Billiton, a leading global resources company.
We are among the worlds top producers of major commodities, including iron ore, metallurgical and energy coal, conventional and unconventional oil and gas, copper, aluminium, manganese, uranium, nickel and silver.
As at 30 June 2013, we had a market capitalisation of approximately US$147.1 billion.
For FY2013, we reported net operating cash flow of US$18.3 billion, revenue of US$66.0 billion and profit attributable to shareholders of US$10.9 billion.
Throughout FY2013, our workforce comprised of approximately 128,800 employees and contractors working at 141 locations in 26 countries.
1 Our Charter Our Businesses Our BHP Billiton Charter is the single most important means by Our assets, operations and interests are separated into five business units.
These Businesses are: Petroleum and Potash: Copper: Iron Ore: which we communicate who we are, what we do and what we stand for.
It is through Our Charter we articulate our purpose, our strategy, Coal: and Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel.
The Operating Model has been designed to ensure that decision-making remains as close the values we uphold and how we measure success.
Our Charter is the foundation for our decision-making, actions and behaviours.
to the Businesses as possible.
Group Functions Our Charter makes it clear that as we strive for success we must remain forthright in the things we value: Sustainability, Integrity, Our Group Functions support the Businesses and operate under Respect, Performance, Simplicity and Accountability.
By working a defined set of accountabilities authorised by the Group in a way that is consistent with Our Charter, we will continue to Management Committee GMC.
Our Group Functions are build on our success both today and for the long term.
primarily located in Melbourne, London and Singapore.
2 Our Operating Model Marketing Marketing is responsible for selling our products and for the In FY2013, following the appointment of Andrew Mackenzie purchase of all major raw materials: owning the supply chain as Chief Executive Officer, organisational changes were made from assets to markets and raw materials from suppliers to assets: to consolidate our previous Customer Sector Groups into achieving market clearing prices for the Groups products and five Businesses.
managing price risk: and developing a single Company view Our Operating Model sets out the relationship between the of the markets.
Businesses, Group Functions and Marketing and defines how we work, how we are organised and how we measure performance.
The core principles of the Operating Model include mandatory performance requirements: common organisational design: common systems and processes: and common planning and reporting.
The Operating Model is designed to deliver a simple and scalable organisation to achieve a sustainable improvement in productivity by providing performance transparency, eliminating duplication of effort and enabling the more rapid identification and deployment of best practice.
