Overview of our markets Amlins global portfolio of reinsurance and insurance spans more than 30 classes of business organised around four main markets: Reinsurance, Marine and Aviation, Commercial and Domestic P&C and International P&C.
Reinsurance Marine and Aviation Reinsurance provides risk transfer and contingent capital to The global marine market provides insurance for hull, cargo, insurance companies.
As a result of consolidation in Europe, marine liability, energy and related risks.
Global marine premium 1 Bermuda and the US, the reinsurance market is dominated by was approximately $38 billion in 2012.
Lloyds and other large reinsurers in Germany, Switzerland, Bermuda, the US London insurers form one of the largest marine markets, and withinLloyds.
underwriting approximately 9% and 19% of global cargo and hull premiums respectively, and over 60% of global offshore energy The majority of Amlins reinsurance business is sourced through 1 premium.
Other regional centres for marine insurance include global reinsurance brokers.
the Nordic region, the Netherlands and Japan.
Amlin underwrites reinsurance principally through Lloyds The aviation market provides specialist cover for a wide range of Syndicate 2001 Amlin London and Amlin AG Amlin Bermuda risks including airlines, airports, general aviation and satellites.
Amlins Marine and Aviation business is written by Syndicate In line with market practice in Continental Europe, 2001 Amlin London and by Amlin Europe in the Netherlands, Amlin Re Europe transacts some business direct with insurers.
RaetsMarine also writes specialist marine Amlin also has a valuable growing foothold in the convergence P&I liability business.
capital space, through Leadenhall Capital Partners.
Read more on page 25 Read more on page 28 Commercial and Domestic P&C International P&C The international property and casualty market covers a wide Commercial and Domestic P&C insurance covers motor, property range of risks which are typically commercial, large and complex, and liability insurance to commercial enterprises, ranging from requiring specialist underwriting and individually tailored cover.
sole traders to global corporations.
In some markets, commercial insurers also provide insurance to local and national government The US surplus lines market is the largest single source of entities.
Personal lines insurance is cover to private individuals property and casualty business and the Lloyds market is an 2 for risks such as motor, property and personal accident.
important source of capacity and expertise for this market.
Amlins commercial lines business is underwritten by Amlin UK, Capacity is also provided by major international insurers and which serves clients in the UK and Ireland, and Amlin Europe, reinsurers world-wide.
which operates in the Netherlands, Belgium and France.
Amlin Amlins International P&C business is written by Syndicate 2001 UK accounted for 58% of Amlins commercial and domestic Amlin London.
gross written premium in 2013, with the remaining 42% from Amlin Europe.
Read more on page 30 Read more on page 32 1.
AM Best rating of Lloyds September 2013.
4 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GWP by category Reinsurance 40% Marine & Aviation 20% Commercial & Domestic P&C 26% International P&C 14% 2,467m 2012: 2,406m 1 GWP by class GWP by geography North America 34% Catastrophe reinsurance 19% Europe 24% Marine insurance 16% Property insurance 16% UK 21% Other reinsurance 9% Other 13% Fleet other motor insurance 8% Worldwide 8% Proportional reinsurance 7% Source: Amlin Liability 5% Other property reinsurance 5% Classes 4% 15% Source: Amlin 1.
Revenues are allocated based on the country in which the insurance risk is located.
