Market and Practice Board review continued Marine and Aviation underwriting authority for certain types of risk GWP by class in the Benelux, France and Singapore offer Marine & Aviation GWP by class to selected intermediaries and coverholders.
local knowledge and expertise to brokers in their local markets.
Amlin is a leading marine hull insurer in the London and Benelux markets.
We write an Amlin underwrites a broad energy portfolio, international and domestic hull book from geo-thermal wells to multi-billion dollar balanced between larger bluewater platforms and their supporting pipelines.
We accounts and specialist risks, including specialise in insuring risks associated with the dredging, lifting, salvage, and inland craft.
energy industrys exploration and production We have a strong position as a global phases, and constructing new offshore underwriter of marine construction.
Our marine liability account includes a wide We are a leading underwriter of yacht range of clients, from ship owners, charterers business ranging from small pleasure boats to and shipyards to port and terminal owners.
super yachts over 30 metres long and up to Hull 18% Liability 8% Amlin offers cover for marine contractual US$200 million in value.
Specialist yacht Cargo 16% Yacht 7% liability, pollution risks and other liability risks.
cover is provided through Haven KnoxOther marine 15% War 7% Our energy liability portfolio comprises oil Johnston for smaller craft, Lead Yacht for Energy 11% Bloodstock 5% and gas risks associated with worldwide super yachts, and directly by Amlin Europe.
Aviation 10% Specie 3% exploration and production companies, Source: Amlin The Practice also includes Amlins capabilities drilling contractors, construction risks, in traditional marine classes: war, bloodstock pipelines, fixed platforms and mobile units.
We provide war and political risks Our market position During 2013, Amlin acquired RaetsMarine insurance for marine, non-marine and Amlin is a major insurer in the marine market.
see page 30 : a top-three global provider aviation assets against physical damage from The marine and aviation practice wrote of fixed-premium marine liability protection war perils, including terrorism and foreign 504.6 million of combined gross written and indemnity P&I business.
premium in the 2013 underwriting year.
operates as a service company, mainly on Our bloodstock team offers thoroughbred We write a diverse marine portfolio through behalf of Amlin Europe.
racing and breeding insurance, and is a Amlin London, Amlin Europe and their service We also write a substantial global cargo specialist in high value sport horse insurance.
companies, including RaetsMarine, Lead portfolio.
Major business areas include The team sources business worldwide from Yacht, Haven Knox-Johnston, Amlin Plus, and stock-throughput, storage, project cargo and Lloyds brokers and via the service company, Crowe Livestock.
We source our marine and capital equipment, manufactured goods, Amlin Plus.
aviation business mainly through brokers and heavy-lift, oil, and other commodities.
In certain lines, we write part of the business via lineslips and binding Amlin London specialises in leading large, authorities.
This involves delegating complex and capacity driven risks.
Our offices 1 Global marine insurance premiums 1996-2012 $bn 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2 Marine Cargo Marine Energy Marine Unallocated Marine Hull Marine Liability Note: 1 The gures for marine prior to 2010 have been adjusted to reect the impact of countries that previously did not report data to IUMI.
2 Unallocated refers to IUMI premium data for which no class of business is detailed.
Sources: IUMI, Ascend Worldwide Limited and Swiss Re Economic Research & Consulting calculations 28 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Crowe Livestock provides specialist and had reached more than $1 billion, making Acquiring RaetsMarine and making a small 1 individually tailored insurance solutions to it the largest ever marine market loss.
investment in Fender Marine: a Lloyds meet the livestock industrys diverse needs, Our estimated share of this loss coverholder in Norway already supported focusing particularly on animal welfare.
The RaetsMarine team now operates within the Group control Amlin is a specialist in the fine art and The Continental European marine market framework for underwriting.
general specie field, including insurance for remained competitive.
However, there are vault risks, cash and precious metals in transit recent signs of greater stability, following a In addition, the Practice focused on various or storage, and securities.
The specie team major competitor withdrawing from the business development initiatives.
also provides coverage for major museums Benelux market.
In Amlin Europe these included strategically and exhibitions worldwide, and for companies Aviation market conditions remained intensely refocusing on the Belgian small and medium mining precious metals and stones.
enterprise market, with an increased appetite Amlin is a respected aviation underwriter, for local business sourced through local Developing our strategy offering expertise across the aviation and producers and rebalancing the international In 2013, the Practice Board focused on aerospace sectors.
The portfolio includes commodities account underwritten in developing a vision, strategy and long-term global airline operators and their lessors, Antwerp.
Amlin Europe appointed a new objectives.
This included oversight of aviation products manufacturers, service cargo underwriter and, at the same time, performance: to set and lead the direction announced a small number of redundancies providers, air-traffic controllers, and airports.
for the business lines to achieve their goals: in the Antwerp office.
We also underwrite general aviation risks, and to ensure the marine and aviation including small aircraft and specialist Amlin Europe and Amlin London developed underwriting teams have the right tools to aerospace insurance for risks associated an aligned construction proposition across deliver targeted returns.
with the launch and continuing operation our various markets.
This leverages our of satellites.
During the year, the Practice undertook underwriting and marketing capabilities in the several projects, including: class, particularly in the Lloyds market.
Market commentary Marine market conditions and pricing during Implementing practice-level underwriting In Singapore, we launched a P&I offering in 2013 were generally stable, with some performance management by reviewing the Singapore market through Amlin variations between classes.
overall progress against business plans, Singapore and supported by RaetsMarine.
and conducting more detailed reviews of Renewal rates for Amlin Londons marine various classes across the Group: business, which has traded exceptionally well Reviewing reinsurance purchase strategy, over recent years, were up marginally overall.
resulting in better aligned and optimal This was driven mainly by marine liability rate purchase across the marine and increases of 5.0%, reflecting the continued aviation classes: and market impact of the developing Costa Concordia loss.
