t n e m e g a n a m e l c y c e v i t c a o r P e c n a r u A s n i d i e v r e r y s t e l a a i n c e d p b s a Our business model Our business model is founded on a number of fundamental pillars and is the key enabler of our strategy.
A focus on underwriting specialty re insurance, which requires specialist expertise, has high barriers to entry and therefore carries higher margins.
A client proposition Proactive cycle which seeks to deliver management founded on exceptional service Our Vision is to profitable cross-cycle through detailed be the global reference underwriting, effective understanding of point for quality in risk management and our clients needs, active capital management each of our markets operational excellence which optimises return and employing for risk taken.
A diverse and balanced portfolio which creates choice, reduces volatility and enhances capital efficiency.
Outcomes of the business model Cross-cycle track record of outperformance Total shareholder return Return on equity Return on equity 2009 2013 19.8% Ten year weighted average 18.0% 171% 40 20 Target 15% 0 -20 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Strong franchise Strong balance sheet with scope for growth Group retention ratio 2013 Equity and long term debt 86% 1,968m 14 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report l g a n n i t c i r e w d r e p d o r n t f u o n l i o o s u c o F e c i v r e s l a n o i t p e c x e r e v i l e D STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Understanding our business model Specialist expertise Amlins underwriting culture is founded on the expertise of our underwriters, who have built and refined quality portfolios over many years.
As Amlin has grown, this experienced and stable team has been further enhanced by the addition of a number of high calibre senior recruits and talent developed in-house.
In key business lines such as catastrophe reinsurance and marine, Amlin is a recognised market leader with a global franchise.
The strength of Amlins underwriting capabilities is a competitive advantage, which gives us access to high quality opportunities in all the markets in which we operate.
We have also invested in developing market leading claims and modelling expertise.
Understanding our clients needs Operational excellence Talented people Amlins business is built on long term The strength of our franchise is based on access We believe that the quality of our people is relationships with clients and brokers, to expert underwriters and speed of response a key differentiator which confers significant reflected in our promise of Continuity to combined with fair, timely and equitable claims competitive advantage.
Amlins highly skilled all our stakeholders.
We also aim for high performance underwriters are supported by a team of founded on our ability to deliver specialist across all other areas of the business.
seasoned professionals in specialist disciplines solutions, based on a detailed understanding including claims, risk management, actuarial, of our clients business and risk management catastrophe modelling, investments and finance.
requirements, and a high level of service.
The Staff turnover is low, engagement is high and value of these long-standing relationships with the average tenure of senior underwriters is brokers and clients is reflected in our high 9.5 years.
Alongside our commitment to renewal retention ratio, which has averaged retention of experienced employees, we use 86% over the past five years.
talent management and succession planning to ensure that Amlins success is sustainable into the future.
A diverse and balanced portfolio Amlins portfolio balances high margin but volatile catastrophe underwriting with lower margin and less volatile business.
This diversity, combined with profitable cross-cycle underwriting, reduces earnings volatility and enables more effective cycle management.
This enhances quality of earnings and capital efficiency, as well as offering a broad range of opportunities for growth in different territories and classes of business.
We underwrite more than 30 principal classes of business, with the aim of optimising diversity of risk and geography within each class as well as across the whole portfolio.
Profitable cross-cycle underwriting Effective risk management Active capital management Amlins business model is focused on Amlins enterprise risk management framework Our approach to capital management ensures delivering gross underwriting profit across is recognised by regulators and rating agencies that Amlin maintains the capital strength to the cycle.
This is supported by long term as market leading.
It enables us to manage risk withstand major catastrophe claims and exploit profit-focused incentives for underwriters effectively for optimal return, ensuring that we opportunities for profitable growth, while and a robust underwriting control framework.
allocate and utilise capital efficiently across the delivering excellent dividends to shareholders.
Over the past five years we have delivered an business and manage risk exposures within agreed The diversity of our portfolio also enhances average combined ratio of 89% and an average tolerances.
This has resulted in a Standard and capital efficiency, contributing to a ten year loss ratio of 58%, which demonstrates Poors accreditation of Strong risk management weighted average return on equity of 18.0%.
As well as enhancing returns, this Our strong capital position underpins Amlins recognised risk management capability is a ability to attract and retain the best quality competitive advantage as brokers and clients business, support organic growth and fund become increasingly selective in their choice longer term strategic investments in of counterparties.
