Outlook The strength of our franchise, diversity of our portfolio and ability to adapt to a changing environment, position Amlin well to continue to deliver good returns for shareholders.
Undoubtedly the reinsurance trading its internationally diversified account, with a Amlin Europe is expected to grow modestly environment is becoming more challenging, focus on regional insurers in the United again in 2014 and the action being taken but Amlin is well positioned to benefit from States, enabled Amlin to increase January to address its expense ratio should start to 2014 catastrophe reinsurance gross written bear fruit.
Specifically, we anticipate the changing market dynamics, due to its premium by 2.0%, while recording an average growth in property and casualty business, strong and growing franchise.
Furthermore, rate decline of only 8.4%, less than is believed with new strategies for regional markets in recent growth in capital market activity in to be the case for the catastrophe reinsurance the Netherlands and a new binder offering reinsurance markets is complemented by market as a whole.
in Belgium beginning to contribute: our strategic investment in Leadenhall Capital Partners.
The combination of Amlins traditional Amlin Re Europe, which suffered from an reinsurance offering with that of Leadenhall unusually high frequency of catastrophe However, Amlin is not just a catastrophe Capital Partners is proving attractive to clients losses in 2013, is continuing to grow with reinsurance business.
The strength of our and resulting in preferential signings, access its underlying combined ratio improving as London insurance business and the diversity to business which is not available in the open more premium is earned.
Premium growth afforded by Amlin UK, Amlin Europe and market and, on some business, better pricing of 26.8% was achieved in the January Amlin Re Europe provides a well diversified than in the open market.
Rate changes and improved mix, platform from which to generate further both product and territorial, enabled this profitable growth.
We continue to review and This, coupled with the closure of the Special growth to be achieved with an improved adapt our strategy to ensure that Amlin Purpose Syndicate 6106 sidecar, which expected profit, and: continues to deliver on target cross-cycle accounted for 35.9 million of reinsurance returns, while remaining focused on profitable premium in 2013, and improved Leadenhall Capital Partners, which has cross-cycle underwriting.
retrocessional purchase, is expected to started to generate good returns, having increase reinsurance account net income in contributed 4.4 million to profit before tax Despite the more challenging environment, 2014.
Notably, retrocessional reinsurance in 2013 from our 40% share and facilitation particularly for catastrophe reinsurance rates are lower and more cover has become fees earned by Amlin.
underwriting, Amlins January 2014 renewals available on attractive terms.
exceeded plan with 1,077.4 million of gross In addition, outwards reinsurance spend for written premium, 4.9% more than in While catastrophe reinsurance margins are our insurance classes is expected to be January 2013.
With the exception of lower, a number of areas are expected to approximately 10 million less than in 2013. catastrophe reinsurance, rates in most lines contribute increased levels of profitability: With the assistance of our more sophisticated of business have to date renewed on similar modelling, we have taken the decision to Amlin UKs 2013 result did not reflect the terms to last year.
However, renewal rates in internalise a proportion of a number of consistent improvement in fleet motor Amlin UKs motor portfolio have continued programmes.
Given the diversifying nature of pricing seen since 2010 and was affected their upward trend, with an average 10.1% many of our insurance classes, this has the by the reversal of overstated 2012 binding recorded in January.
Overall, the average rate effect of increasing mean expected authority gross written premium.
Fleet decrease was 2.1%, compared to an average profitability whilst only modestly increasing motor prices are continuing to rise and increase of 1.2% at the start of 2013. extreme tail risk.
there is gradual improvement in its liability Amlin has a strong catastrophe reinsurance account pricing, with some improvement franchise, founded on underwriting expertise expected in property lines following winter and service capability.
This, and the shape of storm activity: 56 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS After a few years of strong performance, valuations of risk assets, such as equities, non-government bonds and property, are no longer as compelling as they were, so future returns are likely to be more muted.
Upward pressure on bond yields is expected to continue, which will also depress returns.
We therefore do not expect a repeat of the 2013 overall returns this year.
We continue to aim to deliver optimal risk adjusted returns by dynamic asset allocation and a flexible investment approach, such as that offered by the absolute return bond funds.
Amlin has a strong franchise in many of its markets, demonstrated by consistently high retention ratios.
There is scope to further improve our market positions through more active marketing and as brokers seek to direct business to fewer, stronger carriers.
While pricing in some lines is expected to continue to come under renewed downward pressure, requiring increased vigilance and continued discipline and making organic growth harder to achieve, we continue to believe Amlin is capable of delivering good returns for shareholders.
By order of the Board Charles Philipps Chief Executive 28 February 2014 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 57 Continuity is adapting our response to your risk management requirements 58 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Effective risk management Our Enterprise Risk Management ERM framework is recognised by regulators and rating agencies as market leading.
In 2013, our Standard and Poors ERM rating was upgraded to.
Strong Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 59 Continuity is having integrity at the heart of our business Directors report Chairmans introduction 61 Board of Directors 62 Corporate governance report 68 Nomination Committee report 73 Audit Committee report 76 Risk & Solvency Committee report 81 Directors remuneration report 84 Other disclosures 106 Statement of Directors responsibilities 108 60 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report
