Market and Practice Board review continued Marine and Aviation continued RaetsMarine Developments in commercial and mutual P&I premiums Amlin acquired RaetsMarine in March 2013, as part of the Groups strategy to grow its marine business and provide clients with a comprehensive range of marine insurance US$m US$m products.
RaetsMarine is a specialist marine underwriting agency with a distribution 4,000 400 network of more than 450 brokers worldwide.
3,500 350 RaetsMarine was founded in Rotterdam in 1993, and has a reputation for providing 3,000 300 excellent service to the marine industry and long-term commitment to customers.
The agency employs 130 staff and has offices in Rotterdam, Paris, London and Singapore.
2,500 250 Amlin has a long-standing relationship with RaetsMarine, having underwritten most of its 2,000 200 business for the last ten years.
The acquisition is a logical progression of this relationship, and secures strategic distribution for Amlins growing international marine business.
It will 1,500 150 also position us strongly to benefit from growing demand in the fixed premium P&I market 1,000 100 see chart opposite, while enabling us to develop our international marine portfolio.
500 50 RaetsMarine operates as a separately managed service company, with most of its business underwritten by Amlin Europe.
0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Mutual P&I Non International Group Mutual P&I International Group Commercial xed-premium P&I RHS Source: AJ Gallagher, Marine P&I Pre-renewal Review December 2012, Marine P&I Commercial Market Review 2012 and Swiss Re Economic Research & Consulting Commercial and Domestic P&C In the UK, Amlins largest commercial Commercial & Domestic Our market position GWP by class insurance line by premium is commercial Amlins commercial lines business is Lines by class fleet motor, in which we are recognised as a underwritten in the UK through Syndicate market leader.
We write a wide range of 2001, serving clients in the UK and Ireland, commercial motor coverage, including coach, and Amlin Europe, which operates in the haulage, commercial vehicle, private car fleet, Netherlands, Belgium, France and Germany.
private public hire, and self-drive hire.
Amlin sources its commercial insurance We also underwrite property and liability mainly through Lloyds brokers and regional business for UK corporate entities.
The and local intermediaries in the UK and property account includes package products Continental Europe.
In the Netherlands, aimed at the small and medium enterprise Amlin Europe is a major participant in the sector, which include combined property and Beurs co-insurance market.
Each of Amlins commercial lines businesses Property 38% Captives 3% Our underwriters work closely with brokers focuses on maintaining close relationships Fleet other motor 30% Other 2% to create niche products that meet UK with key intermediaries in their respective Liability 27% commercial client needs across many markets and providing excellent service Source: Amlin business types and sectors.
The underwriters tailored to the needs of brokers and clients.
experience, technical expertise and ability We also write some personal lines insurance to create and price non-conventional in the UK, such as high-net-worth products programmes provide a competitive advantage.
This is sourced through Amlin Europe is a leading provider of specialist intermediaries such as brokers or commercial property and liability insurance in managing general agents, or Amlins own the Netherlands and Belgium, where we also service companies.
30 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS underwrite commercial motor fleet insurance.
improved, with increases of 0.8% and 5.6% In the Netherlands, Amlin Europe built a In France, Amlin Europe writes a diverse respectively.
Overall, rates improved 4.9% on regional market offering aimed at increasing portfolio of specialist, mainly property classes.
Amlins UK commercial portfolio in 2013. market share among smaller, local brokers.
Alongside its established and growing Amlin Europe also launched a new binder The trading environment for Amlin Europes SME-focused French client portfolio, Amlin proposition in Belgium, capitalising on binder non-marine operations remained competitive, Europe has been successfully targeting larger expertise in Amlin London and Amlin with substantial capacity available in all major corporate accounts in the French market.
Overall, rates on Amlin propositions were well received by brokers Amlin Europe benefits from long-standing Europes non-marine business were flat.
and are expected to generate new business relationships with major international brokers in 2014.
Developing our strategy operating in the Benelux region and France, and a broad range of local brokers The International P&C and Commercial and A strategic priority for Amlin Europe is to and intermediaries.
Domestic P&C practices currently operate as extend its franchise into other European one Practice Board.
markets to achieve sustainable profitable Market commentary growth.
Following detailed analysis of the Following a review in 2013, relevant to the In the UK, the commercial insurance trading target market, during 2013 we established practice, we created service functions that environment continued to improve, with an underwriting operation in Hamburg, aligned the oversight, underwriting and motor-fleet pricing strengthening further.
Germany, which will focus on commercial service operations of Amlin UK and Amlin Amlins portfolio increased 9.8% for the year, SME business, and operate as a branch of London more closely.
providing a cumulative increase of 33.3% Amlin Europe.
The business received Dutch since 2010. and German regulatory approval at the end of Amlin Europe progressed further with the 2013 and we expect the business to start integration of the former Amlin France New business written and higher pricing on underwriting in the first quarter of 2014. business, which now operates as a branch renewed business generated growth of 28% of Amlin Europe, as opposed to a service in UK fleet motor premiums to 141.5 million company.
The French business continued during the 2013 underwriting year.
Commercial property and liability rates also diversifying its commercial client base.
Excludes effect of claims inflation.
