Overview of our business Amlin consists of three well capitalised underwriting entities.
Lloyds Syndicate 2001 underwrites international specialty insurance, reinsurance and UK commercial insurance: Amlin AG is a reinsurer with operations in Zurich and Bermuda: Amlin Europe underwrites Continental European specialty and commercial insurance.
How our business fits together GWP 2,467.4m Net assets 1,678.6m Syndicate 2001 Amlin AG Amlin Europe N. V. Capital support at Lloyds Net assets 998.6m Net assets 284.1m 540.6m Amlin London Amlin Bermuda Benelux GWP: 1,134.8m GWP direct : 354.2m GWP: 377.4m Reinsurance Reinsurance Marine and Aviation Marine and Aviation Amlin Re Europe Commercial and Domestic P&C International P&C GWP: 210.8m France Amlin UK Reinsurance GWP: 77.1m GWP: 336.3m Marine and Aviation Commercial and Commercial and Domestic P&C Domestic P&C 6 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Amlin London Amlin London operates through Syndicate 2001 at Lloyds.
It underwrites a wide range of specialty insurance and reinsurance, and is organised into three business units, in line with the Reinsurance, Marine and Aviation and International P&C Practice Boards.
Amlin UK Amlin UK, based in Chelmsford, is our UK commercial insurance business, underwritten through Syndicate 2001.
It underwrites commercial motor, property and liability business, together with some specialist personal lines.
Amlin Europe Amlin Europe underwrites commercial and Our underwriting businesses marine insurance in the Netherlands, Belgium and principal office locations and France, with offices in Amstelveen, Rotterdam, Paris and Brussels.
Amlin Europe includes RaetsMarine, a specialist marine P&I liability insurer.
It was acquired in 2013 and operates from Rotterdam, London, Paris and Singapore.
Amlin Re Europe Amlin Re Europe is part of Amlin AG and underwrites treaty reinsurance business for insurers in the Continental European insurance market.
Amlin Singapore Amlin Singapore operates as part of Syndicate 2001 Amlin London, via the Lloyds Asia platform, underwriting specialty insurance and reinsurance.
Business is also sourced in Malaysia through a local service company, Amlin Labuan.
Amlin Bermuda Amlin Bermuda is part of Amlin AG.
Based in Bermuda, it underwrites mainly global reinsurance business.
Amlin Reinsurance Managers Inc. Amlin Reinsurance Managers Inc. established in 2012, underwrites onshore US casualty reinsurance on behalf of Syndicate 2001 Amlin London.
It is based in New Jersey, in the United States.
com Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 7
