STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Market and Practice Board review Reinsurance Amlins catastrophe account is mainly Leadenhall, which was started in 2008, is a GWP by class Reinsurance GWP by class underwritten on a treaty excess of loss basis.
London based investment manager wholly The US accounts for the largest proportion of focused on investing in insurance-linked catastrophe premium by geography for investment portfolios for institutional London and Bermuda.
With its strong track record since catastrophe portfolio is global, with a 2008 and its ability to access a wider range significant spread of international business of reinsurance transactions through Amlin outside the US.
This reflects our strategy to than most of its peers, it continued to attract diversify profitably within individual business third party funds under management, which classes and across the whole Groups reached 966.0 million by year end.
ability to offer clients a blend of traditional and ILS reinsurance solutions gives the Amlin London and Amlin Bermuda also write Group an exceptionally strong reinsurance other property reinsurance, including risk Catastrophe reinsurance 48% proposition and has significantly enhanced excess of loss, facultative, and proportional Proportional reinsurance 18% our relevance to both brokers and reinsureds.
Additionally, excess of loss Other property reinsurance 11% reinsurance is written for marine, aviation and Market commentary Special risks 7% satellite exposures.
These classes further There was no single major insured Motor reinsurance 4% diversify our reinsurance portfolio and are catastrophe event in 2013.
However, weatherClasses 4% 12% underwritten to minimise correlation with the related losses, particularly floods, generated Source: Amlin 1 catastrophe account.
A particular area of insured losses of US$44 billion.
Amlins development in 2013 has been our Asian largest single catastrophe loss resulted from reinsurance account written through Amlin Junes floods in Central and Eastern Europe, Singapore on the Lloyds Asia platform.
which caused estimated insured losses of Our market position 2 US$4.1 billion.
We estimate the net loss to Amlins reinsurance practice comprises ARE was established in October 2010 to give Amlin at 18.5 million for this event.
Amlin London, Amlin Bermuda, Amlin the Group greater access to European Re Europe ARE, Amlin Reinsurance reinsurance business that does not typically At the start of 2013, catastrophe pricing Managers Inc. and Leadenhall Capital flow into the London and Bermuda markets.
retained the upward momentum generated Partners Leadenhall.
We offer cedants a The business meets demand amongst small by Hurricane Sandy in the US in November market leading traditional reinsurance and medium-sized European reinsurance 2012 and the severe international franchise, supported by strong financial buyers for greater diversity of risk transfer catastrophe losses of 2011.
Rate increases strength ratings and capitalisation: and counterparty risk, as an alternative to the at January renewals were 4.2% and flat for underwriting expertise built on local market small number of established reinsurers Amlins US and international catastrophe knowledge: and exceptional service.
As operating in the Continental European accounts respectively.
described below, Leadenhall also enables us market.
Brokers and clients have received The low interest rate environment and to offer clients non-traditional risk transfer AREs business proposition very positively, perceived lack of correlation between through Insurance-Linked Securities ILS.
with the division generating gross written reinsurance and other asset classes premium of 210.8 million in 2013.
Amlin London and Amlin Bermuda write a continued to fuel investor demand for mixed portfolio of reinsurance, of which Amlin Reinsurance Managers Inc. was structured access to catastrophe risk.
For catastrophe reinsurance forms the largest established in the US in the second half of 2013, alternative capacity was estimated to part, accounting for 18% of Amlins gross 2012 as a managing general agent to write amount to approximately 18% of global written premium in 2013.
Amlin London is a 3 a selective portfolio of casualty reinsurance catastrophe limits.
recognised leader for catastrophe reinsurance on behalf of Syndicate 2001.
It wrote and brokers view Amlins London and 6.3 million of income during 2013.
Bermuda operations as preferred markets.
Developing this portfolio over time will This is reflected in the consistently high add diversity to Amlins catastrophe retentions we achieve on renewal business reinsurance account and provide an and in market feedback.
Guy Carpenter Market Overview, Sept 2013.
Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 25 Market and Practice Board review continued Reinsurance continued Alternative capital remained focused on Developing our strategy cover which are unattractive to our traditional US catastrophe risks, particularly Florida, During 2013, the Reinsurance Practice Board reinsurance business, because of the tail risk where peak pricing and well-developed focused on developing a strategy aligned with and impact on capital requirement.
However, modelling provided an attractive environment.
Amlins strategic objective of becoming a top Amlins well developed client base provides US catastrophe rates on Amlins portfolio fell tier global reinsurer and increasing the Leadenhall with access to business on these 14.9% at the June renewals.
However, in July, coordination between Amlins London, Zurich higher layers, and this is enhancing our the rate of decline mitigated to 8.3%, and Bermudian underwriting platforms.
giving an overall decline of 4.5% for the year.
included adopting a consistent approach to The benefits of our strategy are being realised International catastrophe rates declined 1.1% brokers and maximising the combined capacity in a more competitive environment, with for the year, with less competition from Amlin can offer on major placements.
good take up of offered lines, access to alternative capital and greater stability in business which is not written in the open Greater cooperation has also developed areas affected by 2011 losses, such as Japan.
market and on some business, better pricing between catastrophe underwriters in Amlin We monitor achieved rate movements on than is available on the open market.
Leadenhall typically renewals and in many areas of this practice provides capacity on more remote layers of we remain close to peak levels.
Insured catastrophe losses, 1970-2013 GWP by division Reinsurance GWP by division Earthquakes Man-made Weather-related In US$bn, at 2012 prices 120 100 80 60 40 Amlin London 45% Amlin Re Europe 20% 20 Amlin Bermuda 35% 0 Source: Amlin 1973 1978 1983 1988 1993 1998 2003 2008 2013 Source: Swiss Re sigma 26 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 1992: Hurricane Andrew 1994: Northridge earthquake 1999: Winter Storm Lothar 2001: 9 11 attacks 2004: Hurricanes Ivan, Charley, Frances 2005: Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Wilma 2008: Hurricanes Ike, Gustav 2011: Japan, NZ EQs, Thailand ood 2012: Hurricane Sandy, US drought STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Growth in Leadenhall Funds Under Management $m 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 Sep-09 Jan-10 May-10 Sep-10 Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 Jan-12 May-12 Sep-12 Jan-13 May-13 Sep-13 Dec-13 Amlin commissions research into systemic risk One of the most profound changes our industry has experienced The collaboration will be enabling research into how systemic in the last two decades is the increasing influence of quantitative risks emerge and can be managed, with particular reference models, now used for many purposes from assessing and to catastrophe risk.
In funding the research, Amlins insurance measuring catastrophe risk to technical pricing to capital adequacy.
practitioners also take an active role in testing academic theory and providing live examples of modelling activity for study.
However, the increase in model usage could create the potential for a systemic risk.
During 2013, Amlin partnered with the Future Amlin is making the projects discussions and findings available of Humanity Institute FHI in Oxford to sponsor a research to the insurance industry and encouraging other insurance programme aimed at investigating the systemic risk of modelling, market participants to engage with the research, with the aim with particular reference to the reinsurance industry.
of contributing towards a better understanding of the wider implications of risk.
The FHI-Amlin Research collaboration will pursue better understanding and management of systemic risks.
Systemic risks Three initial research papers were published in Oxford on originate from vulnerability to loss which impacts markets or 11 February 2014 at a conference at the Oxford Martin School.
industries as a whole and also emanates from common practice Further information on the project can be accessed online at risk controls.
Risks that emerge from complex decision making, www.
including decision making about risk itself, are the main focus of interest in this project.
