Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report and Directors financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2013.
The members of the Board together with biographical details are shown on page 39.
Charles Outhwaite The financial statements have been prepared in and Dame Anne Pringle were appointed to the Board accordance with International Financial Reporting on 19 February 2013.
All other members of the Board Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS.
served as Directors throughout the year.
Principal activity and business review Details of the service contracts of the current The principal activity of the Group is the provision Directors are shown in the Remuneration report of investment management services.
The Company on page 58. is required to set out in this report a fair review of Details of the constitution and powers of the Board the business of the Group during the financial year and its committees are set out in the Corporate ended 30 June 2013 and of the position of the Group governance report on pages 40 to 46.
The Corporate at the end of that financial year and a description of governance report also summarises the Companys the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group rules concerning appointment and replacement referred to as the business review.
that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be found in the financial and operational Directors conflicts of interests highlights on page 2, the Chief Executive Officers Since October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 report on pages 6 to 9, the Business review on has imposed upon Directors a new statutory duty pages 22 to 29 and the Corporate governance report to avoid unauthorised conflicts of interest with the on pages 40 to 46.
The Company has adopted revisions to The principal risks facing the business are detailed its Articles of Association which enable Directors to on pages 32 and 33 and in the Corporate governance approve conflicts of interest and which also include report on pages 40 to 46. other conflict of interest provisions.
The Company has implemented processes to identify potential Results and dividends and actual conflicts of interest.
Such conflicts are The results of the Group for the year are set out then considered for approval by the Board, subject, in the consolidated statement of comprehensive where necessary, to appropriate conditions.
Executive Directors do not presently hold any The Directors recommend a final dividend of external appointments with any non-Ashmore 11.75 pence per share 2012: 10.75 pence which, related companies.
together with the interim dividend of 4.35 pence per Directors share interests share 2012: 4.25 pence already declared, makes a total for the year ended 30 June 2013 of 16.10 pence The interests of Directors in the Companys shares per share 2012: 15.00 pence.
Details of the interim are shown on page 64 within the remuneration report.
dividend payment are set out in note 14 to the Significant agreements with provisions financial statements.
applicable to a change in control of Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, theCompany the final dividend will be paid on 6 December 2013 Save as described, there are no agreements in place to shareholders on the register on 8 November 2013 applicable to a change in control of the Company.
Resolution 18 in the Notice of Annual General Related party transactions Meeting will seek approval from shareholders to Details of related party transactions are set out a waiver of the provisions of Rule 9 of the Takeover in note 29 to the financial statements.
Code in respect of the obligation that could arise for Mark Coombs to make a mandatory offer for the Post-balance sheet events Company in the event that the Company exercises As set out in note 31 to the financial statements the authority to make market purchases of its own there were no post-balance sheet events that shares.
Further details are contained in the separate required adjustment or disclosure herein.
50 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Substantial shareholdings disclosed in accordance with DTR5 Number of Number of voting rights voting rights disclosed as at Percentage disclosed as at Percentage 2 3 30 June 2013 interests 9 September 2013 interests Jerome Paul Booth 48,355,024 6.83 48,355,024 6.83 Carey Pensions and Benefits Limited as Trustees 1 of the Ashmore 2004 Employee Benefit Trust 35,607,090 4.89 34,985,224 4.94 Highfields Capital Management LP 22,291,471 3.24 22,291,471 3.24 Schroders plc 35,641,098 5.04 1.
In addition to the interests in the Companys ordinary shares referred to above, each Director and senior manager who is an employee of the Group has an interest in the Companys ordinary shares held by Carey Pensions and Benefits Limited under the terms of the Ashmore 2004 Employee Benefit Trust.
The shareholding of Mr Mark Coombs, a Director and substantial shareholder, is disclosed separately on page 64.
Percentage interests are based upon 707,372,473 shares in issue which excludes 5,368,331 shares held in Treasury 2011: 707,916,106 shares in issue which excluded 5,368,331in Treasury.
Restrictions on transfer of shares Substantial shareholdings On 31 May 2011 the Company completed the The Company has been notified of the following acquisition of Emerging Markets Management LLC significant interests over 3% in accordance with now renamed Ashmore Equities Investment the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure Management US LLC AEIMUS.
A proportion and Transparency Rules other than those of the of the initial and earnout consideration paid and Directors which are disclosed separately on page 66 to be paid to the selling shareholders of AEIMUS is in the Companys ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each in Ashmore Group plc shares which are subject to as set out in the table below.
certain restrictions on sale for a period of up to three Share capital years from either completion or the date of earnout.
The Company has a single class of share capital Dealings in the Companys ordinary shares by which is divided into ordinary shares of 0.01 pence, persons discharging managerial responsibilities, each of which rank pari passu in respect of employees of the Company and, in each case, participation and voting rights.
The shares are in their connected persons, are subject to the Groups registered form.
The issued share capital of the Dealing Code which adopts the Model Code of the Company at 30 June 2013 is 712,740,804 shares Listing Rules contained in the Financial Services in issue of which 5,368,331 shares are held Authoritys Handbook.
Certain restrictions, customary for a listed company, Details of the structure of and changes in share capital apply to transfers of shares in the Company.
are set out in note 23 to the financial statements.
The Board may, at its absolute discretion, decline Restrictions on voting rights to register any transfer of a share which is not fully paid or where there are more than four joint holders.
A member shall not be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any share held In the case of certificated shares, registration of a by him if any call or other sum then payable by him in transfer may also be refused where i the instrument respect of that share remains unpaid or if a member of transfer is not duly stamped unless exempt from has been served with a restriction notice as defined stamping : ii insufficient evidence of title is in the Articles after failure to provide the Company produced in respect of a transfer: or iii the transferor with information concerning interests in those shares has been served with a restriction notice as defined required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
in the Articles after failure to provide the Company Votes may be exercised in person or by proxy.
The with information concerning interests in those shares Articles currently provide a deadline for submission required to be provided under the Companies Acts, of proxy forms of 48 hours before the meeting.
unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms length sale.
Registration of a transfer of shares may be refused in the case of uncertificated shares in the circumstances set out in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations as defined in the Articles.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 51 Directors report continued Purchase of own shares Corporate governance In the year under review the Company did The Company is governed according to the not purchase any of its own shares for treasury.
applicable provisions of company law and by The Company is, until the date of the next Annual the Companys Articles.
As a listed company, the General Meeting, generally and unconditionally Company must also comply with the Listing Rules authorised to buy back up to 70,666,510 of its own and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules issued by issued shares.
The Company retains a total of the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA.
Listed 5,368,331 shares for Treasury which were acquired companies are expected to comply as far as possible at an average price of 129 pence per share.
The with the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Company is seeking a renewal of this authority Governance Code, and to state how its principles at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
A report on corporate governance and compliance with the provisions of the Code is Power to issue and allot shares set out on pages 40 to 46.
The Directors are generally and unconditionally Board diversity authorised to allot unissued shares in the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 23,579.08 The Board has noted the recommendations and 47,158.16 in connection with an offer by way of the Davies Report issued in February 2011 relating of a rights issue.
The Nominations Committee considers diversity, including the balance of skills, A further authority has been granted to the experience, gender and nationality, amongst many Directors to allot the Companys shares for cash, other factors, when reviewing the appointment of up to a maximum nominal amount of 3,556.58, new Directors but does not consider it appropriate without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the to establish targets or quotas in this regard.
No such shares have been issued currently consists of two executive and six nonor allotted under these authorities, nor is there any executive directors of whom two are women thereby current intention to do so, other than to satisfy constituting 25% female representation.
outstanding obligations under the employee share schemes where necessary.
The Nominations Committee may from time to time engage the services of an external search consultant These authorities are valid until the date of the for the purpose of seeking new candidates for Board next Annual General Meeting.
A resolution for membership, conditional upon such consultant the renewal of such authorities will be proposed having no connection to the Company.
at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Charitable and political contributions Employees During the year, the Group made charitable Details of the Companys employment practices donations of 0.1 million FY2011 2012: 0.1 million.
including the employment of disabled persons The work of the Ashmore Foundation is described can be found in the CSR Report on pages 34 to 38. in the corporate social responsibility section of this Carey Pensions and Benefits Limited as trustee report on page 36.
It is the Groups policy not to of the Ashmore 2004 Employee Benefit Trust EBT make contributions for political purposes.
has discretion as to the exercise of voting rights Creditor payment policy over shares which it holds in respect of unallocated shares, namely those shares in which no employee The Groups policy and practice in the UK is to beneficial interests exist.
The current arrangement follow its suppliers terms of payment and to make is that the EBT will consider a recommendation s payment in accordance with those terms subject before voting such shares at a general meeting of to receipt of satisfactory invoicing.
Unless otherwise the Company, subject to an overriding duty to act in agreed payments to creditors are made within the interests of the class of beneficiaries of the EBT.
30 days of receipt of an invoice.
At 30 June 2013, the amount owed to the Groups trade creditors in the UK represented approximately 26 days average purchases from suppliers FY2011 12: 30 days.
52 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Auditors and the disclosure Companies Act 2006 of information to auditors This Directors report on pages 50 to 53 inclusive The Directors who held office at the date of approval has been drawn up and presented in accordance of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they with and in reliance on English company law and are each aware, there is no relevant audit information the liabilities of the Directors in connection with of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and that report shall be subject to the limitations and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought restrictions provided by such law.
to have taken as Directors to make himself or herself References in this Directors report to the financial aware of any relevant audit information and to highlights, the Business review, the Corporate establish that the Companys auditors are aware governance report and the Remuneration report of that information.
are deemed to be included by reference in this Resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Directorsreport.
Meeting to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: and to authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration.
Note 11 to the financial statements sets out details of the auditors remuneration.
Michael Perman Company Secretary 2013 Annual General Meeting 9 September 2013 The 2013 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 12.00 noon on Wednesday 30 October 2013 at Kingsway Hall Hotel, 66 Great Queen Street, London WC2B 5BX.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are given in the separate circular and notice of meeting.
Going concern The Company and Group have considerable financial resources and the Directors believe that both are well placed to manage their business risks successfully.
Further information regarding the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position is set out on pages 20 to 33.
After making enquiries, the Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future and confirm that the Company and the Group are going concerns.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53
