Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Board of Directors Education.
Current directorships include Treasury Group Limited The Hon.
Michael Benson and UniSuper Pty Limited.
Meldas past investment experience Non-executive Chairman Age 70 includes being CEO of Queensland Investment Corporation Michael Benson was appointed to the Ashmore Group plc Board and Deputy Managing Director of ANZ Funds Management and as non-executive Chairman on 3 July 2006.
He is Chairman of the Managing Director of ANZ Trustees.
She is currently a member of Companys nominations committee.
Michael began his career in the the Advisory Committee of the Oxford University Centre for Ageing.
City in 1963 and, after a series of senior positions in the investment management industry, was, from 2002 to March 2005, Chairman Committee membership: A, N of Invesco and Vice Chairman of Amvescap plc.
Prior to that he was Simon Fraser CEO of Invesco Global 1997-2002.
Michael is Chairman of Hayaat Group, a Non-executive Director of Trinity Street Asset Management Non-executive Director Age 54 and is the director of the York MinsterFund.
Simon Fraser joined the Board on 10 February 2012.
Simon has extensive experience of the fund management industry, having Committee membership: N, R worked at Fidelity International from 1981 to 2008.
At Fidelity he held a number of positions during his career, including President, Mark Coombs European & UK Institutional Business, Global Chief Investment Chief Executive Officer Age 53 Officer, Chief Investment Officer for Asia Pacific and Chief Mark Coombs was appointed a Director on the incorporation of the Investment Officer of the European Investment Group.
He is Company in December 1998, and has served as its Chief Executive a Non-executive Director of Barclays Bank plc and Barclays plc, Officer since then.
He held a number of positions at Australia and Chairman of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust plc, The New Zealand Banking Group ANZ and led Ashmores buyout from Merchants Trust plc and a Non-executive Director of Fidelity ANZ in early 1999.
He is Co-Chair of EMTA, the trade association European Values Plc and Fidelity Japanese Values Plc.
for Emerging Markets, having been on the Board since 1993.
Mark has an MA in Law from Cambridge University.
Committee membership: A, N, R Graeme Dell Charles Outhwaite Group Finance Director Age 47 Non-executive Director Age 48 Graeme Dell was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director Charles Outhwaite joined the Board on 19 February 2013. in December 2007.
Prior to joining Ashmore, Graeme was Group Charles is a graduate in modern history from Oxford University Finance Director of Evolution Group plc from 2001 to 2007, where and also holds an MBA from Warwick business school.
He has he had group-wide responsibility for finance, operations, technology, over 25 years experience in corporate finance with a particular compliance, risk and HR which included playing a significant role in focus on the financial services sector.
He is currently a Senior the foundation and development of Evolutions Chinese securities Advisor to Evercore Partners and was a Partner and Managing business.
Graeme previously worked for Deutsche Bank and Director of Lexicon Partners prior to its acquisition by Evercore Goldman Sachs in a range of business management, finance and in 2011.
Charles began his investment banking career with J Henry operations roles both in Europe and in Asia Pacific.
Graeme qualified Schroder Wagg & Co and was a Managing Director of Donaldson as a chartered accountant with Coopers & Lybrand and is a graduate Lufkin and Jenrette DLJ, and, until 2001, of Credit Suisse First of Hertford College, Oxford University.
Bostons Financial Institutions Group following its acquisition of DLJ in 2000.
Nick Land Dame Anne Pringle DCMG Senior Independent Non-executive Director Age 65 Nick Land was appointed to the Board as Senior Independent Non-executive Director Age 58 Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Dame Anne Pringle joined the Board on 19 February 2013. on 3 July 2006.
He is a qualified accountant and was a partner Dame Anne graduated from St Andrews University with an MA of Ernst & Young LLP from 1978 to 2006 and its Chairman from in French and German.
She has over 30 years experience as 1995 to 2006.
Nick is a Non-executive Director of BBA Aviation plc, a career diplomat with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, Alliance Boots GmbH and Vodafone Group plc and a trustee of the focusing in particular on the EU, Russia and Eastern Europe.
He is a Board member of the Financial Between 2001 to 2004, Dame Anne was the British Ambassador Reporting Council, a member of the Finance and Audit Committees to the Czech Republic and from 2004 to 2007 Director of Strategy of the National Gallery and is Chairman of the Board of Trustees and Information at the FCO and a member of the FCO Board.
2008-2011 she served as Ambassador to the Russian Federation.
Dame Anne was appointed Dame Commander of the Order Committee membership: A, N, R of St Michael and St George DCMG in the 2010 New Year Honours List.
She is a Public Appointments Assessor and Melda Donnelly a Member of St Andrews University Court.
Non-executive Director Age 63 Melda Donnelly joined the Ashmore Group Plc Board as a NonKey to membership of committees executive Director in July 2009, and is also a member of the audit A Audit and Risk committee.
Melda is an Australian citizen and Chartered Accountant.
N Nominations She was the Founder and Chairperson of the Centre for Investor R Remuneration Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39
