54 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Board of directors Board of directors We have a strong, experienced and diverse Board with a good balance of skills.
Read the Chairmans Front left to right : Sir Adrian Montague CBE, Mark Wilson, John McFarlane, Patrick Regan governance letter for Back left to right : Glyn Barker, Gay Huey Evans, Michael Hawker AM, Patricia Cross, committee information, Michael Mire, Bob Stein, Scott Wheway turn to page 62 Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 55 Aviva plc Board of directors continued Annual report and accounts 2013 John McFarlane Mark Wilson Patrick Regan Sir Adrian Montague, CBE Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Director b.
1948 John was appointed to the Mark joined the Board in Patrick joined the Board in Sir Adrian was appointed to Board in September 2011 and December 2012 and became February 2010 as Chief the Board in January 2013 and became Chairman on 1 July Group Chief Executive Officer Financial Officer.
He chairs the Nomination on 1 January 2013.
He is currently a member of Director in May 2013.
He was formerly Chief the supervisory board of Delta He is a member of the He has recently been Executive Officer and President Lloyd NV insurance which Audit, Governance and appointed Chairman of of AIA Group insurance which was formerly an associate Nomination Committees.
FirstGroup plc transport he repositioned into the leading company of Aviva plc.
He is currently Chairman operator, and is a pan-Asian insurance company, Prior to joining Aviva, Patrick of 3i Group plc private equity, Non-Executive Director of improved its market valuation had been Group Chief Financial Anglian Water Group Ltd Westfield Holdings Ltd retail and successfully navigated the Officer and Chief Operating utilities and The Point of mall developer and operator company through the global Officer at Willis Group Care Foundation charity and Old Oak Holdings Ltd financial crisis and prepared insurance.
He was also and a non-executive director financial holding company.
The company Chairman of Willis Capital of Skanska AB construction Previously, John was Chief emerged as a stronger and Markets and Advisory, the and Cellmark Holdings AB Executive Officer of Australia significantly more valuable investment banking business forest products.
and New Zealand Banking independent entity, leading which he established.
He was formerly Chairman Group Ltd banking, Executive to the largest IPO in corporate Patrick was also Group of Friends Provident plc life Director at Standard Chartered history in Hong Kong.
Financial Controller at Royal insurance, British Energy plc banking, Managing Mark was previously Chief & Sun Alliance plc insurance, Group plc utilities, Michael Director of Citicorp Investment Executive Officer of AXA China and finance and claims director Page International plc Bank Ltd and later head of and Chief Executive Officer for UK general insurance at recruitment, and Cross Citicorp and Citibank in the of AXA South East Asia AXA SA insurance.
He began London Rail Links Ltd UK and Ireland banking.
He also held a his career in General Electric Crossrail and was formerly Formerly a Non-Executive number of senior management Capital financial services, Deputy Chairman of Network Director of National positions at National Mutual and at Grant Thornton Rail Ltd railway network Westminster Bank plc banking, insurance in New Zealand, professional services.
provider, Partnerships UK plc The Royal Bank of Scotland where he progressed through Patrick has extensive global public private partnership Group plc banking, the many of the major business experience in various executive and UK Green Investment London Stock Exchange and functions, gaining a deep functions within the insurance Bank plc investment bank.
and broad knowledge of industry.
He has been He was also previously Chief He was also a Non-Executive the business.
instrumental in improving the Executive of the Treasury Director of the Securities Mark has over 25 years of Groups financial strength, Taskforce and a trustee of Association UK securities operational and executive resilience and performance Historic Royal Palaces.
regulator, the Auditing experience in the insurance against the backdrop of a Sir Adrian has significant Practices Board auditing industry across life assurance, challenging macroeconomic experience in the financial regulator and the Business general insurance and asset and regulatory environment.
services industry and in Council of Australia.
management, in both mature Patrick resigned on 22 government and regulatory He has extensive experience in and growth markets.
He has January 2014 and will step circles.
banking, including investment, extensive experience of leading down from the Board and leave He is a qualified solicitor corporate and retail banking, major international insurance the Group before the AGM.
and was formerly a partner and in general management, companies and has an excellent at Linklaters & Paines.
insurance, strategy, risk and track record as a focused and cultural change.
56 Aviva plc Board of directors continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Glyn Barker Gay Huey Evans Michael Hawker, AM Patricia Cross Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Director Director Director b.
1959 Glyn was appointed to the Gay was appointed to the Board Michael was appointed to Patricia joined the Board in Board in February 2012 and in October 2011, is a member the Board in January 2010 December 2013.
She chairs is Chairman of the Audit of the Risk, Remuneration and is Chairman of the Risk the Remuneration Committee Committee and a member and Nomination Committees, Committee and a member and is a member of the Audit of the Risk and Nomination and chaired the Governance of the Audit and Nomination and Nomination Committees.
She is currently a Non-Executive He is currently Chairman She is currently a He is currently a Director of Macquarie Group of Irwin Mitchell law firm, Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director of Limited banking and a Non-Executive Director of ConocoPhillips exploration Macquarie Group Ltd, Macquarie Bank Ltd banking.
Transocean Limited offshore and production, Falcon Macquarie Bank Ltd banking She is a Director of the Grattan drilling, Berkeley Group Private Wealth Ltd wealth and Washington H Soul Institute Australian think tank Holdings plc construction management, Bank Ita BBA Pattinson and Company Ltd and an Ambassador for the and a trustee of English International Ltd banking, and investment.
Australian Indigenous Education National Opera.
Michael is Chairman and Foundation charity.
He was formerly Vice Gay is also a member of the Non-Executive Director of the Patricia was formerly a Chairman, UK of management board of the Australian Rugby Union and Non-Executive Director of  LLP panel of finance experts of SANZAR Pty Ltd rugby union Qantas Airways Ltd airline with responsibility for leading the Panel of Recognised and is a member of the and National Australia Bank Ltd the executive team for Europe, International Market Experts International Rugby Board NAB financial services.
She Middle East, Africa and in Finance and a Trustee of Council and Executive was a Non-Executive Director at India region following a Wellbeing of Women UK.
Wesfarmers Ltd conglomerate long and successful career She was formerly Chairman With respect to medical including insurance, with the firm.
of the Board of International research, Michael is Chairman Suncorp-Metway Ltd insurance Glyn has extensive Swaps and Derivatives of The George Institute for and banking and AMP Ltd experience as a business Association, Inc ISDA, Vice Global Health research wealth management and life leader and a trusted adviser Chairman, Investment Banking institution.
She was formerly to FTSE100 companies and & Investment Management He was formerly Chief Chairman of the Qantas their boards on a wide variety at Barclays Capital banking, Executive and Managing Superannuation Fund pension of corporate and financial a Non-Executive Director of Director of Insurance Australia fund, Deputy Chairman of issues.
The London Stock Exchange Group insurance, Group Chief Victorias Transport Accident He possesses a deep Group plc stock exchange and Executive of business and Commission statutory insurer, understanding of accounting a trustee of The Wigmore Hall consumer banking at Westpac Australia and served in and regulatory issues together Trust charity.
Prior to that, Banking Corporation banking honorary Australian with in-depth transactional Gay held senior management and Chairman of the Insurance Government roles including and financial services positions at Citi Alternative Council of Australia insurance the Australian Financial Centre experience.
Investments investments and representative body.
Forum and the Financial Sector Bankers Trust Company Michael brings to the Board Advisory Council, as well banking.
a wealth of knowledge and as on numerous charities.
Gay has over 30 years of experience gained over a long She was also Executive experience within the financial career in the banking and General Manager, wholesale services industry, having held insurance industries, in both banking and finance at NAB, key positions in government executive and non-executive and held a number of senior and in a number of global roles in Europe, Asia and executive positions at Chase financial and banking Australia.
Manhattan Bank and Banque institutions and the Financial Nationale fide Paris banking.
Services Authority regulatory Patricia has significant predecessor to the PRA experience as both an executive and FCA.
and non-executive director across a wide range of financial services and other regulated industries in the US, Europe and Australia.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 57 Aviva plc Board of directors continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Michael Mire Bob Stein Scott Wheway Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Director Director b.
1966 Michael was appointed to Bob was appointed to the Scott was appointed to the the Board in September 2013 Board in January 2013 and is Board in December 2007, is and is a member of the a member of the Nomination, Chairman of the Governance Governance, Risk and Risk and Remuneration Committee and is a member Nomination Committees.
of the Audit and Nomination He is currently the Senior He is currently a Committees.
Independent Director at the Non-Executive Director and He is currently a Care Quality Commission the Chair of the audit committee Non-Executive Director of UKs independent hospital and of Assurant, Inc US specialty Santander UK plc retail bank.
insurance and is a trustee He was formerly Chief Michael was a senior partner emeritus of the Board of Executive Officer of Best Buy at McKinsey & Company trustees of the US Actuarial Europe retail services, director consultancy where he worked Foundation.
of The Boots Company plc now for more than 30 years until July Bob spent most of his known as The Boots Company 2013.
Initially an associate in the working life at Ernst & Young Ltd pharmacy, Managing financial services practice at accountancy in the US, where Director and Retail Director of McKinsey, he became a partner he held a number of managing Boots the Chemist at Alliance in 1984 and senior partner in partner roles including actuarial, Boots plc and Director of the 1991 and his career focused on insurance and financial British Retail Consortium financial services, retail and services practices in the US and trade association for the transformation programmes.
globally, culminating in being UK retail industry.
He has He started his career at N M Managing Partner, Global previously held a number of Rothschild financial advisers Actuarial Practice.
senior executive positions in 1970 as an analyst and then Bob brings significant at Tesco plc, including Chief a foreign exchange dealer and accounting and financial Executive of Tesco in Japan.
spent three years seconded to services experience to Scott has a wealth of business the Central Policy Review Staff the Board.
experience in the retail sector now the Number 10 Policy and his understanding of Unit to work on major customer priorities has been initiatives including industrial greatly beneficial in driving policy and social security reform.
the customer agenda and Michael has extensive excellence in customer service experience of advising within the business.
He has companies on the chaired the Remuneration implementation of Committee with vigour and transformation programmes has rebuilt the Groups standing and also has an in-depth with its significant investors understanding of the financial in relation to the Groups services sector.
Following the issues raised at the 2012 Annual General Meeting, he led an extensive consultation exercise with the Companys major shareholders and a significant review of the Groups remuneration policies and practices.
