62 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Chairmans governance letter Board composition Dear shareholder in 2013 The role of the Board is to set the tone from the top Balance of executive and on the Groups governance, culture and values.
non-executive directors 1 Chairman 2 Executive directors Key activities during 2013 8 Non-executive directors Board John McFarlane Chairman The Board has delegated greater authority to its committees during 2013, including expanding the remit of what is now the Governance Committee, and now receives more extensive reporting from the committees.
This has allowed the Board to concentrate more on strategy: financial strength and performance: risk management: internal controls and compliance: and succession planning.
I believe the Board and management have made good progress in achieving the turnaround aims we set at the beginning of the year.
We have agreed a Nationalities of realistic and achievable strategy and plan for Board members The Board ensures through its oversight that the the coming years.
Groups values are adhered to in everything we 6 UK do.
We care about our customers and endeavour 2 US Audit Committee to ensure that we provide them with products 3 Australasian The Audit Committee has continued to monitor that meet their needs and that their dealings the integrity of the Companys financial with us are undertaken in an efficient, simple statements: the system of internal controls and and fair manner.
issues arising through internal audits.
It has an For the Board and Board committees this open and transparent relationship with the means ensuring we have high standards of Companys auditor.
One area of focus for the internal control and risk management: that we committee throughout the year has been the comply with all relevant laws and regulations: oversight of the project to raise the bar on the that we run our businesses with integrity: that we internal control environment and the committee use our capital efficiently: that we deliver on our is satisfied that good progress is being made.
strategy: and that we always put our customers Glyn Barker, the committee chairman, also first.
If we can be consistent in all of these areas commissioned an external evaluation of the we will be able to deliver strong, sustainable quality and effectiveness of the Groups internal returns to our shareholders.
audit function and the committee.
The significant Our values were in action during the year when issues discussed by the committee during the year we found evidence of late allocation of trades on are disclosed in the Audit Committee report in a number of funds within Aviva Investors.
The the annual report and accounts in line with the Audit Committee led a thorough investigation new requirements in the UK Corporate of the issue and reviewed the potential financial Governance Code.
impact on the investors in the funds, and has agreed and monitored the implementation of Governance Committee measures to improve the controls to prevent During the year we reviewed the purpose and a reoccurrence.
We engaged the relevant responsibilities of the Corporate Responsibility authorities at an early stage and have kept them Committee and decided to significantly expand fully apprised of the issue.
We are taking steps its remit.
It has been renamed the Governance to ensure that customers will not ultimately be Committee and now covers the following areas: disadvantaged as a result of these breaches of Shareholder Governance : the dealing policy.
Regulatory and Government: Reputation: Customer: and People and Community.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 63 Aviva plc Chairmans governance letter continued Annual report and accounts 2013 The key activities that the committee has Risk Committee undertaken during the year include: During the year the Group was designated a strengthening subsidiary governance: monitoring Global Systemically Important Insurer G-SII, reputational issues: initiating a programme of which brings the Group within scope of the work to develop a greater insight into product policy requirements issued by the International governance: reviewing and contributing to the Association of Insurance Supervisors IAIS.
The development of the Customer and People theses consequences of this include the development by and reviewing and approving the Groups July 2014 of a Systemic Risk Management Plan: Corporate Responsibility Plan.
the development of recovery and resolution plans: and from January 2019 additional loss Nomination Committee absorbency capital requirements, if the Group The Nomination Committee led the process for remains a G-SII.
the appointment of Michael Mire and Patricia The committee has closely monitored the Cross as non-executive directors and has also Groups capital and liquidity position throughout considered and recommended to the Board a the year and reviewed all significant transactions number of committee membership changes and with a capital and liquidity impact ahead of Board Sir Adrians appointment as senior independent approval.
This included the sale of the US life director.
We are conscious that we currently business and actions taken to reduce leverage.
have only 18% female representation on the The committee continues to monitor plans to Board and increasing this is a priority for the achieve compliance with Solvency II and the committee.
The committee has considered EIOPA interim measures effective 1 January 2014. each non-executive directors independence and each directors contribution to the Board during UK Corporate Governance Code the year, and their suitability for election or The Company has adopted the new provisions re-election at the 2014 AGM, and fully supports of the 2012 version of the UK Corporate the election or re-election of all Board members.
Governance Code the Code, and is compliant with all provisions.
We disclose details of how we Remuneration Committee comply with the Code throughout the Directors Directors remuneration continues to be an area and Corporate Governance Report and the of focus for investors and a hot topic in the Directors Remuneration Report in the annual media.
Further to the work carried out following report and accounts.
the 2012 AGM, and with the mandatory vote on remuneration policy being introduced this year, Subsidiary governance the committee has spent considerable time Governance is important at all levels of the reviewing our remuneration policy and we organisation.
We apply many of the provisions of engaged with institutional investors ahead the Code to our subsidiaries to ensure that we of publishing the Groups policy in this report.
maintain the same high standards of governance I believe that the policy is clear and aligns throughout the Group.
We have appointed executive remuneration with the Companys non-executive directors to the boards of all our performance and shareholder outcomes.
principal subsidiaries and each principal subsidiary I hope that you will support the policy at also has a board audit and risk committee.
This strengthens the degree of oversight and challenge to the business and also provides a mechanism for information flows up and down the organisation both between management and non-executive directors, and subsidiary and Group non-executive directors.
We care about our customers, and endeavour to ensure that we provide them with products that meet their needs.
John McFarlane Chairman 5 March 2014 John McFarlane Chairman
