16 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Our business model What we do We provide: Life insurance General insurance Asset management Customers take out life policies Customers buy general insurance and pensions We are a well and annuities to protect policies to protect themselves Customers trust us with their Aviva is the largest We have businesses We have been in We have known life, general themselves from uncertainty.
That from loss in the event of damage to their money, and we invest it on their behalf to 1 general insurer and in selected the insurance 31.4 million uncertainty might be whether savings property or injury.
The premiums paid and generate investment return.
Profit is insurance and asset a leading life insurer international business for customers will last through retirement or the risk of the income generated from investing these generated by the difference between the management in the UK markets 318 years and 27,700 losing the family income after an accident.
premiums are used to pay claims.
After charge levied on funds under management 2 business employees The premiums paid and the income claims have been paid and costs accounted and the costs incurred in acquiring and generated from investing these premiums for, the surplus can be used to strengthen managing assets.
Although margins are are used to pay claims and benefits, cover the financial reserves we hold or returned to small for each pound invested, we create costs and reinvest in the business.
These reserves ensure we value from having significant scale.
left generates profit for shareholders.
remain a strong business, and are able to meet our financial obligations to customers.
Our customers are served through: Direct sales people Independent vendors Banks and other We help protect 3 and online IFAs, brokers corporate partners customers from the Customers expect to be able Many of our products have Banks and our affinity brands We provide a wide We offer pensions, Our products are sold We sell products to buy our products when and where long-term financial implications and provide a third route to market.
In a number financial impact of range of general annuities, life to individuals and directly to they want to.
Online self-service and customers often prefer to seek expert of markets, such as Spain, Turkey and Italy, unforeseen events and insurance and insurance and businesses customers and over-the-telephone service are primary advice to help them make the right this is how the majority of our products are help them save for health insurance savings products through partners channels for us.
In many of the markets decision.
We work closely with IFAs sold.
We have around 100 relationships products including and third parties a more secure we operate in, we have a strong direct and brokers to help meet the needs with banks and affinity brands across motor and home such as banks sales force and agency presence selling of these customers.
future insurance face-to-face to our customers.
Managing our business: Underwrite risk Manage assets and liabilities Our brand attracts Underwriting and pricing We carefully invest customer and retains customers Managing risk expertise, coupled with the premiums to maintain sufficient and employees Customers pay Customers invest We also invest the Making sure that and investments data we hold, allow us to write profitable funds to pay claims.
At the same time It makes excellent business sense for insurance premiums their savings with us.
insurance premiums customers stay business within our risk appetite.
Our we reduce risk by using reinsurance and us to keep our customers and our is fundamental to which we use to pay We manage these we receive to with us for the underwriters assess each customers wherever possible we match liabilities to employees for the long term.
There are what we do and how claims.
Our scale investments to generate income to long term is risk to ensure that on aggregate we can assets.
For example, money received for significant costs for us in setting up a new we generate returns enables us to pool provide them with an meet our obligations important to the cover claims, cover our costs and make a annuities is invested into assets which will customer and it takes time to recover these.
We income for a more to customers and to future success of profit, all while remaining as competitive continue to pay a return for the long term, Our strong brand and customer service are maintain capital secure future generate value for our business as possible.
strength so we shareholders can be there for our customers in the future 1 Datamonitor analysis of market share based on 2012 gross written premiums.
2 In continuing operations, as at 31 December 2013.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 17 Aviva plc Our business model continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Adjusted operating pro t split by geography 52% UK & Ireland and other 18% France 6% Italy 5% Spain 7% Poland and Turkey 9% Canada 3% Asia We provide: Life insurance General insurance Asset management Customers take out life policies Customers buy general insurance and pensions and annuities to protect policies to protect themselves Customers trust us with their Aviva is the largest We have businesses We have been in We have themselves from uncertainty.
Profit is a leading life insurer international business for customers will last through retirement or the risk of the income generated from investing these generated by the difference between the in the UK markets 318 years and 27,700 losing the family income after an accident.
After charge levied on funds under management 2 employees The premiums paid and the income claims have been paid and costs accounted and the costs incurred in acquiring and generated from investing these premiums for, the surplus can be used to strengthen managing assets.
Our customers are served through: Direct sales people Independent vendors Banks and other 3 and online IFAs, brokers corporate partners Customers expect to be able Many of our products have Banks and our affinity brands We provide a wide We offer pensions, Our products are sold We sell products to buy our products when and where long-term financial implications and provide a third route to market.
In a number range of general annuities, life to individuals and directly to they want to.
Online self-service and customers often prefer to seek expert of markets, such as Spain, Turkey and Italy, insurance and insurance and businesses customers and over-the-telephone service are primary advice to help them make the right this is how the majority of our products are health insurance savings products through partners channels for us.
We have around 100 relationships products including and third parties we operate in, we have a strong direct and brokers to help meet the needs with banks and affinity brands across motor and home such as banks sales force and agency presence selling of these customers.
insurance face-to-face to our customers.
Managing our business: Underwrite risk Manage assets and liabilities Our brand attracts Underwriting and pricing We carefully invest customer and retains customers expertise, coupled with the premiums to maintain sufficient and employees Customers pay Customers invest We also invest the Making sure that data we hold, allow us to write profitable funds to pay claims.
Our we reduce risk by using reinsurance and us to keep our customers and our which we use to pay We manage these we receive to with us for the underwriters assess each customers wherever possible we match liabilities to employees for the long term.
For example, money received for significant costs for us in setting up a new enables us to pool provide them with an meet our obligations important to the cover claims, cover our costs and make a annuities is invested into assets which will customer and it takes time to recover these.
strength so we shareholders can be there for our customers in the future 3 An Independent Financial Adviser IFA is a person or organisation authorised to give independent advice.
