46 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Our wider impact Our wider impact Key statistics in 2013 In the following section, we describe our strategy in relation to our employees, the environment, climate change, as well as social, community and human rights issues.
COe 2 200,000 People impacted through our carbon Corporate People offset programmes responsibility across the globe Achievement Environment and Recognising exceptional climate change We are the only performance and rewarding outcomes: insurer listed in the Controlling our impacts and influencing providing clarity and enabling Global Compact the actions of others: creating accountability through the way we 100 Index quantifiable positive environmental structure the organisation and the way change with financial and social benefits.
Potential Trust and Inspiring our people to dream transparency more, learn more, do more and become Strengthening Avivas ethical practice We are one of more: recognising that our performance and reputation, clearly demonstrating the top global is improved by embracing people who our sustainability.
organisations in think and act differently.
the FTSE4Good Collaboration Community Inviting challenge and asking development fierce questions with the right intent: Acting responsibly in our communities, winning together by readily adopting extending our positive impact through good ideas from others: enabling insight, expertise and partnership.
conversations that are transparent and engaging regardless of hierarchy.
Our people thesis and corporate responsibility As the transformation of Aviva continues, we CR strategy ensure that we meet our are focused on maximising our contribution to commitments to the issues which are material society while improving financial performance to our employees, the environment, and the and building resilience.
communities in which we operate.
You can read more about our approach at www.
com 2013cr Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 47 Aviva plc Our wider impact continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Our people We consider our apprenticeship programme Being a responsible business is a vital in the UK to be a credible alternative to higher differentiator.
We want to recognise exceptional education.
We better aligned our recruitment performance in our people and invite advertising to the university application calendar collaboration key components of our people and local schools outreach programmes.
Building our leadership capability is critical 17 apprentices joined our programme this year.
Organisational change has had a significant Diversity impact on our people.
Engaging them is a priority We aim for a culture which respects difference for rebuilding pride.
We support people We focus on attracting the best talent who think and act differently which is essential Living wage and making the most of their potential.
We to reaching our full potential.
understand people need to be recognised and Women make up 51% of our employees We are proud to be a appreciated, so we encourage our employees to globally.
We still have some way to go to reflect partner of the Living Wage tell us how were doing, through regular dialogue that in our senior management.
Weve been a and our annual Employee Promise Survey EPS.
percentage of women in senior management London Living Wage LLW Our commitment to ensuring consistency in remains at 21%, 21% of our Group Executive, employer since 2005 and, our people management is reflected in our and 18% of the Board were women.
Were in 2013, we became an business standard.
committed to achieving 25% female Board accredited London Living membership by the end of 2015.
For the rest Values-based culture In 2013, 75% of employees reported that we of the UK, our minimum pay In 2013 we challenged ourselves to ensure we are an organisation where people from diverse for direct staff exceeds the have the right values as a company in light of the backgrounds can succeed.
We are the only UK national living wage.
environment in which we operate, the culture insurer in the 2014 Stonewall Workplace We are discussing payment which we wish to nurture and our strategic Equality Index which benchmarks Britains of the Living Wage for priorities.
Following extensive consultation with most gay-friendly employers.
onsite contractors with our our employees across all levels of the organisation It is important that we appoint the most suppliers, following the in November 2013, we introduced four new appropriate person for the job and that value the LLW has brought to values with associated behaviours as part of our opportunities for development and promotion our contracted relationships people thesis: care more, kill complexity, never are available to everyone.
consideration is given to applications for Our values will be reinforced throughout the employment by disabled persons.
We are organisation, not only through demonstration committed to supporting employees who by our leaders, but also by their integration into become disabled during their employment key internal processes, such as performance including any adaptations to their working life management.
The desired culture will be further and providing suitable training.
All employees enabled through the development of our internal are encouraged to agree a training plan with their communication channels, to provide employees manager to help them achieve their career goals.
with effective ways to enter into dialogue about Our fairness and equality policies ensure that all the things that are most important to them.
employees adhere to these principles.
Learning and development Employee engagement In 2013, we focused on supporting our leaders Our annual engagement survey helps us to at transition points in their career, so 15% of our understand our people and identify where we senior leaders enrolled in our new Leadership can do more.
This year it told us our employees Transitions programme with the Sad Business understand our vision, what is expected of them School, University of Oxford.
93%, and they feel safe to speak up and Ireland, Canada, Singapore and the UK now challenge the way we do things.
In 2013, we use a common Learning Management System.
saw the biggest decline in pride in working at This enables 20,000 employees to access shared Aviva following a period of restructuring and learning materials and create and track personal job losses.
There was also a clear request for development plans online.
opportunities to grow and develop their careers.
People managers are required to have honest Attracting talent conversations with their teams about their results, We take a long-term view of the people we and work together to prioritise areas of focus.
need to meet our future priorities and assess Avivas senior executives have an objective individuals performance and long-term potential.
focused on taking action against the EPS results to improve engagement and enablement, and 48 Aviva plc Our wider impact continued Annual report and accounts 2013 spend time hosting town halls where they Controlling our impact share their response to the results and commit to We publish annual Group performance data for Climate-resilient actions they will take as an executive.
To support e emissions, waste and water consumption.
CO2 communities conversations with employees about changes Our carbon footprint boundaries identify in the business, we have employee consultative the scope of the data we monitor and the We believe in a more forums in both the UK and Europe.
We also use Accounting for joined-up approach to help Employee involvement in business performance Sustainabilitys connected reporting framework.
build resilience against is encouraged through a number of share plans climate change.
including Save As You Earn, share matching plan Aviva has supported a Aviva plc Global greenhouse gas emissions data from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 and share awards are given as a long-term series of Building Climate Tonnes CO e 2013 2012 2011 incentive for some senior managers.
2 Resilience in Cities Scope 1 21,787 23,849 44,471 workshops.
Insurance Safety and wellbeing Scope 2 56,842 75,733 97,988 industry leaders and city Scope 3 37,260 26,920 22,655 We provide a safe and healthy environment for stakeholders in Boston, San Absolute CO footprint 115,889 126,502 165,115 all our employees, contractors and people on 2 Diego and Toronto came CO2e tonnes per employee 3.1 2.9 4.6 our premises.
This is reflected in our health and together to identify CO e tonnes per m GWP 5.26 5.56 6.28 safety business standard.
We aim to provide a 2 opportunities to collaborate Carbon offsetting 115,889 132,827 173,371 supportive working culture and we encourage and build the resilience of Total net emissions 0 6,325 8,256 a healthy work life balance.
We operate flexible their cities.
Key headlines: Scope 1 operational emissions from owned sources eg.
gas, vehicle fleet as part of working practices including career break options Increasing the resilience product service.
Scope 2 operational emission from non-owned sources eg.
of physical infrastructure Scope 3 business activity emissions from non-owned sources eg.
is a priority Limited assurance provided by  LLP.
Environment and climate change District level carbon offsetting through the acquisition and surrender of emissions units on the voluntary market.
We judge the importance of environmental issues collaboration can be based on the impact on our customers, on direct more effective than We report on all of the Greenhouse Gas GHG and indirect business impacts and stakeholder action at an asset level emission sources on a carbon dioxide emissions concerns.
Climate change is societys most Resilience ratings could equivalents CO e required under the Companies 2 pressing environmental challenge.
We have help assess and Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports a commercial interest in making sure certain recognise improvements 2013 Regulations, which are material to our risks dont become uninsurable and in made by stakeholders business operations.
We report our emissions understanding the potential long-term This combination of using the operational control approach as defined impacts on our investments.
activities could preserve by our organisational boundary.
We do not have Extreme weather events pose a serious risk to and enhance the responsibility for any emission sources that are our business, with the potential for fluctuations insurability of assets.
not included in our business operations or in claims and challenges to risk pricing.
We are included in our carbon footing boundaries.
using our expertise as insurers, such as our In 2013, Aviva France Our reporting follows the GHG Protocol knowledge of historical weather events and launched a partnership with Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, cutting-edge predictive modelling to map future the Red Cross to improve and emission factors from UK Governments GHG scenarios, reducing the risk to our business and community resilience to Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2013. our customers.
For example, Canada suffered natural disasters.
The We have used the two most appropriate two 1-in-100 year flood events within two project educates people intensity measures to our business CO e per 2 months of each other in 2013.
Due to our and professional bodies on employee and CO e per million GWP which 2 effective risk management approach, in these how to rebuild and work are expressed in the table above.
cases we were able to pay customer claims, together after a natural Aviva has also reported on its Scope 3 emissions deliver great service and still make a profit in disaster, such as a flood.
which goes beyond the requirements of the our insurance business.
Our strategy to mitigate impacts on climate We purchase 48% of our electricity from change includes improving energy efficiency, renewable sources round the world.
However, the investing in the low-carbon economy and UK Government conversion factors require that understanding our indirect impacts as an the CO e element of UK renewable electricity 2 asset owner.
We are building environmental should be reported as grid average.
For our considerations into our products, such as Aviva unavoidable remaining carbon emissions we Canadas new Green Assure which offers more offset these to the value of 100% through the environmentally responsible replacements to acquisition and surrender of emission units on damaged or destroyed property.
the voluntary carbon market VERs.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 49 Aviva plc Our wider impact continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Our general insurance philosophy rules out Controlling our impacts: Avivas carbon footprint boundaries insuring certain business sectors on ethical Going further Covering 100% employees and risk grounds such as tobacco, arms and Reporting and offsetting with our critical munitions, and GM crops.
Scope 1 Aviva controls directly Trust is a vital issue for our industry and we illness cover Greenhouse gases emitted directly from activities Aviva owns are committed to simplifying every aspect of how or part-owns Over the last five years, we we deal with customers and making sure our have paid out more than communications with them are straightforward 2.2 million in critical illness and transparent.
This commitment is reflected claims to customers who Gas Fugitive Company car in our customer thesis and business standard.
emissions fleet didnt realise they could We uphold the highest stardards in managing claim under their policies.
Scope 2 Aviva controls indirectly our business and this commitment is set out in Greenhouse gases emitted indirectly from consumption of We identified the claims our business ethics code.
In 2013, 95% of Aviva purchased electricity, heat or steam when customers contacted employees agreed to abide by the code 2012: us to make changes to 88%.
We aim for 100%, with a 5% variation existing policies or to apply allowed for employees on long-term leave etc.
Electricity for a new insurance plan.
In 2013, we radically Scope 3 Aviva influences Financial crime Greenhouse gases emitted indirectly from all other sources expanded our critical illness Financial crime including insurance fraud costs cover for new customers the insurance industry billions of pounds every to ensure as many cases year.
This increases costs to customers as possible will be paid.
All air travel Rail travel Grey fleet Outsourced industry-wide.
Its our responsibility to manage data centres, Our cover includes 57 the risks of financial crime so these extra costs are electricity conditions.
We also not incurred by the customer.
Our financial crime extended the scope under business standard ensures we manage the risks which people will qualify to our global business and customers.
Our for three of the five most Waste Water Rental cars employees receive training on financial crime claimed for conditions: prevention including anti-money laundering Greenhouse gas leaks from air-conditioning systems.
multiple sclerosis, stroke Personal business mileage.
Should a breach of policy occur, our global We are liable under the CRC Energy Efficiency In 2013, we paid out confidential malpractice reporting service allows Scheme.
The boundaries of measurement and more than 99.2% of critical employees to report by email, via the internet or reporting differ from our global operations illness claims.
in our larger businesses, over the telephone.
All emissions, being restricted to the UK businesses cases are referred for independent investigation.
emissions from building energy and including In 2013, 27 cases reached conclusion and four the property portfolio of our investment funds cases remain under investigation.
Our annual CRC There has been no material litigation arising Report 201213 showed total emissions of from cases reported through our malpractice 108,013 tonnes which cost 1,296 million in reporting service in 2013. the purchase of Government allowances.
Our target is to cut CO e emissions by 20% 2 Access to insurance between 2010 and 2020.
We aim for a 5% We increase our social and economic impact by year-on-year reduction.
In 2013, we cut our promoting access to insurance for all areas of emissions by 7.5% compared with 2012, and society.
We invest in social housing and help weve achieved a 12% reduction since 2010. low-income households access affordable home In 2013, for the first time, we have been able contents insurance.
to measure the additional benefits our carbon We launched a new flexible insurance solution offset have had on local communities.
Two such for learner drivers in 2013 in the UK.
Dayinsure projects have positively impacted the lives of Learner provides short-term cover from just one more than 200,000 people.
day up to three months to allow provisional licence holders to access affordable insurance.
Trust and transparency As the largest private micro-insurer on the As a long-term business with long-term Indian sub-continent, Aviva provides low-cost commitments, we create legacy through the jobs insurance policies which cover the lives, health, we create, the products and services we offer, crops and property of people on low incomes for and our investment in community infrastructure.
We are focusing on making our products, services You can read more about our and expertise more beneficial and accessible.
com 2013cr 50 Aviva plc Our wider impact continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Leading responsible investment Leading public debate As a founding signatory to the UN Principles We take a leadership role in tackling the big social for Responsible Investment, we believe that issues relating to our sector through research companies conducting their business in a and open debate with consumers, industry sustainable and responsible manner are bodies, Government and other stakeholders.
Our dedicated Global In 2013, we carried out our 10th Customer Responsible Investment team at Aviva Investors Attitudes Survey, in 13 countries, and we have 500m is on-hand to work with fund managers and surveyed more than 250,000 people since 2004 Immediate allocation of analysts globally and across all asset classes, when the survey first started.
The three greatest 500 million in the UKs to help them integrate environmental, social concerns facing people and their finances economic growth plan as part and corporate governance ESG issues into include: unexpected expenses, significant of the insurance industrys our investment decision-making and analysis, increases in the price of basic necessities, and commitment of 25 billion to to deliver long-term shareholder value for serious illness.
We also conduct other studies: infrastructure investment our clients.
Our Family Finances Report looks into the Over 20 years, we have developed a deep financial experiences of different family types understanding of the conflicts, barriers and Our biannual Small and Medium Enterprise challenges to good governance.
We believe such SME Pulse identifies the trends and challenges experience and insight are crucial in identifying facing small business owners and addressing risks and opportunities within our Aviva Spains Savings and Pensions Institute clients portfolios.
We have a strong commitment encourages consumers to save more for 28m to international standards and principles of good their future.
governance, such as the UK Stewardship Code Over 28 million for student and International Corporate Governance Human rights accommodation in York Network Principles.
Our corporate governance Respect for human rights should go beyond and corporate responsibility voting policy outlines policy setting.
It has to become part of the culture our approach and expectation of companies.
and decision-making ethos of an organisation.
Where we withhold support for a company, Aviva is committed to upholding globally we engage with them to help them address accepted human rights principles reflected in our concerns.
standards and other instruments including: In 2013, Aviva Investors was recognised at the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human 3m Sustainable City Awards convened by the City of Rights UNUDHR 3 million for a new medical London Corporation, winning the Leadership in United Nations Guiding Principles for Business centre in Salford Sustainability Award.
and Human Rights International Labour Organisation ILO core Promoting low carbon labour standards Aviva Investors is targeting long-term profitability United Nations Global Compact LEAD with a reduced risk appetite by investing in UN Womens Empowerment Principles low-carbon economy infrastructure projects.
UNICEF, Global Compact and Save the In 2013, key acquisitions included: Children Business and Child Rights Principles.
32m a 12.3 megawatt portfolio of residential 32 million to help build photovoltaic systems, which convert sunlight During 2013, we refreshed our human rights 11 new fire stations directly into electricity, installed on 4,000 UK policy in light of the UN Guiding Principles for domestic houses Business and Human Rights.
Our due diligence an 8.6 megawatt portfolio of residential solar and risk assessments have shown that our most photovoltaic systems installed on over 3,000 material human rights risks relate to the five properties across the UK.
stakeholder groups shown on the next page.
We are funding one of the UKs largest NHS Community development energy centres with the UK Green Investment Aviva has a rich legacy of community investment.
Bank, a UK Government initiative which aims By focusing on the issues that matter most to our to accelerate the transition to a green economy.
customers and those that are most closely aligned This will provide around 36 million for a new to our expertise, we will maximise the value energy innovation centre at Addenbrookes of our investment.
This year our community Hospital in Cambridge.
development contribution was 6.2 million, a In the UK investment property portfolio, we reduction of 4.8 million due to divestments aim to have energy performance certificates in and reshaping our community investment place for our entire real estate portfolio by 2018. agenda in the UK.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 51 Aviva plc Our wider impact continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Employee involvement 75% of Aviva employees agree we do a good job PASSPORT 2012 of contributing to communities.
We encourage all our employees to take up to three days of paid volunteering leave a year.
As well as contributing Human rights towards our community targets, this improves stakeholder the motivation, wellbeing and skills-base of groups our people.
In 2013, 27% of employees volunteered time equivalent to 41,223 hours 2012: 56,357.
We are continuing to roll out our new volunteering strategy and system which prioritises skills-based Employees: We manage our risks volunteering to improve these figures.
It was by delivering on our commitment launched in 2012 in the UK, where we have to respecting and promoting fair now achieved 58% skills and leadership-based reward, diversity and inclusion, equal volunteering.
opportunities, labour relations and We are proud to have achieved the UK freedom of association.
PASSPORT 2012 was the Governments payroll giving Gold Standard first global study to include award.
In 2013, 27% of employees made the views of children Supply chain: We request financial donations through payroll giving involved in the Street to suppliers disclose their human 2012: 28% totalling 536,639.
They rights policies and engage with them were positive about the where necessary to address any Street to School benefits they have received, concerns.
Our procurement contracts We launched Street to School in 2009.
It now including improved require suppliers to commit to ILO core operates in 17 countries and has helped over wellbeing and better labour standards and uphold the 800,000 street-connected children.
universal declaration of human rights.
The third International Day for Street Children The report made a took place in April 2013 to raise awareness of the number of key global issue.
Since 2011, the number of countries recommendations for participating has grown from 30 to 128.
Customers: Our business ethics practitioners and In December 2013, we held a round table in code requires us to conduct stakeholders involved in Singapore in partnership with the UN Office of business in a way which respects human supporting young people the High Commissioner for Human Rights rights.
This includes being clear in our under similar circumstances.
OHCHR and the Consortium for Street Children.
communications, ensuring accessibility to The round table brought together Government our expert staff and privacy of their data.
representatives with UN agencies, academia and business, to discuss issues related to the rights of street-connected children.
The round table Community: Our corporate discussion was a recommendation of the 2012 responsibility, climate change and OHCHR report on street children, supported environment practices are aligned to the by Aviva.
UNUDHR, ILO core labour standards and UN Global Compact principles.
Oxfam 365 Aviva supports global emergency relief charity Oxfam 365, which provides immediate help to Investment: We embed the communities suffering life trauma, such as the Principles of Responsible devastation caused in the Philippines by Typhoon Investment across all asset classes.
In 2013, our contribution to Oxfam 365 Where human rights risks are identified exceeded 1 million.
in our holdings, we engage with companies to address our concerns.
We do not invest in companies which manufacture cluster munitions.
com 2013cr Ocado Hatfield, United Kingdom Grocery delivery service Ocado minimises its insurance costs and reduces risk by putting video cameras in its delivery vans.
The cameras, triggered by an accelerometer or the driver, film the road ahead and the driver, and were an important consideration when the company agreed its insurance cover with Aviva.
The van-cams speed up liability decisions, which helps Ocado to control costs.
They have also helped to combat crash for cash incidents, in which fraudsters cause road accidents to make insurance claims even leading to a successful prosecution.
The cameras encourage safer driving, which reduces our accident rate and they are great for training says trainer, Steve Grant.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information Mehmet Ozdemir Istanbul, Turkey Mehmet was involved in a serious car accident and spent over two months in intensive care.
He suffered serious head injuries, and is now blind and partially deaf.
Before the accident Mehmet had taken out an Aviva credit-linked life insurance policy to support a loan.
This policy paid for his recuperation and allowed him to take time to recover and plan for the future, without the worry of putting financial pressure on his family.
Losing his sight has meant making changes to many aspects of Mehmets life, including having to install specialist software on the laptop computer from which he is rarely parted.
To be frank, I never really believed in things like insurance before, but Aviva proved me wrong, he says.
