Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 19 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic framework Our purpose and plan Our long-term strategic framework is based on four theses investment, distribution, customer and people.
The following pages outline our strategic direction.
Mark Wilson Group Chief Executive Officer At Aviva, our purpose is to free people from fear these areas we can deepen our customer of uncertainty, allowing them to get on with relationships, and better identify and meet more their lives.
A key priority is to make sure we remain The following pages provide more detail on financially strong, so that we can pay claims and our Aviva values, our customer, distribution, deliver on the promises we have made to our people and investment theses.
By delivering on customers, shareholders and business partners.
our purpose we will make Aviva stronger for our To make this possible, we have focused on customers, our shareholders, our communities improving our capital position to place the and our people.
company on a sound financial footing and give Our values us financial flexibility.
Today our economic capital Three areas of focus where we will allocate Having the right values is surplus is double the level of two years ago.
resource: essential to achieving One of our greatest opportunities is to share Digital: We will prioritise investment in digital.
These values are expertise across the Aviva Group, and make it This includes digital as a direct channel and also simpler for our customers to have all their more broadly.
Our aim is to increase our share important to us and will insurance needs met by us, whenever and of the direct digital channel and develop more be at the heart of how we however they choose.
To help achieve this we effective use of data and new technology do business.
The values will have focused our 27,700 people on our common Predictive analytics: We will focus on act as a guide whenever purpose, plan and values.
There is already much enhancing our analytics capabilities, increasing we decide on a course of to be proud of.
We have a respected global the use of internal and external data to drive action.
Living the Aviva brand, strong customer service, leading life and superior performance across the business values will help us achieve general insurance businesses, comprehensive including underwriting, pricing and claims our purpose.
distribution channels and an increasing presence Automation: We will reduce manual in direct and online channels.
interventions in processes, reducing overheads To build on our success and further improve by, for example, increasing auto-settled claims.
Kill our customer experience we are investing in three This will enable us to move to a model of Care complexity more key focus areas: digital, predictive analytics and ongoing efficiency improvement that has automation.
By strengthening our capability in significant customer benefits.
Our plan of action is based on four strategic theses Create Never legacy rest Investment thesis Customer thesis The investment thesis sets out why The customer thesis identifies how we will investors should choose us, enabling meet customers needs better than our investors to make an informed decision competitors, so that we become the insurer about our business of choice in our chosen markets People thesis Distribution thesis The people thesis is about changing our The distribution thesis ensures that we culture, supporting our people to achieve provide the range of channels through their potential so they can best serve which our customers want to purchase our customers products and services from us For more information on our values turn to page 23 20 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Investment Cash flow and growth Key statistics in 2013 Our aim is to be a diversified insurer with sustainable and progressive cash flows underpinned by good potential for growth.
Market type Cash generator UK, France, Canada Growth Poland, Lithuania, 1.3bn Turkey, Singapore, China, Indonesia, Cash remitted Vietnam, India, Hong 1 Kong to Group Turnaround Spain, Aviva Investors, Ireland, Italy The investment thesis sets out why investors should choose us.
There are compelling reasons Growth 13% for investors to invest in Aviva.
We offer both cash We have businesses that offer Growth in flow and growth potential.
growth potential in value of new value of new business We will present our results as simply and clearly business which is a good proxy for excluding Malaysia as possible.
Financial simplicity and clear financial future cash flow: and Sri Lanka priorities are essential for investors to make an We are driving cash flow growth in our 2013 vs 2012 informed decision about us.
established markets, for example in the UK, France and in Canada We have businesses in selected growth Cash flow 5 markets in Europe and Asia We have businesses able to Key metrics: Cash flow, We are working hard to turn around the produce significant cash flow: operating profit, performance of our businesses in Italy, We have three core business lines with expenses, Value of New Spain and Ireland and to improve scale life insurance, general insurance Business VNB, performance at Aviva Investors.
We have and our asset management business, Combined Operating made good progress in these businesses Aviva Investors Ratio COR There are still expense and efficiency Our business model gives us significant opportunities to realise.
We remain on diversification benefits.
The different mix track to reduce expenses by 400 million of businesses reduces the impact on us of in 2014 vs. 2011 expense base.
any market shocks We focus on progressive cash flow Matrix of metrics five clear financial priorities back to the Group centre.
This is the Operating cash that we use for paying dividends Cash flow profit Expenses VNB COR to shareholders Group We will maintain our balance sheet UK&I Life strength and reduce debt levels over time.
UK&I GI Look at the KPI pages to France see how we performed Canada against our five key Insurance companies financials have been overly metrics.
Read more on Aviva Investors complex.
We have simplified our financial pages 2629 Italy reporting metrics to focus on five key measures Spain which can be seen in the adjacent table.
The market focus Poland shows how each market Turkey performed against the key Asia metrics.
Read more on pages 3042 Key: Critical Significant Important 1 This includes 347 million remitted by UK general insurance in January 2014 relating to activity in 2013.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 21 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Customer Simplicity, your way Key statistics in 2013 We start with what our customers really need and deliver it more simply than anyone else.
Historically the relationship between customers and insurance companies has sometimes lacked Simplicity trust, with the challenge being levelled that insurers To create simplicity for our dont understand or care about customers lives or customers, we strive to: needs.
Products and communications are viewed 31.4m Remain financially strong so that we are as overly complicated, with customers seeing little there to deliver on our promises to tangible difference between the products and Customers customers.
This is our first priority service available from different companies.
Be obsessive about understanding the Our role is to ensure that customers feel real needs of our customers and helping confident in their purchase decisions and secure them to make the best decisions that the product they have chosen meets their Be bold in creating solutions that take needs.
This means making sure our products, away customers fears and problems service and communications are simple and 27.5bn Always do the right thing for the transparent, and enable customers to feel in customer Paid out in claims and control of their financial future.
Ensure our products always do what they benefits during 2013 Customers want to feel in control of their say on the tin customers will get exactly purchases and to feel confident that what they what they expect buy meets their needs.
This means we must Simplify every aspect of our relationship demonstrate we understand them as individuals, with the customer contracts, processes, and deliver products and solutions that are products and communications personalised to them.
Be a one-stop-shop single Additionally customers, quite rightly, want to conversations, logins and telephone 8.3bn interact with their insurer in the most convenient numbers across all the products we offer way.
We need to ensure that our purchase and Economic capital Enable customers to choose how they claims processes and the products themselves are surplus providing want to deal with us as transparent and straightforward as possible.
security for our Reward customer loyalty.
1 The customer thesis represents our ambition customers to meet these customer needs better than our competitors, so that we become the insurer of choice.
Implementing the customer thesis Relationship Net Promoter Score 2013 % The customer thesis has been rolled out to all 27,700 of our employees to inspire our 31% in upper quartile people to really focus on what will make the 15% at or above market average biggest difference for customers.
54% below market average There wont be any big bang changes this is an evolution rather than a revolution.
In 2014, we will start to see a change in propositions, loyalty and online customer experience.
Our Relationship Net Promoter Score measures the likelihood of a customer recommending us.
It gives us a single, simple measure of customer For details on our experience which can drive improvements in Relationship Net Promoter Score in 2013, customer loyalty.
turn to page 29 1 The economic capital surplus represents an estimated position.
The capital requirement is based on Avivas own internal assessment and capital management policies.
The term economic capital does not imply capital as required by regulators or other third parties.
22 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Distribution Increase direct access to Key statistics in 2013 customers, build digital, maintain diversification We will increase the share of business generated in our own channels, introduce new technology for distributors and customers, and maintain a diversified 100 We have around 100 distribution mix in each market.
bancassurance distribution Distribution today agreements in place Insurance has always been a people business Access to customers with strong relationships existing between Our goal is to grow the share customers, distributors and insurers.
of business generated from our own In each of our businesses, the spread of channels by: distribution varies from country to country.
For Increasing sales through proprietary example, in Spain the dominant distribution channels 22,000 channel is bancassurance, in Canada most Making better use of our experience in customers come to us via brokers and in Poland We have around other markets when developing new we have a strong direct sales force.
Many UK life 22,000 sales distribution channels.
customers come to us via Independent Financial employees Aviva tied Advisers IFAs whereas UK general insurance agents worldwide customers are more likely to come to us directly.
Build digital Where distribution is going We plan to enhance performance A number of social, technological, regulatory and and improve customer satisfaction by: economic trends are impacting the established Increasing our use of digital across all routes to market: businesses, both in sales processes and in In line with other industries, insurance has seen customer communication and servicing a significant increase in digitally-enabled Investing in digital to support the growth communications, services and transactions of our direct distribution.
Bancassurance, the distribution of our products through partners, remains a key channel globally, with fast growth especially in Asia and Eastern Europe Maintain diversification The share of distribution by brokers, IFAs, tied We plan to maintain a diversified agents and direct sales forces in some of our distribution mix in each market by: markets is falling as a result of customer choice.
Ensuring a more balanced distribution portfolio in each country Where we want Aviva distribution to be Building best practice capabilities in We are targeting a more balanced distribution bancassurance and broker channels and portfolio in each of our business units supporting partners by launching We will support our bancassurance and broker innovative products and technology.
partners by building best practice capabilities We have plans for more digital interaction with customers across all channels.
Read more about our distribution networks in the market focus pages on pages 3042 Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 23 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 People Achievement, potential, Key statistics in 2013 collaboration Supporting people to achieve their potential: enabling us to achieve outstanding performance.
In our 318-year history, the important things 27,700 have never changed people matter to us.
There Achievement Employees across are a number of trends affecting workplaces To drive performance we will: 17 countries across the globe and these are impacting our Recognise exceptional performance and global workforce.
reward outcomes Key social and demographic trends include Ensure our goal setting and reward systems increased cultural diversity, ageing workforces drive improved performance year-on-year and a scarcity of talent in some areas.
Digital Constantly seek new knowledge and trends impacting the workplace include the better ways of doing things ubiquity of mobile technology and a culture Gain competitive advantage through our 21% of constant connectivity.
ability to execute brilliantly We need to continue recruiting talented Of senior managers Provide clarity and enable accountability.
colleagues, improving performance management are women and boosting employee engagement.
Our people thesis sets out how we will be different to other employers.
Potential To reach our full potential How well be different: the Aviva values we will: Values are the core beliefs at the heart of how Attract and develop people who are we do business.
They act as a guide whenever 6.2m the envy of the industry we decide on a course of action.
Living our values Invested in our Inspire our people to dream more, learn will enable us to build a better place to work and communities more, do more and become more care more about customers real needs.
plus 41,223 Identify and invest in people who are volunteering critical to our future success hours in 2013 The Aviva values Ensure our performance is improved by embracing people who think and act differently Care more Value both leadership and technical At Aviva we care like expertise.
crazy about our Kill customers, each other, complexity and the communities At Aviva we are obsessed we operate in.
with making things simpler for our customers and Collaboration each other we manage complexity so our To encourage teamwork we will: customers dont Invite challenge and ask fierce questions Create legacy have to.
with the right intent At Aviva we strive to create a future for our customers and Use a single set of global metrics each other, which is every bit Never rest Work and win together, readily adopting as bright and sustainable as At Aviva we are driven good ideas from others others created before.
every single day to Enable transparent and engaging be edgy, to think bigger and do better for conversations our customers and For more information Ensure our office space and IT encourage each other.
on our responsibility to teamwork.
our employees, turn to page 46 The Finlay family High River, Canada In 2013 southern Alberta suffered devastating floods and High River was badly affected.
The waters rose so quickly that the Finlays left with only the clothes they stood in.
Their first priority was to ensure their two young sons, Degan and Khail, were safe.
Aviva sent a loss adjuster without delay who helped get the family into another house, allowing them to rebuild their lives.
Husband DArcy Finlay says: Lifes full of uncertainties and major challenges: for us, after the flood, it became whether wed even have a home.
Fortunately, Aviva had our backs.
Our boys are safe and now were looking forward to making the new house into a family home.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information Danuta Szman ska Skrwilno, Poland When Danutas daughter announced she was getting married, Danuta wanted to pay for the wedding.
But with an epileptic son requiring expensive medication and her husbands business facing tough times, that was going to be a struggle.
Danuta told her Aviva agent that she wanted to cash in a policy to pay for the wedding.
The agent advised her only to partially surrender the policy and keep the critical illness and death cover, just in case.
The wedding was all paid for thanks to the Aviva policy.
Unfortunately, nine months later, Danuta was diagnosed with bilateral kidney cancer.
Her critical illness cover guaranteed quick access to treatment which saved her life.
None of us know what the future holds.
And I have people to live for she says.
