44 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Risks to our business Our risks Key statistics in 2013 Our focus on three core business lines with scale life, general insurance and asset management means we have chosen to accept and manage the risks inherent to these lines of business.
We achieve significant diversification of risk Our business is about protecting our customers through our scale, our multi-product offering from the impact of risk.
We receive premiums to customers, the differing countries we choose which we invest in order to maximise risk 8.3bn to operate in and through the different adjusted returns, so that we can fulfil our 1 Economic capital distribution channels we use to sell products promises to customers while providing a return surplus to our customers.
In doing so, we accept the 2012: 5.3bn risks set out below.
Risks arising Risks arising from 182% Risks customers through our our operations and transfer to us Economic capital investments other business risks cover ratio 2012: 147% General insurance risk: Uncertain returns on our Operational risk is the Includes risks arising from investments as a result of risk of direct or indirect loss, loss events fire, flooding, credit risk actual defaults arising from inadequate or windstorms, accidents etc.
and market expectation of failed internal processes, covered under the policies defaults and market risks people and systems, or we underwrite.
resulting from fluctuations external events including in asset values, including changes in the regulatory Life insurance risk: Includes equity prices, property prices, environment.
longevity risk annuitants foreign exchange rates and Such operational failures living longer than we expect, interest rates affect our may adversely impact our mortality risk customers ability to fund our promises reputation with the public, with life protection dying, to customers and other customers, agents and expense risk cost to service creditors, as well as pay a regulators, and impair our contracts and persistency return to our shareholders.
ability to attract new business.
risk customers not renewing their policies.
Liquidity risk is the risk Asset management risk of not being able to make is the risk of customers Some of our life and savings payments as they become redeeming funds, not products provide guaranteed due because there are investing with us or switching minimum investment returns insufficient assets in cash funds, resulting in reduced to customers.
The relatively illiquid fee income.
We manage accept from them investment nature of insurance liabilities funds on behalf of our type risks such as credit and is a potential source of customers, so they do not market risk in order to offer additional investment return, have to manage the credit, upside potential but providing by allowing us to invest in market and operational them with protection against higher yielding, but less risks themselves.
1 The economic surplus represents an estimated unaudited position.
The capital requirement is based on Avivas own internal assessment and capital management policies, measuring the amount of economic capital at risk in a 1-in-200 year loss event over a one year time horizon.
The term economic capital does not imply capital as required by regulators or other third parties.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information R e p o r t e r u s a e M M o n i t 45 Aviva plc Risks to our business continued Annual report and accounts 2013 How we manage our risks types of risk affecting our current in-force Our core expertise is understanding and business and investments are credit, longevity US disposal managing these risks, so that we can and equity.
bolstering our competitively price our products, deliver on our Our appetite is to retain most of our exposure promises to customers and provide sustainable to these risks due to the better risk-adjusted financial strength earnings growth to our shareholders.
returns we expect to earn compared to accepting and reducing our We manage risk through our choice of business other risks, and our expertise in managing them.
credit and interest strategy, underpinned by our business culture This appetite is supported in part by our belief and values, continuously seeking to identify that longevity risk diversifies well against other rate risk exposure opportunities to maximise risk-adjusted returns.
risks we retain i. e. has little or no correlation.
In October 2013 we Rigorous and consistent risk management is While assuming credit risk enables us to take successfully disposed of our embedded across the Group through our risk advantage of the structural investment US Life business, resulting in management framework, comprising: advantages enjoyed by insurers with long-dated, an increase in the Groups Our risk appetite: The risks that we select in relatively illiquid liabilities to earn superior economic capital surplus pursuit of return, the risks that we accept but investment returns.
coverage ratio by 19 seek to minimise and the risks we seek to avoid We manage credit and equity risk through percentage points or the or transfer, including quantitative expressions of rigorous research and analysis at the point of economic capital surplus by the level of risk we can support e. g. the amount investment, and continuous monitoring of our approximately 1.2 billion.
of capital we are prepared to put at risk exposures and setting investment limits to our The sale reduced the Our risk governance: Includes risk policies exposure by asset class, counterparty, geography, Groups exposure to credit and business standards, risk oversight sector and other pre-established risk criteria, and interest rate risk, and committees and roles and responsibilities such as credit rating.
We monitor longevity risk also reduced the sensitivity Our processes: The processes we use to against the latest external industry data and of the Groups economic identify, measure, manage, monitor and emerging trends.
capital results to credit report risks, including the use of our risk While we have appetite for our top three risks spread movements.
models, and stress and scenario testing.
by type, we transfer or mitigate specific risks The disposal means the within these categories, where the risk-adjusted Group is now within its risk How we manage our risks returns are insufficient or where we believe that appetite for total required we have excess exposure.
Specific risk transfer economic capital and and mitigation solutions which we employ credit risk.
to manage these and other risks include: Reinsurance, to transfer insurance risks including longevity risk Derivatives, to hedge equity, credit and other risks Risk Collateral requirements, to mitigate credit risk management Business disposals.
framework Emerging risks We also manage and monitor risks which may impact our ability to write profitable new business over the longer term.
For example, such risks include: Climate change: potentially resulting in higher than expected weather related claims and inaccurate pricing of general insurance risk Line management in the business is accountable New technologies: failure to understand and for risk management, which together with the react to the impact of new technology and its risk function and internal audit form our three effect on customer behaviour and how we lines of defence of risk management.
distribute products could potentially result in Having identified and measured the risks of our business model becoming obsolete our business, depending on our risk appetite, Read about how we address the Regulatory change: our businesses face we either accept these risks or take action to risks of climate change through our considerable regulatory change as a result of corporate responsibility programmes reduce, transfer or mitigate them.
overleaf Solvency II, our designation by the Financial Stability Board as a Global Systemically Top risks ranked by economic capital at risk Important Insurer G-SII and developments in Read about how we address the risks Ranked according to the amount of economic conduct regulation, which will affect how and the opportunities presented capital at risk in a 1-in-200 year loss event over a by new technologies through our much capital we hold, how we operate and one year time horizon: the three most significant strategic framework on page 19 how we sell and distribute our products.
