30 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Market focus UK & Ireland Life Business in brief Aviva is a leading life insurer in the UK and Ireland, offering retirement, risk and savings products to both individuals and groups.
We offer: Pensions, annuities, We take care of more than 90 billion of assets protection, bonds and on behalf of our pensions and investments David Barral savings, investment CEO, Aviva UK & Ireland life insurance customers.
By managing our existing book of sales, private medical business efficiently we are able to offer continued insurance value-for-money for our customers and shareholders.
Customer service is paramount at Aviva, and we are continually looking at ways to improve our service by using more efficient processes and automated tools.
Retaining our customers remains a priority 1 for us.
For instance, in the area of automatic 12.9m enrolment and workplace pensions we are helping employers prepare for the date when Customers their automatic enrolment duties come into force for their businesses.
Our strategy We are also growing our investment platform By focusing on providing our customers with by helping advisers consolidate their clients competitive products that meet their changing pension savings.
needs, we aim to continue to improve cash Consumers increasing use of digital tools generation and deliver profitable growth.
and mobile devices is providing the impetus for 6,000 Our overall business is focused on risk products Aviva to develop simple, differentiated software Employees and long-term savings.
applications which allow customers to interact Our expertise across a comprehensive range with us quickly and easily at a time that suits of risk products, including protection, annuities, them.
In February 2014, we launched a new equity release and private medical insurance, is online portal to enable our customers to access underpinned by our underwriting and investment all of their Aviva products from a single login, management expertise, as well as our strong ensuring they receive the same simple, accessible distribution networks and our brand.
and high-quality online experience across our We intend to grow our business by focusing businesses in the UK.
on the needs of our customers at key times in We need to have a deep understanding of our their lives.
We have championed the importance customers, including their attitudes, behaviour, of life protection for families, and will develop lifestyle and health to help us innovate and price digital tools to help them choose our products fairly in the market.
Our use of data from our in a simple and informed way.
extensive customer base and external sources The retirement market is a crucial area of is invaluable to this understanding.
our business and one we have successfully Our employees shape our customers campaigned on for several years to ensure experience.
Our focus is to build on our employee consumers get the best deal.
We work closely engagement and drive improved effectiveness, with our customers to help them prepare for as well as develop and retain our key talent.
We Market type their retirement and consider their options.
recognise there has been a period of uncertainty This preparation includes assisting customers Cash generator for our employees as we have transformed our as they consolidate their pension savings and UK Life UK & Ireland Life business and remain committed choose the best way to fund the different stages Turnaround to developing a workplace that fulfils individuals of their retirement.
Ireland Life career aspirations and supports their wellbeing.
We also intend to grow our award-winning private medical insurance business.
For more information about market priorities, turn to page 20 1 This figure represents the total unique customers in the UK and Ireland and does not include the number of people covered by our policies, which is considerably more.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 31 Aviva plc Market focus continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Full year performance Our focus on achieving our financial targets has not reduced our commitment to our customers.
Our five point plan Despite the level of transformational change seen UK & Ireland Life during 2013, our Customer Transaction Net on annuities 2013 2012 m m Promoter Score has increased to 23, four At Aviva, we encourage Cash remitted to Group 370 150 points higher than 2012.
We continue to receive customers to shop around Operating capital generation 595 688 external recognition for improvements to service, for the best annuity.
Life operating profit: IFRS basis 952 892 winning 47 awards during 2013, including Best However many more people Expenses Protection Provider Money Marketing, Best could get better deals.
We Operating expenses 607 736 Annuity Provider Professional Adviser, six gold are calling on the industry to Integration and restructuring costs 59 71 awards Money Marketing Service, and Health help customers get a better 666 807 Insurance company of the Year for a fourth year deal on their retirement running at the Health Insurance Awards.
Value of New Business VNB 441 412 income.
This is our plan: IFRS profit before tax 717 107 Consumers must be The market in 2014 given clear guidance to In 2013 we delivered solid results across our We are well positioned to take advantage of any help them understand key financial metrics, despite a challenging market recovery and the long-term structural the choices available and macroeconomic and regulatory environment.
We trends in our target markets.
the importance of increased our dividend to Group to 370 million, We are seeing increased activity in the comparing rates improved life operating profits by 7%, reduced protection market as the mortgage market Providers must obtain operating expenses by 18% to 607 million and becomes more buoyant.
The annuities market medical information and improved VNB by 7%.
This reflects our focus on is in a long-term growth phase as the UK ensure customers cost efficiency and pricing discipline.
population ages, and a greater proportion of understand the potential The performance of our business in Ireland has employees retire with a defined contribution benefits this can have on started to improve.
A dividend of 70 million was pension scheme.
Automatic enrolment reaches increasing their income paid in July 2013, life operating profit was up at its peak period for new joiners in 2014, whilst Both existing and open 22 million from 5 million in 2012, VNB was up our platform business continues to grow as market customers should at 6 million and operating expenses were down investment funds move to modern platforms.
be given competitive 38% to 38 million.
The improvements reflect Whilst these trends are positive, the annuity rates cost reductions and a strategic shift in the unprecedented regulatory focus on the UK life The limitations of business mix to more profitable risk products, insurance industry continues.
restricted panels should away from low margin pensions.
In February 2014, the Financial Conduct be made clear to UK & Ireland Life operating profit increased Authority FCA reported on its review of customers by 7% primarily due to greater efficiency and an annuities, with a focus on customer outcomes Customers should take improved result in our Irish life business.
Our large and a concern that too few customers shop back book of business ensures an element of around in the open market.
The FCA concluded care when shopping earnings stability and gives the opportunity for around for an adviser.
that many customers are not getting the best future efficiency improvements.
available retirement income and is launching a During the year, we increased the provisions for market study on retirement products.
This is a commerical mortgage defaults by 300 million view that Aviva supports.
We offer the same rates due to impairments above the long-term trend.
to our existing pension customers and open Following an extensive review, we reorganised market customers and have launched a five point our commercial finance team.
plan for the industry to raise standards and help customers get a better deal in their retirement.
In 2013, the Department for Work & Pensions published a Workplace Pension charges consultation paper.
The paper made a number Our businesses of proposals relating to charge caps, adviser have performed commission and disclosure of information.
The strongly through original planned implementation date of April significant market, 2014 has now been delayed for at least a year.
We expect the impact on us to be immaterial.
We regulatory and economic took action in 2000 to cap charges on our group change, and are well and individual pension book, pricing at 1% or positioned to sustain less.
New schemes are currently being written at improvements in cash charges well below the proposed charge caps.
For more information on financial We are leading the debates affecting our performance see Other Information customers and are confident our underlying Financial and Operating strengths and commitment to our customers Performance in our annual report David Barral and accounts CEO, Aviva UK & Ireland Life position us well in 2014.
32 Aviva plc Market focus continued Annual report and accounts 2013 UK & Ireland Business in brief General Insurance We are the UKs largest general insurer and a leading We offer: general insurer in Ireland, providing a wide range of Personal home and products to personal and commercial customers.
motor insurance, general insurance for businesses, corporate In commercial lines we are implementing and speciality risks Guidewire, an insurance software solution, across Maurice Tulloch CEO, Aviva UK & Ireland general insurance our policy administration and claims activities.
The increased automation this provides will improve accuracy and efficiency of processing and will enable us to build products that better reflect changing customer needs.
1 Customers are our top priority.
Their feedback 12.9m continues to be our richest source of insight.
Customers In 2013 we redesigned existing products and created new ones following extensive customer research and the introduction of independent third-party and customer online rating and review tools.
As a result, our personal home and motor products are now Defaqto five-star rated.
In Our strategy addition, a new online portal will enable our We are focused on providing our customers 9,000 customers to access all of their Aviva products with products that meet their insurance needs.
from a single login, ensuring they receive the Employees We will support the Groups investment thesis by same simple, accessible and high-quality online delivering cash and profitable growth through experience across our life and general insurance our expertise in underwriting, pricing and claims businesses in the UK.
Our product range will continue to be guided We plan to improve cash flow by reducing our by customer research, and in addition we will cost base through further efficiencies, increasing supplement the existing insights with a broader average product holdings per customer as part of range of customer satisfaction measurements our digital investment, and extending our reach across all distribution channels.
through targeted growth in commercial business.
Our people strategy is designed to foster a high We have a diverse distribution model in performing culture with a focus on achievement, UK & Ireland General Insurance, selling our potential and collaboration.
As part of this, we products through brokers, partners and directly are developing our technical learning to customers and we continue to focus on programmes and acting upon the results of our establishing clear and compelling propositions internal employee survey.
We are also continuing which deliver an excellent customer experience.
to improve our apprenticeship programme and We are investing in the latest technology to enhancing our graduate programme.
serve our customers more effectively.
In 2014, We continue to work on the turnaround of the we will accelerate our use of predictive analytics, Irish general insurance business.
Our strategy in Market type which uses advanced modelling techniques to Ireland is to focus on strengthening our position Cash generator identify trends in a variety of data.
We will make as a leading broker-based insurer and increase UK general insurance full use of this to improve pricing sophistication, our retail market share through a digital offering Turnaround target growth in profitable lines of business, that puts the customer at the centre of everything Ireland general insurance improve fraud detection in both underwriting we do.
and claims, and be more informed in how we target customer communications.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 33 Aviva plc Market focus continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Full year performance We have significantly strengthened our senior management team, most notably with the Aviva Drive app appointments of Maurice Tulloch as CEO in UK & Ireland General Insurance We have re-entered the September Maurice was previously CEO of 2013 2012 m m telematics market with Aviva in Canada, our second largest general Cash remitted to Group 347 150 Aviva Drive, a new app insurance business, Colm Holmes as CFO, Operating capital generation 374 376 which won the Insurance Steve Treloar as MD of UK Direct and, most Operating profit: IFRS basis 489 502 Times Innovation of the recently, we announced the appointment of Expenses Year award.
It provides Ian Foy as MD Personal Lines.
Operating expenses 818 826 discounts on motor In July we appointed Alison Burns as CEO Integration and restructuring costs 24 170 premiums based on of our Irish business and John Quinlan as MD 842 996 customers individual driving of our general insurance company in Ireland.
Combined Operating Ratio COR 97.2% 98.6% habits.
Over the course of We expect this strong leadership team to drive IFRS profit before tax 387 248 2013 the app was the business forward.
FY13 dividend remitted from UKGI of 347 million was received by Group in January downloaded 215,000 times 2014. and we recorded nearly four The market in 2014 million miles worth of Market conditions for private motor and home Overall performance in 2013 has been good, with driving data.
In 2014, we insurance remain highly competitive in the UK improvements seen in most of the key financial will build on this data to and Ireland and we expect this to continue metrics that we use to measure progress against provide enhanced rating throughout 2014.
Consumers are price conscious our investment thesis of cash flow plus growth.
insight, increase customer and we do not expect this to change.
Our marketOur dividend has risen to 347 million 2012: engagement and improve leading capabilities in predictive analytics will 150 million, benefitting in part from the one-off personalisation.
become increasingly important as success in this impact of the Group restructuring undertaken environment depends on being able to price risk, during 2013. and serve customers effectively.
The combined operating ratio has improved to In the UK motor insurance market, legal 97.2% 2012: 98.6%, reflecting a combination reforms such as the ban on referral fees may of more disciplined underwriting, favourable reduce claims settlement costs and reduce weather experience compared to 2012 despite premiums.
However there is uncertainty over the the stormy end to 2013 and lower expenses.
impact of these reforms and the Competition Total expenses have fallen by 15% to 842 Commission review.
This uncertainty will remain million 2012: 996 million.
This has been driven until a new normal for claims patterns and costs by a substantial reduction in restructuring costs establishes itself.
from 2012, which included the impact of the In commercial lines, the fragile economic Ireland transformation programme and environment has stifled business investment and simplification of the UK business operation.
growth in recent years, and whilst the economic Operating profit is marginally lower at 489 green shoots are likely to give welcome uplift million 2012: 502 million, with the impact of to business volumes, we expect the rating the improved underwriting performance offset environment to remain generally soft in 2014. by a reduction in investment return.
This primarily We continue to see capital flowing into the reflects the lower rate of return received on the market which has the effect of suppressing internal loan in 2013 compared to that previously commercial rates.
We continue to be an active participant with the Association of British Insurers on the design and implementation of Flood Re, whose primary purpose is to ensure that flood insurance remains accessible and affordable to those domestic properties at high risk of flood.
The severe flood events of the winter only serve to re-emphasise We are investing in the importance of this market solution to all the latest technology parties: customers, insurers and Government.
to serve our customers We expect further regulatory interest in the more effectively.
conduct of the UK general insurance market and we will continue to build on our strong relationships with the regulators to preserve For more information on financial the competitiveness and accessibility of the performance see Other Information UK market.
Financial and Operating Performance in our annual report Maurice Tulloch and accounts CEO, Aviva UK & Ireland General Insurance 34 Aviva plc Market focus continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Europe Business in brief: We are focused on five markets: France, a strong cash Europe generator: Poland and Turkey, growth markets: and Spain and Italy which we are turning around.
We offer: Pensions, protection, continued turnaround in Italy.
Our operating annuities, bonds and expense base reduced by 3% 7% in local David McMillan savings, personal and CEO, Aviva Europe currency as we continue to focus on efficiency.
commercial general We have also successfully reshaped our insurance, health portfolio, disposing of a number of non-core insurance businesses.
Our European businesses should benefit both from any macroeconomic recovery and also from our strategic focus on value and capital efficiency.
Europe 1 2013 2012 12.9m m m Cash remitted to Group 388 343 Customers Operating capital generation 558 571 Our strategy Operating profit: IFRS basis Our strategy for the European business is to Life 851 869 continue improving operational performance General insurance & health 112 98 and to deliver sustainable and reliable cash 963 967 remittances to Group.
We focus on capital Expenses efficient products that meet the needs of Operating expenses 644 662 6,600 our customers.
Integration and restructuring costs 34 28 Employees We will deliver our strategy through 678 690 Value of New Business VNB 303 271 maintaining our strong presence in profitable segments in France.
We will conclude the Combined Operating Ratio COR 98.1% 99.4% IFRS profit before tax 1,144 931 turnaround of our Italian and Spanish businesses so they are well-positioned to benefit from France: cash generator recovery in their markets, and capitalise on Our strategy and full year performance growth opportunities in Poland and Turkey Our French business is one of Avivas main cash through a multi-product multi-channel strategy.
generators whilst also delivering profitable This is underpinned by a continuous focus on growth.
Our strategy is focused on delivering balancing cost efficiency and investment.
sustainable dividends to Group through increasing profitability in our life business, Full year performance targeted growth in attractive general insurance Over the past year we have made significant market segments, and a continuous focus on progress in transforming our European portfolio efficiency and customer service.
and have increased cash remittances to Group In France we have a market share of 4% in Market type by 13% to 388 million.
Value of New Business 2 life and 2% in general insurance.
We have VNB grew by 12% to 303 million, profitability Cash generator a well-diversified presence across products, improved in general insurance and we delivered France channels and customer segments with over Growth modest cost savings.
3.2 million customers and over 80 billion of Life operating profit was 851 million 2012: Poland, Turkey assets under management.
Excluding Aseval which was sold One of our key strengths is our diverse Spain, Italy in April 2013, life operating profit is up 5%.
We have a large owned This was primarily driven by strong growth in distribution network including more than 900 France and Poland as margins improved and For more information tied agents and UFF the largest IFA network with expenses reduced.
General insurance operating about market priorities, a 10% market share.
We distribute our products turn to page 20 profit increased by 14%, largely driven by the 1 This represents unique customers and not the number of people who are covered by our policies, which is considerably more.
2 According to Fdration Franaise des Socits d Assurances FFSA, 2012.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 35 Aviva plc Market focus continued Annual report and accounts 2013 through more than 1,200 active brokers and Our business in France showed strong growth on online through our Eurofil brand.
We also have most key financial metrics.
Total operating profit key partnerships with AFER, the largest savers improved by 6% to 448 million 2012: 422 Businesses association in Europe, and Antarius, our joint million and cash remittances grew by 16% to in brief: venture with Crdit du Nord.
In addition, France In addition, we have invested in growing there was particularly strong growth in VNB, our direct business.
We are currently the which increased by 39% to 166 million.
largest direct provider of funeral protection While our reported COR increased in the year and the second largest direct general insurer.
to 97.1% 2012: 94.9%, underlying profitability, In 2013 we made strong progress improving excluding adverse weather events and reserve We distribute our life product mix, focusing on capital efficient movements improved.
Unit-linked savings and life protection AFER, UFF, VNB increased by 130% and 35% respectively.
The market in 2014 900 tied agents, over In 2014 we are continuing this trend, launching France is a stable market with a large, 1,200 active brokers, new unit-linked funds and other innovative well-developed insurance sector.
We expect Eurofil online, solutions, for example Eurocroissance a hybrid higher growth in the protection, health and Crdit du Nord with-profit and unit-linked product.
We also retirement sectors as a result of changes in plan to launch new protection products and customer needs and the role of the government simplify underwriting procedures.
in the provision of social welfare.
We are also focused on strengthening our Health market reforms currently underway product range for small businesses with new will take effect in 2016 and change the market dedicated products for health and retirement.
Our strategy is focused on individuals In 2013 we increased health premiums from and sole traders outside the scope of the reforms.
3.2m small and medium sized businesses by 15%.
Customers We have recently introduced a systems Poland and Turkey: growth markets thinking approach, empowering our employees Our strategy and full year performance to meet customer requirements more effectively Poland and Turkey are markets that offer through simplifying and improving our processes.
They have To do this, we are investing in the development growing economies with relatively young and of our customer-facing people, providing them under-penetrated insurance markets.
According with the skills and training to have greater to Swiss Re, life insurance penetration in 2012 4,100 autonomy and discretion when serving in Poland and Turkey is 1.9% and 0.2% of GDP customers.
We are importing this approach compared to the European average of 3.9%.
Employees from our UK business where it has been highly Our focus in these markets continues to successful in improving customer service and be growing VNB by strengthening existing reducing cost.
distribution networks and relationships, and broadening our distribution channels.
Poland We are the second largest insurer by profit in Poland with over 3.5 million customers and over 17 billion assets under management.
Our life business has a 7% market share, whilst our general insurance business is small but growing.
We also operate a life subsidiary in Lithuania where we are the second largest life insurer and third largest pension provider.
We have a direct sales force with 2,300 tied Distribution is one of our agents and a key relationship with Bank Zachodni key strengths in Europe.
WBK part of the Santander group.
Our life We will build on our business remains centred on unit-linked and life existing relationships and protection sales.
Whilst the protection market has further invest in digital and seen significant growth in recent years, premium owned distribution.
In 2013, we extended our bancassurance For more information on financial relationship with Santander increasing our performance see Other Information network from 500 to 900 branches.
We have Financial and Operating Performance in our annual report David McMillan also improved our digital and online presence.
and accounts CEO, Aviva Europe 36 Aviva plc Market focus continued Annual report and accounts 2013 We have launched a virtual branch selling life Our main distribution channel is Akbank, one of investment products directly to customers, set the largest private banks in Turkey, part of the Business up agreements with price comparison sites to Sabanci Group.
We have successfully piloted a in brief: sell our products, and invested in social media hybrid distribution arrangement using our sales engagement.
We are one of the biggest force to sell in Akbank branches.
Poland and direct general insurance providers with a In 2013, we increased our bancassurance Turkey 15% market share.
distribution with three new partnerships with We are the second largest pension provider Abank, Odeabank and Burgan Bank.
based on assets under management.
The Polish Our life and pensions business has the largest government has now introduced legislation direct sales force in the market.
We are focused In Poland, we changing the pensions system: however our on expanding our direct sales force and agency distribute through: pensions business has been closed to new channel, whilst we are also exploring affinity Two joint ventures customers since 2011, therefore the impact partnerships within the Sabanci Group.
and six bank partners, of the changes on VNB will be marginal.
In 2014 we are looking to pilot the sale of 2,300 tied agents, Our life business generates most of our pension and protection products through the 600 multi-agencies, operating profit and cash in Poland.
The life retail branches of other Sabanci Group 800 brokers market remains attractive and we plan to companies including Carrefour SA and EnerjiSA.
continue to grow our life business in 2014.
We are focused on operating excellence and In Turkey, we We will do this by increasing the productivity we are currently consolidating all our operating distribute through: of our current direct sales force, launching a new platforms into one, to provide better customer Akbank and other branch based network with a focus on a younger interactions, improve efficiency and reduce partners 1,100 demographic, selling both insurance and operational complexity.
branches, 700 direct other financial products including third-party We also have a small, fully owned general sales advisors, mortgages and loans, and further developing insurance business in Turkey that is held for sale 140 agencies innovative online solutions.
In 2013 we have reduced Operational efficiency has continued to premiums to focus on more profitable segments.
improve, driven by automation and digitalisation Performance continues to be unsatisfactory of core processes and implementation of despite 13.2 percentage points improvement customer self-service tools.
plan to invest more in over the next few years.
In Poland, VNB increased strongly to 51 The market in 2014 5.6m million 2012: 35 million driven by higher The economy in Poland remains resilient with Customers sales and improvements in product mix.
Total insurance penetration forecast to continue operating profit increased to 184 million 2012: to increase from current low levels.
167 million and there was also an increased The political and economic environment in dividend of 85 million 2012: 70 million.
However, we believe this market offers strong long-term potential for Turkey profitable growth, with its young population, Our life business in Turkey, which operates good economic growth and increasing demand 1,400 through a joint venture with Sabanci Group, for financial products.
continued to show strong growth in 2013.
VNB In both markets we are well-placed to make Employees increased 23% to 37 million up 28% in local the most of the growth opportunities.
Life protection premiums increased year-on-year by 33% and pension contributions by 80% driven by favourable regulatory developments.
Changes to pensions legislation effective January 2013 have helped to improve VNB.
Our strategic The introduction of a 25% government matching focus has shifted from contribution has encouraged customers to set targeting volume, to up or recommence personal contributions.
The benefit of these additional contributions has preserving capital and been only partially offset by a legislated reduction creating value.
in fund and allocation charges.
For more information about market priorities, David McMillan turn to page 20 CEO, Aviva Europe 1 Polish Insurance Chamber.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 37 Aviva plc Market focus continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Spain and Italy: turnaround businesses In November 2013, we reached an agreement to Our strategy and full year performance sell our entire 39% stake in Italian insurer Eurovita Business Our strategic focus for Spain and Italy is to to JC Flowers.
This is a significant step towards in brief: deliver sustainable cash remittances to Group.
realising our strategy to focus on more capital In 2013 we made progress in addressing market efficient, profitable products.
Spain and challenges and turning the businesses around, Our product mix is well-balanced with Italy but there is still more to do.
unit-linked accounting for 37% of our total sales.
In Spain we have increased our focus on We have re-priced our unit-linked and protection standalone protection sales and the profitability products to increase profitability.
We have also of products with guarantees, while improving led the market with the introduction of zero In Spain, we the efficiency of our operations.
In Italy we percent guarantee products.
distribute through: are exiting non-core, unprofitable distribution, In general insurance, significant progress has five bancassurance improving profitability of products with been made implementing pricing actions, exiting partnerships, Pelayo guarantees and focusing on protection underperforming agencies and reducing cost.
Vida, 1,000 brokers and general insurance.
This has resulted in a significantly improved COR of 95.2% 2012: 99.8%.
In Italy, we Spain During 2013, we further developed our distribute through: In Spain we are a strong bancassurance player, partnership with Banco Popolare SC by launching partnerships with operating through five partnerships.
We also a telematics-based motor insurance product sold three major banks and have a retail network selling life, pensions and through their branches.
other smaller networks protection products through more than 1,000 In 2013, Italy repaid a loan to Group of 6 4,400 branches, brokers and Seguros Pelayo.
million and paid a dividend of 14 million.
This 4,000 financial Our retail business has been recognised by represents a key turning point for the business advisors, 600 agents ADECOSE the broker and IFA association as which did not pay a dividend in the preceding and brokers the best insurance company in Spain to work two years.
with in the protection and accidents category.
Operating profit was stable at 169 million.
We are the fourth largest protection player For our life business VNB reduced to 15 million, 1 with 7% market share.
particularly as lower risk-free rates impacted In April 2013, we concluded our settlement margins in Eurovita which is held for sale.
with Bankia regarding our Spanish business, However, excluding Eurovita, VNB increased Aseval.
This agreement realised 608 million by 4 million in the year.
Customers We continue to improve cost efficiency through The market in 2014 standardising processes and leveraging shared Although still challenging, the Spanish economy services between our bancassurance and retail has stabilised and started to show signs of businesses.
improvement, with a return to positive GDP In Spain, operating profit was 151 million growth, falling unemployment and improving 2012: 217 million, with most of the reduction investment sentiment.
Our focus remains on from last year driven by the disposal of Aseval further improving the mix towards protection and 1,100 in April 2013.
VNB was also impacted by this capital efficient saving products and improving disposal and the continuing tough economic operating efficiency.
Employees conditions, reducing to 33 million for the year The Italian market is also expected to show 2012: 56 million.
Cash remittances reduced early signs of recovery: economic forecasts to 51 million 2012: 68 million, including a are improving, although subject to political one-off dividend payment.
The recent trend of general insurers adopting a Italy more technical approach to pricing and focusing In Italy we have a strong life presence and a on operational efficiencies in Italy is expected to profitable general insurance business.
We have taken pricing action in general a successful bancassurance network including insurance and made product changes to improve relationships with three of the countrys top profitability.
In life, customer demand for five banks.
with-profit products will continue but the market Our Italian business made good strategic is now becoming accustomed to lower zero progress in 2013, exiting underperforming and percent guarantee products.
The protection non-core distribution agreements.
market is expected to grow as the economy For more information on financial starts to recover.
performance see Other Information Financial and Operating Performance in our annual report and accounts 1 ICEA, Insurance Association in Spain.
38 Aviva plc Market focus continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Canada Business in brief We are the second largest general insurer in Canada, providing personal and commercial insurance products.
We offer: Personal home and We continue to innovate and offer new products motor insurance, to meet our customers needs.
In 2014, we will Greg Somerville general insurance CEO, Aviva Canada launch Ovation nationwide, a product targeted for businesses at higher net worth individuals, and Green Assure, a new insurance enhancement that enables customers to replace their damaged or destroyed property with energy efficient and  alternatives.
We remain prepared to help our customers 1 when they need us most.
The 2013 Calgary and 2.6m Toronto major weather events show us at our best, working for our customers and partners Customers and highlighting the value of our service.
The Canadian insurance business, unlike many other businesses in the Group, is mostly Our strategy intermediated.
We sell our products through Our Canadian business is a cash generator with a distribution network of 1,600 independent a strong track record of delivering cash returns broker partners.
This ability is founded on our absolute We continue to work closely with our broker 3,600 commitment to customers and a strong partners to help them integrate digital technology Employees underwriting capability where our risk selection and faster quoting tools into their businesses.
and pricing have become a source of competitive This will help enable them to address increasing advantage.
We have a focus on strengthening the customer demand for choice, simplicity and performance culture and employee engagement self-service.
across the business, whilst maintaining and To maintain our competitive advantage in growing strong relationships with our underwriting we continue to enhance our talent distribution partners.
programme to ensure we have the best people We are entering into 2014 with good in place at all levels of the organisation.
momentum underpinned by our pricing, We are also continuing to develop our underwriting and predictive analytics world-class predictive analytics capabilities.
Significant opportunities to improve underwriting In 2014, we aim to improve underwriting results exist, for example by combating profits and cash flow as we deliver the benefits fraudulent claims.
Fraud costs all customers and of investments in automation.
We are enhancing our shareholders.
We are deploying sophisticated our claims systems for personal lines to deliver a predictive tools that review claims and activity better service for customers and this will also have across all elements of the claims process.
Commercial lines will potential for improved claims management and benefit from significant investments which will service delivery is significant and we intend to deliver improved efficiency combined with embed further these capabilities into our greater risk selection and pricing sophistication.
Several opportunities for customer growth are Market type being pursued.
In particular our growth strategy Cash generator focuses on western Canada where both the Canada economy and population are expected to grow at rates above the Canadian average.
For more information about market priorities, turn to page 20 1 This represents unique customers and not the number of people who are covered by our policies, which is considerably more.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 39 Aviva plc Market focus continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Full year performance Operating expenses were 378 million 2012: 401 million, a reduction of 6% reflecting Our community the continued focus on expense management Canada fund and the benefits of cost savings initiatives.
2013 2012 m m In October 2013 we announced the Every year Aviva donates Cash remitted to Group 130 136 appointment of Greg Somerville as President CAN$1 million in funding Operating capital generation 177 192 and CEO of Aviva Canada.
Greg has extensive to community projects Operating profit: IFRS basis 246 277 experience in the property and casualty insurance through the Aviva Expenses industry and has been part of the Aviva Canada Community Fund Operating expenses 378 401 Executive Committee since 2004. competition in Canada.
Integration and restructuring costs 9 11 Projects are invited to 387 412 The market in 2014 compete for funding and Combined Operating Ratio COR 94.6% 93.4% In 2014 we expect that industry premiums will the winners are announced IFRS profit before tax 104 245 grow at a low single digit rate.
Last years growth is likely to be tempered by the proposed winner was the Riehl During the year total cash remitted to Group auto rate reductions in Ontario, as part of Skatepark in Pelham, was 130 million and this is in line with the regulatory motor reform.
We expect any potential Ontario, named after Isaac cash remitted in 2012 on a local currency basis.
impact on profitability from the lower rates to Riehl, a 14 year-old boy who General insurance operating profit was be largely offset by cost reduction measures died after being hit by a car 246 million 2012: 277 million, an 11% and other initiatives that form part of the while skateboarding.
One of reduction compared with the prior year 9% regulatory reform.
his classmates applied to the reduction on a local currency basis.
The reduction In personal property, we expect the current fund to build a skateboard was driven by the impact of the severe weather hard market conditions to continue due to park.
Aviva awarded the events seen during 2013.
The floods in Alberta severe and catastrophic weather events in recent project CAN$115,000 and and Toronto were the first and third largest summers which have negatively impacted the the sum was immediately insurance catastrophe loss events ever to hit industrys results.
matched by local the industry in Canada.
In commercial lines, we believe that the government.
The park has As a result there has been a 2.3 percentage elevated level of catastrophes in 2013 together now been built, and local point deterioration in the combined operating with improving economic conditions, particularly children can skate in safety.
ratio for personal and commercial property.
This in the manufacturing sector, will translate into a was partially offset by lower expenses and when firmer market.
normalising catastrophe activity and excluding We expect to see further market consolidation the two 1-in-100 year severe weather events, amongst both insurance carriers and brokers, the COR would have been 92.3%.
Business volumes have increased during 2013, Distribution trends continue to point towards with net written premiums up 3% to 2,250 customers increasingly preferring self-service.
million 2012: 2,176 million, 5% growth on a This favours direct-to-customer models.
The local currency basis, driven by rating increases broker channel is now beginning to adapt to in personal and commercial property and growth self-serve consumer needs whilst still offering in new business volumes across most lines, advice and choice.
with particularly strong growth seen in In 2014, we expect competitors to increase western Canada.
significantly their usage based insurance product lines such as pay-as-you-drive, an area in which we have experience.
This, together with personal auto rate reductions in Ontario, will drive further marketing investment by our competitors.
Aviva is well-positioned to take advantage of the heightened competitive environment and We are entering further drive improvement in earnings and into 2014 with good cash flow.
momentum, with a focus on providing solutions to our customers.
For more information on financial performance see Other Information Financial and Operating Performance in our annual report Greg Somerville and accounts CEO, Aviva Canada 40 Aviva plc Market focus continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Asia Business in brief In Asia we are focused on growth, primarily in China and South East Asia.
We offer: Protection, savings, In China, to get closer to our customers, our pensions, accident and strategy is to grow our multi-distribution channels Khor Hock Seng health insurance CEO, Aviva Asia in second and third tier cities and we are a leading foreign insurer in five of the 12 provinces in which we operate, with a presence in 54 cities.
We are making it easier and simpler for customers to come to us direct by growing and enhancing our product portfolio, for example 1 offering convenient protection and savings 3m products.
In China we recently launched an Customers all-in-one protection product.
This product makes it simpler to buy comprehensive life cover as we have bundled together benefits relating to life and critical illness into one product.
Were responding to customers increased Our strategy use of technology and providing new ways of Our Asian businesses are future cash generators.
buying our products in China and Singapore.
Our strategy is to expand profitably into selected 1,100 An example of this is our travel insurance app in areas of this growing market, supporting growth Singapore which allows customers to buy travel Employees in the Value of New Business VNB, a key element insurance on the move, for example on their of the investment thesis.
We continue to review way to the airport, using their mobile devices.
our product and distribution mix to maximise We are one of the first insurers in Singapore value of new business, growing in channels, to launch an online only, direct-to-consumers product lines and locations which offer the general insurance offering, which we continue greatest opportunities.
In order to contribute to Avivas future We are also servicing and approving growth, our primary goal is to meet the needs policies faster and more efficiently by using of customers in China and South East Asia.
straight-through processing technology which We want to grow our businesses in a sustainable means information comes to us directly no matter way, over the long term.
where our customers purchased our product.
Alongside the rapid growth of our business in Singapore and China, in January 2014, we announced plans, subject to regulatory approval, to form an equal joint venture partnership with Astra International, Indonesias largest publicly listed company, to sell and distribute life insurance products in Indonesia.
The partnership will also be the preferred life insurer for Astras 179 affiliated 2 We continue to review companies including PermataBank, one of our product and distribution Indonesias top ten banks.
mix to maximise value In Singapore, to complement our successful Market type of new business.
bancassurance business, we have a leading Growth position in the financial advisory channel.
Asia For more information about market priorities, Khor Hock Seng turn to page 20 CEO, Aviva Asia 1 This represents unique customers and not the number of people who are covered by our policies, which is considerably more.
3 OECD: General assessment of the current economic situation November 2013.
4 Swiss Re Sigma: World insurance in 2012.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 41 Aviva plc Market focus continued Annual report and accounts 2013 We have continued to strengthen our In order to deliver more to our customers we are helping our people to reach their full potential by management team in Asia.
In 2013 we appointed Street to school Khor Hock Seng as Chief Executive of Aviva Asia.
setting clear performance goals and providing programme personal growth and learning opportunities.
Khor has over 30 years experience of the Asian insurance market and has the requisite market We are focused on attracting, developing Aviva Asia takes its and retaining key talent.
We remain strongly and cultural knowledge that is critical to success responsibilities to society in the region.
During the year we also appointed committed to helping our people move into very seriously and supports and across the region, building growth and a highly experienced human resources director, some of the regions most Margaret Chiu: Ken Rappold will be joining us knowledge from across Aviva.
vulnerable citizens shortly as our Asia Regional CFO: and we have street-connected children.
appointed Trang Nguyen Ngoc as CEO of our Full year performance This year the Asian business Vietnamese business.
helped over 130,000 children and our employees Asia The market in 2014 and customers dedicated 2013 2012 m m South East Asia and China are expected to deliver over 15,000 hours of work 3 Cash remitted to Group 20 25 relatively good GDP growth in 2014.
Importantly, to voluntary projects for Operating capital generation 97 80 life insurance penetration remains low in these Avivas Street to School Operating profit: IFRS basis markets, ranging from 0.6% in Vietnam to 4.4% programme.
Over the 4 Life 96 69 in Singapore, and we expect this to increase over year we entered into General insurance & health 1 5 the coming years.
new community projects 97 64 The combination of favourable demographic in Indonesia to help street Expenses trends, low insurance penetration and the children in Jakarta, held Operating expenses 86 93 regions rapidly expanding middle class makes an awareness campaign Integration and restructuring costs 7 4 Asia attractive to life insurance companies.
on the plight of left-behind 93 97 China is currently the fourth largest life children in China and Value of New Business VNB excluding insurance market in the world, and is expected to hosted a round table with Malaysia & Sri Lanka 91 55 overtake Japan as Asias largest market in the next the United Nations in Value of New Business VNB total Asia 92 63 4 decade.
Singapore has recently been growing at Singapore on the rights of Combined Operating Ratio COR 108.1% 105.6% an average annual growth rate of 15% for new street children in South East IFRS profit before tax 98 62 5 business.
Asia, to name just a few of Indonesia is one of the worlds fastest growing our initiatives.
Overall operating performance in Asia has been life insurance markets with a population of 245 strong, with satisfactory growth in the value of million, making it the fourth largest population in new business and operating profit.
It also has low insurance penetration Growing VNB is the critical performance and a growing consumer class.
objective in Asia and we achieved 65% growth The regulatory landscape continues to evolve in 2013 to 91 million 2012: 55 million.
Life with a focus on risk and solvency management operating profit also grew by 39% to 96 million as well as greater interest in sales practices.
international insurers, like Aviva, benefit from Singapore and China were the main being able to draw on their experience of other contributors to both VNB and operating profit regulatory environments around the world to growth.
Singapore grew VNB by 52% to respond effectively.
64 million through a combination of sales Taken together, these trends underline the growth across all distribution channels and a attractiveness of holding selective positions in shift in product mix to protection sales.
Asia, where significant growth over the long term China grew VNB by 74% to 16 million as a is possible.
result of a focus on more profitable protection products and repricing action in the less profitable bancassurance and broker channels.
A notable success in China was the launch of our all-in-one protection product in September.
The relatively high general insurance combined operating ratio of 108.1% is due to an increase in reserves in Singapores motor book following a change in the reserving methodology.
For more information on financial performance see Other Information Financial and Operating Performance in our annual report and accounts 4 Swiss Re Sigma No 3 2013, Swiss Re Asian Insurance Outlook March 2013.
6 World Development Indicators, The World Bank.
42 Aviva plc Market focus continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Aviva Investors Business in brief We are Avivas investment management business, managing funds for Aviva and external clients.
We have 241 billion of assets under management.
Full year performance Euan Munro CEO, Aviva Investors Aviva Investors 2013 2012 800 m m Cash remitted to Group 14 15 Institutional investors Operating capital generation 23 7 Aviva Investors: Operating profit, IFRS basis Fund management 68 39 Long-term insurance and savings business Pooled Pensions 2 3 Other operations client compensation costs 96 900 26 42 Expenses Employees Operating expenses 290 306 Our strategy Integration and restructuring costs 41 33 We aim to increase our contribution to the 331 339 Group by capitalising on our expertise managing IFRS loss profit before tax 89 2 Avivas own funds to become a strong third-party manager.
We are focused on capabilities and In 2013 we paid a dividend to Group of 14 propositions that build on our experience in 241bn million 2012: 15 million.
Aviva Investors fund managing long-term savings.
This includes our management operating profit was 68 million Assets under expertise in fixed income, real estate, and 2012: 39 million driven by higher revenues management multi-asset funds.
reflecting positive market movements and In January 2014 Euan Munro joined as chief performance fees together with reduced executive.
Euan brings substantial expertise in operating expenses as a result of cost fixed income and multi-asset investing.
latter area of investing he gained his reputation In 2013, we identified some breaches of the as the architect and principal manager of the UKs dealing policy which occurred between 2006 largest absolute return fund.
The relevant regulatory authorities underlines our commitment to growing our asset were notified.
A thorough review of internal management business.
control processes relating to the trading activities During 2013 we reviewed our strategy with has been carried out.
a view to building a stronger, more profitable There is a total adverse impact on Aviva business with increased third-party business.
Market type Investors operating profit from this activity At the heart of this is a focus on offering of 96 million, reflecting the compensation Turnaround investment propositions which deliver predictable expected to be claimed in respect of these Aviva Investors returns with low volatility.
Future success will be breaches and associated costs.
driven by serving Aviva customers and external For more information on clients even better, and sharpening the The market in 2014 financial performance performance of the business.
see Other Information We are operating in a low interest rate Financial and Operating Aviva Investors will use its existing global, environment and investor risk appetite is slowly Performance in our multi-channel distribution network to promote returning.
However, institutional investor risk annual report and investment strategies and capabilities identified accounts appetite is likely to remain subdued.
This is due during the strategic review.
to regulatory factors, giving us the opportunity to help clients achieve more predictable returns For more information about market priorities, with limited risk.
turn to page 20 Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information SouthGate shopping centre Bath, United Kingdom Aviva Investors was the principal investor in the regeneration of an unloved part of the city of Bath, a World Heritage site.
The 460,000 sq ft shopping area with 99 residential apartments was designed with environmental sustainability in mind, from conception through to design, planning and construction.
Flagged with the distinctive local stone, it is the first major city centre development in Bath since the 1970s.
Chris Paterson, real estate fund manager at Aviva Investors, says: Weve created a legacy for Bath in this sustainable, long-term investment.
The design complements the citys historic architecture and will stand the test of time, so we wont have to create carbon waste by continually redeveloping it to keep it contemporary.
