58 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Group executive Group executive Mark Wilson Patrick Regan The Group executive is made up of the executive directors and Group Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer the senior executives whose biographies are below.
The Group executive meets broadly twice a month as a forum for the b.
1966 Group CEO to discuss the strategic, financial, reputational and Go to page 55 to read the Go to page 55 to read the commercial aspects of the Group.
The forum does not have full biography.
decision-making authority in its own right and authority rests with each of the members within their respective remits, subject to the control and oversight of the Board.
Nick Amin David Barral Paul Boyle, OBE Kirstine Cooper Group Transformation Director Chief Executive Officer, Aviva Chief Audit Officer Group General Counsel and UK & Ireland Life Insurance Company Secretary b.
1964 Nick joined as Group Paul joined Aviva in November Transformation Director in David joined Aviva in 1999 2010 as Chief Audit Officer.
Kirstine joined Aviva in 1991 April 2013 and currently and is Chief Executive Officer, He is also currently a director and is the Group General has responsibility for Group Aviva UK & Ireland Life.
of the Financial and Legal Skills Counsel and Company Operations.
He has a strong He was previously Avivas Partnership and JSSP licensed Secretary and heads the Office international background Director of Independent sector skills councils.
in consumer banking and Financial Advisor Business and Paul was the first Chief She established the legal and insurance, having most recently was appointed Distribution Executive of the Financial company secretarial function as held a number of senior Director in 2005 covering Reporting Council FRC, the a global team and is responsible management roles within independent financial advisor UKs independent regulator for the provision of legal services AIA Group.
He has significant IFA, retail, partnership and responsible for promoting to the Group, legal risk experience of general employee benefit channels.
confidence in corporate management, and compliance management, business In 2008 he was appointed reporting and governance.
with UK and US listing operations and transformation Marketing Director and led the Whilst in this role, he led requirements.
projects over a 40 year Aviva rebrand for the UK Life the establishment of the She also supports the career history.
business and then became Chief International Forum of Chairman and the Board in Within the AIA Group, he Operating Officer for Aviva UK Independent Audit Regulators, the discharge of their was Executive Vice President Life responsible for customer serving as its Chairman and responsibilities.
and Group Chief Administration propositions, pricing and Vice Chairman.
Kirstine is a lawyer and held Officer, responsible for the customer operations.
During Before joining the FRC, he a number of legal roles within execution of AIAs his time at Aviva, he has was a member of the leadership Avivas legacy companies before transformation strategy which spearheaded much of the UK team at the Financial Services leading the property division resulted in AIAs successful IPO: Life and pensions business Authority regulatory of General Accident and the Senior Vice President and Chief activities to champion the predecessor to the PRA Group legal function of CGU Transformation Officer: and customer, including supporting and FCA, serving as Chief for eight years.
Senior Vice President, strategic a move to the open market Operating Officer.
She was formerly Deputy initiatives.
He was previously an option for UK annuity He has also held senior Group Company Secretary advisory principal to buy-side customers.
management roles in WH Smith and Legal Counsel of Aviva plc private equity transactions, David has 20 years in financial Group plc and Cadbury before securing her current role.
most recently in Asia but also services including roles in sales, Schweppes plc.
She currently sits as a previously in the UK and Europe.
marketing, operations and director on the boards of Aviva He was also previously President business transformation at Insurance Limited and Aviva and Chief Operating Officer at organisations including Eagle France SA.
CIGNA Asia Pacific and senior Star, Prudential and Morgan vice president and Chief Grenfell.
Executive Officer of CIGNA Latin America, and has held a number of management roles at Citibank within Europe.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 59 Aviva plc Group executive continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Left to right: Khor Hock Seng, Jason Windsor, Amanda Mackenzie OBE, David McMillan, John Lister, Maurice Tulloch, Mark Wilson, Christine Deputy, David Barral, Pat Regan, Kirstine Cooper, Euan Munro, Paul Boyle OBE, Nick Amin She was formerly senior vice RSA and Fellow and past Christine Deputy Amanda Mackenzie, OBE president, Chief Human President of the Marketing Group HR Director Chief Marketing and Resources Officer at Dunkin Society.
Amanda has over 25 Communications Officer b.
1965 Brands Group: held a number years of commercial experience, b.
1963 of roles at Starbucks Coffee including director roles at British Christine joined Aviva in Company, culminating in Airways Airmiles, BT and British March 2013 as the Group Amanda joined Aviva in 2008 being Vice President, Partner Gas.
She is also a Non-Executive HR Director with responsibility to oversee the rebrand from Resources, Asia Pacific and Director and audit committee for developing the global Norwich Union and to set up Greater China Regions, and member of Mothercare plc.
a global marketing and held a number of roles at She is on the board of the Christine has a significant communications function.
Thomas Cook Group Canada National Youth Orchestra and track record of leading human She has responsibility for culminating in being Vice is a member of Lord Davies resources functions and being customer, marketing, brand, President Human Resources.
steering group to increase the responsible for the delivery of corporate & public affairs and number of women on boards.
successful cultural change corporate responsibility.
She Amanda was awarded an programmes across a number is also the executive sponsor OBE in the 2014 New Year of businesses.
Honours List for services to She was most recently head Amanda has a BSc in marketing.
of HR, global retail and business Psychology from the University banking at Barclays where she of London, is a graduate of the took a leadership role in the Insead Advanced Management cultural change programme.
Programme, a Life Fellow of the 60 Aviva plc Group executive continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Non-Executive Director of Aviva Prior to moving to the UK John Lister Khor Hock Seng Health.
He began his career Maurice was Chair of the Group Chief Risk and Chief Executive Officer, with Aviva as Director of Insurance Bureau of Canada Capital Officer Aviva Asia Partnerships bancassurance.
1959 David has 12 years Insurance Compensation experience in management Corporation PACICC Board, John joined Aviva in 1986 Khor joined the Group as Chief consulting with and the Insurance Institute and is the Group Chief Risk Executive Officer, Aviva Asia in  LLP of Canada IIC Board and a and Capital Officer with March 2013.
Khor was formerly where he led projects spanning member of a number of other responsibility for managing Chief Executive and Managing mergers and acquisitions, retail Canadian insurance bodies.
capital across Aviva, preparing Director of AIAs Malaysian banking, organisational strategy the business for Solvency II and business and regional executive.
ensuring that an appropriate From 2008 he successfully drove Jason Windsor risk management framework the transformation of AIA Chief Strategy and is in place.
Malaysia leading the business Euan Munro Development Officer He has more than 25 years to capitalise on development Chief Executive Officer, experience working in the UK opportunities, generating b.
He is an actuary strong growth in value and Jason joined Aviva in August and spent the first nine years of cash flow, despite the difficult b.
1970 2010 and is the Chief Strategy his career in a variety of senior economic environment.
Euan joined Aviva in January and Development Officer.
actuarial roles across the UK Life He has over 30 years of 2014 and is Chief Executive He has responsibility for the business before becoming its insurance experience with roles Officer, Aviva Investors with development of Avivas strategic Chief Actuary in 2005.
In 2009 in actuarial, operations, sales responsibility for capitalising agenda and plans as well as the John became Finance Director & marketing and general on Aviva Investors expertise in ongoing monitoring of the of Aviva UK Life, and in July management at Manulife, managing Avivas own funds, financial performance of the 2012 he was appointed Group Hong Leong, British American becoming a stronger third-party Groups portfolio of businesses.
Chief Risk and Capital Officer.
Life & General and Malaysian manager and increasing Aviva He also oversees the Groups American Insurance.
This Investors profit contribution to mergers, acquisitions and experience gives him a deep the Group.
disposals activity and has led David McMillan business understanding and He was most recently global the Groups recent disposal Chief Executive Officer, extensive knowledge of the head of multi-asset investing programme, including the Aviva Europe Asian market and culture and fixed income teams at sale of Aviva USA.
which is critical to our success b.
1966 Standard Life Investments Jason was previously Strategy in the region.
with responsibility for the and M&A Director with David joined Aviva in November management of all the assets responsibility for M&A, the 2002 and is Chief Executive of Standard Life Assurance Groups strategic plan and the Officer, Aviva Europe with Maurice Tulloch Company and Standard Life oversight of Avivas Investor accountability for the Groups Chief Executive Officer, Aviva Investments fixed income and Relations function.
businesses in Italy, Lithuania, UK & Ireland General Insurance multi-asset investment funds.
Prior to joining Aviva, he Poland, Spain and Turkey.
1966 He was also a member of was Managing Director in the is also Chairman of Aviva Standard Life Investments Financial Institutions Group France SA.
Maurice joined Aviva in 1992 board and Standard Life plcs at Morgan Stanley, with He was previously Group and is Chief Executive Officer, executive leadership team.
responsibility for the European Transformation Director with Aviva UK & Ireland General Euan has significant asset management sector.
He responsibility for managing the Insurance with responsibility for experience in fixed income also had periods of responsibility implementation of Avivas leading Avivas largest general and multi-asset management for regulatory capital and strategic plan across the Group, insurance business.
funding for financial refocusing and optimising the He was previously President institutions, and a period with a Groups business portfolio, and Chief Executive Officer of focus on project finance in Asia.
achieving financial strength, Aviva Canada with responsibility Jason has spent his entire improving performance, and for the strategic direction and career in financial services, building a high-performance operation of Canadas second building significant knowledge ethic across Aviva.
He was largest property and casualty of insurance, asset previously Chief Executive insurer.
Prior to that he was management and banking.
Officer, Aviva UK General Executive Vice President Insurance, Chief Operating and Chief Operating Officer, Officer for Aviva UK General Aviva Ontario and specialty Insurance, Chairman of Aviva distribution and has held several Global Services and senior management positions in the Group.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information Paul Harley Avon, United Kingdom When Mr and Mrs Harley downsized to a bungalow they had to downsize one of their clocks too: they replaced an inherited grandfather clock with an antique Viennese clock.
In June 2013, the new clock fell off the wall and was badly damaged.
Aviva arranged for the clock to be expertly repaired and it now hangs in its rightful place in the hall, keeping better time than ever.
Without insurance, I would be on edge all the time says Paul.
You cant always know whats going to happen, but insurance gives you a sense of relief.
