ended 31 December 2013, our position at Principal Activities and Business Review GOVERNANCE: year-end, and a description of the principal Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Company DIRECTORS REPORT risks and uncertainties that we face.
7811410 is the holding company for the review enables shareholders to assess how Group.
The Group is principally engaged in the Directors have performed their duties the core businesses of Retail Banking, under the Companies Act 2006.
Corporate Banking and Investment Management, as well as the synergistic The information required for the business businesses of Insurance, Healthcare and review and certain other disclosures can Affordable Housing.
be found in this Directors Report and the following sections of the Annual Report, which We are required to present a fair review are incorporated in this Directors Report.
of our business during the financial year Chairmans Statement Business Review pages 4 and 5 Overview of Financial Results pages 30 to 35 Chief Executives Officers Statement Segment Discussions pages 6 to 9 pages 36 to 47 Market Overview Risk Management pages 12 and 13 pages 48 to 57 Our Strategy Sustainability Review pages 16 and 17 pages 58 to 63 Key Performance Directors Governance Indicators Report pages 18 and 19 pages 68 to 71 Risks and Uncertainties Directors Remuneration pages 20 to 27 Report pages 80 to 95 Articles of Association Results and Dividends BGHs Articles of Association may only BGH may by ordinary resolution declare be amended by a special resolution at dividends provided that no such dividend a general meeting of shareholders.
The shall exceed the amount recommended DIRECTORS BGH Articles of Association are available on by BGHs Directors.
The Directors may BGHs website http: www.
co. uk en also pay interim dividends as appear to corporate-governance be justified by the profits of BGH available REPORT for distribution.
Share Capital and Control Information about share capital, restrictions As BGH is a holding company, BGH relies on the transfer of shares or voting rights and primarily on dividends and other statutorily special rights with regard to control of BGH if any and contractually permissible is shown in Note 20 to the Consolidated payments from its subsidiaries to generate Financial Statements on page 156 of this the funds necessary to meet its obligations Annual Report and is incorporated into this and pay dividend to its shareholders.
As a result of the Banks strong financial The powers of the Directors, including in performance and condition, the BGH Board relation to the issue or buy back of the has recently recommended an annual Companys shares, are set out in the dividend of GEL 2.0 payable in British Pounds Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Sterling, which is subject to shareholders articles of association.
The Directors were approval at the 2014 AGM.
If approved, granted authorities to issue and allot shares the dividend will be paid on 18June 2014 and to repurchase shares at the 2013 AGM.
to shareholders on the UK register of Shareholders will be asked to renew these members at the close of business in the authorities at the 2014 AGM.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 98 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 Powers of Directors Directors Remuneration Significant Contracts and Agreements The Directors may exercise all powers of BGH Directors fees are determined by the At no time during 2013 did any Director subject to applicable legislation and regulation Board from time to time.
Directors fees hold a material interest in any contracts of and BGHs Articles of Association.
as distinct from any salary, remuneration significance with BGH or any subsidiary of or other amount payable to a Director the Group.
BGH is not party to any significant Conflicts of Interest pursuant to other provisions of the Articles agreements that would take effect, alter or In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, of Association or otherwise may not exceed terminate following a change of control the Directors have adopted a policy and 750,000 per annum in aggregate or such of BGH.
procedure for the disclosure and authorisation higher amounts as may from time to time be if appropriate of conflicts of interest, and determined by ordinary resolution of BGH.
Political Donations these have been followed during 2013.
The fees paid to the Directors pursuant to The Group did not make any political their letters of appointment or service donations or expenditures during 2013.
Appointment and Retirement contract, in the case of Mr Gilauri, are of Directors shown on pages 82 to 85 of this Annual Code of Conduct and Ethics The appointment and replacement of Report respectively.
The Board has adopted a Code of Conduct Directors is governed by BGHs Articles of relating to the lawful and ethical conduct of Association, the Code, the Companies Act Directors Interests the business, supported by the Groups 2006, related legislation and regulations.
The The Directors beneficial interests in ordinary core values.
The Code of Conduct has Articles may only be amended by a special shares of BGH as at 31 December 2013 are been communicated to all Directors and resolution of the shareholders of BGH.
shown on page 86 of this Annual Report.
employees, all of whom are expected to observe high standards of integrity and fair The Board has the power to appoint Indemnity dealing in relation to customers, staff and additional Directors or to fill a casual vacancy Subject to applicable legislation, every regulators in the communities in which the amongst the Directors.
Under the Articles current and former Director or other officer of Group operates.
Our Code of Conduct is of Association, any such Director holds BGH other than any person engaged by the available on our website http: www.
office only until the next AGM and may offer company as auditor shall be indemnified by co. uk en corporate-governance himself herself for re-election.
The Articles of BGH against any liability in relation to BGH, Association also require that at each AGM other than broadly any liability to BGH or a Major Interests in Shares at least one-third of the Directors retire by member of the Group, or any criminal or The following table lists shareholders rotation.
The retiring Directors are eligible regulatory fine.
with voting rights of more than 3% as of to stand for re-election.
We note that the 31 December 2013 and 31 March 2014.
Corporate Governance Code recommends Related Party Transactions The 31 March 2014 information has been that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies Details of related party transactions are set derived from sources available to BGH, should be subject to annual re-election.
out in Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial primarily through regulatory filings.
We abide by this recommendation and, as Statements on pages 179 to 181 of this a result, all Directors will stand for re-election Annual Report.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC ESOP the shares allocated to the Banks share-based employee compensation plans.
Source: Georgeson, Computershare The respective regulatory filings by shareholders are available on the BGH website: http: bogh.
co. uk en announcements  press-releases and the London Stock Exchange website: http: www.
htm Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 99 GOVERNANCE: DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Annual General Meeting In preparing the accompanying Consolidated Relations with Shareholders and Stand-Alone Financial Statements, we Our AGM will be held at 10:00 am London The Code encourages a dialogue with time on Wednesday, 28 May 2014 at are required to: shareholders based on the mutual Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, 65 understanding of objectives, a responsibility Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HS.
Details of a select suitable accounting policies that the Company takes very seriously.
and then apply them consistently: the business to be conducted at the AGM are contained in the Notice of AGM.
b m ake judgements and accounting The Boards primary contact with estimates that are reasonable and prudent: institutional shareholders is through the Statement of the Directors in Respect c s tate whether they have been prepared in Chairman, Senior Independent Nonaccordance with IFRS as adopted by the of the Annual Report and Financial Executive Director, Chief Executive Officer Statements European Union, subject to any material and Head of Investor Relations, each of departures disclosed and explained in As required by the Code, the Directors confirm whom provide a standing invitation to that they consider that the Annual Report the financial statements: and shareholders to meet and discuss and d p repare the financial statements on which includes the accounts, taken as a matters they wish to raise.
Our Committee whole, is fair, balanced and understandable the going concern basis unless it is Chairmen also make themselves available inappropriate to presume that the and provides the information necessary for to answer questions from investors.
shareholders to assess the Companys Company will continue in business.
performance, business model and strategy.
We formally communicate with our We are also responsible for keeping shareholders via our AGM, Annual Report adequate accounting records that are In arriving at this position the Board was and Accounts, Half-Year Report and website assisted by a number of processes that sufficient to show and explain BGHs and on which we publish Interim Management the Groups transactions, to disclose with form part of its internal control and risk Statements.
These are supported by a reasonable accuracy at any time the financial combination of presentations, conference management systems, including the following: position of BGH and the Group, and to enable the Annual Report is drafted by calls, one-to-one meetings and investor us to ensure that the Consolidated and meetings in the United Kingdom, Europe appropriate senior management with Stand-Alone Financial Statements and the overall co-ordination by the Head of and the United States.
Directors Remuneration Report comply with Investor Relations to ensure consistency the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the across sections: In November 2013, the Company hosted an Consolidated and Stand-Alone Financial investor day at the Banks headquarters in an extensive verification process is Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
undertaken to ensure factual accuracy: Tbilisi.
This investor day was open to all investors and provided an opportunity for comprehensive reviews of drafts of the We have further responsibility for Annual Report are undertaken by the investors to meet with the Board and raise safeguarding the assets of BGH and the matters of interest.
The Company was CEO and other senior executive Group and for taking reasonable steps for management: pleased to host 55 institutional investors.
the prevention and detection of fraud and an advanced draft is considered and other irregularities.
reviewed by BGHs legal advisers: and As mentioned in our Remuneration Report on pages 80 to 95 of this Annual Report, in the final draft is reviewed by the Audit We are also responsible for the maintenance Committee prior to consideration by the first quarter of this year, members of our and integrity of BGHs website.
Remuneration Committee also met with the in the UK governing the preparation and Companys significant shareholders as well dissemination of financial statements may Statement of Directors responsibilities as shareholder advisory groups to discuss differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We are responsible for preparing the Annual and seek feedback on the Companys Each of us listed in the Board of Directors Report, the Directors Remuneration Report remuneration structure.
section of this Annual Report who held and the accompanying Consolidated and office at the date of this Annual Report Stand-Alone Financial Statements in The Chairman has overall responsibility for confirms that to the best of his knowledge: accordance with applicable law and ensuring that the Board understands the regulations.
Company law requires us to views of major shareholders.
The Board a t he accompanying Consolidated and prepare financial statements for each financial also receives a regular report from the Stand-Alone Financial Statements, year.
Under the law, we have elected to Investor Relations team.
Feedback from prepared in accordance with prepare the accompanying Consolidated meetings held between executive International Financial Reporting and Stand-Alone Financial Statements in management, or the Investor Relations Standards as adopted by the European accordance with International Financial team, and institutional shareholders is also Union, give a true and fair view of the Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by communicated to the Board.
assets, liabilities, financial position and the European Union and applicable law.
profit or loss of BGH and the Group taken as a whole: and Under company law, we must not approve b t he Strategic Report and the Directors the accompanying Consolidated and Report include a fair review of the Stand-Alone Financial Statements unless we development and performance of the are satisfied that they give a true and fair view business and the position of BGH and of the state of affairs of the Group and BGH Group taken as a whole, together with and of the profit or loss of the Group and a description of the principal risks and BGH for that period.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 100 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 In accordance with section 418 2 of the Total GHG emissions data for period beginning 1 January 2013 and ended Companies Act 2006, each of us that held 31 December 2013, tonnes of CO. 2 office at the date of the approval of this 2012 2013 Directors Report confirms that, so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit Scope 1 emissions from combustion of fuel and operation information of which BGHs auditors are of facilities 8,023 8,453 unaware and each of us has taken all steps Scope 2 emissions from electricity, heat, steam and cooling that he ought to have taken as a Director in purchased for own use 5,411 5,457 order to make himself aware of any relevant Scope 3 emissions from air travel and land transportation 2,163 2,165 audit information and to establish that the Companys statutory auditors are aware of Total GHG emissions 15,597 16,075 such information.
Total GHG emissions per FTE 1.55 1.53 Going Concern The Directors believe that the Group is well positioned to manage its risks successfully in The reported data is collected and reported Scope 3 includes emissions from: the current uncertain economic environment.
for the boundaries of four of the Groups Air business travel short haul and long After making enquiries, the Directors have a main businesses: haul : information on the class of travel reasonable expectation that BGH and the Banking represented by the Bank, which is unavailable hence we used an Group have adequate resources to continue includes all of its offices and retail branches average passenger conversion factor.
in operational existence for the foreseeable where the Bank has operational control.
Ground transportation, including taxi, future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt Real estate development represented coaches, and car hire.
the going concern basis in preparing the by m2, which includes its main office accompanying Consolidated Financial and two construction sites.
Data on emissions resulting from travel is Statements.
Insurance represented by Aldagi, reported for business-related travel only, which includes all of its offices and retail and excludes commuting travel.
Data from branches where the Company has joint ventures, investments, or sub-leased Statement of Compliance operational control.
properties have not been included within As BGH is listed on the London Stock Healthcare represented by MFC, which the reported figures.
Exchange, we comply with the UK includes its main office and hospitals Corporate Governance Code, save for where the Company has operational The data is provided by on-site delegates, Section D. 1.1, which is described in greater control.
detail in the Directors Remuneration Report of this Annual Report.
The Code is publicly Scope 1 combustion of fuel and operation Management Report available for review on the Financial of facilities includes emissions from: This Directors Report together with the Reporting Councils website at Combustion of natural gas, diesel, and Strategic Report on pages 1 to 63 forms www.
uk petrol in stationary equipment at owned the Management Report for the purposes and controlled sites.
5 R. Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions Combustion of petrol, diesel, and We have reported on all of the emission aviation fuel in owned transportation By order of the Board sources required under the Companies Act devices cars and aeroplane.
2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 Scope 1 and 2 and Scope 2 electricity, heat, steam and cooling additionally have reported on those emissions purchased for own use includes emissions under Scope 3 that are applicable to our from: Kate Bennett Rea, on behalf of KB Rea Ltd. business.
All reported sources fall within our Used electricity at owned and controlled Company Secretary Consolidated Financial Statements which sites: to calculate the emissions, we 10 April 2014 can be found on pages 106 to 182 of this used conversion factor for Non-OECD Annual Report.
We do not have responsibility Europe and Eurasia average for any emission sources that are not conversion from UK Governments GHG included in our Consolidated Financial Conversion Factors for Company Statements.
Used heat and steam only applies to In preparing this emission data, we have one site of Aldagi.
used the World Resources Institute World Business Council for Sustainable Development WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol GHG : A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition and emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 101
