22 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2013 Directors Richard Killingbeck Richard Burns Matthew Thorne Susan Inglis Richard Killingbeck Chairman was appointed as a property sector.
director in 2003 and became Chairman on 25 September Susan Inglis was appointed as a director on 1 November 2013.
He has been involved in the financial services industry 2012.
A qualified lawyer, Ms Inglis was a partner, and head for 25 years, initially as a fund manager and latterly in a of the funds and financial services group, at Shepherd & number of senior management roles, at Singer & Friedlander Wedderburn, a leading Scottish law firm.
In 1999 she was a Investment Management and Close Brothers.
During his career founding partner of Intelli Corporate Finance, an advisory he has been based primarily in London, but has also spent part boutique firm focusing on the asset management and of this time in New York.
Currently he is Chief Executive investment company sectors which was acquired by Canaccord Officer of W. H. Ireland Group plc.
He was previously a Genuity in 2009.
Ms Inglis is currently Managing Director Managing Director of Credit Suisse UK Private Bank.
Corporate Finance at Cantor Fitzgerald Europe, having held the same position at Canaccord Genuity until its merger with Richard Burns Senior Independent Director was Collins Stewart.
He is a former joint senior partner of Baillie Gifford & Co and former fund manager David Wild is to be appointed with effect from 26 February of Monks Investment Trust plc.
He was formerly Chief Executive at Halfords Plc and director of EP Global Opportunities Trust plc, Euronova was also President of the German division of Wal-Mart Stores European Smaller Companies Fund, JPMorgan Indian Inc.
He is currently the Senior Independent Director for Investment Trust plc, Mid Wynd International Investment Premier Foods plc and a non-executive director of Dominos Trust plc and Standard Life Equity Income Trust plc.
1999 to 2006 he was a director of the AIC.
Member of the Management Engagement Committee Matthew Thorne FCA, MA Audit Committee Chairman Member of the Audit Committee was appointed as a director in 2008.
Mr Thorne is an adviser Member of the Nominations Committee to the Consensus Business Group.
He was Group Finance Director of McCarthy & Stone plc and also Investment Director of Beazer plc.
A Chartered Accountant, he has significant experience as a finance director, predominantly in the Management Alex Crooke Tim Stevenson Antony Gifford Michael Kerley Michael Wood-Martin Wendy King The portfolio is managed by Alex Crooke who is engaged full time in investment management.
He is assisted by Tim Stevenson Europe, Antony Gifford North America, Michael Kerley Pacific ex-Japan and Michael Wood-Martin Japan.
Wendy King acts as the Company Secretary and is the representative of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, the Corporate Company Secretary.
