The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2013 23 Report of the Directors The directors present the audited financial statements of the Any situational conflicts considered, and any authorisations Company and their report for the year from 1 November given, are recorded in the relevant meetings minutes.
The 2012 to 31 October 2013. prescribed procedures have been followed in deciding whether, and on what terms, to authorise situational conflicts and the Directors Board believes that the systems it has in place for reporting and Board composition considering situational conflicts continue to operate effectively.
The Board currently consists of four directors, all of whom are non-executive.
David Wild is due to join the Board on Share capital and shareholders 26 February 2014.
Share capital At 31 October 2013 the Company had in issue 111,256,839 The names and biographies of the directors holding office at ordinary shares of 25p each.
The voting rights of the ordinary the date of this report together with that for David Wild are shares on a poll are one vote for every four shares held.
All the current directors served on the are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys shares Board throughout the financial year.
and there are no shares which carry specific rights with Directors appointment, retirement and rotation regard to control of the Company.
The mid-market price per The Board may appoint directors to the Board without share at that date was 580.0p, giving the Company a market shareholder approval.
Any director so appointed must stand capitalisation of 645.3m.
Total equity was 653.6m, the net for appointment by the shareholders at the next Annual asset value per share at that date being 587.4p per share General Meeting AGM in accordance with the articles of inclusive of retained revenue for the year.
The total number of directors shall not be less market price per share stood at a discount of 1.3% to the net than three nor more than eight.
asset value inclusive of retained revenue for the year.
The Company seeks shareholder authority annually to buy-back Under the articles of association, shareholders may remove a its shares in the market and to issue shares at a premium to director before the end of his or her term by passing a special NAV.
During the year the Company did not buy back any resolution.
A special resolution is passed if more than 75% shares 2012: 145,000, however it issued 350,000 ordinary of the votes cast, in person or by proxy, are in favour of shares for a total consideration of 1,987,000 2012: none.
Since the end of the year and the date of this report a The Companys articles of association provide that one third further 400,000 ordinary shares have been issued by of directors retire by rotation each year.
Directors are also the Company.
required to retire if they have served more than nine years on the Board, but may then offer themselves for annual Substantial share interests re-appointment.
Notwithstanding these requirements, the UK Declarations of interests in the voting rights of the Code requires all directors of FTSE 350 companies to retire Company, at 31 October 2013, are set out below.
Therefore all of the current directors will retire at Shareholder % of voting rights the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves Investec Wealth & Investment Management 8.4 for re-appointment.
F&C Asset Management 5.0 Directors remuneration Since the year end, no changes in substantial share The directors remuneration report is on pages 32 and 33. interests have been notified to the Company.
Directors conflicts of interest In addition, the Board is aware that, at 31 October 2013, The Companys articles of association permit the Board to 13.5% of the issued share capital was held on behalf of consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a participants in the Halifax Share Dealing products run by director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, Halifax Share Dealing Limited HSDL, which is now part with the interests of the Company situational conflicts.
In accordance with the The Board has a formal system in place for directors to declare arrangements made between HSDL and Henderson, the situational conflicts to be considered for authorisation by participants in the Halifax Share Dealing products are given those directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a situational the opportunity to instruct the nominee company of HSDL to exercise the voting rights appertaining to their shares in conflict, the non-conflicted directors must act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company respect of all general meetings of the Company.
HSDL has undertaken to instruct its nominee company to exercise the and they may impose limits or conditions when giving the authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
voting rights of any shares held through the Halifax Share 79709 HGI Bankers Text V2.
indd 23 15 01 2014 15:35 24 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2013 Report of the Directors continued Dealing products that have not been exercised by the The Company is an alternative investment fund for the individual participants in them.
It will do so by voting for or purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM against all resolutions to be put at all general meetings of Directive.
Therefore the Companys articles of association will the Company or by withholding votes on such resolutions also be amended in order to provide the Board with the ability pro rata to the aggregate voting instructions for each to prescribe, vary or revoke the management and governance resolution received from those participants who have rules that the Company must comply with as a result of the chosen to exercise their voting rights.
implementation of the AIFM Directive.
In particular, the articles will be amended so that the Board may authorise a Going concern depositary appointed in respect of the Company on the terms The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt and conditions prescribed in the AIFM Regulations, together the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements with any further requirements that may be prescribed by the as the assets of the Company consist mainly of securities which Board, to discharge itself of liability in certain circumstances.
are readily realisable and, accordingly, that the Company has The proposed new articles of association will also be available adequate financial resources to continue in operational for inspection at the AGM at least 15 minutes prior to the existence for the foreseeable future.
In reviewing the position start of the meeting and up until the close of the meeting.
as at the date of this report, the Board has considered Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK A copy of the existing articles of association and proposed Companies 2009, published by the Financial Reporting Council.
new articles of association, marked to show the changes, will be available for inspection during normal business hours Dividend Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the The final dividend, if approved by shareholders at the AGM, offices of Dickson Minto W. S. Broadgate Tower, 20 Primrose will be paid on 28 February 2014 to shareholders on the Street, London EC2A 2EW up to and including close of register at 31 January 2014.
The Companys shares go business on 26 February 2014. ex-dividend on 29 January 2014.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to Annual General Meeting AGM auditors The AGM will be held on 26 February 2014 at 12 noon.
The directors who were members of the Board at the time of Separate resolutions will be proposed for each substantive approving this Report are listed on page 22.
The formal notice of the AGM as well as full details of directors confirms that: the resolutions to be put at the AGM are contained in the to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, there is separate circular being sent to shareholders with this Report.
no information relevant to the preparation of the Report Amendment to articles of association and Financial Statements of which the Companys In recent years, company law in the United Kingdom has auditors are unaware: and undergone major reform and the Companys articles of he or she has taken all the steps a director might association have been amended on a number of occasions to reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of reflect these changes and relevant corporate governance relevant audit information and to establish that the rules practices.
The Board and its advisers have carried out a Companys auditors are aware of that information.
review of the existing articles of association and it is proposed to adopt new articles of association to reflect current laws Global greenhouse gas emissions and practice.
It is also proposed to make a small number of As an externally managed company, the Company has no changes of a minor, technical or clarificatory nature.
greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations for the year to 31 October 2013 2012: same, nor does it have In particular, there have been a number of recent changes to the responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under UK tax laws concerning investment trusts.
As a result of these the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors new tax laws the Companies Act 2006 has been amended to Reports Regulations 2013. remove the requirement that an investment companys articles of association must contain a prohibition on the distribution of By order of the Board realised capital profits, allowing such companies to pay dividends Wendy King FCIS out of capital profits.
In the light of these changes to UK law the Companys articles of association have been amended to remove For and on behalf of such prohibition which will bring the articles into line with the Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, Companies Act 2006.
The Board however has no current Corporate Company Secretary intention to pay dividends out of capital profits.
