18 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2013 Strategic Report Strategic Review The following review is designed to provide information primarily based investment process to identify suitable opportunities about the Companys business and results for the year from and pays particular regard to cash generation and dividends.
The Strategic Review Investment policy should be read in conjunction with the Chairmans Statement on While the Company mainly invests in international equities pages 3 and 4 and the Portfolio Managers Review on pages 5 there is the flexibility to invest in debt securities, such as to 17 which together give a detailed review of the investment convertibles, corporate bonds or sovereign debt, if it is activities for the year and an outlook for the future.
deemed that these will, at a particular time or for a Status particular period, enhance the performance of the The Company is incorporated in England and Wales and Company in the pursuit of its objectives.
The use of any domiciled in the United Kingdom registered number derivative instruments, such as financial futures, options and 00026351.
It traded throughout the year.
It is an investment currency hedges, will only be for the purposes of efficient company as defined in section 833 of the Companies Act portfolio management.
2006 and operates as an investment trust in accordance with The Company will not invest more than 15% of its investment section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Company portfolio in any single investment on acquisition, nor will it is subject to the rules of the UK Listing Authority and is invest more than 15% of its investment portfolio in any other governed by its articles of association, amendments to which UK listed investment trusts or investment companies.
must be approved by shareholders by way of a special resolution.
The Company is not a close company.
The Company will at times borrow money, both short and long term, in order to enhance performance.
The draw down The Company has obtained approval from HM Revenue & Customs of its status as an investment trust under the aboveof borrowings may be in currencies other than Sterling, mentioned section 1158.
The directors are of the opinion that provided that the borrowings do not exceed the assets in that the Company has continued to conduct its affairs in a manner particular currency.
The gearing range is between 0% and that will enable it to retain such approval.
20% and gearing will not exceed 20% of net asset value at the time of draw down of the relevant borrowings.
The Company is liable to corporation tax on its net revenue profits but is exempt from corporation tax on capital gains if The Company achieves an appropriate spread of investment it has complied at all times with section 1158. risk principally through a broadly diversified portfolio which at 31 October 2013 contained 191 individual investments.
At Business model 31 October 2013 the largest single investment was BP, which The business model of the Company, as required by Code accounted for 2.52% of total investments, while the top 25 provision C. 1.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, is holdings totalled 29.1% of total investments.
may be further reduced through the use of currency hedging, Investment objectives foreign borrowings and derivatives.
The Companys objectives are to achieve long term asset Information regarding the Companys investment exposures can growth in excess of the FTSE All-Share Index and regular be found on page 17.
Further information regarding investment dividend growth in excess of the increase in the Retail Prices risk and activity throughout the year can be found in the Index.
To achieve these objectives the Companys investment Portfolio Managers Review and accompanying regional pages.
policy is to invest its assets in a portfolio primarily composed of international equities.
The portfolio is broadly diversified by Principal risks and uncertainties both geography and sector in order to reduce investment risk.
The Board has drawn up a matrix of risks facing the Company The Manager has the flexibility to invest in any geographic and has put in place a schedule of investment limits and region and has no set limits on individual country or sector restrictions, appropriate to the Companys investment exposures although the Board regularly monitors the objectives and policy, in order to mitigate these risks as far as Companys investments and the Managers investment practicable.
The principal risks which have been identified and activity.
The Manager primarily employs a bottom up value the steps taken by the Board to mitigate these are as follows: 79709 HGI Bankers Text V2.
indd 18 15 01 2014 15:35 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2013 19 Strategic Report Strategic Review continued Portfolio and market Operational Although the Company invests almost entirely in Disruption to, or failure of, the Managers accounting, securities that are quoted on recognised markets, share dealing or payment systems or the custodians records prices may move sharply.
The companies in which could prevent the accurate reporting and monitoring of investments are made may operate unsuccessfully, or fail the Companys financial position.
The Company is also entirely.
A fall in the market value of the Companys exposed to the operational risk that one or more of its portfolio would have an adverse effect on shareholders suppliers may not provide the required level of service.
Details of how the Board monitors the services provided funds.
The Board reviews the portfolio at each meeting by the Manager and its other suppliers, and the key and mitigates this risk through diversification of elements designed to provide effective internal control, investments in the portfolio.
are explained further in the internal controls section on Investment activity and performance page 29.
An inappropriate investment strategy for example, in Management arrangements terms of asset allocation or the level of gearing may Investment management, accounting, company secretarial result in underperformance against the Companys and administrative services are provided to the Company by various Indices and the companies in its peer group.
The wholly owned subsidiary companies of Henderson Group plc Board monitors investment performance at each Board Henderson.
Under the terms of the management contract: meeting and regularly reviews the extent of its borrowings.
To 31 December 2012 the basic annual management fee was 0.30% per annum of the average gross assets on the last day Tax and regulatory of October of the preceding two years.
A breach of section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could lead to a loss of investment trust status, resulting in From 1 January 2013 the performance fee was abolished and capital gains realised within the portfolio being subject to from that date the basic annual management fee was 0.40% per corporation tax.
A breach of the UKLA Listing Rules could annum of the average net assets on the last day of October in result in suspension of the Companys shares, while a each of the preceding two years.
There was no performance fee breach of the Companies Act 2006 could lead to criminal payable for the period 1 November 2012 to 31 December 2012. proceedings.
Any such breaches could also lead to Following a satisfactory review with the Manager, from financial or reputational damage.
The Company must also 1 November 2013 the management fee rate has been ensure compliance with the listing rules of the New increased to 0.45% of net chargeable assets.
The Manager has contracted to provide investment, company secretarial, administration The notice period for termination of the management and accounting services through qualified professionals.
The Board receives internal control reports produced by Related party transactions the Manager on a quarterly basis, which confirmed Other than the relationship between the Company and its regulatory compliance during the year.
directors, the provision of services by Henderson is the only Financial related party arrangement currently in place.
Other than the By its nature as an investment trust, the Companys fees payable by the Company in the ordinary course of business activities are exposed to market risk including business and the provision of sales and marketing services by market price risk, currency risk and interest rate risk, Henderson see note 6 on page 44, there have been no liquidity risk, and credit and counterparty risk.
Details of material transactions with this related party which have these risks and how they are managed are contained in affected the financial position or performance of the Note 17 to the Financial Statements on pages 48 to 56.
Company in the financial year.
indd 19 15 01 2014 15:35 20 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2013 Strategic Report Strategic Review continued Custody arrangements Performance measurement and key performance indicators Global custody services are provided by BNP Paribas Securities In order to measure the success of the Company in meeting Services.
its objectives and to evaluate the performance of the Financial review Manager, the directors take into account the following key Assets, revenue and dividends performance indicators: Total net assets at 31 October 2013 amounted to Performance measured against the various Indices 653,561,000 compared with 526,214,000 at 31 The Board reviews and compares, at each meeting, the October 2012 and the net asset value per ordinary share performance of the portfolio as well as the net asset increased by 23.8% from 474.5p to 587.4p.
value and share price for the Company and the various 2013 2012 % Change Indices.
Net assets as at Discount premium to net asset value NAV 31 October 653.6m 526.2m 24.2 The Company publishes a NAV per share figure on a daily Revenue return basis through the official newswire of the London Stock for the year 16.0m 16.5m 3.0 Exchange.
This figure is calculated in accordance with the Dividend payable per AIC formula.
At each Board meeting, the Board monitors share for the year 14.13p 13.33p 6.0 the level of the Companys discount premium to NAV and reviews the average discount premium for the Borrowings Companys relevant Association of Investment Companies The Board has in place a facility which allows the Company AIC sector.
to borrow as and when appropriate.
At 31 October 2013 the Company had a committed short term facility of 30m The Board considers the use of share buy-backs and with Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
The facility is share issues to enhance shareholder value.
During the subject to regular review.
financial year no shares were bought back 2012: 145,000.
The Company issued 350,000 shares at a The Company also has two debentures, details of which premium to NAV 2012: nil.
can be found in note 16 on page 48.
Performance against the Companys peer group Gearing In addition to comparison against the various Indices, Gearing is calculated by taking the difference between the Board also considers the performance of its AIC quoted investments and equity shareholders funds peer group and its open-ended equivalent, the IMA divided by equity shareholders funds and multiplied by Growth Sector, at each Board meeting.
The gearing was 0.2% at 31 October 2013 2012: Ongoing charges 3.9%.
The ongoing charges are a measure of the total expenses Future developments incurred by the Company, including those charged to capital, expressed as a percentage of the average While the future performance of the Company is shareholders funds over the year.
The ongoing charges, dependent, to a large degree, on the performance of before borrowing costs, amounted to 0.45% 2012: international financial markets, which, in turn, are 0.42% of the assets of the Company.
The Board subject to many external factors, the Boards intention regularly reviews the ongoing charges and monitors all is that the Company will continue to pursue its stated Company expenses.
As stated above the performance fee investment objectives in accordance with the strategy was abolished with effect from 1 January 2013. outlined earlier.
Further comments on the outlook for the Company for the next twelve months are set out in Subsidiary undertaking both the Chairmans Statement on pages 3 and 4 and During the year, following a change in legislation, the the Portfolio Managers Review on pages 5 to 16. decision was taken to liquidate the Companys wholly owned 79709 HGI Bankers Text V2.
indd 20 17 01 2014 09:09 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2013 21 Strategic Report Strategic Review continued subsidiary, The Army and Navy Investment Company Limited.
the investee company prior to voting.
For this reason the financial statements have been prepared The Henderson Responsible Investment Policy and on a Company only basis.
further details of Hendersons responsible investment activities can be found on the Henderson website, Corporate responsibility www.
Responsible investment The Manager is responsible for managing the Companys Employees, social, community, human rights and investments and reporting on its work on corporate environmental matters governance and corporate responsibility or social, The Company has no employees and its core activities environmental and ethical SEE issues in the companies are undertaken by Henderson, which has implemented in which it invests on its clients behalf, across all funds.
environmental management practices, including systems In May 2005 Henderson became a founding signatory to to limit the use of non-renewable resources and to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment.
minimise the impact of operations on the environment, The Principles, developed under the auspices of the UN and is focused on reducing greenhouse gas emissions Secretary-General, are a voluntary and aspirational and minimising waste, where possible.
The Company has framework for incorporating environmental, social and therefore not reported on these, or social, community or corporate governance ESG issues into mainstream human rights issues.
investment decision-making and ownership practices.
Hendersons corporate responsibility statement is The way companies respond to sustainability and corporate included on the website www.
For 2012 responsibility can affect their business performance, both it was granted CarbonNeutral Company status which it directly and indirectly.
An investee companys policy on has committed to maintain at least until the end of 2015. social responsibility and the environment is therefore The Companys annual and half year reports are printed considered as part of the investment risk decision.
on carbon balanced paper, whereby the carbon impact of the production and distribution process has been Voting policy and the UK Stewardship Code balanced, or offset, by the World Land Trust, an Hendersons Responsible Investment Policy sets out the international conservation charity.
Managers approach to corporate governance and corporate responsibility for all the companies in which it Gender representation invests on behalf of its clients, and its policy on proxy As set out on page 22, at the year end, three of the voting.
The Policy also sets out how Henderson implements Companys directors were male and one was female.
Their the UK Stewardship Code.
The Company has delegated appointment to the Board was based on their skills and responsibility for voting to the Manager.
More information on the Boards consideration a report, at least annually, on the voting undertaken by the of diversity is given in the Corporate Governance Investment Manager on behalf of the Company.
The Company has no employees and, therefore, there is nothing further to report in respect The Board and Henderson believe that voting at general of gender representation within the Company.
meetings is an important aspect of corporate stewardship and a means of signalling shareholder views on board By order of the Board policy, practices and performance.
Voting recommendations are guided by the best interests of the investee companies shareholders.
Richard Killingbeck Chairman Depending on the nature of the resolution, the Portfolio 17 January 2014 Manager and or members of the Board will give specific instructions on voting on non-routine and unusual or controversial resolutions.
Decisions not to support resolutions and the rationale therefore are fed back to 79709 HGI Bankers Text V2.
