The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2013 5 Strategic Report Portfolio Managers Review October.
Generally the US economy is strengthening and creating jobs resulting in the Federal Reserve beginning to highlight that the time to start tapering the liquidity support for the economy is drawing closer.
Continental European equity performance has surprised us Alex Crooke this year especially the recovery of share prices in Mediterranean countries.
Corporate earnings revisions have This past year has witnessed one of the strongest periods not been a support for share prices which now trade on of share price appreciation during my tenure managing higher share valuations.
The key reason behind this move Bankers Investment Trust.
However, rising stockmarket has been a significant improvement in sentiment from levels have been against a backdrop of only modest global investors that the existing depressed level of corporate economic growth, with Continental Europe remaining profits will recover.
A number of Southern European mired in recession and US GDP forecasts being countries are now running budget surpluses.
This implies downgraded through the year.
The only bright spots have that if the European Central Bank can keep interest rates been the UK and Japan where growth and activity have low and provide support for those countries banks then been upgraded steadily throughout the period.
The key the worst may be behind us.
reasons for strong markets have been a mixture of investor optimism about future prospects, good stewardship from The gearing of the portfolio was generally maintained corporate management and increasing flows into equity around 5% for most of the year reflecting an optimistic view markets.
The good dividend yields and modest valuations of markets.
However, the level of cash was increased during of equities at the start of the year attracted investors to October as markets rose very strongly.
We made selective switch their assets from bonds and tempt those with cash sales with a view to investing this cash back into markets to return to markets.
Bankers net asset value total return should share prices fall back.
A further reason for briefly was 27.3%, comfortably outstripping the FTSE All-Share raising cash towards the year end was to fund a US $25m Index total return of 22.8%.
The key drivers for the investment in the Chinese A share market.
Earlier in the year Companys performance were stock selection in the UK our application to the Chinese authorities to access the and Asian portfolios combined with the large exposures to Renminbi denominated local A share markets was granted.
Stock selection was modestly behind This investment was finally committed in December after our relevant Indices in the US, Europe and Japan, reflecting October year end.
The licence will allow Bankers to invest in markets that favoured more growth orientated companies a wider spectrum of Chinese companies particularly those at the expense of the defensive equities that we with more consumer focus.
The A share markets have fallen traditionally favour for their reliable dividend income.
in value significantly since the market peak in 2009 and offer recovery potential against a back drop of an expected Japanese equities have long promised much and yet failed substantial growth in wages and consumer spending.
to deliver despite ever more attractive valuation levels.
The start of our financial year brought Abenomics to the fore, Bankers share price appreciation has this year again as Prime Minister Abe of Japan initiated an ambitious exceeded the growth in net asset value resulting, at times, programme to rid the country of deflation by radically in our shares trading at a premium to net asset value.
We expanding the monetary base and devaluing the Yen.
The continue to work hard expanding the number of new stockmarket reacted very favourably and Japanese returns, investors both in the UK and abroad.
The prospect of even in Sterling, were exceptionally strong during our first income growth remains positive and when combined with half boosting the overall portfolio returns.
strong investment performance supports robust demand for Bankers shares.
The US produced a solid year although estimates for growth were reduced due to higher taxes and the effect of Alex Crooke the shutdown during budget and debt ceiling talks in 17 January 2014 79709 HGI Bankers Text V2.
