UK Retail and Business Banking UK RBB We are determined to go out of our way to make our customers lives much easier, which is how we will continue to achieve sustainable longterm results.
Ashok Vaswani CEO, Retail and Business Banking The UK Retail and Business Banking business model Our social purpose Basic banking services fulfil the need for transactions that people and business have: storing, receiving and paying monies.
Modern life would seem very difficult without access to these fundamental activities.
As a leading UK retail bank, UK RBB successfully provides these basic banking services in a safe, reliable and regulated manner.
Our customers are those For them we provide Uniquely providing value through We seek to support the day-to-day banking We focus on providing core banking Our value propositions needs of UK customers.
Our customers through a network of branches, telephony Accessibility for all customers to simple, can be categorised as: and digital channels, enabling customers transparent and speedy products and to be serviced in ways that best suit their services Personal and Premier lives: Faster or instant decision making and Small businesses processing Personal and Business banking including current accounts, savings and A focus on providing suitable services for payments customers key life moments Relationship propositions tailored for Lending secured and unsecured different segments mortgages, loans and overdrafts Support of Government access to lending schemes The safe use of data to improve and tailor offers to customers 18 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Group overview 02 This section provides a summary of the Chief Executives strategic review 04 business models, strategies and risks in Strategy and operating environment 06 each of the Barclays businesses, as well Business model Value creation 08 as a discussion on the 2013 financial Balanced Scorecard 10 performance.
Group Finance Directors review 12 Strategic Risk overview 14 Performance review by division 18 Chairmans governance overview 46 Summary remuneration report 48 Our overriding goal is to provide our customers with Balanced Scorecard simple products and to invest heavily in the customer experience, through both technology and people.
This should result in customers consolidating their relationships with us and provide us with balance sheet and income Helping people growth.
achieve their ambitions in the right way Market and operating environment UK RBB is performing well and continues to support the UK economy.
There is an opportunity to embrace the technological innovation and changing competitive landscape to enable our existing customers to do more with us, while protecting our market share and particularly Customer and client driving income growth in Business Banking and mortgages.
Our aim is to become the Go-To bank for all of our customers.
That means we want all of our customers to be advocates of Barclays.
We are reshaping the way we interact with our customers in a way that We have a lot of work to do.
will drive customer satisfaction and deepen customer engagement, whilst simultaneously reducing the costs that customers do not value We will achieve this by significantly improving and differentiating and growing our franchise.
customers experience of banking with Barclays through routine transactions and at the vital moments in their life.
Business model risks While executing our strategy with speed and without compromising We will measure progress through our Net Promoter Score quality, we need to be cognisant of the emerging regulatory changes a widely used measure of customer advocacy.
As we continue to focus on rebuilding trust and reputation through improving customer experience, we also need to Our external complaints reporting has also been enhanced in the UK ensure operational risks are appropriately addressed in the business.
with reporting beyond the FCA requirements and the launch of externally published Spotlight reports that focus on the key areas of Any deterioration in the economic environment in the UK could customer complaints and how we are tackling them.
adversely impact customers ability to keep up repayments and consequently, we will continue to manage risk appropriately.
The UK Through regular and rigorous review of our customers' feedback we remains a competitive environment with specialised providers offering will identify where and how we will invest to make customer's web-based services, however our continued investment in technology interactions with us simpler, more intuitive and more personalised.
and processing will help significantly improve and differentiate our customer experience.
Contributing to strategy UK RBB provides a wide range of banking products and services delivered with excellent customer experience.
We no longer incentivise our people on products sales but on customer service: our journey to Go-To is focused on making customers lives easier.
We look to constantly improve our customer experiences, for example: Responding to demand: providing multichannel access which is increasingly digital Supporting our customers journey to digital services through our Digital Eagles Speed in our processes often instant provision and decision making Targeted investment in relationship management Investing in our people to enhance their ability to serve customers Uniquely providing value through Sustaining business by Contributing to income by Bring diverse benefits Supporting society through responsible We deliver a sustainable contribution to lending Group revenue through offering long term Our current and future focus will continue value and great customer service to our to be: Responding to demand for digital customer base, prudent risk management banking by investing in innovative, cost Better customer experiences and and charging for: effective platforms outcomes Interest income from loans less interest Running a financially stable, riskReduction in processing times and paid on deposits conscious business associated errors positively influencing Fees for services provided complaint rates and costs Ensuring we have the right people with the right tools, delivering the most Tailored services, usually at good margins suitable services Support and access to lending capital barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 19 UK Retail and Business Banking UK RBB continued This will ensure we will deliver the right outcomes for customers, Company quickly and transparently and keep them informed along the way.
Contribution to total income It will also help our colleagues better understand what we need do differently to become Go-To for our customers across Barclays retail Adjusted operations.
4,523m total income 4,523m In 2013 we implemented a number of initiatives to affect this ambition: We made significant progress in our core processes satisfaction scores We asked customers how we can make banking better through the 2013 2012 2011 Your Bank campaign and were using their ideas to make some real Income m 4,523 4,384 4,621 improvements Adjusted profit before tax m 1,195 1,225 1,222 We are also evolving the way we operate to meet customers Adjusted ROE % 11.5 12.3 12 changing needs.
The pilot weve recently announced with Asda, Loan loss rate bps 25 21 44 bringing us closer to offering services where and when our customers Loans and advances to customers bn 136.5 128.1 121.2 want them, and SkyBranch, which transforms how our telephony Customer deposits bn 135.5 116.0 111.8 business connects with customers, are great examples of this Distribution points 1,560 1,593 1,625 Colleague UK RBB performed well in 2013, growing at a faster rate than the We will continue to invest in our colleagues and create a diverse and market in key products, including increasing its stock share of inclusive environment allowing colleagues to fulfil their potential.
Income increased 3% to 4,523m driven by strong will ensure that our colleagues are fully engaged allowing them to mortgage growth and contribution from Barclays Direct previously provide excellent end-to-end customer service.
ING Direct UK, acquired during Q113.
We also have an ambition to create the most digitally savvy workforce UK RBB continued to restructure and invest in the business as part of to help our customers become confident with digital banking.
Adjusted operating expenses increased 4% to 3,008m due to costs to achieve Transform of 175m.
During 2013 we started our search for Digital Eagles colleagues across the business to support digital awareness and understanding in Adjusted profit before tax decreased 2% to 1,195m.
With over 5,000 Digital Eagle colleagues across the UK we are well placed to achieve this ambition.
Loans and advances to customers increased 7% to 136.5bn due to Barclays Direct, which added 4.4bn, and other mortgage growth.
Citizenship UK RBB continued to embed and contribute to the Barclays 2015 For more information on performance, please see Citizenship Plan.
We have been focusing on the way we do business, pages 237 to 268 listening more to our customers and showing them weve acted.
We launched the Your Bank site where everyone not just Barclays customers can tell us what products and services will make their lives easier.
Future priorities UK RBB continued to support the UK economy: advancing 1.8bn of gross new term lending to small businesses and helping over 120,000 Revolutionising our product set: offering simple products which are supported by industrial strength engines start-ups.
We also organise small business seminars, tools and trainings, which were attended by over 20,000 people in 2013.
Investing in the customer experience: instant, transparent services with seamless multichannel access We are supporting our community through activities such as LifeSkills, Selective balance sheet growth: opportunity with customers we our free, curriculum-linked programme designed to give young people in the UK access to the skills, information and opportunities they need know in consumer lending and mortgages to help them towards getting the jobs they want.
The programme has Cost reduction: delivery of straight through processing, reduction so far reached out to 276,000 young people.
in paper and infrastructure Conduct We continue to fide-risk our portfolio ensuring everything that we do is open and transparent, this includes the way were managing the PPI complaints process.
We are committed to building a culture based on Barclays Values.
We will continue to focus on the right outcomes for our customers delivered by empowered colleagues who act with integrity at all times.
We have conducted business-wide risk assessments to identify conduct risk issues.
We will use this process to measure and control these risks and in so doing eliminate the gaps between what our customers expect from us and what we deliver to them.
We intend to lead the way in restoring trust and pride in our industry and becoming the Go-To Bank 20 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Your Bank learning from our customers now looking at where else we can roll out text alerts as a next step.
Yes We are determined to rebuild trust in Barclays and its a cost to us, but its the right thing to do.
demonstrate dayin dayout that we are changing, 2.
We have launched CloudIt through online and mobile banking as a and doing the right thing for customers.
In September, result of customer feedback.
Being able to access your secure we launched Your Bank the online platform that allows documents whilst on the move will really make our customers lives us to continually listen, respond, anticipate and learn much easier.
Contactless payments have been very well received by customers, so were now looking at alternative contactless methods of payments As well as getting feedback and sense-checking our ideas, we have which well be testing with customers.
created a place where customers can share their ideas and suggestions for how Barclays can be better shaped around their needs and 4.
Were looking to pilot paying in coin machines in our branches.
Our individual life stages, putting them at the heart of everything we do.
customers told us they'd welcome something that can automatically count coins and credit their account.
In the first week we received over 370,000 interactions on the Your 5.
We will extend our free Barclays Pingit app to the under 16s, subject Bank site and 2,226 ideas.
to developing proper parental controls.
Younger customers, being tech savvy, will benefit from the app allowing them to send and receive With all of the ideas that we receive, we are taking a you said, we did money simply using their mobile phone number.
approach and have made 8 commitments to making real change for our customers.
We are going to allow our mobile banking customers to set up new payees on their mobiles.
This will extend the app meaning that 1.
We are undertaking a formal review of our overdraft charges in 2014, customers can really do much more on the move.
with a view to making them simpler and more transparent.
To further extend our services to a wider range of customers weve already started pilots with the launch of text alerts in June to customers made our mobile banking app available on Windows platform and are who had gone over their overdraft limit and into their personal reserve, planning to do the same for Pingit.
which would mean they would traditionally incur a 22 charge.
The alerts tell them they have a days grace to add cleared funds and avoid 8.
We have expanded our mobile banking services to include mortgage the charge.
In the first three months, over 65,000 customers avoided accounts, so customers can view their mortgage arrangements charges totalling over 1.4m, a response rate of 27 per cent.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 21 Europe Retail and Business Banking Europe RBB In 2013 we restructured our business and are now on track to deliver the Go-To Premier bank in Europe.
Curt Hess Chief Executive Officer, Europe RBB The Europe Retail and Business Banking business model Our social purpose In the current challenging macroeconomic environment, we continue to support our customers helping them to achieve their financial goals and ambitions.
As a retail bank Europe RBB provides banking services and investment advice to over 1.8 million customers in Spain, Portugal, Italy and France in a safe, reliable and regulated manner.
For them we provide Uniquely providing value through Our customers We offer a full range of banking, Our value propositions Our focus is on growing mass affluent and investment and insurance products small business customers via our Premier International strength tailored to meet our customers needs.
These include: Risk diversity We will continue to support our existing Day-to-day transactional banking Long heritage mass market customers.
e. g. current accounts, debit deferred Relevant products and services tailored to debit cards individuals' financial goals and risk appetite Lending e. g. lines of credit, personal loans, mortgages Skilled relationship managers delivering Savings and investments investment advice and creating strong e. g. deposits, investment advice customer relationships Insurance Innovation in products and technology e. g. protection and long term savings 22 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information In 2013 we made significant progress in transforming Balanced Scorecard ourselves to become the Go-To bank for mass affluent customers in Spain, Portugal, Italy and France Market and operating environment In 2013 the macroeconomic environment remained challenging Helping people achieve their economic contraction, unemployment and political and regulatory ambitions in the uncertainty impacted both us and our competitors.
Against these right way uncertainties we successfully reduced headcount and branch operations while taking steps to fide-risk the business.
Going forward we will grow mass affluent customers, leveraging strong relationship management capabilities and a comprehensive product range, while capitalising on our global brand and investment services Customer and client expertise.
This focused strategy will enable us to compete successfully Our aim is to become the Go-To bank for mass affluent customers.
with local and international competitors.
At the same time we will We will do this by providing customers with top quality service and continue to support our existing mass market customers through a a differentiated proposition based on relationship management and lower cost platform.
Business Model risks We will measure our progress through our Net Promoter Score.
Further deterioration in macroeconomic conditions in Europe could By reviewing our customers feedback we will know whether we are adversely impact credit risk through the deterioration in asset prices or achieving the positive customer experiences critical to our goal of a customers ability to service repayment obligations.
The business continues to proactively work to identify and mitigate any In 2013 we launched initiatives to improve customer experience, including: operational risk of pending regulatory change without compromising customer service and minimise disruption to the progress of our A new Premier value proposition which provides customers with an business.
experience tailored to their needs and ambitions In executing our strategy, we need to ensure we can manage Issuing iPads to our colleagues to speed up customer service and operational risk and grow the business without compromising on allow us to serve them where they are quality or control.
Faster credit approvals in Spain 98% of customers get a decision within 2 hours Enhanced online capabilities which allow customers to customise the banking alerts and updates they receive from us Contributing to strategy Our international footprint and brand, investment services and advice, and skilled relationship managers differentiate Barclays in our European retail banking markets.
In tough economic times, transforming our cost base whilst capitalising on these aspects will drive our journey to become the Go-To bank for mass affluent customers.
Uniquely providing value through Sustaining business by Contributing to income by Bring diverse benefits Returning the business to strength by: We charge for our services and raise Group revenue through: Customers are helped to achieve their Growing income from affluent customers financial goals and ambitions while retaining income from mass Interest income from loans less interest market customers paid on deposits Long-term relationships improve customer outcomes and generate Repositioning the business for the future Regular fees account fees, advice, sustainable revenue service and investment advice Managing down our less attractive Exit Improved profitability from focus on Quadrant assets Specific product sale and transaction mass affluent customers fees Going forward, we place long-term relationships at the heart of our offer and Economies of scale from cost synergies across multiple geographies will help customers achieve their ambitions by supporting their evolving banking needs.
In doing so we will provide long-term stable income generation.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 23 Europe Retail and Business Banking Europe RBB continued These contributed to strong customer satisfaction and high customer Company advocacy scores in Portugal we ranked #1 for service quality in a Contribution to total income recent mystery shopping survey and in Spain we ranked the #2 most loved bank in a recent survey, well ahead of our mass affluent segment competitors.
Adjusted 666m total income Colleague 666m We are committed to investing in our colleagues and encouraging the right values and behaviours from them.
In 2013 we launched the Premier Way, a training program that enables relationship managers to have confident, professional discussions with 2013 2012 2011 clients about their holistic financial needs.
Income m 666 708 1,004 Loss before tax m 996 343 767 In 2014 this programme will expand to include financial planning as Adjusted ROE % 45.2 12.9 9.7 well as giving colleagues access to externally recognised professional Loan loss rate bps 75 64 43 qualifications.
Loans and advances to customers bn 37.0 39.2 42.7 Customer deposits bn 45.0 46.1 50.2 Citizenship Distribution points 633 1,142 1,228 We are implementing mechanisms to make citizenship part of what we do every day, as well as inspiring our colleagues, clients and other Europe RBB continued to focus on restructuring the cost base of its stakeholders to do the same.
business in 2013, as part of the Transform strategy.
Income declined 6% to 666m, reflecting actions taken to reduce assets, particularly In 2013 we implemented the Citizenship Lens into our processes for in Spain and Italy, to address the continuing economic challenges approving new products.
We continued our commitment to local communities by investing in During the year the business reduced full time equivalent employees by employability programs for young people Europe RBB colleagues have 1,600 and closed over 500 distribution points.
Operating expenses contributed over 11,000 hours to help their local communities.
increased by 435m to 1,242m, almost entirely reflecting costs to achieve Transform of 403m.
Conduct We are dedicated to delivering the right outcomes for our customers.
Loss before tax increased 653m to 996m, including costs to achieve Transform of 403m and an increase in other net expenses.
In 2013 we raised awareness of conduct as a principal risk across the business and launched a Code of Conduct to guide how we all should Europe RBB also rolled out a new Premier customer proposition, work each day.
We also commenced a programme to review critical targeting profitable growth from the mass affluent segment, in a drive end-to-end processes and identify possible conduct issues in doing to increase margins.
so identify potential mitigants to eliminate the gap between what our customers expect from us and what we deliver to them.
Loans and advances to customers fell by 6% to 37.0bn, driven by asset reduction activity as part of the Transform strategy.
For more information on performance, please see pages 237 to 268 Future priorities In 2014 we will: Grow Premier customers Acquire new mass affluent customers Deepen relationships with existing customers Continue to control costs by transitioning mass market customers to lower cost channels over time Optimise the performance and accelerate the run-off of our less attractive Exit Quadrant assets 24 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Happy customers and healthy relationships During this time we have worked to provide the customer with For one Italian customer Barclays has provided investment bank-assurance products, mutual funds, structured products, asset management and advice for three years and over that under custody and liquidity products.
In doing so we have successfully period developed a healthy and profitable relationship.
deepened our relationship with the customer by more than doubling his assets under management over a two year period.
This customer is a strong advocate for Barclays and has been extremely satisfied with his Premier relationship manager highlighting the professionalism, proactivity and transparency of the services his relationship manager provided as the reasons for the customers high satisfaction.
In addition to the high quality day-to-day relationship, we were also able to leverage some of the benefits we get from being part of a UK based global bank by giving this customer the opportunity to attend exclusive events that the customer greatly appreciated.
These have helped us enhance our relationship.
Going forward we will continue to work closely with this customer to meet their personal banking and investment needs.
But were not stopping there!
We know this customer owns a successful SME business and we want to further deepen our relationship by providing products and services to that business in doing so help our client achieve his ambitions across both his professional and personal life.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 25
