The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information l Executive Director Non-executive Director board, and nine years on the board of PNC Financial Services Corp. Other principal external appointments None Committee membership Board Financial Risk Committee Board Remuneration Committee Executive committee Sir John Sunderland 68 Bob Hoyt Maria Ramos Non-executive Director Group General Counsel Chief Executive, Absa Group and Barclays Africa Skills and experience Sir John joined the Board as a nonexecutive Director in June 2005.
He has extensive business and board level experience, having spent forty years with Cadbury Schweppes PLC, where he became Chief Executive and subsequently Chairman.
Sir John has significant experience as a director of UK listed companies, and has also held a number of similar positions in trade and professional bodies, including President of the Antony Jenkins Confederation of British Industry and Group Chief Executive President of the Chartered Management Valerie Soranno Keating Institute.
Sir John is Chairman of Merlin Entertainments Group PLC and was CEO, Barclaycard Mike Roemer formerly a director of the Financial Group Head of Compliance Reporting Council.
In addition to his Board level experience Sir John brings extensive experience and knowledge of retailing and brand marketing.
Other principal external appointments Non-executive Director, AFC Energy PLC Governor, Reading University Council Chancellor, Aston University Committee membership Board Remuneration Committee Robert Le Blanc Chairman Board Conduct, Reputation and Chief Risk Officer Operational Risk Committee Thomas King Board Corporate Governance and Co-Chief Executive, Corporate Ashok Vaswani Nominations Committee and Investment Banking CEO, Retail and Business Banking Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee Eric Bommensath Co-Chief Executive, Corporate and Investment Banking Steve Thieke 68 Hugh Skip E. McGee III Darryl West Non-executive Director Chief Executive, Americas Interim Chief Operations and Technology Officer Skills and experience Steve was appointed to the Board as a non-executive Director in January 2014.
He has four decades of experience in financial services, both in regulation and investment banking.
Steve worked for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for twenty years, where he held several senior positions in credit and capital market operations and banking supervision and later he became a non-executive director at the FSA.
He has also held senior roles in Irene McDermott Brown investment banking and risk management Group Human Resources Director with JP Morgan, where he spent ten years.
Tushar Morzaria He was Head of the Fixed Income Division, co-Head of Global Markets, President and Group Finance Director Chairman of JP Morgan Securities, Inc. and Head of the Corporate Risk Management Group, retiring from JP Morgan in 1999.
He has significant board level experience, both in executive and non-executive roles, including spending seven years as a director of Risk Metrics Group, where latterly he served as Chairman of the barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 85
