Wealth and Investment Management We are raising industry standards through our investment philosophy encompassing client pro ling, investment strategies and portfolio construction.
Peter Horrell Chief Executive Of cer, Wealth and Investment Management The Wealth and Investment Management business model Our social purpose Barclays Wealth and Investment Management helps people to meet their financial objectives, whether to protect, grow or pass on their wealth.
We do this through the services and products we provide across banking, investments, lending and philanthropy.
For them we provide Uniquely providing value through Our clients are those A range of wealth and investment Our value propositions We provide services, advice and products management services, including: to: An understanding of our clients wealth Investment management and advice situation and aspirations, using Retail investors behavioural finance to better understand Investment trading services Af uent individuals their unique financial personality and risk Wealth advisory services tolerance High-net worth and ultra high-net worth individuals Continuous improvement of client service Banking and experience Family of ces Lending An open architecture approach to Intermediaries that we work with on Corporate wealth advisory and discretionary and advisory portfolio behalf of their clients management consultancy services Charities Investment in underlying technology and processes Entrepreneurs Leveraging Barclays global scope and Companies Employers scale Global research and investment solutions 42 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information We are one of the worlds leading wealth managers and Balanced Scorecard we offer clients a gateway to the full range of Barclays capabilities.
Wealth and Investment Management continues to focus on and invest in delivering an excellent client experience, while helping clients protect, grow and Helping people pass on wealth.
achieve their ambitions in the right way Market and operating environment We serve clients around the world: in the UK, where we are headquartered: in the US, which is the worlds largest wealth market: in major hubs in Europe and in the fast growing markets of Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
Customer and client We have a clear segmentation strategy across high net worth, affluent, We are building centres of excellence within Barclays for investment retail and corporate clients which defines our services based on client management and managing offshore banking relationships, as well as an need and value.
online investment proposition for self-directed clients, which will significantly enhance our capabilities in this space.
Risks to our business model Major changes in the wealth management industry in recent years We are making great strides in digital innovation, as evidenced by our have been driven by regulation, changing demographics, new sources voice biometrics programme, launched in 2013, and the continuing of wealth, and evolving client needs, particularly around digitalisation.
success of the online marketing service Little Book of Wonders for our high net worth clients.
We are making good progress in implementing our strategy, which builds on our strengths, focuses on competing where we can win and We will measure success in serving clients through our Net Promoter Score.
Our investment in the business means that we meet or exceed regulatory standards in all the markets in which we operate.
We have limited the number of markets we operate in specifically to reduce business risk and position ourselves to capture emerging wealth.
Contributing to strategy Barclays Wealth and Investment Management acts as a gateway, providing clients access to the broader services Barclays offers.
We seek to become the Go-To bank for high net worth clients and businesses in our key markets by focusing on sustainable, long-term growth.
Investment in our business will enable us to build centres of excellence for investment management, for serving international corporates and for self-directed clients.
Uniquely providing value through Sustaining business by Contributing to income by Bring diverse benefits Seeking to ensure our business is viable Fees and commission over the long-term through a focus on An excellent experience for clients for our advice robust governance and control in providing a service such as Unique understanding of our clients Building on our strengths, replicating banking investment needs what we do well and continuously on execution arrangements such as Our investment-led approach to wealth improving our offering to build deep broking or mortgages management brings solutions and client relationships Interest income for example, lending services that are: Focusing on those markets and Broad and relevant opportunities where we know we can Based on a sound understanding of compete strongly and provide best in client need class solutions A gateway to the best of Barclays advice Simplifying how we operate, meaning and services, thereby providing access to greater clarity and transparency for banking, credit and leading investment clients.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 43 Wealth and Investment Management continued Colleague Company We are committed to engaging our colleagues and creating a diverse Contribution to total income and inclusive environment where they can fulfil their potential.
Following the launch of the Barclays Values and Behaviours, 96% of Wealth and Investment Management employees had attended a Adjusted Values Workshop by June 2013, and we are making great progress in 1,839m total income embedding the Values and Behaviours into our business and decision 1,839m making.
In September 2013, colleagues had the opportunity to reflect on and absorb the strategy for Wealth and Investment Management: 2,200 colleagues in 26 locations around the world attended town halls and strategy conversations.
The Wealth and Investment Management Global Diversity & Inclusion Council was established in 2013 with the 2013 2012 2011 purpose of attracting and developing the most talented people from all Income m 1,839 1,820 1,770 backgrounds.
Adjusted loss profit before tax m 19 274 188 Adjusted ROE % 1.0 11.2 9.5 Citizenship Loan loss rate bps 51 17 21 Wealth and Investment Management contributes to the Barclays 2015 Loans and advances to customers bn 23.1 21.3 18.8 Citizenship Plan by embedding a citizenship ethos into the way we do Customer deposits bn 63.4 53.8 46.5 business, through our strategy, decision-making and investment management approach.
We will also contribute to growth by Total income of 1,839m remained broadly in line with the prior year, supporting the development of social impact investing and managing as growth in deposit and lending balances, primarily in the High Net charity investments and support our communities through community Worth business, offset a lower net interest margin reflecting a change investment and client philanthropy.
in product mix and reduced contributions from structural hedges.
Our colleagues contributed over 9,000 hours to support our Credit impairment charges increased 83m to 121m, largely reflecting communities around the world in 2013. the impact of deterioration in recovery values from property held as security, primarily in Europe.
Conduct Effectively managing Conduct Risk is essential in building a sustainable The business continued to implement its strategic programme to build wealth management business.
We are introducing a rigorous and on its strengths, focus on target markets and simplify how it operates.
transparent Conduct Risk reporting and management framework Adjusted operating expenses increased 241m to 1,750m largely which ensures that the interests of clients and other stakeholders are reflecting costs to achieve Transform of 158m.
appropriately considered in all business decisions.
In 2013 we developed specific internal communications programmes to drive Business growth remained robust with strong growth in client assets, awareness of this important risk and help employees understand how customer deposits and loans and advances to customers, which their behaviours and decision making can specifically contribute to or increased 8% to 23.1bn primarily driven by growth in the High Net mitigate client harm.
We are also embedding conduct risk discipline Worth business.
into our business through a series of Material Risk Assessments intended to prevent potential client issues before they occur.
For more information on performance, please see pages 237 to 268 Future priorities Wealth and Investment Management continues to be a key area of growth within Barclays.
Examples of how we will achieve our strategy: Building on our strengths : a new direct to consumer offering for DIY Buy and Hold investors a growing and significant part of the investor market.
We are on track to develop this direct to consumer offering, to be rolled out initially in the UK in 2015.
Focus on competing where we can win: the strategic focus areas for our business continue to be the UK, US and global high-net worth hubs.
In order to ensure that we are building a sustainable business and managing risks effectively, we are reducing the number of countries which we serve, taking into account the impact on clients, colleagues and local markets.
Simplifying how we operate: we are making changes to the way we service our affluent clients in the UK with existing clients with assets of less than 500,000 managed by a new team called Private Clients.
44 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Innovating security and simplicity with voice biometrics Last year, Barclays Wealth and Investment Management successfully Barclays Wealth and Investment Management is the first rolled out a cutting-edge service enhancement which is used to wealth manager to introduce a pioneering voice security identify customers by the sound of their voice, greatly improving the service which stores the unique biometric with more client experience.
characteristics than a fingerprint of an individuals voice When a customer calls Barclays Wealth and Investment Management print to securely and quickly confirm a clients identity.
to access their account and completes the traditional knowledge based identification process their voice print is captured and they are asked if they would like to enrol in the service.
The next time they call Barclays, the customer engages in a few seconds of natural conversation with a customer service agent.
During that time, the voice biometrics technology is used to compare the customers voice to their unique voiceprint on file, and silently signals to the Barclays representative when the customers identity has been verified.
This approach has been welcomed by customers who have seen the time taken to verify their identity fall from 1.5 minutes to less than 10 seconds.
94% of clients scored at least nine out of 10 for the speed, ease of use and security of voice authentication.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 45
