Implementation of the Salz Review Recommendations Introduction The Board commissioned a review of Barclays business practices in July 2012, led by Sir Anthony Salz, with a view to providing a comprehensive roadmap for cultural change.
Sir Anthony Salz published his report in April 2013, and the Board intends to implement all 34 recommendations.
To date we are pleased with progress made, although our work is ongoing.
The Salz recommendations have been fully integrated into the Transform programme, our long-term plan to transform the culture and performance of Barclays, with the goal of becoming the Go-To bank.
The primary tool against which we will report progress annually and measure success is our Balanced Scorecard, which sets out a clear description of what we want Barclays to be, out to 2018.
The organisation is aligned to the Balanced Scorecard and to our Purpose, Values and Behaviours through the new performance management framework.
Below we have summarised progress against the Reviews 34 recommendations.
This update is not intended to be exhaustive and the Salz Review Report which details all the recommendations in full can be found on our website.
Core elements of our Transform Programme, which address many of the recommendations, are described in further detail elsewhere in this report.
We are confident that implementing the Reviews recommendations will help us become the Go-To bank for all our stakeholders.
1 Regulatory and business standards To ensure we work collaboratively and openly with regulators, we have A roadmap for change.
been building the necessary culture, resources, capabilities and processes.
We have developed a centralised database to facilitate internal and external coordination of regulatory interactions.
Furthermore, all senior colleagues who work with regulators have undergone training to ensure communication with regulators is clear and transparent.
Our performance and reward systems now assess colleagues on compliance with the spirit as well as the letter of the law and regulation.
Since his appointment, Sir David Walker as Chairman has been obtaining feedback from regulators and other public authorities on an on-going basis.
2 Setting high standards The Balanced Scorecard is the centrepiece of our plan alongside our Purpose, Values and Behaviours to embed the right culture in our business and become the Go-To bank.
Both are embedded in the new performance management framework and drive variable compensation.
From mid-year 2013, Senior Leaders received separate performance ratings in relation to both their objectives what they delivered and our values how they delivered.
This now applied to Managing Directors MDs as of the 2013 year-end and will to all colleagues from January 2014.
3 Customers The Balanced Scorecard see page 10 is cascaded into business unit and function scorecards, which define targets for meeting the needs and expectations of customers and of our other stakeholders.
We have also launched initiatives that capture and build on customer feedback such as YourBank an online forum in the UK that allows people to submit, share and vote on ideas for improving Barclays everyday banking services.
To date we have received more than 3,500 ideas.
Internally, we have enriched our complaints reporting to management and will provide regular reports to the Board.
Our external complaints reporting has been enhanced in the UK with reporting that goes beyond the FCA requirements as well as externally published Spotlight reports that focus on our response to key customer complaints.
126 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information 4 Bringing the values to life 10 Cohesive executive team In 2013, more than 98% of colleagues attended Values and Behaviours We have established a Senior Leadership Group top 150 to build engagement sessions.
In parallel, we have established a comprehensive confidence, unity and collective ownership of our change programme.
leadership development curriculum which integrates Values and To improve transparency of our most senior decision making, we tried Behaviours into our learning programmes for Managing Directors and new and different formats for the Group Executive Committee in 2013. all colleagues.
For more detail see the People section on pages 86 to 88.
For example, we opened up some sessions to include a broader group Further, we have trained 1,500 Values Leaders to champion our Values of Senior Leaders as observers and participants.
The Board reviews the and Behaviours across the bank.
In July, we hosted an online values effectiveness of senior executives regularly on an informal basis and forum, providing a direct opportunity for colleagues to voice their formally through the Board Effectiveness Review annually.
For more opinion over 29,000 posts were generated.
Individual Group ExCo remuneration recommendations take into account the ExCo members effectiveness.
5 Monitoring progress The Balanced Scorecard defines what we need to achieve over the next 11 Group Chief Executive Succession five years to be well on the way to becoming the Go-To bank.
This The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee provides the framework and starting point for all colleagues when they regularly reviews the Group CEO role profile and conducts an annual set their individual performance objectives, and colleagues will also be review of the Group CEO succession plan.
This Committee has assessed against how they live the values and behaviours.
To inform oversight for talent management and future leader succession our broader understanding of areas where we can make improvements planning.
Several talent receptions were held in 2013, to increase the we are using customer, colleague and other stakeholders surveys.
opportunity for meaningful interactions between NEDs and Senior Leaders.
For further detail see the Corporate Governance section on page 75.
All Group ExCo appointments in 2013 have considered both 6 Code of conduct internal and external candidates and 12 41 29% of Senior Leader We published our global Code of Conduct The Barclays Way in appointments were external.
It outlines our way of working across our business globally and will be refreshed annually.
As of February 2014 more than 137,000 colleagues had attested to having read and understood the 12 Board coordination Code and colleagues will be required to re-attest annually.
We considered holding joint meetings of Board Committees to improve collaboration and coordination: however, we concluded the most efficient means of achieving this objective was cross participation.
For 7 Board experience example, Wendy Lucas Bull sits on both the Barclays Africa Group Our stated objective is that approximately 50% of Non-Executive Limited Board and the Barclays Group Board.
Excluding the Chairman, Directors NEDs have financial services experience.
Furthermore, we nine of our NEDs sit on more than one Board Committee, with four now require that 25-33% of that 50% have directly relevant banking sitting on three or more Committees.
Moreover, the Board Enterprise experience and this has been a key factor for the appointment of new Wide Risk Committee BEWRC comprises the Chairmen of each of the NEDs.
Over the last year we have appointed Wendy Lucas Bull, Mike other principal Board Committees, further enhancing coordination.
Ashley and Stephen Thieke, all of whom have significant directly relevant banking experience, from a variety of sources.
For further detail see pages 83 to 85.
13 Board Committee for conduct, reputational and operational risk The Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee BCRORC was established in January 2013 to oversee the governance 8 Non-Executive Directors of non-financial risk whilst the BEWRC takes a Group wide view of risks We updated the Charters of Expectations and NED appointment letters and controls, to bring together in one place the entire financial and in October 2013 to reflect an additional time commitment of 25-30 non-financial risk profile of Barclays.
For further detail on the mandate days p. a. for Chairmen of Board Committees above the average 30-36 of both Committees see the Corporate Governance section on pages days p. a. commitment for all NEDs.
In order to facilitate NED 73 to 77. engagement with the business we have in place a programme to help NEDs build a detailed understanding of specialist topics as well as a NED Induction Programme, to allow new NEDs to meet business and 14 Board effectiveness functional heads.
For further detail see the Corporate Governance The methodology and results of our 2013 Board annual effectiveness section on page 52. review, facilitated by an independent third party are summarised on page 58.
The activities being undertaken to address recommendations from prior years are presented on page 60 and progress against this 9 Board information years objectives will be outlined in the 2014 Annual Report.
Revised Board paper guidelines were published in July 2013, and a revised executive summary template was introduced in late 2013.
Together these require papers to be short, insightful and neutral, 15 Shareholder interaction present essential themes and help inform a robust debate.
To support The Chairmans Corporate Governance report on page 52 provides this, Group functional teams have taken increased responsibility for examples of how we have promoted open and effective providing balanced and timely oversight of papers that business units communication with shareholders, including our shareholder intend to present to the Board.
communications guidelines which can be found on our website.
We are committed to the constructive use of the AGM and proactively encourage shareholder participation, both through attendance and voting.
The 2013 Annual Report incorporates new elements to help stakeholders navigate the regulatory and statutory disclosure requirements, whilst providing insight and context to the long term strategy and Purpose as defined by our Balanced Scorecard.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 127 Barclays implementation of the Salz Review recommendations continued 16 Strengthening Human Resources 21 Pay principles The Group HR Director was appointed to the Group ExCo in 2009 and Our new Remuneration Policy on pages 100 to 110 reflects common this remains an ExCo level role to contribute to strong and effective pay principles across the bank and expressly links remuneration governance.
Irene McDermott Brown was appointed as the Group HR decisions to sustained performance, risk-alignment and our Purpose Director in July 2013 following consultation with the Chairman, and Values.
At a group and business level, the Remuneration members of the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee RemCo considers financial and non-financial measures Committee and Board Remuneration Committee.
As a member of the including risk management and Balanced Scorecard outcomes in Group ExCo and the leader of the HR function, Irene has championed a assessing performance.
At an individual level, the performance-pay number of initiatives to embed our Purpose, Values and Behaviours and linkages have been further enhanced, incorporating the new introduce a new performance management approach.
performance approach which considers both what and how the colleague delivers.
All colleagues are required to have risk and control objectives.
17 Employee engagement We introduced a new policy in early 2014 outlining how we will help colleagues build their skillset and take ownership of their careers.
22 Retail incentives For example, for new joiners we have developed a Global Induction We have removed retail sales incentives which may encourage Programme, Being Barclays which combines face to face training behaviours that conflict with meeting customer needs in UK retail supported by an online portal.
We have also established leadership branches, with similar changes to be introduced in Africa.
In 2014, all development programmes such as the Barclays Leadership Academy, UK retail colleagues, across the customer network, working in the same further detail can be found on page 86.
For top performers we will customer-facing role will be rewarded with an equal share of the overall encourage mobility through secondments and placements and offer performance reward as measured through a Balanced Scorecard unless mentoring and NED exposure opportunities.
Further, our global individual performance standards, based on appropriate behaviours, recognition plan to be rolled out in 2014 will allow us to recognise are not met.
colleague contributions with a simple thank you or monthly awards.
23 Discretionary pay 18 Improving the performance management process When determining the discretionary incentive pool, financial and Our new performance management approach aligns to our Purpose, non-financial measures including risk management and Balanced Values and Behaviours.
It measures both what a colleague delivers Scorecard outcomes are key considerations for the Remuneration and also how they achieve their objectives.
This new approach Committee in assessing performance.
The Remuneration Review Panel reinforces the relationship between performance, pay and other key HR has been established to focus on making recommendations to the decisions.
To support this guidance has been issued to managers on RemCo on risk adjustment to incentive pools and individual malus how to set objectives aligned to a Balanced Scorecard and deliver clear outcomes.
The Panel has also issued guidance to ensure consistency in and honest feedback: this will be supplemented by further training in getting risk based decisions right the first time.
Performance audits will be undertaken in 2014 to ensure the improvements in disclosure in the 2012 Remuneration report, and have effectiveness of performance management outcomes.
adopted the same approach in the 2013 report.
19 Recruiting and induction 24 Long-term awards Our recruitment process for Leaders now includes an assessment Our Long Term Incentive Plans LTIPs are now restricted to Group against Values: this will be rolled out to all colleagues.
For a significant ExCo only and will be further limited to Executive Directors in 2014. number of MD opportunities, we have supplemented the process with The new LTIP is a Group-wide plan that is calibrated to financial a Values assessment by an external partner specialising in business performance adjusted for risk on a group wide basis.
Our Being Barclays induction programme is compulsory careful consideration to value at award to ensure that LTIPs are for new joiners, including MDs and Directors, and supports appropriately considered in the wider context of pay awards and engagement with our Purpose, Values and Behaviours within the first disclosures.
The annual Directors Remuneration Report on pages 111 90 days of joining Barclays.
to 121 sets out full details of the value at award, maximum potential face value and actual pay outs from LTIPs.
20 Developing Barclays future leaders In 2013, we designed and implemented a global approach to talent 25 Control functions incentives identification and Group ExCo conducted a review of Senior Leaders As of February 2013, control functions now have solid reporting lines across the organisation.
During 2014, we will put in place mechanisms into the Group CEO rather than business heads to avoid conflict of to improve transparency in identification of talent across all levels and interest.
Separate functional incentive pools are now in place, the size opportunities for mobility and development to support our leadership of each is influenced by performance against a function Balanced and diversity initiatives.
Promotion at all levels now includes Scorecard.
Individual performance objectives and reward are now assessment against the Values.
For MD promotion, this is conducted by aligned to the relevant function Balanced Scorecard and will be an external partner.
independent of the financial performance of businesses they support.
128 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information 26 Control functions review of compensation 31 Learning from mistakes The Remuneration Review Panel has been introduced to ensure A Group-wide methodology for learning from mistakes relating appropriate and meaningful control function input into compensation specifically to Operational Risk was launched in January 2013.
The Remuneration Review Panel is independent of the 2014 we will look to improve this process and investigate the potential business and its membership includes the control functions.
As part of to build out this methodology across all risk types so as to be able to its remit the Panel makes recommendations to RemCo on risk apply lessons learnt more broadly.
adjustments to the incentive pools, and individual malus and suspensions.
Control function input includes information relating to behaviour and conduct issues.
Managers have also received guidance 32 Control functions independence and influence on incorporating risk and control behaviours when determining reward We announced a new functional operating model in January 2013 recommendations.
which promotes the independence and authority of our control functions.
Compliance, Risk, Legal, Finance and HR now have solid reporting lines into the Group Function Head.
Appointment of Head of 27 Boards role in compensation oversight Compliance is subject to consultation with the Chairman and Chairman The Board has established a new Remuneration Policy see pages 100 of the BCRORC.
We are also reinforcing the compliance culture to 110 which sets out clear principles and is aligned to our Purpose, throughout the bank, Building an Effective Control Environment is a Values and Behaviours.
The Remuneration Committee Terms of core capability that underpins our development approach across all Reference require consideration and approval of remuneration levels.
arrangements for high earners and colleagues who influence the risk profile of the organisation.
The RemCo formally reports to the Board after each meeting.
It works closely with the Board Risk Committees and 33 Internal Audit receives risk input from the Chief Risk Officer at each meeting, an annual In July 2012 we introduced a revised audit methodology to improve Risk Perspective on Performance assessment as well as input from the efficiency and effectiveness.
We will continue to review the audit Remuneration Review Panel.
The Remuneration Committee annually schedule and methodology to ensure both are fit for purpose.
We reviews the appointment of its independent advisor which must adhere conduct regular internal and external skills assessment reviews to to the UK Code of Conduct for executive remuneration consultants.
ensure our audit teams have the appropriate skills and experience aligned to each business, with particular deep dives into the Investment Bank team.
In 2013 our Internal Audit Charter was reviewed and 28 Risk culture and control framework updated to reflect the requirement to provide assurance on the risk The Barclays ERMF published in December 2013 sets risk appetite culture of the firm we will continue to refresh the Charter annually.
principles: defines risk appetite accountabilities for the CEO and CRO: and defines the roles and responsibilities across the three lines of defence.
Risk appetite statements were set and approved by the 34 Implementation BEWRC in December 2013.
Colleagues are now assessed against This section of the Annual Report provides a summary of our progress mandatory risk and control objectives, in particular, front office on implementation.
This and all previous editions can be found on our Investment Bank colleagues objectives specifically refer to website.
29 Conduct, reputational and operational risk The Barclays ERMF, together with the defined risk appetite statements and upcoming Key Risk Control Frameworks factor conduct, reputational and operational risks into business decisions and governance.
Further, the Strategic Risk Assessment piloted in 2013 provides a top down view of business unit strategy integrating strategic planning activity, appetite setting and the assessment and management of material risks.
30 Issue escalation In 2013 we ran an awareness raising whistleblowing campaign, including creation of an independent, external whistleblowing hotline run by Public Concern at Work.
The Behaviours we expect, in line with our Values, mandate a colleague responsibility to have courage to speak up when they believe something is wrong.
Senior Leaders are working to address perceived issues around raising concerns: feedback from colleagues suggests more work is required in this area.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 129 130 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Risk review Insight into the level of risk across Barclays businesses and portfolios, the material risks and uncertainties faced and the key areas of management focus.
To find out more about the major risk policies which underlie our risk exposures, consolidated policybased qualitative information is available under Risk management.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 131 Risk review Contents The management of risk plays a central role in the execution of Barclays strategy.
For 2013, Barclays Risk Management disclosures are located across the Annual Report and Pillar 3 Report.
Annual Report Pillar 3 Report Risk Risk review management Risk factors 133-141 Risk overview Barclays risk management strategy 378 These pages provide a comprehensive Barclays risk culture 378-379 overview of Barclays risk factors and Risk governance and assigning responsibilities 379-384 approach to risk management.
Principal risks 384-385 Risk management in the setting of strategy 385-391 Modelling of credit risk 118-127 Credit risk overview and risk factors 142 392 Credit risk Analysis of maximum exposure and collateral Credit risk is the risk of suffering financial and other credit enhancement held 142-144 398-400 loss should the Groups customers, clients Concentrations of credit risk 145-148 393 36-47 or market counterparties fail to ful l their Balance sheet credit quality 149-150 404 52-57 contractual obligations.
Analysis of loans and advances and impairment 151-157 393-398 58-63 Retail credit risk 158-172 392-402 Wholesale credit risk 173-180 392-402 Exit Quadrant assets 181 Exposures to Eurozone countries 182-189 Analysis of securitisations 84-97 Maturity of credit exposures 46-47 Capital requirements for credit risk 33-34 Counterparty credit risk exposure and RWAs 66-69 RWAs and credit risk exposure by business and Basel asset class 36-41 Market risk Market risk overview and risk factors 190 405 74 Traded market risk 191-194 407-412 75-78 Market risk is the risk of the Group Non-traded market risk 195-196 413 80-81 suffering financial loss due to the Group Foreign exchange risk 197 82 being unable to hedge its balance sheet at Analysis of pension risk 197-198 414 82-83 prevailing market levels.
Analysis of securitisations 84-97 Capital requirements for market risk 79 Funding risk Capital Funding risk Capital overview and risk factors 199 420 Capital composition 200 18 Capital risk is the risk that the Group is Movement in total regulatory capital 201 19 unable to maintain appropriate capital ratios.
Risk Weighted Assets by risk type and business 202 22 Movement in Risk Weighted Assets 202 23-24 CRD IV as implemented by the Prudential Regulation Authority 203-204 25-30 Leverage ratio requirements 205-206 31 Economic capital 207 Funding risk Liquidity overview and risk factors 208 Funding risk Liquidity Liquidity stress testing 208-210 419 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is Liquidity pool 211-212 unable to meet its obligations as they fall Funding structure 212-215 due as a result of a sudden, and potentially Encumbrance 215-218 protracted, increase in net cash out ows.
Credit ratings 219 Liquidity management at Absa Group 220 Contractual maturity of financial assets 220-224 and liabilities Operational risk overview and risk factors 225 415 100 Operational risk Operational risk pro le 225 100 Operational risk is the risk of direct or Supervision and regulation 230-235 indirect impacts resulting from human Capital requirements for operational risk 99 factors, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems or external events.
Reputation risk Reputation risk 226-227 Reputation risk is the risk of damage to Barclays brand arising from any association, action, or inaction which is perceived by stakeholders to be inappropriate or unethical.
Conduct risk Conduct risk 228-229 Conduct risk is the risk that detriment is caused to our customers, clients, counterparties or Barclays and its employees because of inappropriate judgement in the execution of our business activities.
132 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
