e u g a e l l o C t n e i l C & r e m o t s u C C i t i z e Balanced Scorecard The Balanced Scorecard sets out eight speci c commitments across our 5Cs Customer & Client, The Balanced Scorecard is Colleague, Citizenship, Conduct and Company and fide fines what need to achieve over the next five years to be the final crucial piece of our well on the way to becoming the Go-To bank.
plan alongside our Purpose We are committed to monitoring and reporting on our progress annually so that stakeholders can hold us to account.
The Balanced and Values to embed the Scorecard is supported by strategic initiatives that will drive progress across the 5Cs.
right culture in our business The Balanced Scorecard gives clear strategic context for our colleagues and become the Go-To bank around what becoming the Go-To bank will look like and lays out Barclays priorities.
The Barclays Balanced Scorecard is cascaded into business unit and function scorecards.
Together, these provide line of sight to employees to our organisational goal.
They also provide a framework and starting point for all employees when they set their individual performance objectives across the 5Cs.
For more detailed information on the Balanced Scorecard, please see barclays.
com balancedscorecard and the key performance indicators section on pages 243 and 244 Our Balanced Scorecard Becoming the Go-To bank for all our stakeholders Balanced Scorecard: overview Outcome Statements Helping people We balance our stakeholders needs achieve their ambitions across the short and long term.
in the right way Our activities drive mutually reinforcing outcomes across stakeholders.
n Outcome Statements We are Go-To for our customers and clients Customer & Client Our colleagues are fully engaged Colleague We create a diverse and inclusive environment where colleagues can ful ll their potential We positively impact the communities in which we operate Citizenship Our products and services are designed and distributed to meet clients needs Conduct We act with integrity in everything we do We create sustainable returns above the cost of equity Company We understand and effectively manage our risks, and continuously improve control 10 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport s h i p y n a p m o C t c u d n o C The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Group overview 02 The Balanced Scorecard defines Chief Executives strategic review 04 what we need to achieve over the Strategy and operating environment 06 next five years to be well on the way to Business model Value creation 08 becoming the Go-To bank.
It clearly Balanced Scorecard 10 shows what success looks like across Group Finance Directors review 12 the 5Cs: Customer & Client, Colleague, Strategic Risk overview 14 Citizenship, Conduct, and Company.
Performance review by division 18 Chairmans governance overview 46 Summary remuneration report 48 Metrics and targets We have agreed eight key measures against which we and our stakeholders can hold us to account.
We are committed to monitoring and reporting on our progress annually.
Metric Actual 2013 Target 2018 RBB, Barclaycard and W&IM: Weighted average ranking 4th 1st a Customer & Client of Relationship Net Promoter Score vs. peer sets CIB Client Franchise Rank: Weighted average ranking of 4th Top 3 wallet share or customer satisfaction with priority clients Sustained engagement of colleagues score 74% 87-91% Colleague b % women in senior leadership 21% 26% CItizenship Plan initiatives on track or ahead 10 11 Plan Targets Citizenship Conduct Reputation YouGov survey 5.2 10 6.5 10 Conduct Return on Equity Adjusted 4.5% Cost of equity Company Fully Loaded CRD IV CET1 ratio 9.3% 10.5% For further information on Balanced Scorecard Methodology and Data Sources please visit barclays.
com balanced scorecard and see the Metrics and targets page A detailed view of performance against Citizenship Plan targets is available in the Citizenship Report 2013 at barclays.
com citizenshipreport Delivering our strategic targets: Example Strategic initiatives Here are some examples of strategic initiatives that will drive progress across the 5Cs and support our goal to become the Go-To bank.
We are using technology to improve our customers and clients experience and to be responsive to their Customer & Client changing needs, such as through Barclays Mobile Banking, BARX, PayTag and Barclays.
Net We are making our most important customer and client interactions as simple and instant as possible putting power in their hands to transact when, where and how they want to We are simplifying our products and services and improving what we offer to match customer needs with the right service model We have launched our Purpose and Values, and we are embedding them into all our HR processes Colleague including recruitment, promotion and performance management We are developing and training leaders through the Barclays Leadership Academy and Barclays Global Curriculum We are driving a consistent global diversity and inclusion plan resulting in a more visibly diverse talent pipeline We are ensuring the way we do business reflects broader societal and environmental considerations Citizenship We are contributing to growth through financing, supporting businesses and ensuring our products and services support sustainable progress We are supporting the communities where we operate by helping five million young people to develop enterprise, employability and financial skills We are following a rigorous and transparent framework on conduct risk reporting and management Conduct We are using material conduct risk assessments to effectively identify, assess and manage conduct risk We are exercising sound judgements to avoid detriment to customers, clients and counterparties or to market integrity We are delivering the initiatives across the strategic quadrants: Invest and grow, Reposition, Transition, and Exit Company We are managing costs rightsizing, industrializing, innovating and delivering our leverage and capital commitments We are improving our controls through the roll-out of The Barclays Guide, which covers how we organise, manage and govern ourselves and includes a new risk management framework Notes a Net Promoter, Net Promoter Score, and NPS are trademarks of Satmetrix Systems, Inc. Bain & Company, Inc. and Fred Reichheld.
b Senior leadership represents the Managing Director and Director corporate grades combined, a population of over 8,000 employees.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report on the gender breakdown of our senior managers.
For this purpose, we have 988 senior managers 179 female and 809 male who include Officers of the Group, certain direct reports of the Chief Executive, heads of major business units, senior Managing Directors, and directors on the boards of subsidiary undertakings of the Company.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 11
