Investment Bank From our unique position with dual home markets and truly global reach, we are transforming the Investment Bank so that we can continue to help our target clients achieve their ambitions.
Eric Bommensath Thomas King Co-Chief Executive, Corporate Co-Chief Executive, Corporate and Investment Banking and Investment Banking The Investment Bank business model Our social purpose We help companies, institutions and sovereigns around the world to grow, and through them help millions of people to achieve their ambitions.
We facilitate the movement of capital between those who need it to grow their company or build new infrastructure, for example, and those who are looking to generate a return from investment.
In doing so, we fund and facilitate economic growth around the world.
Our clients are those For them we provide Uniquely providing value through Corporates seeking to maximise value Long term strategic advice on mergers Our value propositions for their owners and shareholders, for and acquisitions, corporate finance and Global footprint with unique dual home example, through organic business strategic risk management solutions markets in the UK and US growth, M&A activity and investing Execution and risk management excess capital A market leading ow franchise across all services across the full range of asset core Fixed Income, Currency and Institutions such as Pension funds classes including equity and xed Commodities FICC products and Hedge funds that seek to manage income, currency and commodity assets on behalf of clients, to meet products Established and growing Equities and the their long-term investment needs Banking businesses Prime brokerage services including Sovereigns such as Countries or nancing, clearing and settlement of World-class research capabilities Government departments that seek to transactions and account servicing deliver their growth plans, and improve and reporting living standards for their citizens Multi-asset class and macroeconomic research delivering actionable ideas to help our clients make informed investment decisions 34 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information The Investment Bank is a leading provider of advice, Balanced Scorecard financing and risk management solutions to companies, governments and institutions around the world.
Market and operating environment Helping people Market conditions and the wider operating environment have remained achieve their challenging in 2013.
While equity markets, advisory and underwriting ambitions in the all saw gains, continued macroeconomic uncertainty over the future of right way central bank bond buying programmes led to reduced volumes in Fixed Income markets.
At the same time, the implementation of Basel III and new leverage ratios is increasing the constraints on capital allocation across the industry, thereby limiting opportunities for business growth.
Customer and client Business Model risks A rapidly evolving regulatory environment combined with a subdued Becoming the Go To partner for our clients is about building strong and deep relationships which enable us to support them in achieving macroeconomic environment has impacted the profitability of capital intensive business lines.
To attain this aim we are focused on: To help mitigate this impact we have been actively rebalancing our Building strategic relationships with our clients by providing business model through growth in Equities and Investment Banking long-term solutions and further intensifying focus on capital management, leverage and Providing a world-class client experience through the calibre of the reduction of our Exit Quadrant assets.
We continue to keep our our people business model under review.
Offering seamless and efficient execution of transactions The Investment Bank still faces litigation risk and we continue to invest time and resources in strengthening our control environment, evolving Developing the highest standards of client conduct through an enhanced product suitability framework our culture and simplifying and fide-risking products.
Our business relies on the quality of our people, and so we also In 2013, we were named the best Flow House in Western Europe, the continue to reinforce our employee value proposition through a focus Best Flow House in North America and the best UK investment Bank on learning and development and, in light of global compensation by Euromoney.
legislation, reiterating our commitment to pay for performance.
Contributing to strategy The Investment Bank aims to be the Go-To partner for corporate, institutional and sovereign clients, by combining expert insight, advice and market leading execution capabilities to deliver the products and services they need to invest, grow and manage risk.
Through our client focused flow business model we provide diversity of income and diversity of risk to Barclays, and are able to deliver market execution services for retail, wealth, institutional and corporate customers.
Uniquely providing value through Sustaining business by Contributing to income by Bring diverse benefits We seek to build long-term sustainable We generate revenue in many different relationships with our clients by working ways, depending on the services we Holistic solutions to meet clients global with them as a strategic partner.
We may charge for our needs provide solutions that are in their best knowledge and expertise, our platform, interests over the longer term.
Efficient execution and pricing our capital, or a combination of the above.
Expert insight and knowledge We continue to evolve our products and That can include fees for our advice, High quality, streamlined client experience services in line with changing client commission for underwriting financing expectations, changing regulation and transactions, interest on loans to Reduced variability of income and risk technological advances to ensure we corporates or other banks, or the price continue to meet and exceed the needs spread on client trades, amongst other of all our stakeholders in a continuously things.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 35 Investment Bank continued Colleague Company Our people are fundamental to the performance of our business.
Contribution to total income We aim to support our colleagues to achieve their ambitions by: Providing world-class opportunities for career progression and global mobility Adjusted 10,733m total income Delivering industry leading solutions for clients 10,733m Embracing diversity and inclusion Rewarding competitively for performance 2013 saw the launch of our Purpose and Values agenda, embedding 2013 2012 2011 them into all our HR processes including recruiting, promotion and Income m 10,733 11,775 10,222 performance management.
Employee engagement was a key theme Profit before tax m 2,523 3,990 2,415 during the year with increased focus on Talent Management and ROE % 8.2 12.7 7.7 Succession Planning: initiatives which saw a number of senior Cost: income ratio % 75.0 65.0 76.0 management moves across the Investment Bank.
We continue to place Compensation: income ratio % 43.2 39.6 48.4 Diversity & Inclusion to the forefront of our Talent agenda, because it is the right thing to do and because our clients are becoming increasingly diverse.
While industry FICC revenues reduced in 2013, strong growth was seen in the Equities franchise, which continued to outperform the market.
Citizenship Total income decreased 9% to 10,733m, including a reduction of The Investment Bank contributes to the 2015 Citizenship Plan across 309m relating to the Exit Quadrant.
FICC income decreased 17% to our business.
Equities and Prime Services income increased 22% to 2,672m reflecting higher commission income and increased client In 2013 we supported a wide range of transactions that make a direct volumes.
Investment Banking income increased 3% to 2,200m driven difference to our communities.
We did this across our core by increased equity underwriting fees, partly offset by declines in competencies of capital raising, lending and distribution across various financial advisory activity.
sectors including public finance governments, supranationals, development banks and other public sector entities, alternative energy The Investment Bank continued to make progress in delivering part of and life sciences sectors.
The business incurred costs to achieve Transform of 262m, primarily related to restructuring across Europe, In addition, we provided employment and training opportunities for Asia and America.
Operating expenses increased 5% to 8,012m, over 650 graduates, and our staff contributed over 48,000 volunteer driven by costs to achieve Transform, UK bank levy which increased hours in 2013 to worthwhile causes around the globe.
62% to 333m, cost increases related to infrastructure improvement, and provisions for litigation and regulatory penalties of 220m in Q413, Conduct mainly related to US residential mortgage-related business.
Conduct is about ensuring that our products and services are designed and distributed to meet the needs of our clients and that we act with Profit before tax decreased 37% to 2,523m.
integrity in everything we do.
In 2013 we have continued to invest heavily in this area through focus on the following: Total assets decreased 209.9bn to 863.8bn, primarily reflecting decreases in derivative financial instruments, cash and balances at Culture and Organisation: Embedding our culture by completing central banks, and trading portfolio assets.
values and behaviour training for all our staff and re-balancing how we assess and reward our people to place increased focus on CRD IV RWAs reduced to 221.6bn 30 June 2013: 254.1bn through conduct, risk and control accelerated sell down of the Exit Quadrant assets and continued focus Frameworks: Developing a comprehensive conduct risk framework on driving efficiency in the ongoing business.
and developing tools that support the consistent delivery of controls For more information on performance, please see Governance: Putting in place an enhanced governance model pages 237 to 268 including the introduction of a Chief Controls Officer, Reputation Risk Committee and Conduct Risk Steering Committee Control Initiatives: Strengthening control design around the trade lifecycle including with relation to unauthorised trading and key benchmark submissions Future priorities Our priorities to become the Go-To Investment Bank are to: Focus our people and resources on building the deepest relationships possible with our target clients so we become a first call Invest in market-leading talent and technology to deliver the best client experience and remain responsive to clients changing needs Make efficiency and control a competitive advantage by increasing standardisation and automation across the platform to reduce cost to serve and strengthen controls 36 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Advising on one of the largest mergers & acquisition deals in history Barclays has had a longstanding inner-circle strategic and financing Verizon is one of the worlds largest telecommunications relationship with Verizon, dating back to 2003.
When Verizon decided companies, and its mobile subsidiary, Verizon Wireless, is to acquire Vodafones 45% stake in Verizon Wireless for $130bn, in the the number one and most profitable wireless business in third largest M&A deal ever, Verizon turned to Barclays to act as a the United States.
financial advisor and joint lead arranger for the largest acquisition finance bridge facility in history.
Barclays also served as a main underwriter and lead manager on Verizons subsequent record breaking $49bn bond offering.
This landmark transaction will help Verizon achieve its long-term ambition of owning 100% of Verizon Wireless, and it will position Verizon to provide more efficient, industry leading products and solutions to its customers.
It also serves as a clear demonstration of what we mean by Go-To: building long term client relationships and combining strategic advice and deep financing expertise to help our clients achieve their business goals.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 37
