Barclaycard Barclaycard is one of the few global leaders in payments that provides Go-To solutions to both buyers and sellers, enabling us to deliver consistent growth and welcome close to 14m new customers in the past three years.
Valerie Soranno Keating CEO, Barclaycard The Barclaycard business model Our social purpose The ability to buy and sell goods or services easily and securely is an important human need and essential to create the right environment for economic growth.
Barclaycard is an international payments company, enabling consumers and businesses to make and take payments.
We provide the ability to fund these payments with credit.
For them we provide Uniquely providing value through Our customers are those We enable consumers and businesses to Our value propositions Barclaycard supports consumers and make payments quickly, securely and businesses making payments for goods Support the requirements of both the internationally, facilitating the flow of funds and services and the parties taking those buyers and sellers in the payment process for those wanting to make payments payments.
We operate in nine countries Use diverse distribution channels to reach in-store and digitally.
United Kingdom, United States, Germany, a broader set of customers Spain, Portugal, South Africa through Absa Utilise scale and international reach to We provide flexible credit solutions to Card and Norway, Sweden and Denmark enable sharing of analytics, costs and best consumers and small businesses via through the EnterCard joint venture.
practice, and ultimately better meet consumer and corporate credit cards, consumer needs underwriting the credit risk.
We support UK RBB and Absa in offering Facilitate the launch and use of innovative credit cards as part of an offering to products We enable consumers and businesses to consumers who are looking for a holistic Support economies of scale and reduced take payments, facilitating purchases relationship with their retail bank, and costs in-store and digitally, while offering support Corporate Banking in providing a solutions for point of sale finance and suite of payment services for businesses.
30 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Barclaycard operates in the fast-growing consumer Balanced Scorecard payments space, supporting buyers and sellers by enabling consumers and businesses to make and take payments.
We provide the ability for consumers and businesses to fund these payments with credit.
Helping people achieve their Market and Operating environment ambitions in the right way The consumer payments sector is growing rapidly as a result of changing customer behaviour, based on the growth of electronic and mobile commerce and changing payment preferences as key factors.
New technology, competition and regulations all present opportunities, but also the need to adjust our business model.
Our customers and clients want us to do more for them, and to do it better, faster and Customer and client cheaper, and digitally.
This presents many opportunities for Barclaycard Barclaycard serves 35.5m customers, an 8% increase on prior year and and also presents challenges.
We have focused on offering customers simple, innovative products as part of our objective of Business Model risks moving from satisfied customers to customers who are strong This changing marketplace could create risks to the Barclaycard advocates of our business.
We have implemented Net Promoter Score business model.
The emerging competitive landscape in consumer as our key customer metric to measure this.
payments is seeing new players enter the payment value chain, and new use of technology generating the need for continuous innovation We have continued to build on a heritage of innovation, supporting and technology investment.
Our unique ability of supporting both more than 1m payments enabled devices across three continents and buyers and sellers, diverse distribution channels, and the scale of our working with Transport for London on acceptance of contactless cards business in multiple countries helps to mitigate the impact of this risk.
for over 6.5m bus journeys in the UK.
We have launched bFlex, a revolutionary, flexible finance product designed for online purchases.
Other potential risks come from macroeconomic headwinds creating Our tailored offers engine for UK customers, bespoke, has reached further credit risk for our customers and reducing income though over 800k registered users, of whom over half are new to Barclays.
potential margin compression, impacts of further regulatory change or increased operational risk.
Our diversified business model and We have also worked with other areas of Barclays to better serve our commitment to leading standards for business practice should help customers, such as through the Better Together initiative, which limit the potential impact from these.
combines current accounts and Barclaycard Freedom Rewards to provide customers with access to credit and the launch of Absa Pebble, Africas first mobile payment acceptance device.
Contributing to strategy Barclaycard operates in the fast-growing consumer payments industry, with clear growth opportunities.
Providing our customers with solutions that are simple, offer clear value, always work, increasingly digital and instant and create emotional engagement will enable us to become the Go-To bank for consumer payments.
Uniquely providing value through Sustaining business by Contributing to income by Bring diverse benefits Societys underlying need to make and We charge for our products and services, take payments wont change and seems contributing to Group revenue through: Generating revenue streams from both likely to increase as more sophisticated parts of the relationship electronic and digital solutions are required Interest income from consumers and Appeal to those who seek all-in-one by customers.
businesses opting to use the credit we banking relationships as well as those who offer prefer discrete propositions Our role is to support and facilitate the Improved services and customer insights Transaction fees from facilitating the ways that people wish to make and take Faster innovation at lower risk payment flow, both from consumers payments while ensuring we lend Access to diverse distribution channels making payments and from businesses responsibly to those that credit is suitable Attractive growth potential accepting payments for.
Lower costs Service fees from value-added features Lower risks from world class analytics Because of our role as a trusted for consumers and businesses, such as Higher returns international payments company and by monthly fees for point of sale terminals Greater resilience to economic cycles due responding to customer and market needs, or the fee for transferring an outstanding to operating in multiple geographies and Barclaycard has maintained its position as credit card balance from another card supporting both sides of consumer the 8th largest consumer payment payments company in the world.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 31 Barclaycard continued Through our customer focus, we have seen a 39% reduction in Company complaints to a level of 3.12 per 1,000 accounts in 2013 and zero Contribution to total income high-rated Regulatory Compliance monitoring reviews.
Our leading products have received numerous industry awards, Adjusted including the Moneyfacts award for Best Card Provider for both our 4,786m total income Balance Transfer rate 3rd year in a row and Standard rate products in 4,786m the UK, being ranked 2nd among Visa MasterCard issuers in the 2013 JD Power industry customer service rankings in the US and winning the Best Corporate Card Provider at the Business Travel Awards.
Colleague 2013 2012 2011 We are committed to attracting, developing and retaining colleagues of Income m 4,786 4,344 4,305 the highest calibre and integrity.
We continue to bring in the best talent from diverse backgrounds, while developing our existing talent.
We Adjusted profit before tax m 1,507 1,482 1,212 ensure progression and rotation at all levels of the organisation and Adjusted ROE % 18.4 19.8 16.1 follow a structured learning and leadership development programme Loan loss rate bps 337 294 394 to develop our colleagues.
Loans and advances to customers bn 35.6 33.8 31.0 Customer deposits bn 38.9 38.2 34.8 In 2013, we continued to make progress with our diversity agenda, with 34% women in senior leadership.
We have also sustained high levels of Barclaycard continued to grow in all markets, with a net increase of colleague engagement to ensure talent retention, with 95% of high nearly three million new customers in 2013.
Income improved 10% to performers retained.
4,786m reflecting continued net lending growth and contributions from 2012 portfolio acquisitions.
We have moved our Absa Card office to a new, world-class site in The business incurred 49m of costs to achieve Transform, as it Pretoria and won the Customer Service Training Network Training continued to seek to become the Go-To bank for consumer payments.
Programme of the Year award for our UK contact centres.
Adjusted operating expenses increased 11% to 2,048m reflecting increased costs from 2012 portfolio acquisitions, net lending growth, Citizenship higher operating losses and costs to achieve Transform.
Barclaycard has continued to embed and contribute to the Barclays 2015 Citizenship Plan.
Barclaycard continued to deliver adjusted profit growth, improving 2% to 1,507m driven by the US and UK card portfolios.
We have continued to focus on the way we do business to ensure we are fair and transparent.
We have simplified the Terms & Conditions of Total assets increased 2% to 38.9bn primarily driven by the increase many of our products.
in loans and advances to customers across the UK and international businesses.
We have ensured we are supporting the economy and contributing to growth, including offering 15.8bn in new lending to businesses and For more information on performance, please see households in 2013, and adding a charity redemption category for pages 237 to 268 Freedom Rewards customers in the UK who want to donate their collected points.
We are supporting our community through activities such as Royal British Legion London Poppy Day, supporting poppy sales with our Future priorities colleagues and contactless terminals.
Barclaycard will become the Go-To bank for consumer payments Conduct through: We continue to rollout the Barclays Values and Behaviours, Delivering simple, leading and innovative products to our retail empowering our Values Leaders to embed them with their colleagues.
consumers and business clients that help them achieve their ambitions in the right way.
Barclaycard continues to review policies and practices to identify and proactively ensure that they continue to be simple, leading, innovative Maintaining our track record of delivering strong financial and transparent, including those associated with handling PPI performance, and delivering against the Transform targets complaints.
We are committed to ensuring that we adhere to the through continued efficiencies, realising economies of scale, highest standards of conduct, proactively driving cultural change diversifying our business model and using world class analytics.
through developing best-in-class conduct risk awareness training.
Attracting, developing and retaining colleagues of the highest calibre and integrity.
Continuing to have a positive impact in local communities by creating sustainable relationships and using the skills of the business and our colleagues to support these communities.
Focusing on the way we do business to ensure that our products and services are industry-leading in transparency.
32 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Payment flexibility This works really well for people who have children and cant come Marco Tripoli is a charismatic ladies fashion designer and back to the shop in the afternoon.
Its convenient for them and a much boutique owner in South-West London.
He uses a friendlier way to do business.
In fact, technology, often considered to Barclaycard ePDQ terminal in his shop to take payment by be faceless and impersonal, actually allows me to have a far more credit or debit card.
personal service with my customers.
Marcos tiny shop in Barnes is bursting at the seams with unique Marco also uses his flexible payment machine at events all over handbags, jewellery and clothes around half of which Marco designs London.
At a recent local fair, ePDQ helped him sell 45 tote bags - himself, the rest arriving twice weekly from all over Europe.
His brand is purely thanks to the convenience of paying by card.
built on a few key selling points: commitment to quality, sustainability and affordability, and a unique approach to customer service.
Marco is proud of his service-led, community-centric approach.
5% of his net profits go to a local charity that helps the elderly and disabled - When women fall in love with a bag or dress at Tripolis, theyre not and many of the small businesses in Barnes promote each others constrained to a quick decision in a cramped fitting room.
Thanks to services whenever they can.
his Barclaycard ePDQ terminal, Marco can give his customer the option to try before she buys, in the comfort of her own home.
These traditional, ethical business values are reflected in the high level of personalised support that Marcos had from his dedicated Barclaycard Many of my customers pop in on their way back from dropping the account manager, Andy.
kids at school and if they like something, theyll take it with them to try on at home, says Marco.
That way, they can see how a dress looks Hes extremely proactive and offers advice whenever he can.
He with their own shoes and accessories or how one of my handbags recently recommended that I use an accounting package to manage complements an outfit.
my daily expenditure and its saved me 200 a month in accountancy fees.
He really does go over and above what youd expect.
After closing for the day, Marco calls personally at each of his prospective customers homes.
If theyve decided against an item, it When Marcos machine broke down the night before a big event in goes back to the shop with him.
And if theyve decided to buy, Marco Wimbledon, he simply called Andy and another one was flown simply uses his ePDQ terminal to take payment by credit or debit card.
immediately from Scotland to London.
It arrived 15 minutes before the event started, says Marco, You just cant put a value on service like that.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 33
