Africa We offer our clients deep local knowledge and presence and the expertise and support of a global bank.
Maria Ramos Chief Executive, Africa Africa business model Our social purpose Customers and clients from individuals to multinational corporates have speci c banking and insurance needs that are driven by their ambitions.
These range from local and cross border payments, nancing their plans through loans, gaining access to capital markets receiving specialised advice or securing protection through insurance.
By providing these fundamental financial activities we play a key role in empowering Africa.
For them we provide Uniquely providing value through Our customers and clients are those Full suite of retail banking products and Our value propositions services Retail customers across the mass, middle Deep local knowledge and presence market and af uent markets Full range of commercial transactional, Expertise and support of a global bank investment and lending products Business customers including small and Providing and enhancing access to the medium enterprises and commercial Specialist investment banking, corporate continent by being the bridge between ventures banking, nancing, risk management local and global markets and advisory solutions Large corporates, public sector bodies New and innovative solutions across the and financial institutions Insurance, duciary and non-banking banking and insurance spectrum related investment products and services Retail, commercial and corporate to retail, commercial and corporate Reduced costs of doing business customers and clients seeking wealth, clients investment management and insurance Contributing to Africas growth and solutions Wealth management services for high development net-worth individuals 26 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information The African continent provides an excellent growth Balanced Scorecard opportunity for the Group.
With our strategy for Africa, we are well-positioned to benefit from this emerging market opportunity.
Helping people Market and operating environment achieve their Emerging markets growth eased somewhat in 2013 whilst developed ambitions in the country central banks maintained their accommodative monetary right way policy stance, with some cutting interest rates and others injecting liquidity into the financial system.
South Africas economic growth remained muted and we faced increasingly strong competition.
In our rest of Africa markets, economic growth remained resilient.
Our regulatory environment continues to evolve and rising customer and Customer and client client expectations as well as new technologies are challenging how we Barclays is a powerful local bank, a powerful regional bank and a do business.
We use this unique advantage to the benefit of our customers and clients.
Business Model risks Current economic conditions in South Africa bring increased financial In Retail and Business Banking RBB, we have focused on enhancing pressure on customers and clients, some of whom may already be the customer experience.
In South Africa this began with simplifying struggling to fulfil their payment obligations when faced with subdued transactional product offerings, expanding the digital experience economic activity and potentially rising interest rates.
Rest of Africa through the launch of our banking app, and rolling out a fully challenges such as infrastructure constraints, lower commodity prices, integrated online insurance platform.
In our rest of Africa markets, and fiscal and current account imbalances in some markets have led customers are benefiting from revised Premier and Prestige banking to modest declines in our economic growth forecasts for some of proposition, Barclays Direct, Worldmiles Platinum credit debit card as the economies.
well as CashSend money transfer.
It is our goal to simplify processes and improve customer experience.
Intensified regulatory and government intervention ensures a sound operating environment: however, it does lead to increased cost of We will measure our progress in our RBB businesses through our Net compliance and complexity of doing business.
Promoter Score a widely used measure of customer advocacy.
Through regular and rigorous review of our customers and clients We continue to see a host of emerging and non-traditional competitors feedback we will identify where and how we need to invest to make the as well as increasing consumer expectations for traditional banks to customer journeys simpler, more intuitive and more personalised.
Contributing to strategy Our competitive position is a combination of being a powerful local, regional and global bank.
We use this advantage for the benefit of our customers and clients becoming their Go-To bank across our Retail and Business Banking, Corporate and Investment Banking as well as our Wealth, Investment Management and Insurance businesses.
Uniquely providing value through Sustaining business by Contributing to income by Bring diverse benefits Building upon our strengths, replicating Interest income from loans less interest what we do well and continuously paid on deposits Better customer and client experiences improving our offerings and outcomes Regular fees account fees, advice, Targeting our activities in those areas service and investment advice Reduction in processing times and where we know we can compete associated errors Specific product sale and transaction strongly and provide best in class fees Tailored services solutions Commissions and spreads on client Support and access to lending capital Making the investments into simplifying transactions how we operate, while ensuring we keep A gateway to the best of Barclays advice this transparent for our customers and Minimising impairment through and services clients responsible lending and supporting customers and clients back to financial Running a financially stable, risk health conscious business Ensuring we have the right people giving the right advice, delivering the most suitable services barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 27 Africa continued For our Corporate and Investment Banking clients we continue to bring Company African clients to the global financial markets and give our global Contribution to total income clients access to Africa.
For example, we are leveraging our leading foreign exchange platform BARX Africa to trade 40 currencies across our key African markets.
We have completed a pilot for Barclays.
Net Adjusted a streamlined and full-featured cash management platform for our 2,617m total income corporate and commercial clients with full roll-out in South Africa 2,617m in 2014.
In 2013, we were named Best Debt House in Africa for the fourth consecutive year by EuroMoney, Best Bond House and Best FX House 2013 2012 2011 at the Spire Awards and we were voted best Overall Bank by Risk Africa RBB South Africa.
Income m 2,617 2,928 3,364 Profit before tax m 404 322 730 We have a strong plan in place to continue capturing the opportunities Adjusted ROE % 0.4 0.1 7.4 before us by improving customer and client experience, driving process Loan loss rate bps 128 202 136 simplification as well as innovative products and systems.
Loans and advances to customers bn 24.2 29.9 32.5 Customer deposits bn 16.9 19.5 20.3 Colleague Distribution points 1,396 1,451 1,493 We have made notable progress in building a talent pipeline that supports our ambitions and our expanded African footprint provides a 2013 was affected by increased competition, a changing regulatory unique opportunity for talented people to advance their careers.
We environment and foreign exchange movements, as average ZAR want to be known for our leadership bench strength and we have depreciated 16% against GBP.
Income declined 11% to 2,617m driven embarked on a number of transformational leadership and values by foreign currency movements, partially offset by the non-recurrence based programmes which are designed to support our leaders in of fair value adjustments in the commercial property finance portfolio delivering on a demanding performance agenda.
On a constant currency basis, income improved 5%, despite continued pressure on transaction volumes in a competitive Citizenship environment.
Our ambition is to help facilitate greater, more inclusive prosperity in Africa.
In 2013, we consolidated our citizenship structures thus The business incurred 26m of costs to achieve Transform which strengthening our ability to deliver our African plan.
Over the year our supported the re-shaping of the branch network and ongoing work on activities ranged from funding renewable energy projects to increasing digitalisation of customer channels and products.
Operating expenses access to financial services for individuals and small businesses.
On a constant currency basis, costs continued to invest our community investment spend in targeted skills increased 11% driven by a combination of increased investment spend development programmes with proven job creation capabilities.
Our on infrastructure and inflation increases in South Africa.
colleagues continued to participate in a range of volunteering events such as the Nelson Mandela Day in South Africa and Barclays global Profit before tax increased 25% to 404m.
On a constant currency Make a Difference Day campaign.
basis, profit before tax was up 57%, largely as a result of lower impairment provisions on the South African home loans recovery book.
Conduct Our values underpin the way we behave and form the backbone of our Loans and advances to customers decreased 19% to 24.2bn as reputation as a trusted financial services provider.
Our ongoing foreign currency movements offset growth of 2%, particularly in vehicle programme to bring our revised values alive culminated with the and asset finance.
launch of the Barclays Way a global Code of Conduct to embed clear and consistent expectations of behaviours across the Group.
For more information on performance, please see pages 237 to 268 In addition to our underlying values, we believe that laws, regulations and codes are an enabler to our business ensuring that we make informed decisions in how we manage our business and sustain ourselves into the future.
Future priorities As with many other jurisdictions, we are managing regulatory change as well as increasing expectations from stakeholders, and our response We have articulated very clear priorities for 2014: supports our commitment to treat our customers fairly and operate Continuing the turnaround programme for our RBB franchise with integrity.
in South Africa, and the build out across the continent: Basis of Company reporting Investing in Corporate Banking across the continent: Barclays Group reports Africa RBB separately and the following Capturing the growth opportunity in our Wealth, Investment information relates specifically to the Africa RBB reporting segment.
Management and Insurance franchise: Results from other global businesses operating in Africa are integrated within each respective business results.
Continuing to invest in and develop the talent we have across the business: and These priorities are underpinned by an investment programme of over ZAR 3bn that will be invested into several large projects such as transforming our branches, integrating and standardising IT, investing in our digital capabilities and creating efficient processing hubs in the right locations.
28 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Working together to serve global and regional clients and local customers Local going regional We are bringing together the best of our African South African companies are looking at the rest of the continent for businesses with the best of our global franchise to the growth and we continue to help the expansion of corporates on the benefit of our customers and clients.
We are supporting a clothing retailers expansion into Ghana and won the tender to provide services to a major food retailer across During 2013, we worked closely between our operations across Africa six countries Botswana, Ghana, Mauritius, Tanzania, Uganda and and with our global colleagues to meet the needs of our customers and Zambia.
We have been the bridge between local and global markets, we have helped our African clients achieve their regional growth ambitions Access to global products and services and we have brought new products and solutions to our customers, With Barclaycard, we have rolled out a Worldmiles Platinum credit card clients and the communities in which we operate.
in Botswana, Egypt, Kenya and Mauritius and the debit card version in Egypt, Ghana, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia providing local customers Local going global with access to a leading global product.
We have also worked closely Acting as a joint-lead arranger we have raised $1bn for South African with Barclaycard to launch the Pebble a mobile payment device in state-owned power utility Eskom through a 10-year bond offering.
transaction achieved $4bn in investor demand and represented Eskoms second US Dollar issuance.
We are the only institution to have Leveraging the Barclays Social Innovation Facility for product and acted as joint-lead manager on both issuances.
services that drive social and commercial value With GlaxoSmithKline, we are investing up to 7m over three years, to Global going local help remove financial barriers to healthcare access while supporting Acting as the sole sponsor and joint financial advisor, we helped small business development and job creation in Zambia.
By combining Glencore Xtrata, a global diversified natural resource company to our skills, expertise and resources, we hope to tackle the challenges of access Africa with a listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
This last mile delivery and create a model that could be scaled across Africa listing makes investment in Glencore more accessible to South African to help more people gain access to affordable healthcare.
investors through its classification as a domestic equity.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 29
