The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information l Executive Director Board of Directors Non-executive Director Other principal external appointments Member, Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales Ethics Standards Committee Member, HM Treasury's Audit Committee Vice Chair, European Financial Reporting Advisory Group's Technical Expert Group Committee membership Board Audit Committee Chairman Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee Sir David Walker 74 Antony Jenkins 52 Fulvio Conti 66 l Board Financial Risk Committee Chairman Group Chief Executive: Non-executive Director Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee Executive Director Skills and experience Skills and experience Sir David joined the Board as a Fulvio joined the Board in April 2006 as a Skills and experience non-executive Director in September 2012 non-executive Director.
Fulvio has Antony was appointed Group Chief and became Chairman in November 2012. significant financial and business Executive in August 2012.
Previously experience from a career spanning over 35 Antony was Chief Executive of Barclays Sir David began his career with Her years, and is currently CEO and General Retail and Business Banking business.
He Majestys Treasury, where, with a period Manager of Enel SpA, the Italian energy has been a member of the Group on secondment to the International company, where he was previously Chief Executive Committee since 2009.
During his career Fulvio Monetary Fund in Washington, he served until 1977.
Sir David held several key held the role of General Manager and CFO Antony started his career at Barclays, positions at the Bank of England, where he of Telecom Italia SpA and CFO for various where he completed the Barclays became one of four Executive Directors.
private and government owned entities in Management Development Programme, Italy.
He was also in charge of finance at He was Chairman of the Securities & before going on to hold various roles in Investment Board and, ex officio, a MontedisonCompart, was CFO at retail and corporate banking.
He then Tim Breedon 56 nominated member of the Council of Montecatini and Ferrovie dello Stato and moved to Citigroup, working in both Lloyds.
Sir David was a non-executive has also held positions in finance and Non-executive Director London and New York, before rejoining operations in various affiliates of Mobil Oil member of the Court of the Bank of Barclays as Chief Executive of Barclaycard.
England, a non-executive board member Corporation in Italy and Europe.
Fulvios Antony has represented Barclays as a Skills and experience of the former CEGB and subsequently of wide ranging business experience, non-executive Director on the Board of Tim was appointed to the Board as a National Power plc.
He was formerly particularly in continental Europe, provides non-executive Director in November 2012.
Absa now Barclays Africa Group.
He was Chairman of Reuters Venture Capital, a valuable contribution to the Board Audit Tim held a number of roles at Legal & also on the Board of Visa Europe Ltd and Committee and the main Board, Vice-Chairman of the Legal and General the Board of Motability Operations Group General Group plc L&G before joining its Group plc and was Chairman of the particularly with regard to economic and plc.
Since becoming Group Chief board as Group Director Investments London Investment Bankers Association political developments in the Eurozone.
Executive, Antony has taken the lead in and becoming Group Chief Executive.
Sir David was Chairman and was later an adviser to L&G, primarily with the development of Barclays Transform CEO of Morgan Stanley International, and Other principal external appointments programme, including the introduction of responsibilities in connection with subsequently Chairman.
He retired as President, Eurelectric a new purpose and values, with the aim of Solvency II.
Tim was a Director of the Chairman of Morgan Stanley International Director, AON PLC making Barclays the Go-To Bank for Association of British Insurers ABI, and in December 2005 but remained a Senior Director, ENDESA SA also served as its Chairman.
He was also customers and clients.
Advisor until the end of August 2012.
Sir Director, Italian Institute of Technology Chairman of the UK Governments David is a member and a trustee of the Independent Director, RCS MediaGroup Other principal external appointments non-bank lending taskforce, an Group of Thirty and previously served as S. p. A industry-led taskforce that looked at the Member, Board of Directors of the Institute Treasurer of the Group.
He was Chairman Vice President, Confindustria structural and behavioural barriers to the of International Finance of the Business Leaders Group of the East Member, International Advisory Panel of development of alternative debt markets End charity Community Links.
Committee membership the Monetary Authority of Singapore in the UK.
Tim was a director of the Board Audit Committee Financial Reporting Council and was on Sir David has completed two reports and the board of the Investment Management Committee membership made recommendations in respect of the Group Executive Committee Chairman Association.
Tim has over 25 years of private equity industry and corporate experience in financial services and has governance at financial institutions.
He extensive knowledge and experience of also co-led the independent review of the regulatory and government relationships.
report that the FSA produced into the He brings to the Board the experience and failure of Royal Bank of Scotland and was knowledge of leading a financial services a member of the four-person Committee company, combined with an chaired by Lord Woolf former Lord Chief understanding of the UK and EU Justice into ethical business conduct at regulatory environment and risk BAE Systems plc.
His customer focus and understanding of investor issues, gained Sir David has significant experience as a both at L&G and the ABI, is of particular director and chairman, coupled with an relevance to Barclays.
extensive knowledge of the financial Simon Fraser 54 services industry.
This, in addition to an Other principal external appointments excellent understanding and experience of Non-executive Director Non-executive Director, Ministry of Justice boardroom and corporate governance Mike Ashley 59 issues, enables him to provide effective Skills and experience Committee membership Non-Executive Director leadership to the Barclays Board.
Simon joined the Board in March 2009 as Board Financial Risk Committee a non-executive Director.
He has extensive Chairman Skills and experience Other principal external appointments experience of the fund management Board Audit Committee Mike joined the Board as a non-executive Trustee, Cicely Saunders Foundation industry, having started his career at Board Conduct, Reputation and Director in September 2013.
He was Fidelity International, where he spent 27 Operational Risk Committee formerly Head of Quality and Risk Committee membership years.
During this time Simon was Board Corporate Governance and Management for KPMG Europe LLP Board Conduct, Reputation and President of the Investment Solutions Nominations Committee ELLP, which forms part of the KPMG Operational Risk Committee Chairman Group and President of the Retirement Board Remuneration Committee global network, where his responsibilities Board Corporate Governance and Institute.
He held a number of other Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee included the management of professional Nominations Committee Chairman positions during his career at Fidelity risks and quality control.
He was a Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee International, including President, member of the ELLP Board and was also Chairman European & UK Institutional Business, KPMG UK's designated Ethics Partner.
Board Remuneration Committee Global Chief Investment Officer, Chief Mike has over 20 years experience as an Investment Officer for Asia Pacific and audit partner, during which he was the Chief Investment Officer of the European lead audit partner for several large Investment Group.
With his extensive financial services groups, most recently experience of the fund management HSBC Holdings and Standard Chartered industry, Simon provides a useful PLC, and also for the Bank of England.
perspective on how Barclays is viewed by Mike has an in depth understanding of its institutional investors.
auditing and the associated regulatory issues, with specific experience of large, global banks.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 83 Board of Directors continued Other principal external appointments Barclays Africa Group Limited formerly Director, Fidelity European Values PLC Absa Group Limited, one of the largest Director, Fidelity Japanese Values PLC financial services groups in Africa and Chairman, Foreign and Colonial majority owned by Barclays.
She Investment Trust PLC previously served as an Executive Director Chairman, The Merchants Trust PLC of Rand Merchant Bank and became Chief Non-executive Director, Ashmore Executive of FirstRand Ltds retail Group PLC businesses following the merger of Rand Merchant Bank and First National Bank.
She has held senior Board positions at the Committee membership Board Audit Committee Development Bank of Southern Africa, the Board Remuneration Committee South African Financial Markets Advisory Board and Nedbank Group Limited.
Wendy has also held positions on the boards of Dambisa Moyo 45 Sir Michael Rake 66 Telkom SA, Eskom, Aveng Ltd, Alexander Non-executive Director Deputy Chairman and Forbes Ltd, Dimension Data PLC and Anglo American Platinum Ltd.
Her Senior Independent Director Skills and experience extensive experience from board level Dambisa joined the Board in May 2010 as positions in South African banks, as well Skills and experience a non-executive Director.
She is an as her years of providing consultancy Sir Michael joined the Board in January international economist and commentator services to the largest banks in South 2008 as a non-executive Director.
He was on the global economy, with a background Africa, provides the Board with valuable appointed Senior Independent Director in in financial services.
After completing a retail, commercial and investment banking October 2011 and Deputy Chairman in July PhD in Economics, she worked for expertise.
Sir Michael spent over 30 years with Goldman Sachs in the debt capital banking in Africa also provides an KPMG, where he was Senior Partner of the markets, hedge funds coverage and global invaluable insight into banking in the UK rm and Chairman of KPMG macroeconomics teams.
Wendy has led or participated in a International.
Sir Michael is Chairman of Reuben Jeffery III 61 also worked for the World Bank and number of conduct related consultations BT Group plc and was previously formerly served as a non-executive throughout her career, and such Non-executive Director Chairman of the UK Commission for Director of Lundin Petroleum AB publ.
knowledge and experience will contribute Employment and Skills, Chairman of Dambisas background as an economist, greatly towards the discussion of culture Skills and experience Business in the Community, Chairman of in particular her knowledge and at Barclays.
Reuben joined the Board in July 2009 as a easyJet plc and a director of the Financial understanding of global macroeconomic non-executive Director.
He is currently CEO Reporting Council.
Sir Michael has issues and African economic, political and Other principal external appointments substantial financial and commercial and a director of Rockefeller & Co Inc. and social issues, provides an important Director, Afrika Tikkun NPC Rockefeller Financial Services Inc. Reuben experience gained in the UK, Continental contribution to the Boards discussion of Director, Peotona Group Holdings served in the US government as Under Europe and the Middle East.
He also has Barclays business and citizenship strategy.
Secretary of State for Economic, Energy signi cant experience, both as Chairman Committee membership and a board member, of listed companies and Agricultural Affairs, as Chairman Other principal external appointments Board Conduct, Reputation and of the Commodity Futures Trading Non-executive Director, SABMiller PLC Operational Risk Committee Commission and as a special assistant to Other principal external appointments Non-executive Director, Barrick Gold the President on the staff of the National President, Confederation of British Industry Corporation Security Council.
Before his government Director, McGraw-Hill Financial, Inc service, Reuben spent eighteen years at Committee membership Goldman, Sachs & Co where he was Committee membership Board Conduct, Reputation and managing partner of Goldman Sachs in Board Corporate Governance and Operational Risk Committee Paris and led the rm's European Financial Nominations Committee Board Financial Risk Committee Institutions Group in London.
Prior to Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee joining Goldman Sachs, Reuben was a Board Financial Risk Committee corporate attorney with Davis Polk & Wardwell.
Reuben has a broad range of financial services experience, particularly investment banking, and in addition brings extensive insight into the US political and regulatory environment.
Tushar Morzaria 45 Other principal external appointments Group Finance Director Member, International Advisory Council of the China Securities Regulatory Commission Skills and experience Member, Advisory Board of Towerbrook Tushar joined the Board and Executive Capital Partners LP Committee of Barclays in October 2013 as Member, International Advisory Group Finance Director.
Prior to this, he Frits van Paasschen 52 Committee, RIT PLC was CFO, Corporate and Investment Bank Non-Executive Director Diane fide Saint Victor 59 Director, Financial Services Volunteer at JP Morgan Chase, a role he held on the Corps merger of the investment bank and the Non-executive Director Skills and experience Director, J Rothschild Capital Management wholesale treasury security services Frits was appointed to the Board as a Limited business at JP Morgan.
Prior to the merger, Skills and experience non-executive Director in August 2013. he was CFO of the investment bank and Diane was appointed as a non-executive Frits is an experienced Director and Chief Committee membership held other various roles during his career Director in March 2013.
She is currently Executive Of cer.
He is currently CEO and Board Conduct, Reputation and at JP Morgan.
General Counsel and Company Secretary President of Starwood Hotels and Resorts Operational Risk Committee and a member of the Group Executive Worldwide Inc, one of the worlds largest Board Financial Risk Committee Tushar quali ed as an accountant at Committee of ABB Limited, the publicly hotel companies.
He served as a Coopers and Lybrand Deloitte and for listed international power and automation non-executive Director for two NYSE listed most of his career he has worked in technologies company based in companies, Jones Apparel Group and investment banking, having held various Switzerland.
He previously served as the CEO roles at SG Warburg, JP Morgan and Credit Head of Legal and Integrity Group.
She and President of Coors Brewing Company Suisse.
was formerly Senior Vice President and and has held various senior management General Counsel of EADS, the European positions with Nike, Inc. and Disney Tushar has over 20 years of strategic aerospace and defence company.
Frits extensive global financial management experience, which legal experience and her knowledge of and commercial experience and role as a will prove invaluable in his role as Group regulatory and compliance matters allows CEO of an international business provides Finance Director.
her to provide a unique perspective to the valuable strategic insight.
In particular, his Board and its Committees.
experience in developing and marketing Other principal external appointments brands, and a broad knowledge of None Other principal external appointments enhancing business performance and the Member, Advisory Board of The World customer experience in a retail Committee membership Economic Forums Davos Open Forum Wendy Lucas-Bull 60 environment, is highly bene cial to many Group Executive Committee aspects of Barclays business.
Non-Executive Director Committee Membership Board Audit Committee Other principal external appointments Skills and experience Board Conduct, Reputation and None Wendy was appointed to the Board as a Operational Risk Committee non-executive Director in September Committee membership 2013.
She is currently Chairman of None 84 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
