Risk review Reputation risk Reputation risk is the risk of damage to Barclays brand arising from any association, action or inaction which is perceived by stakeholders e. g. customers, clients, colleagues, shareholders, regulators, opinion formers to be inappropriate or unethical.
All disclosures in this section pages 226 and 227 are unaudited Subsequent erosion of the banks brand reduces the attractiveness of Barclays also took the decision to exit client relationships in the Money Service Business MSB sector because of financial crime and Barclays to those stakeholders and, therefore, the ability to achieve the Groups goals and business purpose.
regulatory risks in the sector.
Although we consider that this decision was necessary from a regulatory perspective, unfortunately it has The cost of reputation risk could manifest itself in one, or a impacted on businesses in this sector and the customers they serve.
combination of, the following outcomes: negative publicity: erosion of customer client confidence: loss of revenue: litigation: regulatory or Lessons learnt and remediation activity Barclays has undertaken a range of initiatives to strengthen legislative action: loss of existing and potential client business: reduced internal morale: and difficulties in recruiting the talent required to governance, drive positive cultural change through the organisation and apply a responsible and consistent lens to decision-making.
Ultimately, it may destroy long-term shareholder value.
In 2013, reputation risk was elevated by Barclays to Principal Risk status Reputation risk is pervasive in nature and may arise for a wide variety of in acknowledgement of its significance for the business.
Governance of reasons, real or perceived, for example: all Principal and Key Risks is being revised and strengthened as part of the Transform initiative and in 2014 has been aligned with the new Failure to act in accordance with our stated values, standards and Enterprise Risk Management Framework, which will ensure all risks are policies: managed in a co-ordinated manner according to consistent parameters.
Association with illegal activity or governance or regulatory breaches: Failure of technical systems and processes: Governance around the management of reputation risk is designed to Association with controversial clients or sectors: and promote such a consistent approach and a risk-aware culture across our organisation globally.
Every member of staff must take Association with controversial business decisions or conduct relating responsibility for managing reputation risk associated with their to products, service provision, acquisitions, and employment decisions and actions.
The implementation of The Barclays Way, the practices.
banks global code of conduct launched in October 2013, encourages Barclays colleagues to speak up if they encounter decisions or Barclays reputation may also be impacted negatively by the standing behaviours which are not in keeping with Barclays purpose and values, of the banking and financial industry generally with stakeholders.
Poor and promotes a more open culture conducive to the identification, practice or controversy perpetrated by other banks affects the sector as management and reporting of reputation and other risks.
all parts of the bank have attended values workshops and are required to attest annually to The Barclays Way, which explains how Barclays As reputation risk arises from a real or perceived failure to comply with values and desired behaviours should be put into practice at work.
expected norms, which are likely to change over time, the situation is not static.
Todays decisions may be judged tomorrow by different Where individuals are confronted by a decision which appears to have standards and this needs to be factored into our risk culture, evaluation wider reputational consequences, they are supported by a clear set of and sanctioning procedures.
Reputation risk is also pervasive, it can processes outlined in the Barclays Reputation Risk Framework that arise anywhere in the organisation, and management of it requires articulates how businesses and functions should identify and manage more subjective judgement than many other risks.
this risk, including how to escalate an issue.
The objective is to ensure that all decision-making includes an evaluation of the reputation risk Barclays experienced a number of events negatively impacting its potential and that, where material risk is identified, this is managed at reputation in 2013, some of which arose as a result of decisions and the right level of seniority and in a timely way.
behaviours which occurred in prior years.
For example, Barclays participation in the submission of London interbank lending rates LIBOR between 2005 and 2009 fell short of the high standards by which we aim to conduct business.
Barclays let down its customers and clients and regrets that these actions harmed trust and confidence among our stakeholders.
While the findings involved only a relatively small number of the Groups 140,000 employees, Barclays has fully acknowledged and accepted responsibility for this past conduct.
With interest rate hedging products, Barclays recognises that we have not met the standards expected of us by our regulator and customers in some cases concerning small and medium-sized enterprises.
226 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Difficult decisions or dilemmas are referred initially to a business-level committee of senior executives familiar with the reputation risk profile and track record of their business area.
If the issue is judged to be outside the scope of their authority, e. g. due to the materiality of the risk concerned or that it affects multiple business areas, then it can be escalated to the Barclays Reputation Committee.
In 2013, this committee was re-designated a sub-committee of the new Conduct and Reputation Risk Committee CRRC chaired by Barclays Head of Compliance and comprising Executive Committee-level representatives from Barclays businesses and functions.
The CRRC reports to the Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee BCRORC, which maintains Board-level oversight of non-financial Principal Risks.
The strategic review of the business in February 2013, explicitly considered reputation risk.
The focus was on how we deliver returns, as well as what returns may be delivered.
The analysis assessed each business against a range of criteria, including market attractiveness, competitor positioning, regulation, and reputation risk which was assessed using the lens of Barclays purpose and values.
This review incorporated the earlier review of reputation risk associated with Corporate and Investment Banking business lines and resulted in Barclays exit from some businesses, including the Structured Capital Markets tax-related business unit.
The view was that, while many tax services provided to clients are not controversial, there were some that relied on sophisticated and complex structures where transactions were carried out with the primary objective of accessing the tax benefits.
Although this activity is legal, it was considered incompatible with the Groups purpose and published tax principles.
A further review of Barclays Wealth and Investment Management identified over 130 countries in which the business would no longer seek new clients.
The review was designed to ensure alignment of the business to Barclays purpose and values, reduce complexity and ensure we are well-placed to compete in a wealth management industry that has fundamentally changed.
On a more operational level, in 2013 we made the decision to drop using premium rate telephone numbers in the UK.
As part of Which?s campaign against the use of premium rate numbers, Barclays and Barclaycard committed to switching from more costly phone lines to local rate numbers, which are included in mobile phone packages and are free for customers using a landline.
Barclays was the first financial services company to commit to do this.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 227
