Risk review Conduct risk Conduct risk is the risk that detriment is caused to our customers, clients, counterparties or Barclays and its employees because of inappropriate judgement in the execution of our business activities.
All disclosures in this section pages 228 and 229 are unaudited In 2013 there were a number of conduct risk issues affecting the Group, right way.
It is establishing a conduct risk framework to support the where Barclays conduct has not met the expectations of regulators and business and cultural changes required to take a more proactive and other stakeholders and where the consequences are likely to extend forward looking approach, building good outcomes into business into 2014 and beyond.
These include participation in benchmark rates, models, provide risk management of conduct risks and appropriate interest rate hedging products and Payment Protection Insurance.
The lessons learnt from these events and our strategic intent to Over the year Barclays has developed its approach to identifying, become the Go-To bank has influenced our determination to put evaluating and managing conduct risk and introduced a new principal customer needs and market integrity at the heart of our decision risk for conduct risk within the EMRF.
This is underpinned by six making and business activities.
underlying key risks which focus on potential detriment to customers or market integrity across Barclays end to end operations.
In January 2013 Barclays incepted a Conduct Risk Programme to drive Development of the Key Risk Framework will continue in 2014 with change in Barclays culture and business practices to better align them implementation of the complete framework planned to be complete by with Barclays aim to help customers achieve their ambitions in the the end of the year.
Principal risk framework Defines Conduct Risk, Risk Appetite and Roles and Responsibilities The Six Conduct Risk Key Risks: Business Model & Strategy Governance & Culture Is our current and future business robust, resilient and sustainable?
Is our business run in the right way?
Product Design Transaction Servicing Are the products and services we offer designed properly?
Are the right products sold in the right way?
Customer Servicing Financial Crime Are our new and existing customer expectations managed and met in the right way?
Are we effectively protecting our business, our clients and market integrity?
The Principal Risk Framework targets 10 outcomes, which are positive indicators that Barclays is putting its clients and customers and market integrity at the heart of its business.
1 Our culture places customer interests at the heart of our strategy, planning, decision making and judgements.
2 Our strategy is to develop long term banking relationships with our customers by providing banking products and services that meet their needs and do not cause detriment.
3 We do not disadvantage or exploit customers, customer segments, or markets.
We do not distort market competition.
4 We proactively identify conduct risks and intervene before they crystallise by managing, escalating and mitigating them promptly.
5 Our products, services and distribution channels are designed, monitored and managed to provide value, accessibility and to meet the needs of our customers.
6 We provide banking products and services that meet our customers expectations and perform as represented.
Our representations are accurate and comprehensible so our customers understand the products and services they are purchasing.
7 We address any customer detriment and dissatisfaction in a timely and fair manner.
8 We safeguard the privacy of personal data.
9 We do not conduct or facilitate market abuse.
10 We do not conduct or facilitate financial crime.
228 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information In 2013 businesses across Barclays began conduct risk assessments to Barclays has also established a new conduct risk governance structure.
evaluate how their business models and strategy might impact This will provide the Board with relevant information about how customers and markets and generate poor outcomes and the action conduct risks are being identified and managed, including whether that should be taken to address this risk.
See the Business review controls are designed and operating effectively.
For more information section on pages 18 to 45 for more information on how individual on the management of conduct risk see the Governance in Action businesses have taken the conduct agenda forward.
example relating to conduct risk in the Governance Report on page 74.
Governance framework for conduct risk Board Level Corporate Governance Board Conduct Reputation and Operational Risk Committee BCRORC Corporate Governance Conduct and Reputation Risk Committee CRRC Executive Level Corporate Governance Conduct Risk Committee CRC The CRC oversees Barclays commitment to managing conduct risks During 2014 the conduct risk programme will continue to develop the and working towards delivering positive outcomes.
Its responsibilities conduct risk framework, including the development of risk indicators include investigation, consideration of areas of potential conduct risk, and reporting and will support Barclays to make the important changes review of Barclays-wide Conduct Key Risk Profiles and review and to the way it operates, such as through provision of training and challenge of conduct risk policies and standards.
The CRRC reviews and monitors the effectiveness of Barclays Barclays approach to managing conduct risk has been developed in management of Conduct and Reputational risk.
Its responsibilities line with the regulatory expectations of the Financial Conduct include review, challenge and recommendation of the Conduct and Authority FCA and is subject to assessment by the FCA through its Reputational risk tolerance and appetite to the BCRORC, annual review Firm Systematic Framework.
Periodic discussions have been held with of the frameworks and associated policies, review of performance the FCA throughout the year.
against Conduct risk appetite and escalation of conduct risks, at its discretion, to the BCRORC.
Barclays approach to promoting good customer outcomes and market integrity is consistent with the Barclays Way the new employee code The BCRORC is a committee of the Board of Directors of Barclays PLC of conduct adopted in 2013. and has the authority to investigate matters of conduct, reputational and operational risk Barclays-wide.
Its responsibilities include review and approval of the Conduct risk appetite, governance and oversight of the management of Conduct risk, ensuring that the potential conduct and reputation impact of significant business decisions has been fully considered.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 229
