Directors report Section 414A of the Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors to The Directors present their report together with the present a Strategic Report in the Annual Report and Accounts.
The information can be found on pages 02 to 50. audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The Company has chosen, in accordance with section 414 C ii of the Other information that is relevant to the Directors Companies Act 2006, and as noted in this Directors report, to include Report, and which is incorporated by reference into certain matters in its Strategic Report that would otherwise be required this report, can be located as follows: to be disclosed in this Directors report.
Page An indication of likely future developments is given in the Strategic Corporate governance report 52-77 Report.
Employee involvement 86-88 Policy concerning the employment of disabled persons 87 Profit and dividends The adjusted profit for the financial year, after taxation, was 3,152m Remuneration policy, including details of the 89-125 2012: 5,440m.
Statutory profit after tax for 2013 was 1,297m remuneration of each Director and Directors interests 2012: 181m.
The final dividend for 2013 of 3.5p per share will be paid in shares or in derivatives or other financial instruments on 28 March 2014 to shareholders whose names were on the Register relating to such shares of Members at the close of business on 21 February 2014.
With the Risk review 131-236 interim dividends totalling 3p per ordinary share, paid in June, September and December 2013, the total distribution for 2013 is 6.5p Financial instruments 298-322 2012: 6.5p per ordinary share.
The interim and final dividends for The subsidiary and associated undertakings which 356-357 2013 amounted to 859m 2012: 733m.
principally affect the profits or net assets of the Group in the year Shareholders may have their dividends reinvested in Barclays shares by Rights and obligations attaching to shares 424-427 joining the Barclays PLC Scrip Dividend Programme the Programme.
At the Barclays 2013 AGM, shareholders approved the introduction of Restrictions on the transfer of securities 424-427 the Programme to replace the Barclays Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
Restrictions on voting rights 424-427 The Programme enables shareholders, if they wish, to receive new fully paid ordinary shares in Barclays PLC instead of a cash dividend, without incurring dealing costs or stamp duty.
The Programme was initially offered for the second interim dividend, paid on 13 September 2013, and will also be offered for any future dividends subject to the Directors making the Programme available for each dividend.
Board of Directors The names of the current Directors of Barclays PLC, along with their biographical details, are set out on pages 83 to 85 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
Sir Andrew Likierman, Chris Lucas and David Booth left the Board with effect from 25 April 2013, 16 August 2013 and 31 December 2013 respectively.
Diane fide Saint Victor, Frits van Paasschen, Mike Ashley, Wendy Lucas-Bull and Tushar Morzaria joined the Board on 1 March 2013, 1 August 2013, 18 September 2013, 19 September 2013 and 15 October 2013 respectively.
There were no other changes to Directors in 2013.
Stephen Thieke was appointed to the Board on 7 January 2014.
Appointment and retirement of Directors The appointment and retirement of Directors is governed by the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders.
The Board has the power to appoint additional Directors or to fill a casual vacancy amongst the Directors.
Any such Director holds office only until the next AGM and may offer himself herself for re-election.
The Articles also require that at each AGM at least one-third rounded down of the Directors retire by rotation.
The retiring Directors are eligible to stand for re-election.
The Code recommends that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual reelection and all Directors will stand for election or re-election at the 2014 AGM with the exception of Fulvio Conti and Simon Fraser, who are retiring from the Board.
78 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information We have disclosed global greenhouse gas emissions that we are Directors indemnities The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance, responsible for as set out by The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
We provide fuller which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its Directors.
In addition, qualifying third party indemnity provisions as disclosure across our carbon management and environmental programmes in the Barclays Citizenship report.
More details may be defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were in force during the course of the financial year ended 31 December 2013 for the found on our website at Barclays.
benefit of the then Directors and, at the date of this report, are in force for the benefit of the Directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities Current reporting Comparison which they may incur or have incurred in connection with their a b Year 2013 Year 2012 duties, powers or office.
c Global GHG Emissions Total CO2e tonnes 969,782 1,014,332 Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions as defined by section d Scope 1 CO2e emissions tonnes 57,334 47,363 235 of the Companies Act 2006 were in force during the course of the Scope 2 CO e emissions tonnes 732,096 779,844 financial year ended 31 December 2013 for the benefit of the then 2 e Scope 3 CO e emissions tonnes 180,352 187,126 directors, and at the date of this report are in force for the benefit of 2 directors of Barclays Pension Funds Trustees Limited as Trustee of the Intensity Ratio Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund.
The directors of the Trustee are Total Full Time Employees FTE 139,600 139,200 indemnified against liability incurred in connection with the companys Total CO2e per FTE tonnes 6.94 7.28 activities as Trustee of the retirement fund.
The carbon reporting year is not fully aligned to the financial reporting year covered by the Directors' report.
This Similarly, qualifying pension scheme indemnities were in force during report is produced earlier than previous carbon reporting to allow us to report within 2013 for the benefit of directors of Barclays Executive Schemes the year-end financial reporting timelines.
Trustees Limited as Trustee of Barclays Bank International Zambia Staff b 2012 reporting year is the full calendar year Jan 2012 Dec 2012. c The methodology used to calculate our CO2e emissions is the GHG Protocol Pension Fund 1965, Barclays Capital International Pension Scheme Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, using the operational No.
1, Barclays Capital Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits control approach on reporting boundaries.
Where properties are covered by Barclays Scheme, and Barclays PLC Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits consolidated financial statements but are leased to tenants who are invoiced for Scheme.
The directors of the Trustee are indemnified against liability utilities, these emissions are not included in the Group GHG calculations.
Scope 1 covers direct combustion of fuels and company owned vehicles from UK incurred in connection with the companys activities as Trustee of the and South Africa only, which are the most material contributors.
Scope 2 covers emissions from electricity and steam purchased for own use.
Scope 3 covers indirect emissions from business travel global flights and private Political donations cars, rail, taxis and car hire from UK and South Africa where this type of transport is material.
The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the UK or d Fugitive emissions from UK, Americas and Asia-Pacific are reported in Scope 1 for the rest of the EU nor did it make any political donations to political 2013.
Fugitive emission data Europe and Africa was not available for this report but parties or other political organisations, or to any independent election we are working to establish data for key operations in these regions for 2014.
Fugitive emission data for 2012 is not available.
Business travel reported in Scope 1 covers candidates, or incur any political expenditure during the year.
Barclays company cars in UK and South Africa.
This covers the majority of our employees Africa Group Limited formerly Absa Group Limited, in which the where we have retail operations with car fleets.
Group has a majority stake, made donations totalling 170,800 in 2013 e Scope 3 is limited to emissions from business travel which covers global flights and 2012: 185,666 in accordance with its policy of making political UK and South Africa ground transportation.
Ground transportation data excluding Scope 1 company cars covers UK and South Africa where this type of transport is donations to the major South African political parties as part of their material and data is available.
The Group made no other political donations in 2013.
Research and development In the ordinary course of business the Group develops new products In accordance with the Federal Election Campaign Act, Barclays and services in each of its business divisions.
provides administrative support to a federal Political Action Committee PAC in the USA funded by the voluntary political contributions of Share capital eligible Barclays employees.
The PAC is not controlled by Barclays and Share capital structure all decisions regarding the amounts and recipients of contributions are The Company has ordinary shares in issue.
The Companys Articles also directed by a steering committee comprised of eligible contributors.
allow for the issuance of Sterling, US Dollar, Euro and Yen preference Contributions to political organisations reported by the PAC during shares preference shares.
No preference shares have been issued as calendar year 2013 totalled $16,000 2012: $63,564.
at 28 February 2014 the latest practicable date for inclusion in this report.
Ordinary shares therefore represent 100% of the total issued Environment share capital as at 31 December 2013 and 28 February 2014.
Details of Barclays Climate Action Programme focuses on addressing the movement in ordinary share capital during the year can be found in environmental issues where we believe we have the greatest potential Note 32 on pages 344 and 345. to make a difference.
The Programme focuses on managing our own carbon footprint and reducing our absolute carbon emissions, On 31 October 2008, Barclays PLC issued, in conjunction with a developing products and services to help enable the transition to a simultaneous issue of Reserve Capital Instruments issued by Barclays low-carbon economy, and managing the risks of climate change to our Bank PLC, warrants the Warrants to subscribe for up to 1,516.9 operations, clients, customers and society at large.
We invest in million new Ordinary Shares at a price of 1.97775.
On 13 February improving the energy efficiency of our operations and offset the 2013 Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC announced that they had emissions remaining through the purchase of carbon credits.
We also entered into an agreement with Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs have a long-standing commitment to managing the environmental and International the Warrantholders pursuant to which the social risks associated with our lending practices, which is embedded Warrantholders had agreed to exercise in aggregate the 379.2m into our Credit Risk processes.
A governance structure is in place to outstanding Warrants.
As a consequence of this agreement no other facilitate clear dialogue across the business and with suppliers around Warrants remain outstanding.
issues of potential environmental and social risk.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 79 Directors report Directors report continued Exercisability of rights under an employee share scheme Repurchase of shares Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs operate in connection with certain of The Company did not repurchase any of its Ordinary Shares during 2013 2012: none.
As at latest practicable date, the Company had an the Groups Employee Share Plans Plans.
The trustees of the EBTs may exercise all rights attached to the shares in accordance with their unexpired authority to repurchase Ordinary Shares up to a maximum of 1,286,066,272 Ordinary Shares.
fiduciary duties other than as specifically restricted in the relevant Plan governing documents.
The trustees of the EBTs have informed the Change of control Company that their normal policy is to abstain from voting in respect of the Barclays shares held in trust.
The trustees of the Global There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party that are affected by a change of control of the Company following a Sharepurchase EBT and UK Sharepurchase EBTs may vote in respect of Barclays shares held in the EBTs, but only as instructed by participants takeover bid.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or in those Plans in respect of their Partnership shares and when vested Matching and Dividend shares.
The trustees will not otherwise vote in employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
respect of shares held in the Sharepurchase EBTs.
Risk Management and Internal Control The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that management Special rights There are no persons holding securities that carry special rights with maintain an effective system of risk management and internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to regard to the control of the company.
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance Major shareholders Major shareholders do not have different voting rights from those of against material misstatement or loss.
Information provided to the Company by major shareholders pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys DTR is Barclays is committed to operating within a strong system of internal control that enables business to be transacted and risk taken without published via a Regulatory Information Service and is available on the Companys website.
As at 31 December 2013, the Company had been exposing itself to unacceptable potential losses or reputational damage.
Barclays has an overarching framework that sets out Barclays notified under Rule 5 of the DTR of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares.
approach to internal governance the Barclays Guide.
The Barclays Guide establishes the mechanisms and processes by which the Board directs the organisation, through setting the tone and expectations % of total voting rights attaching from the top, delegating its authority and monitoring compliance.
Number of to issued a Person interested Barclays Shares share capital A key component of the Barclays Guide is the Enterprise Risk b Qatar Holding LLC 813,964,552 6.65 Management Framework ERMF.
The purpose of the ERMF is to c BlackRock, Inc 805,969,166 7.06 identify and set minimum requirements in respect of the main risks to d e The Capital Group Companies Inc 809,174,196 5.03 achieving the Groups strategic objectives and to provide reasonable Notes: assurance that internal controls are effective.
The key elements of the a The percentage of voting rights and shares held are as calculated at the time of the Groups system of internal control, which is aligned to the relevant disclosures made in accordance with Rule 5 of the DTR and may not reflect the impact of the rights issue.
recommendations of The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of b Qatar Holding LLC is wholly-owned by Qatar Investment Authority.
the Treadway Commission, Internal Control Integrated Framework c Total shown includes 8,003,236 contracts for difference to which voting rights are COSO 2, are set out in the risk control frameworks relating to each of attached.
d The Capital Group Companies Inc CG holds its shares via CG Management the Groups Key Risks and in the Group operational risk framework.
well as incorporating our internal requirements, these reflect material e This figure also includes the ordinary share equivalent of 361,579 ADRs.
Group-wide legal and regulatory requirements relating to internal control and assurance.
The Company has not been notified of any changes to the holdings of major shareholders between 31 December 2013 and 28 February 2014.
Effectiveness of internal controls Key controls are assessed on a regular basis for both design and Powers of Directors to issue or buy back the Companys shares operating effectiveness.
Issues arising out of business risk and control The powers of the Directors are determined by the Companies Act assessments and other internal and external sources are considered to 2006 and the Companys Articles.
The Directors are authorised to issue identify pervasive themes.
Where appropriate, individually significant and allot shares, and to repurchase shares subject to annual issues or those affecting more than one business may be categorised shareholder approval at the AGM.
Such authorities were granted as having Group level significance and are reported to the Board Audit by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
It will be proposed at the 2014 Committee via the Operational Risk and Control Committee.
The Board AGM that the Directors be granted new authorities to allot and Audit Committee monitors resolution of any identified control issues of buy-back shares.
Group level significance through to a satisfactory conclusion.
In addition, regular reports are made to the Board Audit Committee by Issue of shares pursuant to the Rights Issue management, internal audit and the finance, compliance and legal On 30 July 2013, Barclays announced an underwritten rights issue to functions covering in particular financial controls, compliance and raise approximately 5.8bn net of expenses.
Under the terms of the other operational controls.
Rights Issue, Barclays offered 3,219,067,868 New Ordinary Shares by way of Rights to Qualifying Shareholders at 185 pence per New Risk management and internal control framework Ordinary Share.
The Rights Issue was made on the basis of one New The Directors formally review the effectiveness of the system of internal Ordinary Share for every four Existing Ordinary Shares held by control annually.
Processes are in place for identifying, evaluating and shareholders at close of business on the record date, 13 September managing the significant risks facing the Group in accordance with the 2013.
The latest date for acceptance of the Rights Issue was 2 October guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the UK 2013, and by this date, Barclays received valid acceptances in respect Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting of 3,046,197,378 New Ordinary Shares, representing 94.63% of the Council the Turnbull Guidance.
total number of New Ordinary Shares offered to shareholders.
The remaining 172,870,490 New Ordinary Shares were purchased by subscribers through the Underwriters for the Rights Issue.
80 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Managements report on internal control over financial reporting These processes include an attestation procedure which requires all significant processes and identified material risks to be assessed and Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
Internal control over financial recorded, together with the related key controls by the Heads of Businesses and Functions.
As part of this, specific consideration is reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the principal executive and principal financial officers to provide reasonable given to relevant information, including as a minimum: legal entities: any open control issues: any outstanding internal and external audit assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in findings: regulatory reviews and any outstanding regulatory compliance matters: compliance with Group level policies: records of accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and the International Accounting operational incidents and loss risk events: experience of all types of fraud: and any other material control-related matters that have been Standards Board IASB.
raised either by management or via independent external review.
The status of any remediation in connection with these matters is also Internal control over financial reporting includes policies and considered.
The results of this attestation procedure were reported to procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in the Board Audit Committee in February 2014, when it was noted that, reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and although several of the attestations received referred to outstanding dispositions of assets: provide reasonable assurances that transactions control design operating effectiveness issues, none of these had are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements prevented the Heads of Businesses or Functions from providing a in accordance with IFRS and that receipts and expenditures are being Turnbull statement.
All issues had identified remediation tasks and made only in accordance with authorisations of management and the attributed timescales for resolution or timescales being determined.
respective Directors: and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or The Board regularly reviews these processes through its principal Board disposition of assets that could have a material effect on the financial Committees.
Regular risk reports are made to the Board covering risks statements.
of Group level significance, including Credit risk, Market risk, Funding risk, Operational risk, Conduct risk and Reputation risk.
The Board Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent Financial Risk Committee and the Board Conduct, Reputation and limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, Operational Risk Committee receive reports covering the Principal Risks projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are as well as reports on risk measurement methodologies and risk subject to the risk that internal controls may become inadequate appetite.
Further details of risk management procedures and potential because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance risk factors are given in the Risk Management section on pages with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Management has assessed internal control over financial reporting as As discussed in the Risk review section of the Annual Report a number of 31 December 2013.
In making its assessment, management has of matters were made public during the course of 2013 which related utilised the criteria set forth by COSO 2.
Management concluded that, to failings in the design and or operation of certain controls other than based on its assessment, the internal control over financial reporting those over financial reporting.
Whilst the matters were disclosed in was effective as of 31 December 2013.
Our independent registered 2013, many of the failings giving rise to those issues occurred in prior public accounting firm has issued a report on the Groups internal periods.
Management has reviewed the specific control processes control over financial reporting, which is set out on page 276. impacted and concluded that these are now designed and operating effectively.
Areas of ongoing control remediation are not considered to The system of internal financial and operational controls is also subject constitute material control failings.
In addition to the above matters, a to regulatory oversight in the UK and overseas.
Further information on number of other issues are currently being analysed to assess their supervision by the financial services regulators is provided under potential to impact on the control environment and the materiality of Supervision and Regulation in the Risk review section on pages any such impact.
Remediation plans will be defined and implemented, 230 to 235. where necessary.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting Controls over financial reporting There have been no changes in the Groups internal control over A framework of disclosure controls and procedures is in place to financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by this support the approval of the Groups financial statements.
The Legal and report which have materially affected or are reasonably likely to Technical Review Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups materially affect the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
financial reports and disclosures to ensure that they have been subject to adequate verification and comply with legal and technical requirements.
The Committee reports its conclusions to the Disclosure Committee.
The Disclosure Committee considers the content, accuracy and tone of the disclosures and reports its conclusions to the Group Executive Committee and the Board Audit Committee, both of which review its conclusions and provide further challenge.
Finally, the Board reviews and approves results announcements and the Annual Report and ensures that appropriate disclosures have been made.
This governance process ensures both management and the Board are given sufficient opportunity to review and challenge the Groups financial statements and other significant disclosures before they are made public.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 81 Directors report Directors report continued Directors responsibility statement Going concern The Groups business activities and financial position, the factors likely The Directors as referenced on pages 83 to 85 have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and the Group keep accounting records to affect its future development and performance, and its objectives and policies in managing the financial risk to which it is exposed and its which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the capital are discussed in the Strategic Report and in the Risk Review and Management section.
accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors have assessed, in the light of current and anticipated The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation economic conditions, the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Company and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are concern basis for preparing accounts.
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Disclosure of information to auditor Each Director confirms that, so far as he she is aware, there is no The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and that each Director has taken all the steps that he she a The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Barclays are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given pursuant to PLC and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 and should be interpreted in whole: and accordance with and subject to these provisions.
b The management report, which is incorporated into the Directors Report on pages 78 to 82, includes a fair review of the development Directors Responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the and performance of the business and the position of Barclays PLC and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a Auditors report set out on pages 271 to 275, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the whole, together with a description of the principal risks and Directors and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 to prepare By order of the Board accounts for each financial year and, with regards to Group accounts, in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors have prepared individual accounts in accordance with IFRS as adopted by Lawrence Dickinson the EU.
The accounts are required by law and IFRS to present fairly the Company Secretary financial position of the Company and the Group and the performance 3 March 2014 for that period.
The Companies Act 2006 provides, in relation to such accounts, that references to accounts giving a true and fair view are Barclays PLC references to fair presentation.
Registered in England, Company No.
48839 The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts on pages 277 to 376, and the additional information contained on pages 142 to 235, the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, supported by reasonable judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
Having taken all the matters considered by the Board and brought to the attention of the Board during the year into account, and having reviewed the annual report including the strategic report, the Directors are satisfied that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, strategy and business model.
82 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
