Corporate Banking Corporate Banking continues to support businesses both in the UK and internationally, and in 2013 delivered the best results since its creation in 2010.
John Winter Chief Executive Of cer The Corporate Banking business model Our social purpose Small and large businesses of all types have speci c day-to-day banking needs that enable them to achieve their commercial ambitions.
These range from the simpler operational necessities such as paying staff and receiving payments to cross-border transactions in Europe and global markets.
We are open for business and ready to increase lending to viable businesses.
Barclays Corporate Banking supports over 40,000 businesses to achieve their goals in 27 countries across Europe, Africa, Middle East, North America and Asia.
In doing so Corporate Banking enables domestic and global trade, job creation and economic growth.
Our clients are those For them we provide Uniquely providing value through In our key domestic markets of UK and Lending to rms, supporting operations Our value propositions South Africa we bank and provide services and fuelling growth Deep understanding of clients sectors to businesses, except for the smallest rms Safeguarding clients deposits and and their individual business through served by RBB Business Banking.
enabling them to manage their cash long-lasting relationships Corporate Banking is also one of the largest long-term lenders to the public Facilitating clients payments and Global trade expertise and access through sector in the UK, supporting Local receipts the European, African, US and Asian Councils, Colleges and Universities and corridors Financing global trade and providing Social Housing projects.
foreign exchange Innovative products and services to suit clients changing needs Outside of these geographies we focus on Protecting larger companies from the meeting the international needs of global risk of adverse market changes Access to world-leading experts across businesses, Financial Institutions, Barclays Group for specialist financial needs Introducing products and services from Non-bank Financial Institutions and other parts of the group, such as Assisting clients to come back to financial international organisations.
Barclaycard, Wealth, Investment strength Management and Investment Bank 38 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Corporates increasingly use debt markets and other alternative Corporate Banking remains an attractive business, with sources of finance and non-UK banks have increased competition.
companies searching for strong banking partners.
To strengthen our market position we continue to expand our However, the economic and regulatory environment financing product capabilities, as well as to deepen existing, and continues to be challenging.
The global corporate banking market is still growing and profitable Balanced Scorecard although with significant differences across geographies, customer segments and sectors.
UK economic recovery is gathering pace Signs of improvement in the European economy Helping people The multinational corporates segment will grow faster than large achieve their mid-Corporates segment.
However, top clients in this segment are ambitions in the right way targeted by both global and specialised local competitors Risks to our business model The corporate banking industry is facing a number of risks that we have anticipated and are planning to mitigate: Customer and client Some sectors and geographies will likely remain challenging Corporate Banking is focused on becoming the Go-To bank for particularly if interest rates rise.
This could trigger increases in loan business, corporate and institutional clients.
loss rates particularly in the UK where loan loss rates are at a Corporate Banking historical low.
We proactively review and manage We work closely with clients to fully understand their business and our exposure to all clients.
We have a proven record of supporting continuously strive for better client service.
As a result, no other bank businesses through their difficulties and minimising credit losses.
achieved a higher rating from their Corporate Banking clients in the UK In contrast, low interest rates may cause margins to compress.
We a for overall satisfaction in 2013. continue to strengthen our market position by expanding our cash management product offering.
Note Cybercrime and technology disruptions remain a risk.
Barclays actively a Source: Charterhouse Research based on 2,200 interviews with companies turning works to increase the resilience and enhance the security of its over between 5m and 1bn carried out in YE Q4 2013.
Survey data is weighted by banking systems by fully supporting UK government and other banks turnover and region to be representative of the total market in Great Britain.
Sum of initiatives to increase system availability and reduce industry risks.
top two box responses Excellent and Very Good.
Contributing to strategy Our journey to Go-To Corporate Banking is focused on: Strengthening our core UK, European and African franchise Developing innovative products and services Driving cost efficiencies and running down Exit Quadrant assets in Europe Reinforcing our strong culture and improving our controls Enhancing synergies across the Barclays Group to further improve our innovative and comprehensive client offering Putting things right where we get it wrong Uniquely providing value through Sustaining business by Contributing to income by Bring diverse benefits Helping businesses achieve their Self-funding client lending with deposits commercial ambitions A stable banking partner for the long-term Earning stable interest income from Developing long-term relationships that lending Secure place for deposits benefit the clients and provide on-going Generating fees for providing Competitive financing income for Barclays transactional services Enhanced client experience Providing clients with day-to-day Earning share of the income from products and services to help them Tailored financial solutions referrals to Barclaycard, Wealth and successfully operate their businesses Investment Bank Access to innovative banking products and services in the right way Minimising impairment through responsible lending and supporting Reliable payments and transactions across Applying responsible lending practices clients back to financial health multiple currencies Providing fit-for purpose risk management Assisting clients to come back to financial strength barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 39 Corporate Banking continued We are committed to helping businesses succeed and achieve their Company ambitions, no matter how complex or challenging.
Our clients benefit Contribution to total income from in-depth sector expertise over 45 sector teams, and tailored industry research.
Adjusted Our products and services are regularly recognised through industry 3,115m total income awards, e. g. in 2013: 3,115m Best Trade Bank in the UK Global Trade Review Best Domestic Cash Manager in the UK Euromoney Best Trade Bank in Africa Treasury Management International 2013 2012 2011 UK Education Lender of The Year for the fourth year running Income m 3,115 3,046 3,315 Profit loss before tax m 151 390 5 We are constantly looking for ways to make our client interactions as Adjusted ROE % 3.1 2.9 0.4 simple and instant as possible whether that is reducing time to set-up Loan loss rate bps 77 127 153 new client accounts or providing our front-line teams with iPads to Loans and advances to customers bn 61.1 64.3 68.3 deliver more insight directly to clients.
Customer deposits bn 108.7 99.6 87.5 We see technology as a key means of responding proactively to clients Corporate Banking continued to make good progress in pursuing its changing needs.
We continue to roll-out Barclays.
net our internetturnaround strategy, which increased momentum in 2013.
Total income based cash management service and Pingit for Corporates, which now increased 2% to 3,115m reflecting an increase in UK income, partially allows clients to complete a full spectrum of payment options via their offset by non-recurring income from a reduction from Exit Quadrant smartphone.
assets in Europe and previously exited businesses.
Colleague Credit impairment charges declined 42% to 510m largely driven by Corporate Banking continues to invest in our colleagues to ensure they Europe, which saw charges reduce by 224m to 318m following are fully engaged, motivated and supported to provide excellent client ongoing action to reduce exposure to the property and construction service.
Charges were also lower against large corporate clients in the UK.
We continue to promote a globally diverse and inclusive environment where all colleagues can fulfil their potential.
Costs to achieve Transform were incurred to further invest in the ongoing client business, as well as rationalise the offering within Priorities include driving sustainable engagement, gender diversity and Europe and Rest of World.
Adjusted operating expenses increased 6% developing the potential of our workforce.
to 1,806m including costs to achieve Transform of 114m.
Citizenship Performance improved across all regions in 2013, with the UK franchise Every day Corporate Banking employees make a real difference: helping continuing to deliver strong results.
Adjusted profit before tax improved individuals, communities and businesses grow.
UK adjusted profit before tax improved 14% to 948m.
Primarily, we support businesses by lending money prudently.
In 2013, we Loans and advances to customers decreased 5% to 61.1bn driven by provided loans and advances of 61.1bn.
Over 1,600 SME clients benefitted the rundown of Exit Quadrant portfolios in Europe and a reduction in a from the Cashback for Business scheme.
We paid 24m in cashback and client demand as working capital deposits increased in the UK.
We have also continued to support the b Business Growth Fund with a commitment of 500m in equity.
For more information on performance, please see pages 237 to 268 In addition, our colleagues contributed almost 30,000 hours volunteering in their local communities.
Conduct We are focused on delivering the right outcomes for our clients.
Future priorities Managing the conduct risks that arise in our business is fundamental to Become the Go-To bank for domestic corporations in the UK and our success in becoming the Go-To bank.
This means proactively looking South Africa and multinational corporations and financial out for our clients best interests and acting with integrity at all times.
institutions globally by satisfying their financing and servicing needs.
In advancing our Interest Rate Hedging Products redress, 32% of the in-scope population now have review outcomes.
We are progressing well Maintain market-leading rating for client satisfaction in the UK and are on track to meet our commitments to the FCA.
We expect to have a Continue to provide responsible lending to support growth for substantial majority of all customers at the redress offer stage by mid-year.
viable businesses In line with other Barclays divisions, we are in the process of Continue to strengthen our cross-border product offerings in Cash Management and Trade Finance formalising our Conduct Risk reporting and management framework.
This framework will ensure that client interests are being taken into Continue to improve profitability, supported by helping clients to account appropriately in all our business decisions.
It includes access banking solutions from the Investment Bank, Barclaycard everything from our business model and strategy through to ensuring and Wealth our products are designed and sold in the right way.
Drive cost efficiencies and actively managing our balance sheet Further strengthen our strong culture standards and controls to Notes help clients achieve their commercial ambitions in the right way a Cashback for Business offers 2% cashback to SMEs who take out a loan under the scheme.
b Business Growth Fund provides equity to businesses with a turnover of 5-100m 40 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Helping UK businesses with global growth ambitions New Market Expansion We are currently a mattress manufacturer that makes Harrison Spinks is a luxury bed and mattress manufacturer based in Leeds, spring components.
With Barclays continuing support, with ambitious plans for growth.
They wanted to take their spring we can evolve confidently to become a global components technology to new products and markets.
Barclays was their partner of manufacturer that makes mattresses.
choice to help them achieve their ambition.
Simon Spinks, Managing Director, Harrison Spinks With turnover increasing year-on-year, Harrison Spinks is thriving despite the challenging economy by innovating and seeking out new markets.
They are expanding into North America by applying their innovative spring technology to new products such as baby mattresses, footwear and automotive seating.
Having supported them for eight years, Barclays is helping them to expand by meeting their corporate banking needs and foreign exchange requirements.
Harrison Spinks is benefiting from our international scale and is tapping into our knowledge of the manufacturing industry.
As Simon Spinks, MD, says, Its good to have someone who knows your business and where youre trying to go Barclays actually allows you to move forward.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 41
