High performing culture Our people have built Beazleys success and this year we asked for their thoughts on how we can continue to be a place that attracts, retains and develops the best.
With their input we created a series of statements that describe how we do things at Beazley not just now, but also in the future.
We didnt get an external agency to write them or tell us what they should be they came directly from our people.
We call them Being Beazley.
Expert Bold Were experts in what we do, using our Were forward looking, take bold leaps and specialist knowledge and skills to add value.
dont always take the path people expect to ensure we deliver for our customers, As experts we focus on niches and aim our people and our shareholders.
to understand them better than any of our competitors our Beazley Flight, Beazley Im proud we look at differentiating Breach Response and Kidnap & Ransom ourselves by offering something more products are all great examples of this.
than just money in the event of a claim.
On many lines of business we also offer Matt Holmes risk management and loss control advice Head of energy to clients because prevention is better than cure.
Steven Chang Claims team leader Friendly Were friendly, approachable and support each other.
I joined as an underwriting assistant in specialty lines in April 2013 and my experience as a new joiner has been like nothing Ive experienced elsewhere Ive found Beazley people to be genuinely helpful and friendly.
Amy Bryan Underwriting assistant Deliver We give straight answers promptly and deliver on our promises.
Im so proud to be part of a team that rose magnificently to the challenge of handling all the claims from superstorm Sandy, and as a result were recognised for excellent claims service by our brokers and at the Insurance Insider Awards.
Anthony Hobkinson Group head of claims 10 Beazley www.
com Annual report 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley: a great place to work Its our people who shape and make our Passionate organisation so we constantly seek their input whether its through our ideas We are not obsessed with hierarchies or online portal B-Hive, Q&A sessions with status were just passionate about what the executive, lunch and learn sessions, wedo.
or by completing the Great Place to Work official survey every two years.
Weve got so much that were passionate about our people, our service, our products, our innovation.
In 2013, 87% of our people completed the survey, against an industry benchmark Valerie Novak of 70%.
This gives us the chance to hear Office coordinator what they think about working at Beazley, find out what we are all doing well and where we could focus more.
To be considered a great place to work you must score over 70%.
When we took Creative the survey in 2011 we achieved this with a score of 76%.
However this year the We value good ideas and insights wherever score increased, with 83% of our people they come from we have a contagious agreeing Beazley is a great place to work energy to do things better.
a result we are very proud of.
I love the fact that I work for an organisation Open communications play a key part that gives us the chance every day to share in this result and we work hard to ensure our ideas and join in discussions through our online ideas portal.
our people are kept informed and involved from our weekly news update, Lila Rymer so they have their finger on the pulse on Head of political risks & trade credit US whats happening in the industry and within Beazley, to our annual strategy events ensuring everyone knows how we are progressing and what our future plans are.
We also focus on developing and training Honourable so our people are given the best possible We do the right thing.
Not because a rule opportunities to develop their careers.
book tells us to, but because its the right This year we delivered over 400 initiatives thing to do.
We have a strong focus at Beazley on being During the year we also continued a responsible business and I like the fact our focus on diversity to maximise the that were supported to give back and get benefit of the varied backgrounds and involved in our communities.
personalities that make up Beazley.
We strongly believe that a diverse Dharmesh Patel Head of finance Asia Pacific workforce makes for a more adaptable and successful organisation.
