Political risks & contingency Continued international expansion in core business lines contributes to a combined ratio of 50%.
Portfolio mix Political 37% Terrorism 34% Contingency 29% Gross premiums written $m 150 120 90 60 30 Adrian Lewers 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Head of political risks & contingency $131.2m Gross premiums written 26 Beazley www.
com Annual report 2013 127.6 100.9 102.5 116.6 131.2 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The political risks & contingency division, PCG, performed Broadening our product range to help businesses protect their well in 2013, delivering a combined ratio of 50% 2012: 52% people in the face of these risks, we launched Beazley Flight, on gross premiums of $131.2m 2012: 116.6m.
which we believe to be the broadest emergency evacuation insurance cover available in the market today.
The policy The division, led by Adrian Lewers, focuses on three main lines provides expert advisory and evacuation services in three of business, all of which have deep roots at Lloyds: political scenarios: a deteriorating political environment that puts a risks and trade credit: terrorism which includes a wide array clients employees at serious risk: a natural catastrophe that of political violence risks : and event cancellation, the mainstay presents a severe threat: and a medical emergency.
Cover of the Lloyds contingency market.
The majority of the divisions can also be included for kidnap and personal accident risks.
business is underwritten in London, but PCG has been active in building a local presence in other markets around the world The third major segment of PCGs business, contingency where attractive business opportunities are to be found, insurance, enjoyed a successful year, with weather-related a process that continued in 2013. claims the principal cause of event cancellations lower than the previous year.
Contingency premiums rose 10% to $37.9m, Political risks and trade credit business grew strongly in the and we were delighted to receive two major insurance industry course of the year, accounting for 37% of the divisions awards for our handling of the event cancellation claim for premiums, or $49.3m 2012: $37.0m.
In the trade credit the 2012 New York marathon, following superstorm Sandy.
arena, our underwriters focus on non-traditional single buyer transactions.
We protect exporters, investors and the banks We continued to build our access to business which doesnt that finance them against force majeure acts of government come to the London market in 2013.
Crispin Hodges moved such as confiscation, expropriation and nationalisation, to Paris from Singapore in April 2012 and swiftly built strong as well as embargo and non-payment risks.
relationships with French brokers based on the quality and speed of underwriting service that Beazley can provide.
In The largest global brokers handle many of these major 2013, we wrote $5.8m of business in France, little or none accounts, but in addition there is an active group of smaller, of which would have been seen by our London-based specialist brokers with whom we also have close relationships.
Mathilde Lecontre, a highly experienced political High quality service is essential to all brokers in these business risks underwriter, joined the team in December.
lines: claims are infrequent but, when they occur, they tend to be large and complex.
Growth affords us continuing opportunities to invest in people and we have been able to broaden opportunities for many of Claims also commonly take some time up to three years our team members in 2013.
As is common practice at Beazley, to materialise after the business is underwritten.
In 2013, our underwriters and claims professionals work very closely we were able to release $39.4m from prior year reserves set together and individuals sometimes move from one discipline aside to cover political risks and terrorism claims from Syria, to another.
This was the case for Michael Lum, who moved from Libya and Nigeria, as well as credit claims from the 2008 our claims team in London to join our political risks underwriting financial crisis, that have developed more favourably than team in Singapore.
our original reserving approach had assumed.
Looking ahead, we will continue to seek attractive growth Our terrorism team experienced increased competition in 2013 opportunities at Lloyds and in other markets, recognising that, and premiums remained broadly flat when compared to 2012, while the latter typically take longer to mature, they also help despite evidence that terrorism and political violence remain balance the volatility of the large scale business that we very real threats to business in many parts of the world.
