value Our key differentiators We seek to differentiate ourselves from our competitors in three key ways, all of which are important value drivers for Beazley.
Entrepreneurial spirit Strong partnerships Diversified business 6 Beazley www.
com Annual report 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Entrepreneurial spirit Corporate culture matters.
Our open, collegial and collaborative culture means our clients and brokers interact with entrepreneurial underwriters who give straight answers and make decisions quickly.
For us entrepreneurial spirit has a very specific meaning, a meaning that guides us in evaluating new hires to our underwriting teams around the world.
We look for individuals who have a strong sense of ownership for the business that they underwrite and are willing indeed keen to be accountable for their underwriting decisions.
And we look for individuals who have a broad understanding of the ways in which economic, political and social changes can impact their book.
In the course of 2013, we asked our people to identify the behaviours that they believed most strongly characterised Strong partnerships Beazley.
They identified seven qualities, which are described in High performing culture on pages 10 and 11.
Many of Our business is not conducted through anonymous these qualities such as boldness, expertise, creativity and transactions we rely on strong relationships with both passion are fundamental to entrepreneurial organisations.
The reciprocity of these relationships Others such as friendliness, honour and a commitment matters.
Strong partnerships with clients are based on to deliver on our promises help foster an environment of the expectation that Beazley will be prepared to provide trust and mutual support within the company that is equally continuity of coverage over the years.
Our clients understand important to our success.
that, for us to deliver on this expectation, we need to charge a fair premium to cover the risk even if, for a time, a competitor may be willing to write the same risks at an uneconomic rate.
By adopting this approach, we have been able to provide clients with reliable cover year after year.
We believe that brokers add enormous value to clients in the purchase of insurance and reinsurance in the areas in which we specialise.
All of our underwriters work constantly to strengthen their personal relationships with brokers and our broker relations team, headed by Dan Jones, keeps a close watch on our corporate broker relationships.
We understand that the best insurance products in the world will not realise their potential without the support and advocacy of well informed brokers.
com Beazley 7 Annual report 2013 Our key differentiators continued Diversified business For our shareholders, Beazley aims to Life, accident & health Marine deliver sector leading returns on equity With an experienced team of leading We help insure in excess of 20% of the with relatively low volatility.
The key underwriters who have been together worlds ocean-going tonnage and are to this performance over time is the since the early 1990s, our personal the pre-eminent leader of voyage and balance of Beazleys portfolio across accident and specialty life business tow business in the London market.
specialist classes driven by different is written on both an insurance and We insure 30% of the top 200 oil and cycles.
This enables us to target an reinsurance basis and covers a number gas companies and are a major lead average combined ratio of 90% with of niche classes, including sports for upstream energy clients.
We have low volatility and to underwrite more disability.
The business was acquired extensive experience insuring a wide premium and have more invested by Beazley in 2008 and has grown variety of cargoes including project, assets per dollar of capital than our since then organically and through fine art and specie.
We assess the merits of writing further acquisition.
a new line of business very carefully with an eye to the effect on the diversification of our portfolio.
Our approach goes well beyond Political risks & contingency Property diversification by line of business.
We also diversify by geography and size In addition to traditional lines such as Weve protected clients ranging of clients smaller risks are often less contract frustration, expropriation and from Fortune 1000 companies to volatile over the insurance cycle than credit, we insure a growing number homeowners through 21 years of larger risks.
In addition, our business of businesses against terrorism and natural and man-made catastrophes.
is a balance of short-tail, meaning that political violence.
Our contingency team We underwrite this business through claims usually emerge within a year of is one of the strongest in the London three platforms Lloyds, the US and the policys inception, and medium-tail, market.
We also specialise in event Singapore with a business focus on which means that claims on average cancellation writing everything from commercial property, engineering and take up to six years to crystallise fully.
construction risks and select homeowners business.
The evolution of our portfolio by line of business and the impact this diversification has had on our combined ratio over the past five years can be seen in the charts opposite.
Reinsurance Specialty lines The reinsurance team specialises in Specialty lines comprises management writing worldwide property catastrophe: liability and professional liability risks, per risk: aggregate excess of loss and including cyber liability, underwritten pro-rata business: and casualty clash.
for clients on both a primary and excess More than 80% of our top clients have basis in North America, Europe and reinsured with us for 20 years or more.
Our US clients are served both by our underwriters at Lloyds and, on an admitted basis, by our local US-based underwriters.
For further details go to page 120 8 Beazley www.
com Annual report 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Managed gross premiums growth by division $m Being Beazley 2,500 2,250 2,000 1,750 1,500 1,250 1,000 750 500 250 0 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 Life, accident & health Marine Political risks & contingency Property Reinsurance Specialty lines Diversified portfolio achieves consistent combined ratio through market cycles 160% 140% 120% 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Lines of business Diversified portfolio www.
