Specialty lines Rate rises and recovering US economy lead to strong growth.
Portfolio mix Technology, media 22% & business services Management liability 21% Small businesses 20% Professions 19% Healthcare 12% Treaty 5% Crime 1% Gross premiums written $m 900 750 600 450 300 150 Adrian Cox 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Head of specialty lines $829.8m Gross premiums written 32 Beazley www.
com Annual report 2013 754.2 744.0 711.2 808.4 829.8 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazleys largest division grew strongly in 2013, writing An additional and growing demand is for the prompt and gross premiums of $829.8m 2012: $808.4m, buoyed by effective handling of data breaches, as well as for third party a recovering US economy and rates that for the second year liability cover.
US healthcare providers suffer data breaches in a row rose by an average of 3% across our portfolio.
very frequently, requiring them to mail breach notifications to more than 120,000 affected individuals every week.
The division provides management liability, professional liability and medical malpractice insurance to professionals and We see continuing growth opportunities in the healthcare companies around the world, but with a strong focus on the industry in the years ahead, not just in the US, where we have US by far the worlds largest market for these specialist lines developed and honed the service offerings that are now in of business.
high demand, but in the UK and elsewhere as well.
A recovering US economy in 2013 benefited our business.
Last December, our technology, media and business services, Demand for the products and services we provide grew steadily, or TMB, team passed an important landmark, assisting a client particularly in high growth sectors such as healthcare and with its first but the teams 1,000th data breach.
Demand is technology, towards which Beazleys business is increasingly strong, not only from healthcare clients but from organisations oriented.
of all types that hold large volumes of personally identifiable customer information.
Beazley is unique among insurers in Looking forward, moderate economic growth should also having a business unit BBR Services dedicated exclusively benefit our claims experience.
The incentive to sue service to helping clients handle data breaches successfully.
We expect providers is higher when companies are under severe economic our leadership position in this fast growing market will stand pressures and tends to abate when conditions improve.
us in good stead as demand continues to grow both inside and That said, our markets remain competitive with an abundance outside the US.
The healthy profits that many insurers have made in short tail, catastrophe exposed lines of business, such as Although we expect the US to remain by far our largest commercial property, have enabled some of them to postpone market for the foreseeable future, we see continuing growth the day of reckoning when they would have to raise rates for opportunities elsewhere as well.
Many professional services the medium tail lines that comprise our book.
firms particularly in the sectors we focus on such as law firms and architects and engineers have been relatively slow to Prior year reserve releases contributed $46.6m 2012: $51.5m globalise.
But the move is now happening in earnest and, as a to the divisions profits in 2013, continuing the moderate Lloyds-based insurer with offices around the world, we are well decline we have seen since 2011.
This is in line with our placed to provide the global cover and service our clients need.
We continue to maintain a consistently conservative approach to reserving across the cycle.
Management liability risks also affect companies on a global basis, but the crucible for these risks remains the US, where Highlights of the past year included continuing growth into the the plaintiffs bar can be relied on to develop new theories of US healthcare industry, measured both in premiums and in the liability to test in court.
As the leading insurer of directors and reputation among brokers and clients enjoyed by our team.
officers risks in the London insurance market, we aim to keep The most recent addition to the team occurred in October when pace with the risks our clients face.
In particular directors and Laura Sunderlin joined us to grow our life sciences business.
officers are increasingly becoming involved in investigations and inquiries by regulatory authorities, which can prove Beazley is now a well respected and well established specialist extremely costly.
In December we launched three new policy insurer of healthcare-related liability exposures in the US, wordings to take account of this growing risk.
Our focus is clear: we work with healthcare providers that seek to make constant and measurable improvements to patient safety and quality of care and incentivise them to do so.
We support them by not only offering tailored insurance cover for professional liability risks, but for management and regulatory liability as well, all underwritten from the same team.
