Strategic report Governance Financial statements Letter from our chairman of the remuneration committee Dear shareholder In the following pages we set out the committees directors remuneration report for 2013.
Following the introduction of new UK regulations, this year shareholders will be asked to vote separately on our remuneration policy and our annual remuneration report.
Beazley has chosen to comply with the regulations in full notwithstanding that we are not a UK company.
Accordingly our policy report will be subject to a binding vote at the AGM.
Beazley delivered an excellent performance for 2013 with a pre-tax profit of $313.3m 2012: $251.2m.
Our combined ratio of 84% is the best we have reported as a public company.
Even though aided by a benign claims environment, this was also testament to our focus on underwriting profitability.
We continued to achieve premium growth in 2013 despite challenging market conditions and maintained a focus on future growth through hiring individuals to help us expand into new geographies and lines of business.
This success reflects our greatest asset: our people.
Talent management is one of the cornerstones of Beazleys business success, as we seek to recruit and retain people who rank among the best insurance professionals in the world.
The main focus of our retention strategy is through our culture and shared values.
Ensuring Beazley has a competitive remuneration mix that rewards sustainable performance remains important to our future success.
Our executive remuneration policy is governed by two guiding principles alignment to shareholder interests and performance of the group.
The committee considers the overall package to be appropriate, responsible and balanced.
The rewards of the companys leadership are strongly aligned to the long-term and sustained performance of the company.
The committee regularly reviews whether our approach to remuneration is consistent with and takes account of the risk profile of the company.
The committee receives an annual report from the chief risk officer on remuneration policy to ensure it is consistent with and promotes effective risk management.
We have made no significant changes to the executive remuneration policies during the year.
The average salary increase for executive directors was 2.2% which was marginally less than the average increases throughout the organisation.
We are keen to encourage an ongoing dialogue on our policies and continue to welcome our shareholders views.
Padraic OConnor Remuneration committee chairman www.
