Board of directors Our committees and committee chairmen The audit and risk committee assists the board of directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for the financial reporting process, the system of internal control, the audit process, and the companys process for monitoring compliance with laws and regulations and the code of conduct.
It also ensures that an effective risk management process exists in the major regulated subsidiaries and that the Beazley group has an effective framework and process for managing its risks.
Andrew Horton Martin Bride The remuneration committee ensures that remuneration Chief executive officer Group finance director arrangements support the strategic aims of the business Appointed: 12 June 2003 Appointed: 5 May 2009 and enable the recruitment, motivation and retention of Experience: Andrew joined Experience: Martin joined Beazley senior executives while complying with the requirements Beazley in June 2003 as finance in May 2009 as finance director.
of regulatory and governance bodies, satisfying the director.
Prior to that he held He began his career in insurance expectations of shareholders and remaining consistent various financial positions within in 1985 and took up his first role with the expectations of the wider employee population.
ING, NatWest and Lloyds Bank as a finance director in 1996. and was the chief financial officer He trained as a general insurance The nomination committee is focused on evaluating the for the UK wholesale banking actuary, before pursuing a career board of directors, ensuring an appropriate balance of division of ING immediately prior in the composite insurance sector skills, considering and recommending board and to joining Beazley.
He qualified with Aviva and Zurich Financial committee candidates and considering board succession.
as a chartered accountant with Services.
His experience spans Coopers and Lybrand in 1987.
He personal and commercial lines joined the board of Man Group plc general insurance, the London Governance framework in 2013 as a non-executive market, life insurance and asset director.
management in both the UK Committees: Executive committee and France.
Board of directors chair, nomination committee Committee: Executive committee Audit and Remuneration risk committee committee The chair of the audit and The remuneration risk committee was assumed committee is chaired by by Angela Crawford-Ingle Padraic OConnor.
upon her appointment to the board in March.
Nomination Executive committee committee The nomination committee The executive committee is chaired by Dennis Holt.
is chaired by Andrew Horton Adrian Cox Neil Maidment and acts under delegated authority from the board.
Head of specialty lines Chief underwriting officer Appointed: 6 December 2010 Appointed: 15 March 2001 Experience: Adrian joined Beazley Experience: Neil joined Beazley For further details go to pages 65-72 in June 2001.
Prior to this, Adrian in 1990 and was appointed to the was at General Re for eight years, board in 1993.
Neil has 29 years writing both treaty and facultative of Lloyds experience and, in business.
Since 2001 his 2011, was elected to the board responsibilities have included the of the Lloyds Market Association.
casualty treaty portfolio and the Committee: Executive committee SME and large risks portfolios, before being promoted to head of specialty lines in 2008.
Committee: Executive committee W here the appointment date of a director pre-dates 9 June 2009 being the date that Beazley plc became the holding company of Beazley Group this appointment date refers to their representation on the Beazley Group Limited board formerly Beazley Group plc.
com Annual report 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Clive Washbourn Dennis Holt Vincent Sheridan Padraic OConnor Head of marine Chairman Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed: 04 December 2006 Appointed: 21 July 2011 Appointed: 9 June 2009 Appointed: 13 March 2009 Experience: Clive has over 30 Experience: Dennis has more than Experience: Vincent is currently Experience: Padraic is chairman years experience in the marine 40 years experience in financial a non-executive director of FBD of the Irish Stock Exchange as insurance industry and actively services markets.
He was formerly Holdings plc, Mercer Ireland well as a non-executive director of underwrites marine hull, marine a main board executive director Limited, Canada Life Assurance Rabobank and a number of other liability and marine war risks.
at Lloyds TSB 2000-2001, Ireland Limited and a number of companies.
He was managing Committee: Executive committee chief executive of AXA UK and other companies.
He retired as director of NCB Group between a member of AXAs Global chief executive of Vhi Healthcare 1991 and 1999, prior to which executive committee 2001- in 2008 and, prior to that, was he was chief economist at the 2006.
He has been chairman group chief executive of the firm.
Before joining NCB, Padraic of Liverpool Victoria and deputy Norwich Union Insurance Group worked at the Department of chairman of Bank of Ireland.
in Ireland for ten years from 1991 Finance and the Central Bank Dennis has recently been to 2001.
He is a past president of Ireland.
He holds primary appointed to the board of of the Institute of Chartered and postgraduate degrees in The Co-Operative Bank plc.
Accountants in Ireland and economics from University College Committees: Nomination a former director of the Irish Dublin.
committee chair, remuneration Stock Exchange.
Committee: Remuneration committee Committee: Audit and risk committee chair committee George Blunden Ken Sroka Angela Crawford-Ingle Rolf Tolle Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed: 1 January 2010 Appointed: 12 November 2010 Appointed: 27 March 2013 Appointed: 6 December 2010 Experience: George is the senior Experience: Ken was formerly Experience: Angela Crawford-Ingle Experience: Rolf joined the board independent director.
He retired head of product development at is a Chartered Accountant with of Beazley Furlonge Limited as senior vice president and Zurich Financial Services, retiring extensive audit experience in June 2010.
He retired as director from AllianceBernstein in 2008.
During his 15 years of multinational and listed franchise performance director Ltd in December 2009.
He had there, he created and directed companies.
She was a Partner at Lloyds in December 2009 previously been chief executive Zurichs financial lines business in in  after nearly seven years in the of Union plc, and a director of North America and, more recently, specialising in Financial Services role, during which time he was SG Warburg Securities, Seccombe, he focused on the development for 20 years during which time she widely credited with establishing Marshall and Campion plc and of specialist products in North led the Insurance and Investment a new and successful partnership Meridian Investment Performance America as president and CEO of Management Division and retired between the Corporation of Services.
He is the chairman Zurich North American Specialties in 2008.
She is currently a Partner Lloyds and the market.
Prior of the Charity Bank Ltd and Division.
Prior to joining Zurich in in Ambre Partners, a firm to that, he served as chief chairman of Raglan Housing 1993, Mr Srokas career included providing strategic, financial and underwriting officer of Faraday Association.
roles at Chubb, AIG and USF&G.
operational advice to Private Group, General Res Lloyds Committees: Audit and risk Committees: Remuneration Equity firms and entrepreneurial insurance and reinsurance committee, remuneration committee, nomination companies.
committee, nomination committee been appointed as a nonCommittee: Audit and risk committee executive director of Swinton committee Group Ltd. Committee: Audit and risk committee chair www.
