BOARD MEMBERS BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 3 Board Members The Directors of the Company, all of whom are non-executive, are London in 1980 with Pannell Kerr Forster and subsequently listed below: moved to Guernsey in 1983 to work for Ernst & Young, progressing from audit manager to Managing Partner in the Ian Plenderleith Chairman, age 70 Channel Islands.
Mr Legge retired from Ernst & Young in 2003 Ian Plenderleith retired at the end of 2005 after a three-year and currently holds a number of directorships in the financial term as Deputy Governor of the South African Reserve Bank.
Mr Legge is an FCA and holds a BA Hons in Economics He served on the Banks Monetary Policy Committee and was from the University of Manchester.
Mr Legge was appointed to responsible for money, capital and foreign exchange market the Board in 2007. operations and for international banking relationships.
He previously worked for over 36 years at the Bank of England Talmai Morgan, age 61 in London, where he was most recently Executive Director Talmai Morgan is Guernsey resident and qualified as a barrister responsible for the Banks financial market operations and a in 1976.
He moved to Guernsey in 1988 where he worked for member of the Banks Monetary Policy Committee.
He has also Barings and then for the Bank of Bermuda as Managing Director worked at the International Monetary Fund in Washington DC of Bermuda Trust Guernsey Limited.
From January 1999 and served on the Board of the European Investment Bank and to June 2004, he was Director of Fiduciary Services and on various international committees at the Bank for International Enforcement at the Guernsey Financial Services Commission Settlements.
Mr Plenderleith holds an MA from Christ Church, Guernseys financial regulatory agency where he was responsible Oxford University, and an MBA from Columbia Business School, for the design and subsequent implementation of Guernseys law New York.
Mr Plenderleith is a non-executive director of Morgan relating to the regulation of fiduciaries, administration businesses Stanley International and BMCE Bank International in London.
He was also involved in the international He is also Chairman of the Governors of Reeds School in working groups of the Financial Action Task Force and the Surrey.
Mr Plenderleith has held the role of Chairman of the Offshore Group of Banking Supervisors.
May 2005, he was Chief Executive of Guernsey Finance which is the official body for the promotion of the Guernsey finance Huw Evans, age 55 industry.
Mr Morgan holds a MA in Economics and Law from Huw Evans is Guernsey resident and qualified as a Chartered Cambridge University.
Mr Morgan is Chairman of the Listed Accountant with KPMG then Peat Marwick Mitchell in 1983.
He Hedge Fund Forum of the Association of Investment Companies.
subsequently worked for three years in the Corporate Finance In addition to being a director of the Company, Mr Morgan is a department of Schroders before joining Phoenix Securities Limited Director of a number of listed investment funds.
Over the next twelve years he advised a wide range of appointed to the Board in 2007. companies in financial services and other sectors on mergers and acquisitions and more general corporate strategy.
Since moving to Stephen Stonberg, age 46 Guernsey in 2005, he has acted as a professional non-executive Stephen Stonberg is a resident of the United States and has Director of a number of Guernsey-based companies and funds.
over 25 years experience in the financial services industy in He holds an MA in Biochemistry from Cambridge University.
both Europe and the United States.
From 2011 to 2013, he Mr Evans was appointed to the Board in 2010. was a Managing Director at Credit Suisse Asset Management in New York.
Prior to this, Mr Stonberg worked for Brevan Howard Anthony Hall, age 74 entities in both London and New York.
He joined Brevan Howard Anthony Hall is Guernsey resident and has 50 years experience Asset Management LLP in London in September 2006 as Head in the financial services industry.
He worked for Barclays Bank of Business Development and subsequently became a Partner between 1955 and 1970 and between 1970 and 1976 he held in April 2007.
In February 2009 he relocated from London to positions with N. M. Rothschild, Guernsey: Bank of London & New York to run North American marketing for Brevan Howard Montreal, Nassau: and Italian International Bank CI Limited, US Asset Management LP.
From January to December 2010 Guernsey.
In 1976 he was appointed as Managing Director of he was the CEO of Brevan Howard US LLC, a member of the Rea Brothers Guernsey Limited and between 1988 and 1995 Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc FINRA.
Prior to joining he served as joint CEO and managing director of Rea Brothers Brevan Howard, Mr Stonberg worked for JPMorgan 2001-2006 Group Plc.
He served as Chairman of Rea Brothers Guernsey as managing director and Global Head of Strategy and Business Limited from 1995 to 1996.
He was founder Deputy Chairman Development for the Investment Banking Division 2003-2006 of the Guernsey International Business Association and was and as managing director and Head of Credit Derivative Chairman of the Association of Guernsey Banks in 1994.
Previously, Mr Stonberg worked addition to being a director of the Company, Mr Hall is currently at Deutsche Bank 1996-2001 as managing director of Global a director of a number of Guernsey based investment funds.
Mr Stonberg holds an MBA from Harvard Mr Hall was appointed to the Board in 2007. Business School 1994 and a Bachelors Degree in Economics from Columbia University 1989.
He is currently a non-executive Christopher Legge, Senior Independent Director, age 58 director of Coalition Development Limited.
Mr Stonberg was Christopher Legge is Guernsey resident and has over 25 years appointed to the Board in 2007. experience in the financial services industry.
