DIRECTORS REPORT BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 5 Directors Report 31 December 2013 The Directors submit their Report together with the Companys The Company may employ leverage for the purposes of financing Audited Statement of Assets and Liabilities, Audited Statement share purchases or buy backs, satisfying working capital of Operations, Audited Statement of Changes in Net Assets, requirements or financing further investment into the Master Fund, Audited Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes for the subject to an aggregate borrowing limit of 20% of the Companys year ended 31 December 2013.
The Directors Report together net asset value, calculated as at the time of borrowing.
Borrowing with the Audited Financial Statements and their related notes the by the Company is in addition to leverage at the Master Fund Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the financial level, which has no limit on its own leverage.
They have been prepared properly, in Results and dividends conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the The results for the year are set out in the Audited Statement of United States of America US GAAP, are in accordance with Operations on page 21.
The Directors do not recommend the any relevant enactment for the time being in force and are in payment of a dividend.
agreement with the accounting records.
The figures stated in note 9 of the Notes to the Audited Financial The Company Statements for Net Investment Losses are, in the Directors The Company is a limited liability closed-ended investment opinion and in accordance with the Companys investment company incorporated in Guernsey on 17 January 2007. objectives, not the best reflection of the Companys overall performance.
Considering the investment objectives of the The Company was admitted to a Secondary Listing Chapter 14 Company, the Directors consider that the figures disclosed in on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange LSE on note 9 for Total Returns are a more appropriate reflection of the 14 March 2007.
On 11 March 2008, the Company migrated from Companys overall performance during the year.
the Secondary Listing to a Primary Listing pursuant to Chapter 15 of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
As a result of Share capital changes to the UK Listing Regime, the Companys Primary Listing The number of shares in issue at the year end is disclosed in became a Premium Listing with effect from 6 April 2010. note 5 to the Financial Statements.
As of 20 October 2008 the Company obtained a Secondary During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Company Listing on the Bermuda Stock Exchange and with effect from implemented a partial capital return to Shareholders of an amount 11 November 2008, the US Dollar Shares of the Company were equal to 100% of the NAV growth during the 2012 calendar year admitted to a Secondary Listing on NASDAQ Dubai.
for each class of its shares less certain costs and provisions.
The partial capital return allowed Shareholders to elect to have shares The proceeds from the original issue of shares on listing redeemed at a price equal to the NAV for the relevant class of amounted to approximately US$1.1 billion.
On 26 October 2007 shares as at 31 December 2012, discounted by 4%.
The record the Company issued further shares in a cash placing amounting date for participation in the partial capital return was 31 January to approximately US$0.1 billion.
See note 5 for further details.
Investment objective and policy Going concern The Company is organised as a feeder fund that invests all of its The Company continues to perform satisfactorily and monitors assets net of short-term working capital requirements directly and manages its liquidity.
Given the nature of the Company and in Brevan Howard Master Fund Limited the Master Fund, its investment, the Directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to a hedge fund in the form of a Cayman Islands open-ended continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these investment company, which has as its investment objective the Financial Statements.
In reaching this conclusion the Board is generation of consistent long-term appreciation through active mindful of the nature of the assets that underly its investment in leveraged trading and investment on a global basis.
The Master the Master Fund, including their liquidity and has concluded that Fund is managed by Brevan Howard Capital Management LP, the adverse investment performance will not have a material impact Companys Manager.
The Master Fund has flexibility to invest in a wide range of As part of the Companys discount management programme, instruments including, but not limited to, debt securities and class closure resolutions will be triggered if in any fixed discount obligations which may be below investment grade, bank loans, management period 1 January to 31 December each year, the listed and unlisted equities, other collective investment schemes, average daily closing market price of the relevant class of shares currencies, commodities, futures, options, warrants, swaps and during such period is 10% or more below the average NAV per share other derivative instruments.
The underlying philosophy is to of the relevant class taken over the 12 monthly NAV Determination construct strategies, often contingent in nature, with superior Dates in that fixed discount management period, as described more risk return profiles, whose outcome will often be crystallised by an fully in the Companys principal documents.
The Board has reviewed expected event occurring within a pre-determined period of time.
the average discount over the year for each of the share classes and note that the USD class, EUR class and the GBP class have had an average discount of less than 10%.
