6 DIRECTORS REPORT BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 Directors Report continued 31 December 2013 Directors independence The Board Talmai Morgan and Stephen Stonberg are both non-executive The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for safeguarding Directors of BH Global Limited.
BH Global Limited is managed by the Companys assets, for the determination of the investment Brevan Howard Capital Management LP and is a feeder fund to policy of the Company, for reviewing the performance of the Brevan Howard Global Opportunities Master Fund Limited which service providers and for the Companys activities.
The Directors, invests, amongst other investments, in the Master Fund.
Stephen all of whom are non-executive, are listed on page 4 and on the Stonberg is also a non-executive Director of BH Credit Catalysts inside back cover.
BH Credit Catalysts Limited is managed by Brevan Howard Capital Management LP and is a feeder fund to Brevan Howard The Articles provide that, unless otherwise determined by ordinary Credit Catalysts Master Fund Limited.
On the basis of these other resolution, the number of Directors shall not be less than two.
The interests, Stephen Stonberg and Talmai Morgan are deemed not Companys policy on Directors Remuneration, together with details independent of the Manager for the purposes of LR15.2.
of the remuneration of each Director who served during the year, is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 12.
Directors interests The Directors had the following interests in the Company, held The Board meets at least four times a year and between these either directly or beneficially: formal meetings there is regular contact with the Manager and the Administrator.
The Directors are kept fully informed of US Dollar Shares investment and financial controls, and other matters that are 31.12.13 31.12.12 relevant to the business of the Company and should be brought Ian Plenderleith Nil Nil to the attention of the Directors.
The Directors also have access Huw Evans Nil Nil to the Administrator and, where necessary in the furtherance of Anthony Hall 9,017 Nil their duties, to independent professional advice at the expense Christopher Legge Nil Nil of the Company.
In addition to these scheduled meetings, Talmai Morgan Nil Nil 15 ad hoc meetings were held in 2013 to deal with matters that were of a fundamentally administrative nature, the majority being Stephen Stonberg Nil Nil the conversions between share classes.
These meetings were Euro Shares attended by those Directors available at the time.
31.12.13 31.12.12 Ian Plenderleith Nil Nil Directors Huw Evans Nil Nil For each Director, the tables below set out the number of Board, Anthony Hall Nil Nil Audit Committee and Management Engagement Committee Christopher Legge Nil Nil meetings they were entitled to attend during the year ended 31 December 2013 and the number of such meetings attended Talmai Morgan Nil Nil by each Director.
Stephen Stonberg Nil Nil Scheduled Board Meetings Held Attended Sterling Shares 31.12.13 31.12.12 Ian Plenderleith 4 4 Ian Plenderleith Nil Nil Huw Evans 4 4 Anthony Hall 4 4 Huw Evans 710 710 Christopher Legge 4 4 Anthony Hall 10,000 15,738 Talmai Morgan 4 4 Christopher Legge Nil Nil Stephen Stonberg 4 4 Talmai Morgan 1,200 1,200 Stephen Stonberg 5,676 5,676 Audit Committee Meetings Held Attended Huw Evans 4 4 Directors indemnity Anthony Hall 4 4 Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in favour Christopher Legge 4 3 of the Directors.
The Directors entered into indemnity agreements Management Engagement Committee Meetings Held Attended with the Company which provide for, subject to the provisions of Ian Plenderleith 1 1 the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, an indemnity for Directors Anthony Hall 1 1 in respect of costs which they may incur relating to the defence Christopher Legge 1 1 of proceedings brought against them arising out of their positions as Directors, in which they are acquitted or judgement is given in their favour by the Court.
The agreement does not provide for any indemnification for liability which attaches to the Directors in connection with any negligence, unfavourable judgements, breach of duty or trust in relation to the Company.
