16 MANAGERS REPORT BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 Managers Report Brevan Howard Capital Management LP is the Manager of the Company and of the Master Fund.
Performance Review The NAV of the USD share class appreciated by 2.70% in 2013, while the NAV of the Euro shares and the Sterling shares appreciated by 2.62% and 3.09% respectively in 2013.
Monthly NAV data is unaudited and net of all investment management fees 2% annual management fee and 20% performance fee and all other fees and expenses payable by the Company.
Shares in the Company do not necessarily trade at a price equal to the prevailing NAV per Share.
PAST PERFORMANCE IS NOT INDICATIVE OF FUTURE RESULTS As detailed above, the USD share class posted a small gain of 2.70% in 2013, with performance predominantly driven by three major themes.
The first theme was long the Japan Trade, namely the view that under Prime Minister Abes stewardship policymakers in Japan were finally committed to taking extraordinary measures in order to reflate their economy.
As a consequence, the Master Fund was long Japanese equity indices and short the Yen.
The second theme focused on the US recovery.
Believing that the US economy would outperform its trading partners and that the Federal Reserve would start to move towards reducing its extraordinarily accommodative policy stance at some point in 2013, the Master Fund went long the USD against a basket of other currencies.
The final major theme was that Europes ongoing disinflationary pressures would force the European Central Bank to cut rates, potentially through the zero bound, which led to being aggressively long European interest rates.
Over the first few months of the year, Japanese equities rallied sharply and the Yen sold off, while the USD appreciated against its trade weighted basket.
The European interest rate position proved to be more volatile, with short term interest rates initially rising sharply in January before resuming their downward path through to early May.
The net result of these asset price moves was an appreciation in the Master Funds NAV of over 7% by the end of April.
During the latter part of May however, a combination of stronger than expected US April employment data and Chairman Bernankes talk about the possibility that the US Federal Reserve Fed may taper asset purchases triggered substantial turmoil in financial markets that lasted several months.
Trends reversed violently as market participants MANAGERS REPORT BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 17 cut risk across multiple asset classes and a significant portion accepted the Feds strategy of influencing real economy outcomes of the Master Funds gains from earlier in the year were reduced through the transmission mechanism of higher asset prices and the during the period from late May to the end of October.
promise of prolonged zero to negative real yields.
On that basis it is unlikely that the BOJ and Japanese policymakers will simply stop For the year as a whole, the Master Fund made money on the at what has been achieved, which is not very much relative to their Japan Trade and the long USD trade despite the summer goals, and just accept no further progress in terms of economic drawdown, the long European rates position proving to be the growth, higher asset prices and higher inflation.
only net loser of the three major themes.
The long European rates trade also seems to offer potential.
The investment profile by strategy group % of capital allocation The European Central Bank was under little pressure to take of the Master Fund as at 31 December 2013 is shown below: action in 2013 because of a gradual improvement in Eurozone economic sentiment and data.
The Manager believes that part of Strategy Group Exposure % of capital allocation this improvement was due to a reduction of fiscal drag for most Commodities, 1.1% European Governments as 2013 marked a pause in Eurozone Governments attempts to pursue additional austerity or to address Systematic, 0.8% Credit, 6.8% budget deficits.
However, as the fundamental fiscal imbalances have not yet been resolved, it is likely that the fiscal stance will Equities, 4.2% become more restrictive in 2014, which may lead prospects for FX, 4.8% Rates, 31.9% growth to deteriorate in the latter part of the year.
Should the current disinflationary pressures in Europe persist, the European Central Bank will have to take more aggressive monetary action.
Now that the Fed has finally started to exit its extraordinary asset EMG, 12.1% purchase programme in the US, the Manager would expect the opportunity set to trade both US rates and the US dollar to improve markedly.
The one way bet on Fed accommodation since 2008 has made trading the US dollar and US rates a frustrating exercise for the last several years.
Fed policy is no longer a one Macro, 38.2% way bet and the fact that the interest rate curve is as steep as it has been for decades demonstrates the broad range of Source: Brevan Howard, as at 31 December 2013.
Data may not sum to expectations about future policy.
As events unfold, the Manager 100% due to rounding.
expects the volatility and trading ranges for both the dollar and rates to expand materially, providing opportunities to take Capital allocations are subject to change.
advantage of significant two-way moves in price, curve shape and The above strategies are categorised as follows: option volatility.
The Manager is looking forward to an opportunity rich year for rates trading in 2014.
Macro: multi-asset global markets, mainly directional for the Master Fund, the majority of risk in this category is in rates Brevan Howard wishes to thank shareholders once again for their continued support.
Rates: developed interest rates markets FX: global FX forwards and options Brevan Howard Capital Management LP, EMG: global emerging markets acting by its sole general partner, Brevan Howard Capital Management Limited.
Equities: global equity markets including indices and other derivatives 27 March 2014 Commodities: liquid commodity futures and options Credit: corporate and asset-backed indices, bonds and CDS Systematic: rules-based futures trading Commentary and Outlook Looking forward, the Manager sees many of the themes identified at the start of 2013 as still valid for 2014.
Japanese authorities remain determined to reflate the Japanese economy and, even if they eventually fail, will take extraordinary steps in an attempt to achieve this goal.
What is possibly different this time is that Prime Minister Abe has a clear mandate to pursue his policies.
At the same time, the Bank of Japan BOJ Governor Kuroda has
