8 DIRECTORS REPORT BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 Directors Report continued 31 December 2013 Corporate governance continued 31.12.12 US Dollar Euro Sterling The Board, Audit Committee and Management Engagement Shares Shares Shares Committee undertake an evaluation of their own performance Company Ongoing and that of individual Directors on an annual basis.
In order Charges 1.93% 1.92% 1.94% to review their effectiveness, the Board and its Committees Master Fund Ongoing carry out a process of formal self-appraisal.
The Board and Committees consider how they function as a whole and also Charges 0.60% 0.59% 0.60% review the individual performance of their members.
This process Performance fee 0.86% 0.74% 0.94% is conducted by the respective Chairman reviewing the Directors Ongoing Charges performance, contribution and commitment to the Company.
plus performance fee 3.39% 3.25% 3.48% Christopher Legge, as Senior Independent Director, takes the lead in reviewing the performance of the Chairman.
The Chairman also The Master Fund Ongoing Charges represent the portion of the has responsibility for assessing the individual Board members Master Funds operating expenses which have been allocated training requirements.
The Company invests substantially all of its investable assets in ordinary US Dollar, Euro and Sterling In accordance with the AIC Code which requires external denominated Class B shares issued by the Master Fund.
These evaluation of the Board every three years, the Board shares are not subject to management fees and performance fees commissioned an external evaluation of its performance by within the Master Fund.
The Master Funds operating expenses Optimus Group Limited in October 2011.
The report of the include an operational service fee payable to the Manager of 1 12 evaluation confirmed that the Company observes a high standard of 0.5% per month of the NAV.
of Corporate Governance and the Board intends to repeat the exercise in 2014.
Performance graphs The graphs shown on page 1 detail the share price returns over Fraud, anti-bribery and corruption policy the year.
The Board has adopted a formal Fraud, Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy.
The policy applies to the Company and to Audit Committee each of its Directors.
Further, the policy is shared with each of the The Companys Audit Committee conducts formal meetings at least Companys service providers.
Full details of its functions and activities are set out in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 13 to 15.
Ongoing Charges Ongoing charges for the year ended 31 December 2013 and year Management Engagement Committee ended 31 December 2012 have been prepared in accordance The Board has established a Management Engagement with the AICs recommended methodology.
Committee with formal duties and responsibilities.
The Management Engagement Committee meets formally at least The following table presents the Ongoing Charges for each once a year and comprises Ian Plenderleith, Anthony Hall share class.
Anthony Hall is the Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee.
31.12.13 US Dollar Euro Sterling The function of the Management Engagement Committee Shares Shares Shares is to ensure that the Companys Management Agreement is Company Ongoing competitive and reasonable for the Shareholders, along with Charges 1.94% 1.95% 1.95% the Companys agreements with all other third party service Master Fund Ongoing providers other than the Independent Auditors.
The Terms Charges 0.61% 0.61% 0.62% of Reference of the Management Engagement Committee are Performance fee 0.63% 0.65% 0.69% available from the Administrator.
Ongoing Charges plus performance fee 3.18% 3.21% 3.26% The principal contents of the Managers contract and notice period are contained in note 4 to the Financial Statements.
The Board continuously monitors the performance of the Manager and a review of the Manager is conducted by the Management Engagement Committee annually.
The Manager has wide experience in managing and administering investment companies and has access to extensive investment management resources.
At its meeting on 16 September 2013, the Management Engagement Committee concluded that the
