Governance Directors report continued iii Information made available to shareholders RECOMMENDATION The AIFMD Regulations require that prior to any new or The Board considers that the resolutions to be proposed at the existing investor making an investment in the Company Annual General Meeting are likely to promote the success of certain prescribed information is to be made available to the Company and are in the best interests of the Company them.
Therefore, the Articles will include language with the andits shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously effect that such information shall be made available to recommend that shareholders vote in favour of these prospective and existing shareholders from time to time resolutions as they intend to do so in respect of their own insuch manner as may be determined by the Board bene cial holdings.
including, in certain cases, on the Companys website or by electronic notice.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Full details are given in the Corporate Governance Statement iv Liability for loss of financial assets held in custody on pages 30 to 34.
The Corporate Governance Statement forms The AIFMD Regulations require that the Company has a part of this Directors Report.
Under the AIFMD Regulations, the depositary has strict liability for the loss of the Companys financial AUDIT INFORMATION assets in respect of which it has safe-keeping duties.
As required by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the Thisrule applies even where the depositary has Directors in of ce at the date of approval of this report each delegatedthe actual custody of an asset to another entity.
con rm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant The Company may wish to hold assets in a country where audit information of which the Groups auditor is unaware and the depositary is required by local law to use a local each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have sub-custodian to hold the relevant asset.
The depositary taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant may not wish the Company to acquire or retain such an audit information and to establish that the Groups auditor is asset, unless it can discharge its strict liability to the aware of that information.
A discharge of strict liability in these circumstances will only be possible if the Companys AUDITOR rulesor instruments of incorporation for example, the The auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, has indicated its willingness to Articles permit such a discharge.
The Board is cognisant continue in of ce and resolutions proposing its reappointment that situations may arise where allowing the depositary to and authorising the Directors to determine their remuneration discharge its strict liability will be commercially necessary.
for the ensuing year will be proposed at the Annual An amendment to the Articles is therefore proposed with General Meeting.
the effect of enabling the Board, should the need arise and subject to applicable laws, to allow a depositary to BY ORDER OF THE BOARD discharge its strict liability for loss of certain of the BLACKROCK INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT UK LIMITED Companys assets.
This proposed amendment provides Secretary the Company with commercial exibility and the Board 20 February 2014 will exercise its discretion in the usual way in determining whether or not to provide such a discharge.
v Valuation In line with early guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority, the Articles will now provide that valuation of the Companys assets shall be performed in accordance with prevailing accounting standards.
The full terms of the proposed amendments to the Articles will be available for inspection from the date of this report until the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting at the Companys registered of ce at 12 Throgmorton Avenue, London EC2N 2DL.
The full terms of the proposed amendments to the Articles will also be available for inspection at the place of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes before and during that Annual General Meeting.
[26] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC
