Performance Strategic report The Directors present the Strategic Report of the Company The Group may invest in any single holding, of quoted or forthe year ended 31 December 2013.
The aim of the Strategic unquoted investments, that would represent up to 20% of Report is to provide shareholders with the ability to assess gross assets at the time of acquisition.
how the Directors have performed their duty to promote the success of the Company for the collective bene t Although investments are principally in companies listed on ofshareholders.
recognised stock exchanges, the Company may invest up to 20% of the Groups gross assets in investments other than quoted securities.
Such investments include unquoted PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY equities or bonds, royalties, physical metals and derivatives.
The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
Inorder to afford the Company the exibility of obtaining Itsprincipal activity is portfolio investment and that of its exposure to metal and mining related royalties, it is possible subsidiary, BlackRock World Mining Investment Company that, in order to diversify risk, all or part of such exposure may Limited the Group, is investment dealing.
be obtained directly or indirectly through a holding company, afund or another investment or special purpose vehicle, GENERAL MEETING whichmay be quoted or unquoted.
The Board will seek the The Company held a general meeting on 21 August 2013 to prior approval of shareholders to any unquoted investment in amend the Companys investment policy.
The principal a single company, fund or special purpose vehicle or any single changes clari ed that the Company may invest in royalties royalty which represents more than 10% of the Groups assets derived from the production of metals and minerals as part of at the time of acquisition.
its permission to invest in unquoted investments: permit the Company to invest up to 20% of its gross assets in unquoted As at 31 December 2013, the Company held two unquoted investments including royalties previously 10% : and enable investments.
Unquoted investments can prove to be more the Company to invest in any single holding that would risky than listed investments.
The two investments, the represent up to 20% of gross assets at the time of acquisition, Marampa royalty contract and Banro gold-linked preference as compared with the previous 10%.
shares, are held at Directors valuation.
OBJECTIVE In addition, while the Company may hold shares in other listed The Companys objective is to maximise total returns to investment companies including investment trusts the shareholders through a worldwide portfolio of mining and Company will not invest more than 15% of the Groups gross metal securities.
The Board recognises the importance of assets in other UK listed investment companies.
dividends to shareholders in achieving that objective, in addition to capital returns.
The Groups financial statements are maintained in sterling.
Although many investments are denominated and quoted STRATEGY, BUSINESS MODEL AND INVESTMENT incurrencies other than sterling, the Board does not intend POLICY toemploy a hedging strategy against uctuations in In order to achieve its objective, it is intended that the Group exchangerates.
will normally be fully invested, which means at least 90% of the gross assets of the Company and its subsidiary will be The Investment Manager believes that tactical use of gearing invested in stocks, shares, royalties and physical metals.
can add value from time to time.
This gearing is typically in the However, if such investments are deemed to be overvalued, form of an overdraft or short term loan facility, which can be orif the Investment Manager nds it dif cult to identify repaid at any time or matched by cash.
The level and bene t attractively priced opportunities for investment, then up to ofgearing is discussed and agreed with the Board regularly.
25% of the portfolio may be held in cash or cash equivalents.
Inorder to provide exibility for future royalty transactions, theBoard would allow for gearing to increase but to no more The Companys investment policy is to provide a diversi ed than 25% of the Groups net assets, the limit stipulated in the investment in mining and metal securities worldwide.
While Companys Articles of Association.
The maximum level of the policy is to invest principally in quoted securities, the gearing used during the year was 12.8% and, at the financial Companys investment policy includes investing in royalties reporting date, net gearing calculated as borrowings less cash derived from the production of metals and minerals, as well as a percentage of net assets stood at 9.6% of shareholders asphysical metals.
Risk is spread by investing in a number of funds 2012: 7.1%.
For further details on borrowings refer to holdings, many of which themselves are diversi ed companies.
The Group may occasionally utilise derivative instruments No material change will be made to the investment policy such as options, futures and contracts for difference, if it is without shareholder approval.
deemed that these will, at a particular time or for a particular period, enhance the performance of the Group in the pursuit of its objective.
The Company is permitted to enter into stock lending arrangements.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [7] Performance Strategic report continued PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS 2013 2012 Information regarding the Companys investment exposures is Net asset value per share 499.39p 685.75p contained within the ten largest investments on pages 16 and Share price 465.00p 586.50p 17, the investments listing on pages 18 and 19 and portfolio Discount to net asset value 6.9% 14.5% analysis on page 20.
Further information regarding investment Revenue earnings per share 22.36p 21.78p risk and activity throughout the year can be found in the 1 Ongoing charges 1.4% 1.4% Investment Managers Report.
Ongoing charges represent the management fee and all other operating expenses excluding interest as a % of average shareholders funds.
CONTINUATION OF THE COMPANY As agreed by shareholders in 1998, an ordinary resolution for The Board monitors the above KPIs on a regular basis.
the continuance of the Company is proposed at each Annual Additionally, it regularly reviews a number of indices and ratios General Meeting.
The Company has a strong long term to understand the impact on the Companys relative investment record, providing excellent returns to shareholders, performance of the various components such as asset and the Directors recommend that shareholders vote in allocation and stock selection.
DISCOUNT PERFORMANCE The Directors recognise that it is in the long term interests of In the year to 31 December 2013, the Companys net asset shareholders that shares do not trade at a signi cant discount value per share returned -24.6% compared with a return in the to their prevailing net asset value.
In the year under review, Euromoney Global Mining Index of -24.1%.
The HSBC Global theCompanys shares traded at a discount to net asset value Mining Index was renamed on 1 October 2013.
The Companys of between 5.4% and 15.8%, with the average being 10.2%.
share price returned -17.5% over the same period.
All gures The shares ended the year at a discount of 6.9%.
calculated in sterling terms with income reinvested.
PRINCIPAL RISKS RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The key risks faced by the Company are set out below.
The results for the Company are set out in the Consolidated TheBoard regularly reviews and agrees policies for managing Statement of Comprehensive Income on page 41.
The total loss each risk, as summarised below: for the year, after taxation, was 293,167,000 2012: loss of 64,031,000 ofwhich 39,633,000 2012: 38,614,000 is X Performance risk The Board is responsible for deciding the revenue pro t. investment strategy to ful l the Companys objectives and for monitoring the performance of the Investment Manager It is the Boards intention to distribute the maximum dividend and implementation of the strategy.
An inappropriate possible in terms of earnings each year.
The Directors strategy may lead to underperformance, against the recommend the payment of a final dividend of 14.00p per benchmark index.
To manage this risk the Investment share inrespect of the year ended 31 December 2013 2012: Manager provides an explanation of signi cant stock 14.00p per share which, together with the interim dividend selection decisions and the rationale for the composition of of 7.00p per share 2012: 7.00p, makes a total of 21.00p per the investment portfolio.
The Board monitors and mandates share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2013 an adequate spread of investments in order to minimise the 2012: 21.00p.
The dividend will be paid on 15 May 2014 to risks associated with particular countries or factors speci c shareholders on the register of members at close of business to particular sectors, based on the diversi cation on 7 March 2014. Dividend payments for the year ended requirements inherent in the Companys investment policy.
31 December 2013 including the interim dividend amount The Board also receives and reviews regular reports showing to 37,230,000 2012:37,230,000. an analysis of the Companys performance against the Euromoney Global Mining Index and other similar indices, KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS including the performance of major companies in the sector.
The Directors consider a number of performance measures Past performance is not necessarily a guide to future toassess the Companys success in achieving its objectives.
performance and the value ofan investment in the Company Thekey performance indicators KPIs used to measure the and the income from it can uctuate as the value of the progress and performance of the Company over time and underlying investments uctuate.
which are comparable to those reported by other investment trusts are set out below.
[8] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC TheBoard relies on the services of its professional advisers X Income dividend risk The amount of dividends and future and its Company Secretary to ensure compliance with all dividend growth will depend on the Companys underlying relevant regulations.
The Company Secretary has stringent portfolio and investment activity.
Any change in the tax compliance procedures in place and monitors regulatory treatment of the dividends or interest received by the developments and changes.
Following authorisation under Company including as a result of withholding taxes or the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive exchange controls imposed by jurisdictions in which the theDirective the Company and its appointed AIFM will Company invests may reduce the level of dividends besubject to the risk that the requirements of the Directive received by shareholders.
The Board monitors this risk are not correctly complied with.
through the receipt of income forecasts and considers the level of income at each meeting.
X Operational risk In common with most other investment X Market risk Market risk arises from volatility in the trust companies, the Company has no employees.
The prices of the Companys investments.
It represents the Company therefore relies upon the services provided by potential loss the Company might suffer through realising third parties and is dependent on the control systems of investments in the face of negative market movements.
the Investment Manager and the Companys other service Changes in general economic and market conditions, such providers.
The security, for example, of the Companys as interest rates, rates of in ation, industry conditions, tax assets, dealing procedures, accounting records and laws, political events and trends can also substantially and maintenance of regulatory and legal requirements, depend adversely affect the securities and, as a consequence, the on the effective operation of these systems.
These have Companys prospects and share price.
The Board considers been regularly tested and monitored and an internal asset allocation, stock selection and levels of gearing controls report, which includes an assessment of risks on a regular basis and has set investment restrictions together with procedures to mitigate such risks, is and guidelines which are monitored and reported on prepared by the Investment Manager and reviewed by the by the Investment Manager.
The Board monitors the Audit & Management Engagement Committee at least implementation and results of the investment process twice a year.
The Investment Manager, the custodian and withthe Investment Manager.
the fund accountant also produce regular Service Organisation Control reports SOC1 or AAF 01 06 reports X Financial risk The Companys investment activities expose which are reviewed by their reporting accountants and give it to a variety of financial risks which include market risk, assurance regarding the design and effective operation currency risk, interest rate risk, market price risk, liquidity of controls.
Further details are disclosed in note 18 on pages 55 to 63, together with a summary of the policies X Resource risk The quality of the investment management for managing these risks.
team employed by the Investment Manager is a crucial factor in delivering good performance and the loss by the X Regulatory risk The Company operates as an investment management of key staff could affect investment returns.
trust in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 4 The Investment Manager has training and development ofPart 24 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
As such, the programmes in place for its employees and its recruitment Company is exempt from capital gains tax on the pro ts and remuneration packages are developed in order to realised from the sale of its investments.
The Investment retain key staff.
Manager monitors investment movements, the level and type of forecast income and expenditure and the amount X Gearing risk The Company has the power to borrow money of proposed dividends, if any, to ensure that the provisions gearing and does so when the Investment Manager is of Chapter 4 of Part 24 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 are con dent that market conditions and opportunities exist to not breached and the results are reported to the Board at enhance investment returns.
However, if the investments each meeting.
The Board and the Investment Manager also fall in value, any borrowings will magnify the extent of monitor changes in government policy and legislation thisloss.
All borrowings require the approval of the Board which may have an impact on the Company.
The Company and gearing levels are discussed by the Board and must also comply with the provisions of the Companies Investment Manager.
Act2006 and, as its shares are admitted to the Of cial List, the UKLA Listing Rules, the Disclosure and FUTURE PROSPECTS Transparency Rules and the Prospectus Rules.
A breach The Boards main focus is to maximise total returns over the ofthe Companies Act 2006 could result in the Company longer term.
The future performance of the Company is much and or the Directors being ned or the subject of criminal dependent upon the success of the investment strategy and, proceedings.
A breach of the UKLA Listing Rules could to a large degree, on the performance of financial markets.
result in the Companys shares being suspended from The outlook for the Company in the next twelve months is listing, which in turn would breach the requirements of discussed in both theChairmans Statement on page 5 and Chapter 4 of Part 24 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. the Investment Managers Report on page 15.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [9] Performance Strategic report continued SOCIAL, COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUES As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social or community responsibilities.
However, the Company believes that it is in shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and governance factors and human rights issues when selecting and retaining investments.
Details of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment are set out on page33.
DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES AND GENDER REPRESENTATION The Directors of the Company on 31 December 2013 are setout in the Directors biographies on page 21.
The Board consists of six male Directors and no female Directors.
TheCompany does not have any employees.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD BLACKROCK INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT UK LIMITED Secretary 20 February 2014 [10] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC
