Performance Strategic report The Directors present the Strategic Report of the Company The Group may invest in any single holding, of quoted or forthe year ended 31 December 2013.
The aim of the Strategic unquoted investments, that would represent up to 20% of Report is to provide shareholders with the ability to assess gross assets at the time of acquisition.
how the Directors have performed their duty to promote the success of the Company for the collective bene t Although investments are principally in companies listed on ofshareholders.
recognised stock exchanges, the Company may invest up to 20% of the Groups gross assets in investments other than quoted securities.
Such investments include unquoted PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY equities or bonds, royalties, physical metals and derivatives.
The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
Inorder to afford the Company the exibility of obtaining Itsprincipal activity is portfolio investment and that of its exposure to metal and mining related royalties, it is possible subsidiary, BlackRock World Mining Investment Company that, in order to diversify risk, all or part of such exposure may Limited the Group, is investment dealing.
be obtained directly or indirectly through a holding company, afund or another investment or special purpose vehicle, GENERAL MEETING whichmay be quoted or unquoted.
The Board will seek the The Company held a general meeting on 21 August 2013 to prior approval of shareholders to any unquoted investment in amend the Companys investment policy.
The principal a single company, fund or special purpose vehicle or any single changes clari ed that the Company may invest in royalties royalty which represents more than 10% of the Groups assets derived from the production of metals and minerals as part of at the time of acquisition.
its permission to invest in unquoted investments: permit the Company to invest up to 20% of its gross assets in unquoted As at 31 December 2013, the Company held two unquoted investments including royalties previously 10% : and enable investments.
Unquoted investments can prove to be more the Company to invest in any single holding that would risky than listed investments.
The two investments, the represent up to 20% of gross assets at the time of acquisition, Marampa royalty contract and Banro gold-linked preference as compared with the previous 10%.
shares, are held at Directors valuation.
OBJECTIVE In addition, while the Company may hold shares in other listed The Companys objective is to maximise total returns to investment companies including investment trusts the shareholders through a worldwide portfolio of mining and Company will not invest more than 15% of the Groups gross metal securities.
The Board recognises the importance of assets in other UK listed investment companies.
dividends to shareholders in achieving that objective, in addition to capital returns.
The Groups financial statements are maintained in sterling.
Although many investments are denominated and quoted STRATEGY, BUSINESS MODEL AND INVESTMENT incurrencies other than sterling, the Board does not intend POLICY toemploy a hedging strategy against uctuations in In order to achieve its objective, it is intended that the Group exchangerates.
will normally be fully invested, which means at least 90% of the gross assets of the Company and its subsidiary will be The Investment Manager believes that tactical use of gearing invested in stocks, shares, royalties and physical metals.
can add value from time to time.
This gearing is typically in the However, if such investments are deemed to be overvalued, form of an overdraft or short term loan facility, which can be orif the Investment Manager nds it dif cult to identify repaid at any time or matched by cash.
The level and bene t attractively priced opportunities for investment, then up to ofgearing is discussed and agreed with the Board regularly.
25% of the portfolio may be held in cash or cash equivalents.
Inorder to provide exibility for future royalty transactions, theBoard would allow for gearing to increase but to no more The Companys investment policy is to provide a diversi ed than 25% of the Groups net assets, the limit stipulated in the investment in mining and metal securities worldwide.
While Companys Articles of Association.
The maximum level of the policy is to invest principally in quoted securities, the gearing used during the year was 12.8% and, at the financial Companys investment policy includes investing in royalties reporting date, net gearing calculated as borrowings less cash derived from the production of metals and minerals, as well as a percentage of net assets stood at 9.6% of shareholders asphysical metals.
Risk is spread by investing in a number of funds 2012: 7.1%.
For further details on borrowings refer to holdings, many of which themselves are diversi ed companies.
The Group may occasionally utilise derivative instruments No material change will be made to the investment policy such as options, futures and contracts for difference, if it is without shareholder approval.
deemed that these will, at a particular time or for a particular period, enhance the performance of the Group in the pursuit of its objective.
The Company is permitted to enter into stock lending arrangements.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [7]
