FIXED INCOME SECURITIES OUTLOOK AND STRATEGY FOR 201 4 The Companys exposure to natural resource debt securities Looking into 2014 it is clear that the world economy is now in has been a signi cant contributor to overall performance abetter state than it has been during the last few years.
The since the decision was taken post the financial crisis to take overall macro picture is pointing towards synchronous global advantage of the attractive yield opportunities available in growth for the first time in years and with industrial production themarket.
At the start of 2013, the Company switched its expanding in most of the worlds key commodity-consuming exposure from Glencores convertible bond into the equity, countries the demand picture is supportive at worst.
Should taking advantage of the implied premium at which the bond demand surprise to the upside, then the enormous supply was trading relative to the equity.
As at the end of 2013, the surpluses that have been forecast to arrive each year for Company had 3.7% of the portfolio in convertible debt and thepast two might once again fail to be realised.
This would 4.9% in corporate debt.
The First Quantum Minerals 8.75% certainly retire the bears into hibernation.
coupon debtwas our largest single position at 3.3%.
At the mining company level we remain optimistic that management teams will continue to deliver a strategy built DERIVATIVES ACTIVITY around improved capital discipline and increased returns to The Company sometimes holds positions in derivatives shareholders.
At the moment the sceptics remain convinced contracts with virtually all the activity focused on selling either that this will not be the case and the sector is largely puts or calls in order to increase or decrease position sizes.
If momentum starts These derivative positions, which are small in comparison tobuild onthe back of better than expected results and a withthe size of the Company, usually have the effect of supportive metal price environment, then this should provide obliging us to buy or sell stock or futures at levels we believe the necessary catalyst for these investors to return to the are attractive.
During 2013, we primarily focused on writing share registers of mining companies.
short-dated calls in order to reduce some of our larger positions.
The income generated by such option writing Meanwhile, we continue to search for new investment enables us to maximise the potential exit price from a position opportunities not only in the traditional equity environment if the option is exercised.
In addition to writing calls, we also but also looking to add new royalties to the portfolio as took advantage of volatility in the market occasionally to write companies nd it dif cult to raise development capital.
Both strategies worked well during the year and income Withthe mandate from shareholders to go beyond the from option writing increased by over 150% from 2.1 million previous 10% ceiling we are well placed to add new royalty in 2012 to 5.4 million in 2013.
At the end of 2013 we had one deals during 2014. put option outstanding in the portfolio and this expired at the end of January.
EVY HAMBRO AND CATHERINE RAW BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited GEARING 20 February 2014 At 31 December 2013, the Company had net gearing calculated as borrowings less cash amounting to 85.4 million, dropping from around 86.4 million as a result of a call option exercise inDecember.
For the most part, this gearing has been drawn-down against the higher yielding mining company corporate debt and royalty portfolios.
Gearing, which can be drawn-down or repaid at any time, is used in the portfolio to take tactical advantage of market volatility and opportunities as well as enhance overall returns during the medium to long term.
Once again the reduced risk appetite ofbanks around the world continues to present numerous investment opportunities especially in the mid-size part of themarket.
With this in mind it is likely that we could end up drawing-down more from our debt facilities during 2014.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [15]
