Governance Directors David W Cheyne appointed 1 June 2012 is vice chairman Anthony W Lea Chairman appointed 29 July 2005 is a Europe, Middle East and Africa of Moelis & Company and a non-executive director of BSI Group and The Of ce of Fair consultant at Linklaters where he was senior partner from Trading, and a trustee of the RAF Benevolent Fund.
Throughout his career the finance director of Anglo American plc in London from at Linklaters he played a central role in a wide range of 1999 to 2005, one of the worlds leading mining and natural corporate transactions, including M&A deals, joint ventures, resources companies.
He was also a non-executive director otations and general corporate finance work.
In particular, ofAngloGold Ashanti Limited, at the time the worlds second headvised on a number of large mining transactions.
largest gold producer, and fide Beers Investments SA.
Ian D Cockerill appointed 14 November 2013 is chairman of Ian C S Barby appointed 1 December 2003 is non-executive Petmin Ltd and Hummingbird Resources and an independent chairman of Eco n Water & Power Opportunities plc, INVESCO non-executive director and vice chairman of African Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc and Minerals.
He is a non-executive director of Orica Ltd, the Schroder Income Growth Fund PLC and a non-executive seniorlead independent director of Ivanhoe Mines Ltd, and director of Pantheon International Participations PLC.
He was anon-executive director at Endeavour Mining Corporation.
managing director of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers now Inaddition, he is chairman of Leadership for Conservation in BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited Investment Africa, a not-for-pro t organisation promoting sustainable Trusts division until 2003. employment opportunities linked to conservation projects across the African continent.
He has nearly 40 years of Oliver A G Baring appointed 4 November 2004 is chairman experience in the mining industry, having previously been ofFirst Africa Group Holdings Limited, as well as holding responsible for business development in AngloGold and directorships in Robert Fox Limited, Tilley International plc chiefexecutive of both Gold Fields Ltd and AngloCoal andFerrexpo plc, and is a council member of the Sentient between1999 and 2009.
Group, a private equity mining fund.
He was previously chairman of Mwana Africa PLC.
Colin A M Buchan Chairman of theAudit & Management Engagement Committee and SeniorIndependent Director appointed 25 July 2001 is a non-executive director of Standard Life plc, Environcom Ltd, The Fettes Foundation, Regent Acquisitions Limited, TTT Moneycorp Limited and the Scottish Chamber Orchestra.
He was Global Head of Equities at UBS Warburg and a member of the Group Management Board of UBS AG until his retirement in March 2001.
All the Directors are non-executive.
The Board as a whole constitutes the Audit & Management Engagement Committee.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [21]
