Performance Investment managers report PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE sterling terms in the first half of the year.
All in all it was a 2013 marked the third year in a row of negative returns for sorry state ofaffairs.
Over this period a combination of moderating economic growth in China, rising metals and minerals supply, RELATIVE PERFORMANCE OF IRON ORE PRODUCING and a reduction in the mining sectors pro tability and free EQUITIES VERSUS THE IRON ORE PRICE cash ow weighed heavily on share prices.
The mining sector 110 had begun to respond to these changing conditions in2012, accelerating in 2013 as new management teams at the largest 100 mining companies implemented cost-cutting strategies and scaled back capital expenditures.
However, itwas only in the 90 second half of 2013 that this began to translate into improving operating and financial results.
Increasing stability in metals 80 and minerals prices, as well as recognition of the widening disparity in valuations between the mining sector and other 70 parts of the equity market, particularly with respect to dividend yields, helped the miningsector to stage a somewhat 60 muted recovery in the second half of 2013.
50 The Companys move to diversify its mining exposure into Dec 12 Mar 13 Jun 13 Sep 13 Dec 13 royalties and xed income helped to partially offset the poor equity performance of the higher growth, more operationally Iron ore spot price Iron ore equity composite leveraged producers within the portfolio.
For the calendar year 2013, the Companys undiluted net asset value NAV and RELATIVE PERFORMANCE OF COPPER PRODUCING share price fell by 24.6% and 17.5% respectively, in sterling terms with income reinvested.
In capital only terms, the NAV EQUITIES VERSUS THE COPPER PRICE fell by 27.1% and the share price by 20.7%.
By comparison, in 110 sterling terms, the Euromoney Global Mining Index formerly the HSBC Global Mining Index fell by 26.2% capital only and 105 24.1% with income reinvested.
100 95 MINING SECTOR OVERVIEW The mining sector entered 2013 in the throes of change.
90 Managements were under attack from investors to rebalance 85 the mix between returns to shareholders and reinvestment of cash ows back into the ground.
In addition, investors were 80 nervous about the prospects for China, the worlds largest 75 commodity consumer, as media reports debated between hardand soft landings for the economy.
In North America the 70 economy nished 2012 showing signs of improvement and Dec 12 Mar 13 Jun 13 Sep 13 Dec 13 whilst monetary policy remained accommodative through Copper price Euromoney Copper Mining Equity Index quantitative easing so as not to allow economic momentum to stall, taper talk was already beginning to creep into markets.
Iron ore equity composite average US$share price performance of Rio Tinto, Vale, Fortescue, Atlas and Cliffs During the first half of the year, the bearish commentators won Natural Resources.
Share prices fell, demand fears increased and However, it looks as though the seeds of change were planted management teams at the worlds largest mining companies during this period and in the second half of the year fortunes were replaced with fresh blood.
Write-downs in the carrying started to show signs of improvement.
New management values of assets built or purchased during the good times were teams appear to have embraced the challenges facing their commonplace.
Despite all of the negative headlines, demand businesses.
Promises to cut operating costs, cancel or delay for commodities continued to improve during the year rather planned investments into new capacity, curtail M&A activity than fall.
This fact seemed to go unnoticed by investors as after the overwhelmingly poor track record of returns from theyreached for the sell button on their holdings.
In fact, the this endeavour, and when appropriate increase returns to dispersion in performance between the prices of iron ore and shareholders, were all well-received.
However, until the copper versus the respective producers of those commodities evidence of change has enough data points to prove the cynics was startling see charts to the right.
The overwhelming urge wrong, investors will doubt that the leopards can change their to sell exposure to the sector resulted in the Euromoney Global spots.
Asset sales were also showcased by majors keen to Mining Index falling 24.9% in US dollar terms 26.2% in ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [11] US$ Rebased to 100 US$ Rebased to 100
