The Companys second largest copper holding, by selling in the physically-backed exchange traded funds Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold 6.5% of the portfolio, ETFs, pushed the gold price to a low of US$1,180 oz in June wasone of the strongest performers in the portfolio having 2013.
At these lower levels, there was a surge in retail demand had a poor 2012. for jewellery, bars and coins in the second quarter, particularly from China and India.
These two countries are now expected to Thecompany rerated as management better articulated their represent around 60% of global demand.
The challenge for strategy to reduce debt.
The Companys other core copper thegold market is that for now this retail demand, Chinese holding, First Quantum Minerals 7.8% of the portfolio, also demand in particular, is price sensitive, pulling back when contributed positively to relative performance although the prices neared US$1,300 oz.
This meant during the second half shares began to struggle towards the end of the year as the ofthe year, the price was range-bound closing the year at US$1,207 oz.
eagerly awaited update on its development project, Cobre Panama, was pushed back into Q1 2014.
The Company continued to add to its smaller market-cap copper exposure The sharp fall in the gold price pushed the gold industry into loss-making territory and the sector has been forced to take with new positions in Nevsun Resources 1.1% of the portfolio drastic action.
Going forward the gold industry will need to and Tiger Resources 0.5% of the portfolio.
These are both adjust mine plans for the new lower gold price environment in strong cash ow producers in Africa and good illustrations of order to return to pro tability.
Those companies with the the high quality opportunities that exist in this area of the market.
highest quality assets have the greatest exibility and have already begun to announce their new production pro les and Exposure to the other base metals remains limited as the mine plans to the market.
However, those with mines that are metal prices sit at or below the marginal cost of production low grade, with short lives and limited scope for adjustment, and pro t margins for the companies are correspondingly low will struggle.
The impact of thiswill only become clear in the or negative.
A reluctance to cut high cost capacity coupled medium term but it is our expectation that we shall see global with strong growth in Chinese production has kept aluminium gold production start to fall in coming years.
prices low, although premiums for the metal have been elevated owing to warehouse bottle-necks.
Whilst the Company did The Company has been underweight gold producers for a have a trading position in Alcoa during the year, it had no direct number of years and this remains the case.
The beta of the exposure to aluminium producers at the end of the year gold sector to the gold price has returned so we are watching underreview.
The nickel market is also suffering from severe oversupply: however, there is the potential for a price catalyst carefully for an improvement in the fundamentals for gold and in the coming months with the Indonesian government will adjust our exposure accordingly.
There was one signi cant restricting the export of all types of unbene ciated ore from addition to the Companys gold exposure in the form of the country including nickel-rich low grade iron ore.
This is gold-linked preference shares issued by Banro, an African signi cant for nickel as low grade nickel pigiron has become a goldproducer that is in the process of bringing its second major raw material for stainless steel production in China, operation online.
As referred to earlier, the securitys dividend displacing traditional nickel demand.
Given the high level of is royalty-like in nature, linked to the level of production and inventories, these restrictions are unlikely to have any near the prevailing gold price.
term impact on the market surplus: however, it does suggest downside risk to the nickel price has reduced.
During the year, Platinum and palladium, mainly used in auto catalysts, the Company initiated a position in Norilsk Nickel 0.6% of the outperformed gold and silver with platinum falling by just over portfolio, the worlds largest nickel producer, as well as 11% and palladium rising by 2%.
Supply for both metals has asigni cant producer of palladium, platinum and copper.
come under pressure owing to challenges facing the worlds TheCompany increased its zinc exposure indirectly through the major producing countries.
In the case of platinum, South year by adding to its position in Vedanta 1.2% of the portfolio.
Africa represents approximately 72% of world supply and mineproduction has been impacted by rising costs, frequent disruptions and a highly fractious and politicised relationship GOLD AND PRECIOUS METALS between the management of the platinum mining companies Precious metals remained under pressure in 2013 with silver and the labour unions.
Russia is the largest source of primary the worst performer, declining close to 35% over the year.
palladium, representing 42% of supply, with South Africa at Goldfared little better falling over 27%, the worst annual 37%.
Dwindling strategic stockpiles has meant the supply of performance since 1981.
Strong equity market performance, a Russian palladium into the market has declined.
Unlike gold rmer US dollar and an absence of in ationary pressures and silver, platinum and palladium did not see a sharp meant the demand from institutional investors for gold, which reduction in physically backed ETF holdings: palladium is treated as a store of value, diminished.
Gold was particularly holdings ended 2013 virtually unchanged and platinum hard hit during the first half of the year as the market began to holdings rose to record levels owing predominantly to the expect tapering the phasing out of the Federal Reserves launch of the South African NewPlat ETF in May 2013.
By the bond-buying programme, or quantitative easing and the bears end of the period under review, the NewPlat ETF represented made the most of speculation that Cyprus could have to sell 35% of all platinum ETF holdings.
part of its gold holdings which are only 13.9 tonnes as part of its bailout terms.
Liquidation in the futures market, followed ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [13]
