Governance Directors report The Directors present the Annual Report and Financial The Company contributes to a focused investment trust sales Statements of the Company and its subsidiary for the year ended and marketing initiative operated by BlackRock on behalf of the 31 December 2013. investment trusts under its management, which commenced on 1November2013.
The Companys contribution to the consortium element of the initiative, which enables the trusts to STATUS OF THE COMPANY achieve ef ciencies by combining certain sales and marketing In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has conducted its activities, will be a xed amount of 136,000 and this affairs during the year under review, and subsequently, so as contribution is matched by BlackRock.
In addition, a budget of to qualify as an investment trust for the purposes of Chapter 4 120,000 has been allocated for Company speci c sales and of Part 24 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Company has marketing activity.
For the year ended 31December2013, also received approval from HMRC on the basis of an application 42,700 excluding VAT has been accrued in respect of these made under Regulation 5 of the Investment Trust Approved initiatives.
The purpose of the programme overall is to ensure Company Tax Regulations 2011 for investment trust status effective communication with existing shareholders and to for all accounting periods starting on or after 1 January 2012. attract new shareholders to the Company.
This has the bene ts This is subject to the Company continuing to meet the of improving liquidity in the Companys shares and helps sustain eligibility conditions in section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act the stock market rating of the Company.
2010 and the ongoing requirements for approved companies in Chapter 3 of Part 2 Investment Trust Approved Company BlackRock is a subsidiary of BlackRock, Inc. which is a publicly Tax Regulations 2011. traded corporation on the New York Stock Exchange operating as an independent rm.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. TheCompany is registered in England with number 2868209 has a signi cant economic interest in BlackRock, Inc. PNC and is domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The Company is Financial Services Group, Inc. is a US public company.
registered as an investment company as fide ned in section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as such.
The BNYM is the custodian of the Companys assets.
BNYM Company is not a close company within the meaning of the receives a fee payable at rates depending on the number of provisions of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and, as the trades effected and location of securities held.
The custodian Directors are non-executive, has no employees.
agreement is subject to six months notice by either party.
The Companys shares are eligible for inclusion in the stocks and shares component of an Individual Savings Account.
Appointment of the Investment Manager The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of investment management services to the Company on an FACILITATING RETAIL INVESTMENTS ongoing basis and a formal review is conducted annually.
The Company currently conducts its affairs so that its TheBoard believes that the continuing appointment of the securities can be recommended by independent financial Investment Manager, on the terms disclosed previously, is in advisers to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the interests of shareholders as a whole.
theFinancial Conduct Authority FCA rules in relation to non-mainstream investment products and intends to continue As part of the annual review the Board considered the quality to do so for the foreseeable future.
The securities are excluded and continuity of the personnel assigned to handle the from the FCAs restrictions which apply to non-mainstream Companys affairs, the investment process and the results investment products because they are shares in an achieved to date.
The specialist nature of the Companys investment trust.
investment remit is, in the Boards view, best served by the Natural Resources team at BlackRock, who have a proven INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AND track record in successfully investing in the mining sector.
ADMINISTRATION BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited BlackRock CHANGE OF CONTROL provides management services to the Company under a There are no agreements which the Company is party to that contract terminable on six months notice.
BlackRock also might be affected by a change of control of the Company.
acted as the Secretary and Administrator of the Company throughout the year.
BlackRock receives an annual EXERCISE OF VOTING RIGHTS IN INVESTEE management fee of 1.3% of gross assets.
Where the Company invests in other investment or cash funds managed by COMPANIES BlackRock, any underlying fee is rebated.
The exercise of voting rights attached to the Companys portfolio has been delegated to the Investment Manager.
No penalty on termination of the investment management BlackRocks approach to voting at shareholder meetings, contract would be payable by the Company in the event that engagement with companies and corporate governance is six months written notice is given to BlackRock.
There are no framed within an investment context.
BlackRock believes provisions relating to payment of fees in lieu of notice.
thatsound corporate governance practices by companies [22] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC
