Performance Investment managers report continued a lack of new uranium production being developed to meet that demand growth.
As such we initiated a position in Cameco, the worlds lowest cost, highest quality producer.
Along with our existing position in the Canadian explorer UEX, uranium makes up 0.5% of the portfolio.
During the second half of the year, the Company re-entered the oil sands market by taking advantage of a failed corporate deal in producer Canadian Oil Sands.
The holding provides direct exposure to the oil market as well as delivering a high yield, tied directly to the oil price.
ROYALTIES AND ILLIQUID INVESTMENTS Marampa royalty contract 6.6% of the portfolio In July 2012, the Company purchased for US$110 million a 2% revenue-related royalty contract calculated on any iron ore sales over the life of mine from London Mining Plcs Marampa mine in Sierra Leone.
The ramp-up of the Marampa operation successfully delivered over 100% growth in production year-on-year.
The mine exited the year at a run-rate of 5.4 million tonnes per annum mtpa.
In September 2013, the company announced the results of its life of mine study including a JORC compliant reserve of 539mt which supports a life of over 40 years at an annual production rate of over 6.5mtpa.
In addition, the company is looking at potential expansion options including 10mtpa and 16-20mtpa.
Banro gold-linked preference shares 1.7% of the portfolio InApril 2013, the Company purchased US$30 million gold-linked preference shares from Banro Corporation to helpfund the development of its second gold mine, Namoya.
Thegold-linked preference shares provide exposure to the gold price as well as to volume growth with the principal moving in-line with the gold price and the coupon ranging between 10-15% depending on Banros overall level of production.
The company has ramped-up quarterly gold production from Twangiza its first operation from 19.6koz inQ1 of 2013 to 22.9koz in Q4 2014 and has also announced first gold production from Namoya.
Avanco royalty contract In October 2013, the Company entered into a royalty agreement with Avanco Resources over its exploration licenses within the world-class mineral district of Carajas in Brazil.
The Company will provide US$12 million in return for Net Smelter Return net revenue after deductions for freight, smelter and re ning charges royalty payments comprising 2% on copper, 25% on gold and 2% on all other metals that will be produced from their Antas North and Pedra Branca Stage 1 and Stage 2 licenses.
In addition, there will bea at 2% royalty over all metals produced from any other discoveries within Avancos licence area as at the time of the agreement.
The purchase of the royalty is conditional on the publication of a JORC compliant reserve statement, the receipt of a mining license for Stage 1 and will only be drawn-down in parallel with debt draw-downs.
It is expected that this will take place from the middle of 2014.
[14] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC The Company continued to reduce its overall exposure to South African platinum producers.
However, owing to the improving outlook for platinum demand and the ongoing supply side challenges, the Company switched some of its exposure into Impala Platinum, a physically backed platinum ETF 0.6% of the portfolio, giving it direct exposure to the platinum price.
In addition, the Company added to its holding in Platinum Group Metals 0.7% of the portfolio, an exciting development company with what looks to be a world-class discovery at its Waterberg joint venture.
ENERGY COMMODITIES After sharp declines in 2012, thermal and coking coal markets continued to be challenged in 2013 due to oversupply.
Spot thermal coal prices fell by over 6% and averaged over 12% down year-on-year.
The impact of the closure of higher cost UScoal production capacity and some let-up in the degree ofcoal-to-gas switching by the US power utilities was more thanoffset by growing production elsewhere in the world.
Australian coal producers have sought to reduce operating costs through improving productivity via volume growth, adding to an already oversupplied market.
In addition, a reduction in the use of higher cost contractors and a weaker Australian dollar have helped to make the Australian producers more competitive in a global context, bringing down the overall cost curve for the industry.
In December, the Company initiated a position in China Shenhua Energy 0.2% of the portfolio, a Chinese coal producer.
The outlook for the Chinese domestic coal market is signi cantly better than that for the seaborne market and the sell-off in Chinese equities provided what we believe will be an attractive entry point.
After a fall of over 40% in 2012, coking coal prices ended the year down a further 17% and average prices were down by over 22% year-on-year.
Growth in seaborne supply from Australia and Canada, as well as increasing Chinese domestic production, counteracted the stronger than expected growth inproduction from the Chinese steel industry, the largest source of demand for coking coal.
The Companys only major coking coal exposure is indirectly through the holding in TeckResources.
Uranium prices fell for a third year in a row, closing the year down over 21%.
Despite universal acknowledgement that the uranium price is unsustainably low, the uncertain demand environment with Japanese nuclear reactors still off-line and power utilities stepping back from the market has kept prices under pressure.
The much anticipated end to the US-Russia Highly Enriched Uranium HEU Agreement had no obvious effect on the supply-side environment, although the full impact of this will only likely befelt from 2014 onwards.
Whilst markets today remain in balance, it is our expectation that the fundamentals for the sector are beginning to show some signs of improvement over coming years as the nuclear reactors under construction in China come on-line and Japan potentially restarts at least part of their reactor fleet but with
