contribute to their long term financial performance and thus to The Companys Articles of Association require that one third of better risk-adjusted returns.
BlackRocks proxy voting process Directors retire by rotation each year and that each Director is led by its Corporate Governance and Responsible Investment shall retire and seek re-election at intervals of no more than team, located in five of ces around the world.
In addition to three years.
The Board may also appoint Directors to the itsown professional staff, the Corporate Governance and Boardbut any Director so appointed must stand for election Responsible Investment team draws upon the expertise of byshareholders at the next Annual General Meeting in BlackRocks portfolio managers, researchers and other internal accordance with the Articles of Association.
Directors are and external resources globally.
alsorequired to retire if they have served more than nine yearson the Board, but then may offer themselves for BlackRocks global corporate governance and engagement annual re-election.
principles are published on the website blackrock.
com corporate en-gb about-us  Notwithstanding these requirements, in accordance with the  reports.
The principles set out recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code that BlackRocks views on the overarching features of corporate directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual governance that apply in all markets.
For each region, re-election by shareholders, all the members of the Board BlackRock also publish market-speci c policies, which are willretire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and updated every year to ensure that they remain relevant.
willoffer themselves for re-election with the exception of Mr Cockerill and Mr Baring.
Mr Cockerill was appointed during The voting guidelines are principles-based and not the year and he retires in accordance with the Articles of prescriptive because BlackRock believes that each voting Association of the Company at the Annual General Meeting situation needs to be assessed on its merits.
Voting decisions and, being eligible, offers himself for election.
Mr Baring, who has served as a Director of the Company for more than nine are taken to support the outcome that BlackRock believe in years, will retire but will not offer himself for re-election.
their professional judgement will best protect the economic interests of their clients.
There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in which a Director of the Company is or was materially During the year under review, the Investment Manager voted interested and which is or was signi cant in relation to the on770 proposals at 67 general meetings on behalf of the Companys business.
None of the Directors has a service Company.
At these meetings the Investment Manager contract with the Company.
No Director is entitled to votedinfavour of most resolutions, as should be expected compensation for loss of of ce on the takeover of the Company.
wheninvesting in well-run companies, but voted against 20management resolutions, withheld the vote on 18 director election resolutions and abstained from voting on 12 DIRECTORS INDEMNITY resolutions.
Most of the votes against were in respect of In addition to Directors and Of cers Liability Insurance cover, executive remuneration packages where there was no clear the Companys Articles of Association provide, subject to link between pay and performance, board composition where theprovisions of applicable UK legislation, an indemnity for there was a perceived lack of independence and proposals Directors in respect of costs incurred in the defence of any which contained insuf cient disclosure for the Investment proceedings brought against them by third parties arising out Manager to make an informed decision.
of their positions as Directors, in which they are acquitted or judgement is given in their favour.
The Company has entered GOING CONCERN into Deeds of Indemnity with each of the Directors individually The Directors, having considered the nature and liquidity of which are available for inspection at the registered of ce of the the portfolio, the Companys investment objective, the Company and will be available at the Annual General Meeting.
continuation vote requirements set out on page 8 and the Groups projected income and expenditure, are satis ed that CONFLICTS OF INTEREST the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational The Board has put in place a framework for Directors to report existence for the foreseeable future and is nancially sound.
con icts of interest or potential con icts of interest which it For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis believes has worked effectively during the year.
All Directors in preparing the financial statements.
The Group is able to are required to notify the Company Secretary of any situations meet all of its liabilities from its assets and the ongoing where they considered that they had a direct or indirect charges are approximately 1.4% of net assets.
interest, or duty that con icted or possibly con icted, with the interests of the Company.
All such situations were reviewed DIRECTORS bythe Board and duly authorised.
Directors were also made The Directors of the Company as at 31 December 2013, and aware that there remains a continuing obligation to notify the their biographies, are set out on page 21.
Details of Directors Company Secretary of any new situation that may arise, or interests in the shares of the Company are set out on page 29 anychange to a situation previously noti ed.
It is the Boards ofthe Directors Remuneration Report.
intention to continue to review all noti ed situations on an annual basis.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [23]
