Management Report A description of important events which have occurred during the Financial Year, their impact on the performance of the Company as shown in the financial statements and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company, together with an indication of important events that have occurred since the end of the Financial Year and the Companys likely future development is given in Directors Report and the notes to the financial statements and are incorporated here by reference.
There were no material related party transactions which took place in the Financial Year, other than those disclosed in the report of the Directors and at note 6 to the financial statements.
GOING CONCERN The performance of the investments held by the Company over the reporting year is set out in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and the outlook for the future is described in the Chairmans Statement.
The Companys financial position, its cash flows and liquidity position are set out in the financial statements and the Companys financial risk management objectives and policies, details of its financial instruments and its exposures to market price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and the risk of leverage by Underlying Funds are set out at note 15 to the financial statements.
During the year under review the Company entered into the Facility in order to cover the expense of the Companys buy-back programme prior to receipt of redemption proceeds.
The Companys Articles incorporate a discount management provision which applies to each class of Share individually that requires a continuation vote to be proposed in respect of the particular class of Shares at a class meeting of the relevant shareholders by way of ordinary resolution in the circumstances explained on page 24.
As at 22 April 2014, for the purposes of the continuation votes the Sterling Shares had traded at an average 3.34% discount to their net asset values, the Euro Shares at an average 3.00% discount and the US Dollar Shares at an average discount of 2.62%, all over the previous twelve month period.
As at 22 April 2014, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document, the Sterling Shares were trading at a discount of 5.453% to their net asset value, the Euro Shares at a discount of 6.473% to their net asset value and the US Dollar Shares at a discount of 4.371% to their net asset value.
30 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Management Report The continuation vote mechanism was triggered for the Sterling Shares and US Dollar Shares as announced on 31 January 2013 and for the Euro Shares as announced on 28 February 2013.
Continuation resolutions were passed for Sterling and Euro Share classes of Ordinary Shares at separate Class meetings held on 17 April 2013 and accordingly no further continuation vote can be triggered for each of the Sterling and Euro share class until after 17 April 2014.
The continuation resolution was not passed for the US Dollar Share class and therefore the Directors formulated redemption proposals to be put to the shareholders of that class only offering to redeem their shares at the relevant net asset value less the costs of all such redemptions.
Acceptances of the redemption offer for US Dollar Shares were received for 75,413,387 US Dollar Shares representing approximately 60.84 per cent.
of the US Dollar Shares in issue at 1 July 2013.
The redemption proceeds of approximately $128million were paid to redeeming shareholders on 8 August 2013.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of this annual financial report.
Jonathan Hooley Director 24 April 2014 31 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited
