Directors and Secretary The Company has five Directors, all are non-executive and held office throughout the reporting year and all Directors remain in office as at the date of this report, although as previously noted Jonathan Hooley will resign from the Board.
Richard Crowder, Chairman aged 64 holds a range of non-executive directorships and consultancy appointments.
Having worked as an Investment Manager with Ivory & Sime in Edinburgh and as a Head of Investment Research with W. I. Carr in the Far East, he undertook a wide range of responsibilities for Schroders in London and the Far East, culminating in the role of Managing Director for Schroders Singapore associate.
Having then worked as Chairman of Smith New Court International Agency and Director of Smith New Court Plc, Mr Crowder was the founding Managing Director of Schroders Channel Islands subsidiary from 1991 until he became a non-executive Director in 2000.
He is resident in Guernsey.
Andrew Dodd aged 42 is a principal, executive committee member and Board member of BlueCrest.
He is also a director of AllBlue Limited, BlueCrest BlueTrend Limited and several of the Underlying Funds and a member of the AllBlue Committee which is responsible for portfolio allocations within AllBlue Limited.
He joined BlueCrest in 2006 after a 13 year career at Goldman Sachs where he specialised in advising insurance, banking and asset management clients with respect to mergers and acquisitions, capital markets, structured finance and asset liability management.
He holds a BA in Philosophy, Politics and Economics from Oxford University.
He is resident in Switzerland.
Jonathan Hooley, Chairman of Audit Committee aged 58 retired as the senior partner of KPMG in the Channel Islands on 30 September 2007.
His career with KPMG spanned some 30 years.
He was a tax partner with KPMG for over 20 years, firstly in London where he was an international tax partner specialising in banking and other financial sector work and subsequently in Guernsey where he has been responsible for advising a large number of investment funds.
Mr Hooley is a Chartered Director, Chartered Accountant and a Chartered Tax Adviser.
He is also a Jurat of the Royal Court of Guernsey.
Paul Meader, Senior Independent Director aged 48 is an independent director of a number of investment management companies and investment funds.
He was, until recently, Head of Portfolio Management for Canaccord Genuity based in Guernsey, having previously held the role of Chief Executive of Corazon Capital Group which was acquired by Collins Stewart in 2010.
Mr. 27 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Directors and Secretary Meader has 28 years experience in financial markets in London, Dublin and Guernsey following senior positions in portfolio management and trading, with particular expertise in fixed income investments.
Prior to joining Corazon he was Managing Director of Rothschilds Swiss privatebanking subsidiary in Guernsey.
Mr Meader is a Chartered Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Securities & Investments and is past Chairman of the Guernsey International Business Association.
John Le Prevost aged 62 is the Chief Executive Officer of Anson Group Limited and Chairman of Anson Registrars Limited the Companys Registrar.
He has spent 30 years working in offshore trusts and investment business during which time he was Managing Director of County NatWest Investment Management Channel Islands Limited, Royal Bank of Canadas mutual fund company in Guernsey and Republic National Bank of New Yorks international trust company.
He is a director of a number of companies associated with Anson Groups business as well as being a nonexecutive director of Thai Prime Fund Limited and is a trustee of the Guernsey Sailing Trust.
28 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Directors and Secretary JTC is a Guernsey incorporated company and provides administration and secretarial services to the Company pursuant to an Administration and Secretarial Agreement.
In such capacity, JTC is responsible for the general secretarial functions required by The Law and ensures that the Company complies with its continuing obligations as well as advising on the corporate governance requirements and recommendations as applicable to a company listed on the premium segment of the Official List and admitted to trading on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
The Administrator is also responsible for the Companys general administrative functions such as the calculation of the NAV of Shares and the maintenance of accounting and statutory records.
In addition, at the direction and request of the Board, the Administrator is responsible for undertaking the required actions to adjust the Companys portfolio in order to reflect monthly share conversions or other activities undertaken by the Board in accordance with the Investment Policy.
