2013 Investment Manager Report BLUECREST CAPITAL INTERNATIONAL The breakdown of the performance contribution by strategy to AllBlue was broadly in line with the capital allocation, with the Rates strategy being the largest return driver.
It proved to be a very challenging environment for both our tactical and directional rates trading strategies.
The rates market reactions to communication from both the ECB, in January, and Fed, in May June, were unpredictable and highly unusual: even to have one such event would be rare but two in one year was exceptional, which consequently led to difficult trading conditions.
Volatility and volumes were generally low, limiting opportunities for tactical trading.
In regards to directional trading, our economic and valuation analysis did not predict the extent of the bond market sell-off, nor the resulting yield curve distortions in the summer.
Our focus on asymmetrical trade construction and our risk management discipline ensured that losses from these shocks were limited.
By region, Asia including Japan offered better opportunities and made a modest positive contribution to performance, whereas US and European strategies were broadly flat performers in aggregate.
BLUECREST EMERGING MARKETS The fund performed positively in 2013, during an extremely challenging year for emerging markets, as the team were early to react to the impact of a US recovery and resulting tapering.
Profits were well diversified across region, country and asset classes.
Returns were driven by the active trading of long and short positions in local rates, FX and sovereign credit, capturing mispricing opportunities in advance of event catalysts.
Some examples of successful strategies included positions anticipating the rate cuts in Romania, Poland and Colombia, along with welljudged trading around sentiment shifts on rate hikes in Brazil.
Through the year, the portfolios directional positioning was broadly neutral, with a slight long bias: the result of a combination of long short positions across asset classes and regions.
Although risk levels rose at the start of the year, the portfolio quickly moved to a defensive posture to protect performance during the violent selling pressure that started towards the end of May.
Portfolio risk levels were increased modestly as trading conditions improved late in the summer, but overall remained at a conservative level until year end.
BLUECREST MULTI STRATEGY CREDIT Credit markets continued to show steady appreciation in the early months of 2013, supported by strong demand from investors and healthy fundamentals.
Substantial new bond issuance was easily absorbed as companies took advantage of the favourable financing conditions and spreads compressed further.
The situation reversed in May as fears of rate rises led to a sharp drop in 17 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited
