Chairmans Statement SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION As I have outlined to you before, the Company began undertaking a project some 15 months ago to work more closely with Shareholders to satisfy their requirements and to provide more suitable and effective communication.
Whilst this will always be a work in progress, we have made considerable progress: the Company has undertaken a large number of meetings with Shareholders, it has a redesigned website and new monthly, quarterly and presentational material.
In addition, we hope that you find these financial statements more informative.
We intend to continue this process during the coming years.
As always, we welcome feedback from Shareholders and we are always delighted to hold meetings with you.
Please feel free to contact me or my colleagues at info@bluecrestallblue.
In addition, if you would like to receive regular updates from the Company by email, please send a request to the same address.
RESIGNATION OF JONATHAN HOOLEY As the Company announced on 13 March 2014, my fellow director Jonathan Hooley will be resigning from the Board with effect from 25 April 2014, following the completion of the audit of the 2013 Annual Financial Statements.
As outlined below in this report the Nomination Committee is undertaking a robust and thorough approach to locating an appropriate successor for Chairman of the Audit Committee and we hope to provide updates to you shortly on the progress of the Nomination Committee.
The Board joins me in thanking Jonathan for all the hard work he has put into his role and for the important contribution he has made as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
LOOKING FORWARD The global economy appears to be healing gradually but the transition from exceptional levels of monetary stimulus to a more normal regime must inevitably invoke volatility and uncertainty.
2014 is, as a result, likely to be marked by occasionally difficult market conditions as we saw at the very start of the year.
However, AllBlues underlying strategies are stated by BlueCrest to have the capability to deliver returns irrespective of market direction and BlueCrest is comfortable that all of the underlying funds are likely to benefit from the anticipated stronger influence of fundamental factors during the year.
Since the start of 2014, markets have continued to be volatile and unpredictable as geo-political concerns have heightened and economic data have been generally disappointing.
However, AllBlue has continued to navigate these cross currents successfully, th generating a return of 1.8% to 11 April 2014.
12 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Chairmans Statement In this context, we believe that AllBlues and the Companys attributes of good performance and genuine diversification remain attractive.
I look forward to reporting to you again in the summer of 2014.
Yours faithfully Richard Crowder Chairman 13 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited
