Company Information under the United States Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and with the U. S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a commodity pool operator and is a member of the National Futures Association in such capacity.
CORPORATE INFORMATION Discount Management Provisions At all previous annual general meetings the Directors obtained shareholder approval to buy back up to 14.99% of each class of Shares in issue and they intend to seek annual renewal of this authority from shareholders at each future general meeting held under section 199 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended the Law.
In accordance with the Law any share buy backs will be effected by the purchase of Shares in the market for cash at a price below the prevailing net asset value of the relevant class of Shares where at the time of purchase the Directors reasonably believe such a purchase will enhance shareholder value.
Shares purchased may be cancelled or held in treasury.
As announced on 28 May 2012, the Company engaged buy-back agents to effect share buy-backs on behalf of the Company and this engagement remained in effect throughout the financial period and thereafter as at the date of this report.
As at 22 April 2014 since the commencement of the buybacks the Company had bought back 104 million through on market share repurchases of 61,077,336 Sterling Shares at an average discount to the prevailing net asset value of 5.0 per cent and accretive net asset value gain of 5,538,066.
The Company currently holds 46,084,225 Sterling Shares in treasury which are available for resale at prices above the then prevailing net asset value per share.
As announced on 30 January 2014 the Company cancelled 4,310,945 US Dollar Shares which it had held in treasury.
BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Share Price Discount as Share Price Discount as Share Class at 1 January 2013 at 31 December 2013 Sterling Class -5.60% -3.41% Euro Class -6.73% -4.86% US Dollar Class -6.92% -4.89% Source: Bloomberg 23 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Company Information Further Issue of Shares Subject to the terms of the Law, the Listing Rules and the Articles, in order to manage any share price premium to net asset value if the Directors believe there is investor demand that cannot be satisfied through the secondary market and to raise additional capital for investment, the Company may seek to issue additional Shares.
Further issues of Shares will only be made if the Directors determine such issues to be in the best interests of Shareholders and the Company as a whole and pursuant to the Listing Rules can only be issued for cash at a price below the net asset value of the shares unless first offered pro rata to existing shareholders.
The Directors currently have authority to allot the authorised but unissued share capital of the Company and such authority shall only be exercised at prices which are not less than the prevailing net asset value of the relevant share class at the time.
The Company held a general meeting of Shareholders on 16 October 2013 at which the pre-emption rights granted to Shareholders were disapplied in relation to up to 48 million new Shares for a period concluding on 31 December 2014, unless such resolution is previously extended, renewed or revoked by the Companys shareholders in a general meeting.
In accordance with the Listing Rules, such new Shares could only be issued at or above net asset value per share unless offered pro rata to existing shareholders or pursuant to further authorisation by shareholders.
Continuation Vote Mechanism The Companys Articles incorporate a discount management provision which applies to each class of Share individually that will require a continuation vote to be proposed in respect of the particular class of Shares at a class meeting of the relevant shareholders by way of ordinary resolution if, over the previous 12 month rolling period commencing from 1 January 2008, the relevant class of Shares has traded, on average calculated by averaging the closing mid-market share price on the dates which are 5 Business Days after the date on which each estimated net asset value announcement is made for each net asset value Calculation Date over the period at a discount in excess of 5 per cent.
to the average net asset value per Share of that class calculated by averaging the net asset value per Share of that class as at the net asset value Calculation Date at the end of each month during the period.
In the event that a vote to continue is proposed and passed for any class of Ordinary Shares, no further continuation vote will be capable of being proposed for that class for a period of 12 months from the date on which the requirement for a continuation vote was triggered.
24 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Company Information Borrowing and Leverage Although the Company has power under its Articles to borrow up to an amount equal to 10 per cent.
of its net assets at the time of the drawing, the Directors do not intend that the Company should engage in any structural borrowing and any borrowing would only be for the purpose of managing day-to-day cash flow, for meeting expenses of the Company and for funding repurchases of Shares.
During the first quarter of 2013 the Company entered into a facility with HSBC Bank PLC the Facility in the amount of Twenty Million Pounds Sterling which was repaid in full after one month.
The Facility was obtained for the purpose of financing the Companys share buy-back programme pending receipt of funds from a quarterly redemption of AllBlue.
AllBlue does not employ any leverage but may be exposed to it in the Underlying Funds and may engage in short term borrowing, as is deemed necessary from time to time, pending the availability of subscription monies to fund new allocations to the Underlying Funds, or in order to fund redemptions ahead of redemption proceeds being made available.
AllBlue Leveraged employs leverage for the purpose of making investments.
Whilst there is no limit on the extent of borrowings or leverage that AllBlue Leveraged may employ it is expected to be in an amount equal to approximately 50 per cent.
of AllBlue Leverageds net asset value, but may vary from time to time.
None of the Underlying Funds is subject to any limits on the extent to which borrowings or leverage may be employed and they may leverage through the use of options, futures, options on futures, swaps and other synthetic or derivative financial instruments.
Currency Risk Management As AllBlues base currency is the US Dollar, BlueCrest may from time to time enter into forward exchange contracts in order to hedge the US Dollar exposure of the assets attributable to its Sterling shares and Euro shares in order to neutralise, as far as possible, the impact of fluctuations in the exchange rates between Sterling or Euro, as the case may be, and the US Dollar.
Whilst hedging of currency exposure may occur within AllBlue, the Directors do not intend that the Company will carry out any additional hedging arrangements.
25 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Company Information Conversion Facility The Company has the ability to offer a conversion facility as at the first business day of each calendar month Conversion Day.
The Directors have the discretion not to operate the conversion facility with respect to any share class or possible share classes from time to time.
Where the conversion facility is made available, shareholders are entitled to convert their Ordinary Shares in any currency class for Ordinary Shares in another currency class as at the Conversion Day.
The Board will use reasonable endeavours to procure that new Shares created pursuant to the conversion are admitted to the Official List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange following the relevant conversion.
