Report of the Directors Committees remit had led to lengthy meetings, but at the same time they recognized a wish to extend in detail into specific topics.
The Board has sought to allow for this by arranging for meetings of the Audit Committee several days prior the Board meeting where the findings of the Audit Committee will be reported.
Overall the Board considered the Audit Committee had the right composition in terms of expertise and has effectively undertaken its activities and reported them to the Board during the year.
MANAGEMENT AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE A Management and Remuneration Committee has been established consisting of Mr Meader, Mr Hooley and Mr Crowder.
Mr Dodd and Mr Le Prevost are entitled to attend all meetings of the Committee.
Mr Meader has been appointed as Chairman.
The function of the Management and Remuneration Committee is: a to ensure that the Companys contracts of engagement with the Administrator and other service providers are operating satisfactorily so as to ensure the safe and accurate management and administration of the Companys affairs and business and are competitive and reasonable for the shareholders and to make appropriate recommendations to the Board: b to monitor and assess the appropriate levels of remuneration for all Directors: and c to ensure that the Company complies to the best of its ability with applicable laws and regulations and adheres to the tenet of generally accepted codes of conduct.
During the year under review the Management and Remuneration Committee met once and all members attended this meeting.
The chairmanship of the Audit and the Management and Remuneration committees is reviewed annually by the Chairman.
In addition, each Directors performance is assessed annually by the Chairman and the performance of the Chairman is assessed by the Senior Independent Director together with the remaining Directors.
The remuneration of the Directors is reviewed on an annual basis and compared with the level of remuneration for directorships of other similar funds.
All Directors receive an annual fee apart 41 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited
