Report of the Directors Counterparty risk: The Company is exposed to counterparty risk directly and indirectly via AllBlue and the Underlying Funds.
BlueCrest provide reporting to the Board of the counterparty exposures of AllBlue and the controls exercised around counterparty exposure.
The Company seeks to ensure that it does not have undue direct counterparty exposures in line with market practices.
AllBlue Leveraged has counterparty exposure to the leverage provider.
Credit risk: The Company is exposed to credit risk both directly through cash and cash equivalents and applies controls accordingly.
The Company is also exposed to credit risk more broadly through AllBlue and the Underlying Funds.
The Board believes that credit risk is well diversified through the exposures taken by BlueCrest.
The Company is required to comply with the UKLA rules and the FCAs disclosure and transparency rules.
Any failure to comply could lead to criminal or civil proceedings.
Although responsibility ultimately lies with the Board the Secretary and Corporate Brokers also monitor compliance with regulatory requirements.
BRIBERY The Directors have undertaken to operate the business in an honest and ethical manner and accordingly take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
The key components of this approach are implemented as follows: The Board is committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all its business dealings and relationships: The Company will implement and enforce effective procedures to counter bribery: and The Company requires all its service providers and advisors to adopt equivalent or similar principles.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
