Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013.
THE COMPANY Information on the Company including its Investment Objective and Policies can be found on page 20 onward.
SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION All holders of Shares in the Company have the right to receive notice of, and attend, all general meetings of the Company, during which the Directors are available to discuss issues affecting the Company, and the Directors also meet periodically with major shareholders.
The Directors are always available to enter into dialogue with shareholders and make themselves available for such purpose whenever required.
The Senior Independent Director can also be contacted by shareholders directly at Paul.
com, if they have any concerns and shareholders who wish to receive timely information by email can do so by sending a request to info@bluecrestallblue.
The Annual General Meeting also provides a forum for shareholders to raise any queries or concerns directly with the Board in person.
The Investment Manager of AllBlue and Jefferies Hoare Govett and Dexion Capital Plc, the Companys Corporate Brokers, meet regularly with the Companys major shareholders and reports are provided at least quarterly to the Board of Directors on those shareholders views about the Company and any issues or concerns they might have.
The Board regularly reviews the Companys share register at its formal meetings to monitor the shareholder profile and the Board is implementing measures to ensure that information is presented to its Shareholders in a fair, balanced and understandable manner.
The Company announces the confirmed net asset value of each share class on a monthly basis and a commentary on the investment performance of AllBlue is provided by the Companys monthly factsheet.
The estimated net asset value of each share class is announced weekly to a Regulatory Information Service.
The daily market closing prices of Shares are available on Reuters, Bloomberg, in the Financial Times and the Daily Telegraph and on-line on the internet.
A copy of the Registration Document, Summary Note and Securities Note of the Company can be found at www.
