2013 Investment Manager Report confidence and selling pressure from many areas of the market.
Stability returned later in the summer as attractive valuations encouraged investors back into the asset class.
The recovery continued after the Fed delayed tapering, helping to drive a strong credit rally into year end.
The credit portfolio saw gains across both the US and European portfolios, as all strategies posted positive returns for the year.
By strategy, Long Short L S and Relative Value RV strategies held the largest capital allocation approximately a third and generated the highest contribution to performance from trading in numerous single names as well as across credit indices.
BLUECREST MERCANTILE Over 2013, the two main credit sub-strategies, Bank Basel II and Trade Credit Opportunities, produced positive returns whereas the Commodities Finance sub-strategy delivered a modestly negative return.
Within the Bank Basel II sub-strategy, performance of the underlying portfolios remained positive throughout the year as overall default rates in the portfolios assets continued to be very low.
The Trade Credit opportunities portfolio also performed well, as good sector selection and the identification of cheap assets led to solid net positive carry, after the cost of hedges.
The portfolio maintained defensive positioning through holding shorter duration assets and CDS hedges.
Trading profits were also made capturing pricing anomalies that arose after the volatile conditions in the summer.
The Commodity Finance sub-strategy was negatively impacted by exposure to gold-related assets that incurred price falls during the year.
BLUETREND The environment for trend following remained challenging and the BlueTrend strategy incurred negative performance in 2013: the first negative year of annual performance of the ten calendar years since inception.
The strategy successfully captured the strong positive performance in global equity markets, maintaining a long bias to the sector throughout the year: as a result the equity sector was the best performing sector, gaining approximately 12% gross.
In Bonds and Short Interest Rates, the sharp reversal in bond markets in May and June led to losses given the long positioning held at the time: over the full year the fixed income sectors detracted approximately 10% gross from the strategy.
The FX and commodity sectors also detracted from performance.
Over the course of the year the Margin to Equity for BlueTrend ranged between 6.4% and 19.5% with an average of 14.9% measured on monthly data.
BlueCrests Systematic Trading Team continues to seek enhancements and additions to the underlying models of BlueTrend, with a number of research developments being released over the course of 2013.
