Market Environment 10 C. Objectives and Strategy 11 D. Progress Report 12 E. Results for the Year 18 F. Principal Risks and Uncertainties 27 G. Future Developments 31 H. Corporate Responsibility 31 08 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review A.
Business Description We are committed to building Brewin Dolphin is one of the largest providers of personalised investment management services in the UK and Eire.
the firm into the best in our We offer a range of services from managing portfolios on an advisory or discretionary basis our primary services to industry for wealth management dealing, without advice execution only and with advice advisory dealing.
Our clients are mainly individuals, but also include Charities, Trusts and Institutions.
In recent years, as part of our primary offering, we have developed our financial planning service which we offer to clients, increasingly on an integrated basis with our investment management service, in order to offer a comprehensive solution to the demands of todays investors.
The Group today is principally an investment management business, though our roots date back 250 years and are in stockbroking.
We have grown rapidly since becoming listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1994 by acquiring smaller regional private client stockbroking firms and hiring teams of investment managers.
Over the past decade, the business has changed from predominantly offering execution only and advisory dealing services to one which is focused on discretionary investment management.
This is evidenced by the significant growth in discretionary assets which now make up 76% of our managed assets, compared to c. 40% in 2004.
Our business model is based on providing a personalised service, combined with the investment expertise of each individual investment manager supported by our award winning research.
Over recent years we have developed risk rated model portfolios for our smaller accounts.
The advice we offer is comprehensive.
A complete wealth management service for private client portfolios, incorporating Individual Savings Accounts, Self-Invested Personal Pensions and Estate Planning through to highly specialised investment mandates on behalf of Charities, Pension Funds and Institutions.
Local presence and proximity to our clients have always been a key component of Brewin Dolphin and helps us maintain a high level of personalised service.
We are committed to this approach.
We provide our service via 35 offices throughout the UK and Eire with the support of 1,877 employees.
Market Environment Our industry offers many opportunities The market environment has changed considerably in recent Personal financial services remains a growth market with years, presenting challenges and opportunities.
There is increasing demand as transparency combined with growth has encouraged both society becomes more self-reliant in specific areas such as new entrants and new business models to challenge the retirement provision and long-term care as well as savings status quo in the industry.
In addition, the policy responses to the 2008 downturn have benefited those invested in risk assets such Increased regulatory focus as equities and property and this has helped to create a higher There have been welcome and important changes to number of investors.
regulation the most notable of which is the new regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, and the development The UK has an estimated two million individuals with liquid of its wealth management division which provides both 1 assets over 100,000 and the Wealth Management industry increased scrutiny and guidance to our sector.
In addition, 2 in the UK managed 548 billion at the end of 2012.
The table many new rules including the Retail Distribution Review below shows the funds under management for the sector along RDR are now in place, giving us a stable period in which to with the market share.
In view of the size differentials the sector consolidate and benefit from their introduction.
RDRs full implementation in 2013 has intensified the competitive environment.
The move away from financial advice for the mass market and increased pricing transparency has prompted a change in client behaviour.
Funds Under Management FUM of Peer Group Changing client behaviours Clients are increasingly sophisticated and using more 172.8 billion complex technology which is leading to the development of new propositions and fuelling a real trend towards selfdirected solutions.
Investors are becoming more sceptical of in-house funds and products and also expect more education and guidance from their advisers.
Scale has St James's Place 34.8 20.1% become a more important consideration as investors require Brewin Dolphin 25.9 15.0% reassurance regarding the security of their assets as well as Investec Wealth the robustness of the organisation dealing with their money.
Management Ltd 20.0 11.6% Rathbones 18.0 10.4% Competition is intensifying Charles Stanley 15.4 8.9% One of the consequences of RDR has been the creation Cazenove Capital of the so called advice gap, which has led to a large Management 12.2 7.1% potential market for investors seeking some guidance but Smith and Williamson 12.1 7.0% who are unable to justify paying for full advice or have no Quilter Cheviot 12.0 6.9% such requirement.
New propositions are being created to Close Brothers AM 8.3 4.8% address this new market which could present a threat to JM Finn 6.5 3.8% established providers as they fully leverage the capabilities of Ashcourt Rowan 4.1 2.4% todays technology.
In addition, there is increased competition Brooks MacDonald 3.5 2.0% for high net worth clients and these are two of the key Total 172.8 100.0% challenges facing the sector.
1 MDRC, UK High Net Worth 2013 Report 2 The City UK, Fund Management 2013 Report 3 Per Annual Report and Accounts with the exception of Quilters Cheviot which is based on other publically available information.
4 Sector comprises the competitors that Brewin Dolphin considers its peer group.
10 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 3 AuM FY12 bn Estimated 4 Sector Share
