Overview of the Business and Strategy Our business Our market Brewin Dolphin provides a range of investment management, We operate in a growth market with good long-term financial advice and execution only services primarily to prospects from increasing demand for our service.
individuals and families throughout the UK and Eire.
Our aim Our industry faces big challenges: is to help clients make the most from their money.
Increasing regulatory focus We earn the trust of clients and thereby create loyal and Changing client behaviours long term client relationships.
Harnessing new technology We offer a personal approach to client service, combined with the expertise of our professionally qualified staff.
Industry consolidation We charge clients for services based on the value of Competition is intensifying.
assets we manage and or the investment business we Our industry offers many opportunities transact, on their behalf.
The market environment has changed considerably in recent We have a long history and have grown rapidly through years, presenting challenges and opportunities.
transparency combined with growth has encouraged both We have 35 offices in the UK and Eire.
new entrants and new business models to challenge the status quo in the industry.
We have more than 100,000 clients and 1,877 employees.
We manage more than 28 billion of investments on behalf of clients.
Our Strategy Overview To be the leading Vision provider of personal discretionary wealth management in the UK Generate shareholder value by Primary Goal growing revenue and delivering a high quality service to our clients efficiently Build a business to Manage Corporate be proud of based on Be an excellent responsibly values of client service, employer Objectives for long-term teamwork and integrity Maintain sufficient Grow the number of Strategic Grow our dividend in Improve our capital to maximise clients we serve and line with earnings efficiency opportunities and therefore the revenue Priorities cover risks we generate Initiatives Improve market competitiveness and drive organic growth Achieve operational excellence to improve quality and lower costs Enhance the service model for our clients Focus our business around our primary services Invest in technology to improve quality of service Sustainable and transparent pricing Invest in our people Increased cost discipline Develop plans to attract new clients Simplify and streamline our operating model Harness our technology to lower costs 06 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review Progress We have already made good progress.
Strategic Priority KPI Progress this year Target Revenue Growth Discretionary FUM inflows 6% 5% Discretionary service yield 91 96 bps 95 bps Managed Advisory service yield 46 56 bps 75 bps Revenue growth 9% n a Improved Efficiency Adjusted PBT margin 16.5 18.5% 25% 1 Discretionary income per CF30 283k 370k 490k % of managed FUM in Discretionary 70 76% 80% service Discretionary FUM per CF30 33m 41m 50m Support staff to CF30 ratio 2.5 to 1 2.0 to 1 Average client portfolio 420k 500k Capital Sufficiency Solvency ratio 226% Min 150% Dividend Growth Dividend pay out 57 58% 60-80% Adjusted EPS growth 19.2% n a Dividend growth 20% n a Key Risks Some key risks and uncertainties could however threaten further progress.
Strategy and business model Operational Correlation of earnings to financial markets Unsuitable advice or investment service Cultural inertia, poor project management Breach of regulatory rules reporting requirements preventing change Failure of processes, technology or external services Over reliance on key employees and client Compensation claims industry levies relationships Possible weak due diligence execution of past acquisitions We are seeking to manage risks by refocusing strategic priorities to reduce certain key risks.
The business is now well capitalised to both deliver strategy and cover risks.
1 Controlled Function 30 CF30 is an FCA approved customer function of dealing in, advising on or managing investments on behalf of clients.
