14 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2013 Investment Managers Review Overview of AVIs Investment Philosophy British Empire is managed by Asset Value Investors Ltd AVI The aim of AVI is to deliver superior investment returns while managing risks.
AVI specialises in investing in securities that for a number of reasons may be selling on anomalous valuations.
AVIs investment philosophy is to: Invest in companies trading on discounts to net asset value.
Focus on bottom-up stock picking.
Our focus is to find listed companies that own assets such We are not asset allocators attempting to invest a pool of money as listed securities, property, cash and other businesses.
We across various asset classes.
We are equity investors focusing on then estimate the value of all of those assets.
After deducting a particular style of value investing.
We do not hug benchmarks any liabilities such as debt or pension liabilities, we arrive at an and we will not own a company just because it is in a benchmark.
estimate of net asset value for that company.
We will consider We seek to invest in companies that meet the criteria described investing in companies where the discount between the current above.
share price and our estimate of the value of that business is wide.
The types of company which we typically find include investment Be willing to hold cash if investments do not meet our criteria.
holding companies, conglomerates, closed end funds and Very simply put, if we cannot find companies that meet our property companies.
Our approach naturally leads to investment valuation and quality criteria we will not invest our shareholders in a variety of companies with diverse underlying businesses.
We will preserve capital until an appropriate investment opportunity arises.
Identify good quality underlying assets with appreciation potential at compelling valuations.
Our focus on buying high quality businesses on wide discounts to There are many companies trading on discounts to net asset their net asset value has served us well over the long term.
Our aim is to identify companies that own high quality are periods of time, however, when our style is out of favour and the businesses where there is not only a wide discount, but also types of companies in which we invest are ignored by the broader where we consider there to be a reasonable likelihood of those market.
This requires us to be patient and to remain true to our style, assets appreciating in value.
so that when other investors begin to appreciate the value in those companies, we are well placed to benefit.
In the short term, this Focus on balance sheet strength.
means that there could be some volatility in our returns.
The recent Debt works very well when markets are appreciating.
However, we are confident that we own high However, debt can also destroy a lot of value when markets quality businesses which are trading on cheap valuations and which are falling and the business environment for a particular generate reasonable cash dividends for us as we wait for the value company deteriorates.
We consider very carefully the balance to be appreciated by the market.
sheet strength of the companies in which we invest.
Factors which we look at include the actual quantum of debt relative Members of the investment team at AVI invest their own money in to the assets of the companies, the maturity profile of the debt funds which they manage.
As at 30 September 2013, AVIs directors and the cashflows that the businesses generate.
and staff owned approximately 780,000 shares in British Empire Securities and General Trust plc.
Look for catalyst to narrow discounts.
Once we find a good quality business on an attractive valuation, we then consider whether it is likely that the discount will narrow.
Many companies trade on a discount for a reason and if that reason persists, then the discount may persist.
Catalysts differ for the various type of company which we invest in.
For example, in the case of a closed end fund, where we are a large shareholder we can influence a board to pursue a strategy for discount narrowing.
In the case of a family controlled company where we cannot exert influence to the same extent, our analysis would involve trying to understand the interests and objectives of the controlling shareholder, and whether our interests were aligned with theirs.
15 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report 02 13 Investment Review 14 23 Governance 24 35 Financial Statements 36 71 NAV year end % 13.1 NAV rose by 13.1%, compared with an increase of 18.9% in the benchmark Morningstar Investment Trust Global Growth Index.
John Pennink John has managed the Companys portfolio for the past eleven years and is the Chief Executive Officer of Asset Value Investors Limited.
He is a Chartered Financial Analyst.
Joe Bauernfreund Joe is an Executive Director of Asset Value Investors Limited.
He has been working with John Pennink in the management of the portfolio over the past six years.
Symphony International Holdings London Symphony International Holdings is a London-listed closed-end fund investing across Asia with a specific focus on the Healthcare and Hospitality sectors, including branded real estate.
Listed in 2007, the fund has a strong track record but its low profile has led to it trading at a discount to NAV in excess of 40% with cash and listed investments alone covering the share price 1.4x times over.
The portfolio is a mixture of listed and unlisted assets, with the largest exposure being an 8% stake worth almost 40% of NAV in Minor International, a Thai-listed operator of hotels and restaurants throughout Asia.
Symphonys management originally invested in the business in 1982 to build the group.
Today, Minor International owns 30 hotels and manages 56 other hotels and serviced suites with over 10,800 rooms.
In addition to owning hotels under the Four Seasons, St. Regis and Marriott brands, the company owns and manages hotels under its own brand names that include Anantara, Oaks, Elwana, Avani and Per AQUUM in 12 countries.
The company also owns and operates 1,419 restaurants under various brands.
Copyright Minor International 16 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2013 Investment Managers Review Portfolio review Groupe Bruxelles Lambert Lafarge Lafarge is the worlds largest producer of cement, the second largest producer of aggregates and the fourth largest producer of ready-mixed concrete.
Groupe Bruxelles Lambert GBL owns several significant positions in listed companies along with a 21% holding in Lafarge.
During the year GBL reduced its holding in Pernod Ricard, the drinks company, to 7.5% after selling 2.3% of Pernod Ricard for 499m.
GBL also sold its entire 10% holding in Arkema, the chemical company, for 433m.
GBL continues to trade at a significant discount to its sum of the parts.
Copyright Lafarge Photo Library Photography Claude Cieutat Emmanuel Gabily Ignus Gerber Location Plescop City Hall, Morbihan, France Lafarge research centre, France For more information visit www.
co. uk 17 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report 02 13 Investment Review 14 23 Governance 24 35 Financial Statements 36 71 NAV 10 year growth % 188 Over 10 years your Companys NAV has grown by 188%.
During the year, the Companys NAV rose by 13.1%, compared with Other significant contributors such as Ferrovial and Jardine Strategic an increase of 18.9% in the benchmark Morningstar Investment Trust Holdings which together comprised 7.3% of the portfolio at the Global Growth Index both on a total return basis.
The MSCI World time of sale have been sold as they reached price levels where Index and The MSCI All Country World ex-US Index returned 20.6% we felt that there was downside risk from declines in NAV and or and 16.6% respectively both on a total return basis.
The decision to sell out of these holdings was driven by valuation concerns and the timing of this proved fortuitous, The absolute return of 13.1% is ahead of our aggregate compound particularly in the case of Jardine Strategic Holdings which has fallen annual return of 12.0% since 1985.
Over 10 years your Companys by more than 20% from the time when it was sold in May of this year.
This compares with returns of 152%, 125% and 148% for the Morningstar Global Growth Index, the In the case of closed end funds we have benefited from the MSCI World Index and the MSCI All Country World ex-US Index continued re-rating of the listed private equity sector, which has respectively.
seen discounts narrow from an average of 24% to 16% over the year.
Many of our holdings trade at attractive valuations, with Nevertheless, it is disappointing to have finished the year behind wider discounts than the sector average.
In addition, a number the comparative indices following a poor second half performance.
of companies which we own have implemented capital return The reasons for the underperformance are examined below.
policies and this is a very effective way of eliminating discounts and delivering strong returns to shareholders such as ourselves, We continue to pursue an investment philosophy which the who have invested at wide discount levels.
returns prove has worked over the long term.
Our investment objective is to invest in companies which trade on wide discounts Invariably, there will at times be disappointments in investing.
to NAV and where we believe there to be potential for both NAV Gold and gold mining stocks were particularly hard hit during the growth and for the discount to narrow.
Each of these components second half of the Companys financial year.
At the start of the is a factor in determining returns and the absence of either will year we held a total of 3% of your Company in two gold mining hold performance back.
In addition, from time to time we will also stocks Detour Gold Corp. and St Barbara.
The latter we received hold cash within the portfolio.
In a rising market, cash can act as as part consideration from the takeover of Allied Gold.
The exposure a drag on performance, as it did in the last twelve months.
The to gold was seen as a way of giving us some protection from easy ability to hold cash rather than being compelled to be fully invested monetary policies and the risk that these undermine fiat currencies at all times, helps to reduce the overall level of risk in the portfolio.
and we felt that both of these companies were particularly good value.
Despite their relatively small weighting in the portfolio, the A year ago discounts were generally wide.
In the first half of our very sharp declines in their share prices particularly during April accounting year we saw a greater level of corporate activity than and May weighed heavily on performance.
Investors became more confident and this encouraged them to invest in the types of companies on which Over the course of the past 10 Years, resource stocks have been we focus, where a degree of long term confidence is required.
a source of considerable gain for your Company.
At times we This led to a general narrowing of discounts and was a major factor have held as much as 16% of the portfolio in resource companies.
in explaining our relative outperformance as at the half year stage.
We began the year with a relatively low exposure to the sector of In the second half, fears over tapering of the US Quantitative Easing 10%, as we were aware that slower global GDP growth coupled programme, particularly in May, caused a shift in investor sentiment with the recent increased capacity of many commodity producers and thus in many cases discounts widened.
Whilst in aggregate were creating a less favourable environment for prices.
there has been a small narrowing of the overall portfolio discount during the year in some cases the effects of discount narrowing The key message that we want to leave shareholders with were quite marked.
It is pleasing to be able to report that, during is that the overwhelming majority of the portfolio performed the financial year, many companies within the portfolio increased well.
NAV growth on a look-through basis was strong.
We their net asset value by an amount greater than the return on the saw discount-narrowing catalysts across the portfolio and see broader markets and at the same time benefitted from narrowing potential for further catalysts to drive returns elsewhere in the discounts.
These were the successes of the year and companies portfolio.
Our relative performance was held back by a very small such as Investment Kinnevik AB B, Vivendi, Investor AB A, and but costly holding in gold mining stocks, and by a cash weighting AP Alternative Assets contributed 6.9% to the return of 13.1%.
that, while mitigating risk and giving us flexibility to invest, held In aggregate they accounted for 16.6% of total assets as at 30 back returns in a strong market.
September 2013 and they remain in the portfolio because we believe that they have the potential to continue to outperform as their NAVs have upside potential and there are catalysts for their discounts to narrow further.
18 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2013 Investment Managers Review Portfolio review Weighted average discount The biggest contribution to performance came from Investment AB Kinnevik B, the Swedish holding company, whose share price has Weighted Average Discount to NAV in Portfolio increased by 59% since we first bought shares in the company in Percentage Discount to Nav October last year.
The key driver of this performance has been the 40% success of Zalando, the leading European online fashion retailer, in 35% which Kinnevik now holds a 38% stake.
The growth of this company has been enormous over the past few years, and a possible flotation 30% in the next 12 months has drawn interest in Kinnevik as this is the only way to access Zalando via the listed markets.
Whilst Zalando made 25% up approximately 15% of reported NAV when we first invested, we estimate its value today to have risen sharply on the back of rapid 20% growth, and it is likely to represent a bigger share of the value today.
15% Sep 08 Sep 09 Sep 10 Sep 11 Sep 12 Sep 13 Investor AB A was the next largest contributor from this part of the portfolio.
Its share price rose 35% over the year and the discount to Source Estimated by Asset Value Investors.
NAV at which it trades narrowed from 36% at the start of the year to 28%.
NAV growth of 21% has come from the performance of listed During the first half of the year the portfolio average discount assets and the disposal of a non listed asset at a significant premium narrowed from 30% to 25%.
This coincided with the strong relative to carrying value.
Like many holding companies, Investor AB A performance that was recorded during the first half of the year.
operates with minimal operating expenses and is focused on paying relatively high dividends.
We see potential for upside in the shares In the second half, discounts have once again widened out towards from the possible sale of some of its unlisted assets above reported the 30% level, a move triggered by the market sell-off in May.
NAV, and also believe that the superior NAV performance over the As stocks generally have recovered their previous levels, discounts long term, coupled with a relatively high dividend yield, warrants have not substantially narrowed and this has penalised relative a narrower discount.
performance in the last few months.
Another notable performer was Ferrovial.
We no longer hold shares Portfolio Review in the company.
Over the period in which we held the shares its price rose by 50% and, combined with distributions, this generated an Sector annualised total return of 32% over the 2.3 year holding period.
We Local CCY Dividend Return FX Income Contribution sold it after it reached a price that was very close to our estimated NAV, which left little scope for further upside.
European Holding Companies 4.8% 0.3% 1.6% 6.6% Asian Holding Companies 1.7% -0.3% 0.3% 1.8% The strong performance of the companies described above was Mining & Resources -2.1% -0.2% 0.1% -2.1% not mirrored across the European holding company universe.
Closed-end Funds 4.1% -0.2% 0.4% 4.4% Companies such as GBL and Sofina did not see the same scale Property 1.0% -0.4% 0.4% 1.0% of discount narrowing as the two Swedish companies described Other including Vivendi 1.2% 0.4% 0.8% 2.4% above and neither did they experience the same degree of NAV Cash Government Bonds Expenses -0.9% -0.3% 0.2% -0.9% growth.
We see scope for their discounts to narrow from present Total 9.8% -0.6% 3.9% 13.1% levels, and also believe that their portfolios contain companies that look to be good value.
Please note that, due to rounding effects some numbers may not reconcile exactly.
The attribution and returns are generated from Asset Value Investors internal reporting system and there may be small differences between the figures shown in this table and The main disappointment in this sector came from Aker, which was those shown in the accounts, primarily due to differing approaches to the recognition of income.
the largest contributor to performance last year.
Its share price was flat over the year, as the sharp rise in the first half was reversed by a profits warning at Aker Solutions in the second half of the year.
We European holding companies believe that the case for continuing to own Aker is that its share price Our investments in European holding companies made up 28% is supported by its dividend, its wide discount and the potential for on average of your Company over the year.
The capital invested recovery and growth.
in this part of the portfolio returned 24.8% over the financial year, and contributed approximately half of the overall return.
19 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report 02 13 Investment Review 14 23 Governance 24 35 Financial Statements 36 71 Investment AB Kinnevik B Sweden Trading on an 18% discount to NAV, Investment AB Kinnevik is a Swedish-listed holding company with a portfolio of listed and unlisted stocks diversified across telecommunications, broadcasting and internet retail.
Its largest listed holding is Millicom, a Swiss-listed telecoms provider focussed on emerging markets in Latin America and Africa.
Millicoms Tigo brand is recognisable to millions across the two regions, and was ranked in the top 100 most valuable telecoms brands in 2012.
Copyright Getty Images For more information visit www.
se 20 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2013 Investment Managers Review Asian holding companies Asian holding companies returned 8.1% over the year and contributed 1.8 percentage points to overall portfolio returns.
The two Jardine companies, Jardine Strategic Holdings and Jardine Matheson Holdings, have been major contributors to performance in the ten years that we have been invested in them.
Since September 2003 their share prices have increased by 878% Portfolio review and 663% respectively and they have generated IRRs of 43.9% and 25.1% for British Empire shareholders.
Portfolio value on a look through basis 2013 2012 In May of this year we sold out of our entire holding in Jardine % % Strategic Holdings.
Despite a relatively wide discount, we felt that the share prices of the underlying businesses had become overvalued.
Continental Europe 34.04 37.76 Astra international, an Indonesian conglomerate indirectly controlled Asia Pacific 24.35 22.34 by Jardine Group, in particular, was trading at extremely high multiples Canada US 22.79 15.19 that we felt were no longer supported by the growth prospects of EMEA 1.79 3.03 that company.
Thus, we realised a substantial profit and effectively United Kingdom 2.47 1.36 halved our exposure to the Jardine group.
The timing of this proved Japan 0.00 0.41 fortuitous as the shares subsequently fell by 20%.
Over the year, Liquidity 14.56 19.91 until the date we sold it in early May, Jardine Strategic Holdings shares rose by 19% and we therefore locked in a substantial profit.
Based on location of companies underlying assets Another strong performer within this sector was Shun Tak Holdings, the holding company of the Ho family, with property and gaming interests in Macau.
This company has been heavily undervalued Equity portfolio value by the market and has traded at exceedingly wide discounts to by market capitalisation NAV of over 60%.
A combination of the continued growth of the 2013 2012 casino industry in Macau, the completion of a number of real estate % % projects in Macau and the receipt of new planning consents has 1 billion 30.74 21.71 fuelled an increase in share price of 45% over the year.
1 billion & 5 billion 37.69 35.07 Vivendi other 5 billion & 10 billion 7.43 12.32 Vivendis share price rose by 12% over the year.
This, together 10 billion 24.14 30.90 with the dividend income, meant that the company was the second biggest contributor to our performance.
There was encouraging news from Vivendi on restructuring.
It announced the disposal of two assets Maroc Telecom and Activision Blizzard.
In addition, management has recently indicated that it would be proposing to shareholders that the company be split into two separate companies by way of a spin-off of SFR, the French mobile phone business.
The creation of two separately listed companies is expected to lead Portfolio value by sector to a reduction in the conglomerate discount and allow the two 2013 2012 businesses to be more appropriately valued by the market.
% % Investment Holding Closed end funds Companies 45.36 42.39 Over the past 18 months we have focused our investments in closed Other including Vivendi 10.09 12.68 end funds in the listed private equity sector.
This was the one area of Mining & Resources 1.90 10.35 the closed end fund universe where we saw good value.
Over the past year, this area of the portfolio has added a lot of value, contributing Investment Companies 16.50 9.40 approximately one third of the overall returns.
Real Estate Companies 11.59 5.27 Liquidity 14.56 19.91 The largest contributor was AP Alternative Assets, whose share Source Asset Value Investors.
Percentages for the price rose by 123% over the year.
This was driven by a restructuring Geographic Breakdown and the Sector Breakdown of the companys assets by way of a disposal to one of the portfolio are net asset value, calculated after deducting liabilities to Debenture Stock and Equities Index holdings Athene Insurance in return for an increased stake.
Unsecured Loan Stock 2013 holders from the Subsequently, Athene has made an acquisition in the US which liquidity figure.
The percentages for Market Capitalisation are of the Portfolio excluding liquidity.
we believe will add enormously to the value of the company and which will be realised by AP shareholders when Athene is ultimately sold.
We sold the majority of our holding in Macquarie International Infrastructure Fund and realised a respectable profit, after management conducted a strategic review to consider ways of narrowing the discount at which the companys shares were trading, and decided to dispose of its three assets and return the proceeds to shareholders.
The largest two assets were sold slightly above their carrying values in 2013.
Distributions and sale proceeds already received cover our cost base 1.3 times.
21 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report 02 13 Investment Review 14 23 Governance 24 35 Financial Statements 36 71 Property We retain a small holding in the company and expect further returns of capital when the last remaining asset is sold.
Our exposure to property companies spans a variety of regions including Canada, Germany and Asia.
Several of the holdings in this part of the portfolio are in wind up Overall, our investments in property companies returned 14% mode.
This means that they are not making any new investments and will be returning cash to shareholders as and when assets are during the year, and with an average weighting during the year of 8.5%, roughly 8% of our overall returns came from this part sold.
These positions were acquired at substantial discounts to NAV and we expect at least the current NAV to be realised over of the portfolio.
A key performer in this sector was Forterra Trust a relatively small Singapore listed business trust with time, in addition to which there is the potential for NAV growth.
Over the course of the year its share price has risen by 116%.
Mining resources This is an area of the portfolio that has delivered excellent gains Liquidity for shareholders over several years.
There were mixed results in this part of the portfolio.
Successful investments in Amerisur Resources At the start of the financial year we held 20% of net liquidity.
During the year the level of net liquidity has fluctuated between 7% and and Nexen were disposed of, realising profits amounting to 0.7% of NAV, and we retain a holding in Soco International.
Whilst holding cash overall has reduced risk in the portfolio, results were more than offset by the very challenging environment its effect in a strong market has been to dampen returns and thus for gold mining stocks, where our relatively low exposure of 3% at it has harmed our performance relative to comparative benchmarks.
the start of the year to two companies Detour Gold Corp. and St Barbara detracted from performance.
Share buy backs During the year we purchased 5.1m shares which are being held in treasury.
The effect of the buyback was to increase NAV by 0.4%.
Outlook for the portfolio The outlook for the portfolio is positive because both of the factors Quantitative Easing QE is continued less out of conviction that which drive returns are at attractive levels: discounts are wide by it is working and more out of desperation that something must be historical standards and we believe that they will narrow over time done and we have run out of alternatives.
There is an increasing and there is scope for growth in underlying look-through NAVs, probability that the benefits of QE are more than outweighed by the as companies benefit from improved economic conditions.
There potential costs and the policy is actually holding back the recovery is a discernible and very welcome improvement in the economies that we need.
Of course, this is still a very fragile recovery that could be fide-railed by policy miscalculations and The negative consequences of QE potentially include: has been achieved only with the help of unprecedented levels of Debt levels in developed countries that are now higher monetary stimulus.
Nevertheless, if economic growth follows its than they were pre-crisis current path and continues to pick up, European stock markets The creation of zombie banks and companies kept will be well-placed because growth expectations are so low, as alive but unable to lend or invest witnessed by the low relative valuations, that positive news could Inflated asset prices in some markets have a disproportionate effect.
Emerging markets may continue Instability in emerging markets to face challenges as valuations are somewhat higher and in some Uneven wealth distribution countries, economic imbalances have built up during the recent Central Banks are losing their independence and period of extreme monetary policy in the Western world.
becoming increasingly politicised Low returns for savers Japan has performed well but the ultimate success of Abenomics The threat of insolvency of insurance companies is in question.
In Japan, government spending represents 40% and pension funds of GDP and the national debt is over 200% of GDP.
Further Governments becoming dependent on QE and lacking government spending and a loosening of monetary conditions to the will to face difficult structural reforms to create growth try to create inflation could lead to a catastrophic loss of faith in the bond market at some point before the desired economic growth The US Federal Reserve attempted to begin to taper its $85bn is achieved.
a month QE program and then quickly backed off in September when the markets reacted badly.
The problem is not going away The greatest uncertainties, of course, relate to the unconventional and it is unlikely to get easier as the Feds balance sheet is growing monetary policies undertaken by central banks primarily in the US, bigger every month.
The eventual winding down of QE will cause EU, UK and Japan.
We are still mired in the low growth aftermath volatility in markets as participants are unsure of the extent to of a bubble that burst in the financial sector in much of the which prices will need to be re-set absent the artificial buying.
Fiscal policy is constrained as an antidote to That cannot be avoided but, given the growing costs of the policy, lack of demand by the already high levels of government debt.
it would be better to face that adjustment sooner rather than later.
Structural reforms to unleash growth are a distant prospect due to broken or gridlocked political systems.
