12 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2013 Investment Review Ten largest equity investments The top ten equity investments make up 42% of the portfolio, with underlying businesses across a diverse range of sectors and regions.
2 Jardine Matheson Holdings Nature of business Investment Holding Company Valuation 50.9m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets less current liabilities 5.9% An Asian holding company which controls Mandarin Oriental, Hongkong Land, Jardine Cycle and Carriage and Dairy Farm.
The group also has a significant investment in insurance 1 Vivendi as well as other private investments.
Jardine Matheson is trading on a 27% discount to the Nature of business sum of its parts.
Media & Telecoms Conglomerate Copyright Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group Valuation Photography George Apostolidis 59.7m Valuation basis Market price 3 Investor AB A % of total assets less current liabilities 6.9% Nature of business Investment Holding Company A French telecommunications and media conglomerate Valuation trading on a 21% discount to the sum-of-its-parts.
44.6m Vivendi is selling off non-core businesses and we expect Valuation basis this restructuring to ultimately eliminate the discount.
Market price Copyright Getty images % of total assets less current liabilities 5.2% A Swedish industrial holding company which owns significant shareholdings in public multinational companies and private companies.
Investor takes an active ownership role in many companies and at year end was on a 28% discount to NAV.
Copyright Investor AB A 4 Orkla 5 Aker Nature of business Nature of business Investment Holding Company Investment Holding Company Valuation Valuation 36.6m 32.1m Valuation basis Valuation basis Market price Market price % of total assets less current liabilities % of total assets less current liabilities 4.3% 3.7% A Norwegian conglomerate that has now sold most of its A Norwegian listed holding company which non-core businesses.
We expect a renewed focus on its is trading on a 37% discount to its NAV.
core branded consumer goods operations to drive 85% of its NAV is in listed companies and a narrowing of the 18% discount at which its shares trade.
cash including interests in Aker Solutions, Copyright Orkla DetNOR, Ocean Yield and Havfisk.
Aker has a proven history of returning surplus capital to shareholders through special dividends.
Copyright Aker Solutions 13 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report 02 13 Investment Review 14 23 Governance 24 35 Financial Statements 36 71 6 Groupe Bruxelles Lambert Nature of business Investment Holding Company Valuation 31.5m Valuation basis Market price % of total assets less current liabilities 3.7% The listed Belgian Holding Company of Albert Frre which owns a portfolio of European blue chip companies including Total and Lafarge.
It traded on a 29% discount to NAV as at the 7 First Pacific year end.
Copyright GDF SUEZ Nature of business Investment Holding Company Valuation 27.9m Valuation basis Market price 8 Sofina % of total assets less current liabilities 3.2% Nature of business Investment Holding Company A Hong Kong listed holding company which is benefitting Valuation from continued Asian consumer growth.
The company has 26.6m controlling interests in listed companies which include PLDT, Valuation basis Metro Pacific Investments and Philex Mining in the Philippines Market price as well as Indofood in Indonesia.
The company trades on % of total assets less current liabilities a 41% discount to its NAV.
3.1% Copyright First Pacific A diversified Belgian holding company trading on a 30% to estimated NAV.
Sofina holds stakes in mainly listed businesses, but also has a portfolio of private equity holdings.
Copyright Getty images 9 Dundee Corp 10 Investment AB Kinnevik B Nature of business Nature of business Investment Holding Company Investment Holding Company Valuation Valuation 22.1m 25.6m Valuation basis Valuation basis Market price Market price % of total assets less current liabilities % of total assets less current liabilities 2.6% 3.0% A Swedish holding company which invests in listed and A family controlled Canadian holding company unlisted companies and trades on an 18% discount to focusing on real estate, mining, oil and gas estimated NAV.
Kinnevik invests in telecommunications, exploration and asset management.
The broadcasting and internet retail companies.
Its largest unlisted company recently spun out their property holding is Zalando, an on line retailer in the UK and Europe.
business, DREAM Unlimited, via a listing Copyright Kinnevik on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
The company trades on a 46% discount to the sum of its parts.
