06 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Overview of Strategy Aim The Company is an investment trust.
Its investment objective is to achieve capital growth through a focused portfolio of mainly listed investments, particularly in companies whose shares stand at a discount to estimated underlying net asset value.
Investment Approach Total Returns to 30 September 2013 The Companys assets are managed by Asset Value Investors Limited AVI.
AVI aims to deliver superior returns while minimising Company risks and specialises in investment in securities that for a number of reasons may be selling on anomalous valuations.
1 Year % The Investment Manager has the flexibility to invest around the 13.1 world and is not constrained by any fixed geographic or sector weightings but does seek to maintain a concentrated yet diversified 10 Years portfolio.
Over 90% of the Companys investments are in listed securities.
AVIs investment philosophy, which is described in more % 188.0 detail on page 14 of the Annual Report, is to:- - Invest in companies trading on discounts to net asset value.
- Identify good quality underlying assets with appreciation MSCI All Country World ex-US Index potential at compelling valuations.
1 Year - Focus on balance sheet strength.
- Look for catalysts to narrow discounts.
% - Focus on bottom-up stock picking.
16.6 - Be willing to hold cash from time to time if investments do not meet AVIs strict investment criteria.
10 Years % Key Performance Indicators KPIs 148.3 The Companys Board of Directors meets regularly and at each meeting reviews performance against a number of key measures.
Morningstar Investment Trust Global Growth Index Net asset value total return 1 Year The Directors regard the Companys net asset value total return as being the overall measure of value delivered to shareholders % 18.9 over the long term.
Total return reflects both net asset value growth of the Company and also dividends paid to shareholders.
10 Years The Investment Managers investment style is such that performance is likely to deviate materially from that of any broadly based equity % index.
The Board considers the most important comparator to be 151.8 the MSCI All Country World ex-US Index which has been adopted as the Companys benchmark from 1 October 2013.
The Company MSCI World Index will also continue to report performance against the Morningstar Investment Trust Global Growth Index, which is a peer group index 1 Year and was the Companys benchmark index until 30 September % 2013, and the MSCI World Index as it has done in previous years.
20.6 The reasons for the change in benchmark are explained in the Chairmans Statement on page 4.
10 Years During the year under review the Net Asset Value per share showed % 124.8 a total return of 13.1%, which was ahead of our aggregate compound annual total return of 12.0% since 1985 but was some way short of the return produced by the indices against which we compare performance.
The accounting year started well, with the Net Asset Value increasing and out-performing the various indices.
After this 07 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report 02 13 Investment Review 14 23 Governance 24 35 Financial Statements 36 71 positive start, our exposure to gold and mining stocks and a high Discount at 30 September 2013 stood at cash weighting resulted in performance lagging the benchmark.
While it is disappointing to report such under performance, positive % returns were made over the year and the portfolio as at the end of 12.2 September held a good store of value which the Investment Manager expects to be realised over time.
A full description of performance and the investment portfolio is contained in the Investment Review, Shares bought back during the year under review commencing on page 14 of the Annual Report.
The discount at which the Companys shares trade compared 5,106,097 with net asset value The Board believes that an important driver of an investment trusts discount or premium over the long term is investment performance.
Estimated percentage added to Net Asset Value per share However, there can be volatility in the discount or premium during the year.
Therefore, the Board takes powers each year to buy back % and issue shares with a view to limiting the volatility of the share price 0.4 discount or premium.
During the year under review the discount has moved in a range Ongoing charges ratio from 7.4% to 14.6% and, as at 30 September 2013, stood at 12.2%.
During the year under review, no new shares were issued and % 0.69 5,106,097 shares were bought back and held in treasury at discounts ranging from 10.6% to 13.7% and adding an estimated 0.4% to net asset value per share to the benefit % 2013 0.69 of continuing shareholders.
% 2012 0.74 Value for money The Board continues to be conscious of expenses and works hard to maintain a sensible balance between strong service and costs.
For the year ended 30 September 2013, the ongoing charges ratio was 0.69%, compared with 0.74% in 2012.
This change was largely due to an increase in the size of the Companys assets, which meant that fixed costs were spread over a broader asset base.
As set out in this years Annual Report, the Company has agreed changes to its annual management fee, the largest component of its costs.
The impact of this will be some increase in ongoing charges, but it eliminates the Performance Fee which could have amounted to an additional 0.4% of net assets and which is not included in the definition of ongoing charges.
Under the revised fee arrangements, the ongoing charges ratio for the year ended 30th September 2013 would have been 0.79%.
08 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Overview of Strategy Investment Risk Positions the Company typically holds When considering the total return of the investments, the Board must also take account of the risk which has been taken in order to achieve that return.
There are many ways of measuring investment 40-50 risk, and the Board takes the view that understanding and managing risk is much more important than setting any numerical target.
The Board looks at risk from many different angles, an overview of which Top ten Investments represent is set out below: % 42 Portfolio Concentration Conventional wisdom holds that the most effective way of reducing of the portfolio risk is to hold a diversified portfolio of assets.
The Company typically holds 40-50 positions, which could be considered a relatively concentrated and therefore risky portfolio.
It is important to note that, in line with its investment objective, the Companys holdings are mostly in stocks which are themselves owners of multiple underlying businesses.
Thus, the portfolio is much more diversified on a lookthrough basis than if it were invested in companies with a single line of business, for example.
For the same reason, the top 10 portfolio positions, representing 41.6% of assets at year end, are in practice highly diversified on a look-through basis.
This diversification is evident at country, sector and currency levels.
Liquidity Historically, the Company has held large cash positions when the Investment Manager cannot find sufficient value in their investment universe.
This position is normally in the range of 0-25% but could be higher.
This use of liquidity allows an expression of caution to be reflected in the portfolio at times of high valuation without altering the basic investment strategy.
As such, it is an important mechanism for the management of overall portfolio risk.
The Company is permitted to use gearing, and has a 15m Debenture, but has retained a net cash position for many years.
Statistical Techniques A plethora of statistical tools exist to measure risk, none of which offers a complete insight into the actual risks in a portfolio, as all rely on historical data and there is no single agreed definition of what risk is.
Over time, though, these tools will allow the Board to build up a broad picture of the statistical risk in the portfolio and how the issues of portfolio concentration and liquidity affect that risk.
Some of these measures consider absolute levels of risk, which is usually defined as volatility: others analyse risk compared to benchmarks.
The objective of using these techniques is not to be prescriptive, but to understand levels of risk and how they have changed over time.
The purpose of this focus on risk is to ensure that the returns earned are commensurate with the risks assumed.
The investment approach followed by the Investment Manager has led over time to returns in excess of those given by the market, while taking less risk, broadly defined, in so doing.
09 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report 02 13 Investment Review 14 23 Governance 24 35 Financial Statements 36 71 Foreign Exchange Future Strategy Foreign exchange risk arises if there are falls against sterling in the The Board and the Investment Manager have long believed currencies in which the Companys investments are denominated.
in their focus on investment in high quality undervalued assets These risks are managed by the Investment Manager mainly by way and that, over time, this style of investment is well rewarded.
of portfolio diversification but the Investment Manager may, with The Company has regularly held considerable levels of liquidity Board approval, hedge currency risk.
and expects that, from time to time, it will do so in the future.
Other Risks The Companys overall future performance will, inter alia, Further risks which can impact on performance are a loss of key be affected by: the Investment Managers decisions: investee personnel especially within the investment management team : companies earnings, dividends and asset values: and by stock regulatory principally breaches of either UKLA Listing Rules or market movements globally.
Stock markets are themselves Section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and failure of affected by a number of factors, including: economic conditions: systems or controls.
In managing these risks the Company reviews central bank and other policymakers decisions: political and staffing, succession planning and activity levels of the Investment regulatory issues: and currency movements.
Manager and Administrator at least annually to ensure that there are adequate qualified staff capacity available, and in particular The Companys performance relative to its peer group and requires the Investment Manager to notify promptly the Board benchmarks will depend on the Investment Managers ability of any changes in senior staff.
The Company also reviews the to allocate the Companys assets effectively, and manage systems of the Investment Manager and Administrator as part its liquidity or gearing appropriately.
More specifically, the of its half yearly compliance checks.
Companys performance will be affected by the movements in the share prices of its investee companies in comparison The shares of Investment Trusts frequently trade at a discount to to their own net asset values.
their published net asset value.
The Board seeks to manage the risk of any widening of the discount by regularly reviewing the level The overall strategy remains unchanged.
of discount at which the Companys shares trade, and it will, if necessary and appropriate, limit any significant widening through measured buybacks of shares.
The value of the Companys shares will additionally be subject to the interaction of supply and demand, prevailing net asset values and the general perceptions of investors.
The share price will accordingly be subject to unpredictable fluctuations and the Company cannot guarantee that the share price will appreciate in value.
The principal risks are examined in more detail in Note 18 in the Annual Accounts on pages 51 to 56.
Environmental and Social Issues The Company recognises that social and environmental issues can have an effect on some of its investee companies.
The Company is an investment trust and so its own direct environmental impact is minimal.
The Board of Directors, all of whom are based in or near to London, hold all of their meetings at the Investment Managers offices and so the Company does not incur any significant travel.
The Companys greenhouse gas emissions are therefore negligible.
The Directors do not have service contracts and the Company has no employees.
There are five Directors, four male and one female.
Further information on the Boards policy on recruitment of new Directors is contained on page 30.
