REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS STRATEGY OVERVIEW should clamp down further on the illegal trade in stolen metal when it British Telecommunications plc is the principal operating subsidiary of comes into effect later this year.
We are a wholly owned subsidiary of BT Group plc and We are improving processes across the business to make sure we the BT Group plc Board has ultimate responsibility for the keep appointment slots, repair faults more quickly and full new management of the group.
The Operating Committee of BT Group plc orders faster.
We are also working to improve how we interact with is the key management committee of the group.
It monitors the our customers through the use of better quality contact information, groups financial, operational and customer service performance and customer portals and self-service channels that give customers more has cross-business oversight of BTs lines of business.
It also reviews ways to resolve their problems quickly.
We have successfully piloted the groups key risks and considers the potential threats and new voice recognition capabilities to make it easier for customers to opportunities to the business.
get the right help when calling us.
We are now rolling this service out more widely.
OUR STRATEGY Improved BT Home Hub diagnostics for our TV and broadband Our aim is to drive shareholder value by making BT a better business services will locate and resolve faults more quickly with fewer calls with a better future.
This year we made further progress towards this and engineering visits.
We will also create an integrated customer goal, and the investments we are making position us well for the experience across our consumer channels voice, social media, email, future.
Our strategy is delivering results.
BT Group plc is a leading communications services provider.
In the We encourage our customers to provide us with feedback so that UK, we sell products and services to consumers and small and we can serve them better.
We believe that the changes we are making medium-sized enterprises SMEs.
Around the world, as well as in the will deliver a better customer experience and lead to further cost UK, we provide managed networked IT services for large transformation benets.
multinational corporations, domestic businesses and national and local government organisations.
We also sell wholesale telecoms Cost transformation services to communications providers CPs in the UK and We achieved further efficiency savings across our business.
cut waste, applied best practice and freed up resources to invest in Our strategy is built on Customer service delivery, Cost our future.
More and more, we have focused on end-to-end transformation and Investing for the future.
processes that span our whole business.
We also started the next These are the foundations for making BT a better business.
They phase of our group-wide restructuring programme which will build on one another.
The better we serve our customers, the less generate further savings and improve customer service.
time and money we need to spend xing faults and the things that Specic activities during the year included: go wrong.
The more we save through transforming our costs, the reviewing our entire stock and supply chain.
This has given us more we can invest in giving customers what they need now and in better controls over our stock as well as improving how we the future.
By investing in the six strategic priorities shown on distribute and store it page 3, we aim to grow the value of our business.
improving our process for xing faults for BT Global Services and BT Wholesale customers.
We have upgraded our systems, Customer service delivery migrated work to four strategic service centres and made it easier We constantly try to improve the service we provide to our for different teams to work together customers.
In practice that means understanding what they need, rationalising our network and IT infrastructure.
For example, we making it easy for them to deal with us, keeping our promises, closed a major legacy network which served the financial services keeping them informed, and acting quickly to x things if they go sector and migrated those customers onto our global MPLS wrong.
platform, giving them improved service and reliability.
We have Right First Time RFT is our key metric for customer service see also put programmes in place to rationalise our legacy UK page 9.
It is simply about getting it right for the customer, first time.
backhaul and global IP networks RFT improved each year from 2006 07 to 2011 12 and we made combining BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate into our new further progress in the first quarter of this financial year.
But record BT Technology, Service & Operations unit BT TSO rainfall then led to ooding across the UK, causing a higher number improving product and software development across all lines of of faults in the network.
To make sure we xed these faults as quickly business through better prioritisation, quality and automation of as possible, we had to transfer resources away from provisioning new testing orders.
As a result, customers had to wait longer for those orders, we improving the productivity of our eld engineers by reducing the had more calls from customers than we forecast and it took us longer number of administrative tasks they have to do than normal to answer those calls.
We did, however, hire extra reducing our travel and subsistence spend by 14m or 12%.
engineers to help with repair work and new orders see page 30 and Buying more efficiently and reducing travel by using our own by February 2013 we had managed to get provision lead times back conferencing services has saved us time and money, and to the levels we have committed to.
Overall we did not improve our service as we aimed to this year, Overall, we cut operating costs by 1.2bn or 9%, with savings across and our RFT measure declined by 4%.
While we did not achieve our all our main cost categories.
Together with capital expenditure group RFT target, BT Global Services achieved its target helped by an excluding purchases of telecommunications licences, we have increase in the number of major contract milestones delivered on achieved total savings of 4.7bn over the last four years.
time and fewer reported customer incidents.
We will continue our drive on cost transformation.
In 2013 14 we Copper cable theft remains a problem.
This year we have worked will launch a pan-BT Continuous Improvement Initiative to help our more closely with the police and government to tackle it.
We have set people take more responsibility for improving the processes around up a nationwide cable alarming system and taken other measures them.
We want to transform the service we deliver, analysing and such as forensically marking our cables.
Because of this work, we improving the end-to-end processes that span lines of business, have had 28% fewer customer faults due to cable theft this year, and operational platforms and products.
This will help us to drive out 50% fewer attacks on our network.
A new Scrap Metal Dealers Act failures in these processes.
We are focusing on seven priority areas, 2 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 Report of the Directors Strategy
