REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS Our business is built around our customers serving their needs and BT Connect Networks that think delivering value to them.
Our network services connect our customers to their people, their own customers and to the world.
We offer a range of IP, Ethernet and webHOW WE ARE ORGANISED based network services.
We deliver these in more than 170 countries We have four customer-facing Iines of business: BT Global Services, over a range of access technologies including DSL, VPN and satellite.
BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
They are supported by our BT Contact Relationships that grow internal service unit, BT Technology, Service & Operations.
We provide a range of contact centre services to help our customers build stronger relationships with their customers.
Our services BT GLOBAL SERVICES provide the option of using email, web chat, social media and the We are a global leader in managed networked IT services.
We work for phone either via automated systems or dedicated advisors.
Our around 7,000 large corporate and public sector customers in more cloud solution gives customers more exibility and control over their than 170 countries worldwide.
Our corporate customers operate in a costs by allowing capacity to change in response to demand.
wide range of sectors including banking and financial services, manufacturing, logistics, pharmaceuticals, and consumer packaged BT One Communications that unify goods.
Businesses communicate in a number of different ways by phone, Our customers benefit from our global reach and our ability to SMS, voicemail, instant messaging, email, videoconferencing and deliver services locally in the countries they are in.
They also gain data-sharing solutions.
They want these channels to be integrated from our ability to tailor products and services to their industry.
Our collaboration services help customers simplify During the year we increased the number of industries we focus on to their communications and transform the way they interact with their include global systems integrators, logistics and mining, oil & gas.
customers, colleagues, partners and suppliers.
The UK is our largest region by revenue.
We have a large base of customers in the corporate sector and serve public sector bodies such BT Advise Knowledge that delivers as central government and local councils.
Our experts around the world provide consulting, integration and In continental Europe, we run large businesses in key countries managed services to our customers.
They help solve business such as Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Spain.
They have a range of specialisms, certications and Current Analysis ranked us second in the German market for panaccreditations to make sure customers get the best out of our a European and global IP and data services.
In Italy, we are the main products and services.
country-wide operator exclusively focused on business-to-business b services.
In Spain, the telecoms regulator ranked BT as the leading Industry-specic solutions c alternative to the incumbent operator in the enterprise data market.
As every industry has its unique needs and challenges, we provide a We also support customers in Central and Eastern Europe, the Nordics range of industry-specic solutions.
For example, BT Radianz links and Russia.
financial institutions from around the world, giving them access to In the United States and Canada, we serve customers from ofces hundreds of critical applications.
BT for Life Sciences R&D lets in more than 25 key cities.
research scientists collaborate on a secure platform.
BT Trace helps We have an increasing presence in the high-growth regions of organisations manage increasingly complex global supply chains by Asia Pacic, Latin America, Turkey, the Middle East and Africa.
We giving them a single real-time view of their operations.
operate in 85 countries in these markets, helping multinationals expand into these regions and supporting local companies as they BT RETAIL grow internationally.
We continue to invest in these markets, hiring BT Retail has four customer-facing divisions: BT Consumer, BT more people, improving our products and services and building Business, BT Ireland and BT Enterprises.
BT Consumer Products and services We are the leading consumer voice and broadband provider in Great We combine our products and services with industry expertise and Britain and have a growing pay-TV service.
We sell our services under consulting services.
We have simplied our products categorising the BT and Plusnet brands.
them around what our customers need and making them more We help our BT-branded services stand out from the competition straightforward to buy and link together.
Those categories are: by offering a range of extra features.
Plusnet provides voice and broadband services for more cost-conscious customers who value our BT Assure Security that protects highly-regarded customer service.
We are a member of the YouView People and businesses are using more mobile devices, social media TV consortium and during the year secured a wide range of sports and cloud services.
Together with the growth in cyber-attacks, this content to show on our BT Sport channels.
means that customers are prioritising security.
We provide a range of security products and services including rewalls, web security, BT Business intrusion prevention and threat monitoring.
We supply SMEs in Great Britain with xed calls and lines, broadband, mobility and IT services as well as data and voice networks.
We also BT Compute Services that adapt have specialist arms within BT Business including: Businesses want reliable but exible IT platforms and services for BT iNet: A Cisco centre of excellence specialising in infrastructure, their applications, data storage and security.
We provide IT services in security and unied communications our worldwide data centres and deliver them over our global BT Engage IT: A leading provider of business-to-business IT network.
equipment and services BT Business Direct: An online store providing IT, computing and networking equipment plus associated installation and support a services.
Current Analysis, BT Germany: company assessment August 2012, page 2. b AGCOM, Relazione annuale 2012: sullattivit svolta e sui programmi di lavoro July 2012, page 98. c CMT, Industry Sector Report 2011 June 2012, page 60.
14 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 Report of the Directors Business BT Ireland free BT Cloud online storage, BT NetProtect Plus security software In Northern Ireland, we are the leading communications services and free access to our wihotspots.
provider for consumers, SMEs and the public sector.
We run the TV services copper access network and our bre rollout has reached over 90% We have two on-demand subscription packages: TV Essential and TV coverage, making Northern Ireland one of the best connected regions Unlimited.
Customers can also get linear channels and extra features in Europe.
depending on which set-top box they choose and whether or not In the Republic of Ireland, we serve corporate and public sector they have BT Innity.
customers and are one of the countrys largest providers of wholesale We started offering customers our YouView set-top box in October network services.
It gives them standard denition SD and HD Freeview channels and the ability to pause, record and rewind live TV and BT Enterprises on-demand content.
YouViews programme guide scrolls back seven BT Enterprises consists of seven separate divisions, with each one days to give customers easy access to catch-up TV from BBC iPlayer, operating as a standalone business.
BT Fleet was moved into BT ITV Player, 4oD and Demand 5.
Customers with our Vision 2.0 set-top Enterprises in April 2013. box get advanced search and recommendation facilities in addition to BT Conferencing: Audio, video and webconferencing and the same basic features.
collaboration services for business customers in the UK and BT Innity customers with a Vision 2.0 set-top box can buy our around the world Extra TV service, giving them 18 extra SD channels and four HD BT Directories: Directory Enquiries 118500, operator and channels, including popular channels such as National Geographic emergency services.
Marketing services including The Phone and Comedy Central.
We will be bringing these channels to YouView Book, website design and web-based promotion to help boxes in the summer.
customers advertise online BT Expedite & Fresca: Services for the retail sector including store Products and services for UK SMEs point of sale systems, back-ofce applications like merchandising We sell xed-voice, broadband, networking, IT and mobility products and sales analytics, and software and platforms for web commerce and services.
These range from simple standalone products to BT Redcare: Fire and intruder alarm signalling services, CCTV and managed services and complex customised solutions.
Our bigger surveillance networks, and control room services.
Mobile-tocustomers buy from us through desk-based and eld-based account mobile services for vending machines, cash machines and managers.
Smaller customers use four channels: call centres: 40 Local payment terminals, taxis and fleet management Businesses partners not part of BT but exclusively selling our BT Payphones: Public payphones and managed prison, card and products and services : non-exclusive relationships with indirect private payphones partners: and bt.
BT Wi-: More than five million UK hotspots offering broadband on the move to consumers and small businesses and to wholesale Voice services customers like mobile network operators Our xed-voice services range from standard calls and lines to fullyBT Tikit: IT products and services for legal and accountancy rms.
managed ofce phone systems and contact centre solutions.
As well as traditional voice, we are increasingly selling VoIP services.
Products and services for Consumers We mainly sell three things to consumers: xed-voice, broadband and Broadband and internet TV.
To win and keep customers we must offer all three in exible We provide a range of internet access options including BT Business bundles.
We offer a wide choice of good-value packages that Broadband over copper, BT Innity for business over FTTC and FTTP encourage customers to take extra services.
Most of our sales are and BTnet dedicated internet access.
We also sell email, hosted through our call centres or online, with some through our customer Microsoft collaboration services and web-hosting.
Networking services Voice services Our voice and data networking services support customers who need We provide customers with xed lines and a choice of calling plans, to connect different sites.
We design, install and manage leased lines, including unlimited options for evening, weekend and peak-time Ethernet services, IP virtual private network IPVPN services, SIP calling.
All our plans include features such as call waiting and free trunking, structured cabling and local area networking solutions.
IT services We offer different ways to pay.
Line Rental Saver gives a large We offer IT services through five businesses.
discount on line rental to customers who pay for a year upfront.
BT iNet and BT Engage IT sell cloud and data centre services, We offer BT Basic, a simple, low-cost phone service for people on unied communications, security solutions, end-user support low incomes.
We are the only company to offer such a service.
services, hardware, software and consultancy services.
They partner This year we launched the SmartTalk app.
Customers can use it to with most leading vendors companies like Cisco, Microsoft, Citrix, make calls on their smartphones over wiin the UK and abroad HP, EMC, VMware, Oracle NetApp, Apple and Symantec.
BT Business which are billed as part of their home calling plan.
Direct sells hardware and software from a wide range of suppliers.
BT We also launched a new phone which lets customers reduce Expedite & Fresca specialises in the retail sector.
BT Tikit combines its nuisance calls by allowing them to block international, withheld, or specialist legal and accountancy software products with the best specic numbers.
technologies from multiple partners to give customers a fullyBroadband integrated solution, supported by a single supplier.
BT Broadband is our standard service delivered over copper lines.
BT Innity is bre-based using FTTC and FTTP technology.
BT Broadband and BT Innity come in a range of options with different usage limits and bundles of call plans.
They also include our free BT Home Hub, Report of the Directors Business British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 15
