Our customers also play a part.
We run innovation showcases Payment of suppliers allowing them to discuss applications and solutions with our experts.
This year the average number of days between invoice date and In turn, we get to hear rsthand what they need.
supplier payment was 60 days 2011 12: 61 days.
This year, our research and development focused on: In the UK we have a nancing scheme that offers contracted improving broadband coverage.
We have eld-tested broadband suppliers the chance to be paid early.
This can be particularly ampliers and regenerators to extend the reach of our ADSL2 attractive for SMEs.
We also follow the Better Payment Practice Code.
We have also trialled TV white space radio technology to connect remote communities cost-effectively.
HOW WE MEASURE OUR PROGRESS improving broadband speed.
We have been trialling new We measure our performance through two key performance techniques such as vectoring on FTTC lines a solution which indicators: adjusted EBITDA and Customer service improvement.
In improves speed and stability by reducing interference and both of these respects, we make a significant contribution towards bonding.
We have been researching solutions for delivering ultra the performance of our ultimate parent company, BT Group plc.
high-speed broadband up to 1Gbps over the final copper drop.
And we have trialled the worlds first 10Gbps XGPON technology Adjusted EBITDA to a customer over a bre network We measure performance based on adjusted EBITDA.
We have built tools to help us speed up EBITDA is dened as the group profit or loss before depreciation, network design, use equipment in the best possible way and amortisation, net finance expense, taxation and specic items.
A minimise the cost of network build.
We are using them to design denition of specic items is set out on page 30.
EBITDA is a common our FTTP network and support the sale of Ethernet products.
We measure used by investors and analysts to evaluate the operating also used them to speed up the design of the London 2012 venue financial performance of companies, particularly in the networks telecommunications sector.
We consider adjusted EBITDA to be useful improving video delivery.
We have changed the way we deliver TV measures of our operating performance because this approximates content.
This means we avoid having to duplicate TV content the underlying operating cash ow by eliminating depreciation and streams over our network, so we will be able to cut costs and give amortisation.
Adjusted EBITDA is not a direct measure of our liquidity, our customers more channels.
which is shown by our cash ow statement, and needs to be considered in the context of our financial commitments.
Suppliers Our suppliers from across the world play a vital role in helping us to Customer service improvement provide our products and services and deliver our strategy.
We work Our strategy starts with customer service.
Right First Time is our key with around 17,400 suppliers, spending approximately 9.7bn a year measure and tracks how often we keep the promises we make to our with them.
The top 100 account for around 62% of our annual customers.
As well as improving service, keeping our promises means spend.
there is less work to put things right and so reduces our costs.
The number of suppliers we use is broadly the same as last year.
However, the mix of suppliers is constantly evolving as we look to OUR RISKS benefit from new and improved products and services.
Like all businesses, we are affected by a number of risks and uncertainties.
These may be impacted by internal and external Our approach to procurement factors, some of which we cannot control.
Many of our risks are akin We want to get the most from our suppliers especially from their to those felt by similar companies in terms of scale and operation.
As part of our cost transformation programme we have concentrated on generating the best value from Principal risks and uncertainties our largest suppliers.
A category approach for the majority of other This section sets out the principal risks and uncertainties affecting us, spend, using competition and supplier negotiations, has achieved but it is not exhaustive.
These risks have the potential to impact our cost savings.
business, revenue, profits, assets, liquidity or capital resources.
We also have a programme looking at our smaller suppliers.
This As in the prior year, the uncertainties in the global economy and seeks to make sure we get the most from them and that we are not credit markets continue to present challenges, both to our business taking on suppliers we do not need.
These challenges drive a number of the risks that we We have a team of around 300 procurement people in 27 face and we focus our efforts on predicting and mitigating them.
The countries working with suppliers on this strategy.
principal risks we described last year have evolved, and so has our response to them.
Supplier selection Our Enterprise Risk Management framework provides reasonable It is important to us that we know who we are doing business with but cannot give absolute assurance that significant risks are and who is acting on our behalf.
So we choose suppliers using an identied and addressed.
There may be risks which are unknown or established set of principles that makes sure both we and the supplier which are presently judged not to be significant but later prove to be act ethically and responsibly.
We check that the goods and services we buy are made, delivered In our principal risks section below, we explain what we are doing and disposed of in a socially and environmentally responsible way, by to prevent our main risks materialising, or to limit their impact.
measuring factors such as energy use, environmental impact and Our principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in labour standards.
conjunction with the risk management process, the forward-looking statements for this document, and the cautionary statement Supply chain human rights regarding forward-looking statements.
We want our suppliers employees to experience workplace conditions that meet the standards we have developed.
We send our suppliers an ethical standards questionnaire and follow up with any suppliers identied as high or medium risk.
This year we again met our target to achieve 100% follow-up within three months.
Report of the Directors Strategy British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 9
