Mobility We design, build, manage and transform networks for them, while We sell mobile voice and broadband data services through a mobile our white-label managed services help them offer products like voice virtual network operator MVNO agreement with Vodafone.
Our 4G and broadband without the need to make large investments.
Our mobile spectrum licence will help us build on our existing proposition solutions can be either dedicated to one customer or shared amongst and offer an even better range of mobile services.
We can offer a complete service, from accepting and processing new orders through to customer service and billing the BT WHOLESALE end-user.
BT Wholesale sells voice, broadband and data communications Media and broadcast services products to xed and mobile network operators MNOs, internet Our global media network links all the main locations around the service providers ISPs and telecoms resellers in Great Britain.
Our world where producers create or distribute broadcast content.
We managed network services combine BT products with third-party have a number of strategic alliances which extend our portfolio components and our own professional services, which include and customer reach.
In the UK, digital terrestrial TV delivery is network solution design, eld services, network migration, underpinned by our media-specic MPLS network and we deliver TV programme management and risk management.
We also offer outside broadcast services over our network connecting 155 sports industry-specic services to media companies and broadcasters.
In addition, BT Agilemedia offers high-quality solutions to enable Products and services mass viewer participation in TV voting and competitions.
Wholesale broadband CPs buy wholesale bre and copper broadband services from us.
Our OPENREACH WBC portfolio includes three FTTC options, eight FTTP options and At Openreach we want to improve access to broadband across Britain.
We believe this will support economic growth.
The rollout of ADSL2 and bre broadband is well advanced in the We are responsible for providing services over the local loop UK.
This means that from autumn 2013 we will be retiring our legacy sometimes known as the local access network and the last mile.
wholesale broadband services within the WBC footprint.
We are This is made up of the copper and bre connections between our working closely with CPs to help them migrate their customers exchanges, and homes and businesses.
We are in charge of BTs bre smoothly.
We also offer backhaul products to connect Wholesale Ethernet exchanges to CPs networks.
We design high-bandwidth Ethernet services to help CPs extend their BTs Undertakings more on page 20 commit us to selling our networks and give their own customers high-quality services.
With main products and services to all CPs openly and equally and on the speeds of 2Mbps to 10Gbps, we have the widest range of Ethernet same terms as we do to our own lines of business.
To make this work access options on offer.
properly, Openreachs operational, engineering and systems capabilities are separate from those of the rest of BT.
Around 96% of Partial private circuits Openreach revenue is subject to this regulation.
We are a major provider of partial private data circuits which enable our customers to complete their own networks and help them extend Products and services the reach of their services.
Openreach sells three main products: bre broadband, copper-based services and Ethernet.
Voice services We offer managed voice solutions for CPs who do not want to invest Fibre broadband in their own PSTN or IP voice networks.
Our Wholesale Calls product is This is either FTTC, which offers speeds of up to 80Mbps, or FTTP, an end-to-end PSTN voice service and in 2013 14 we will be which offers faster speeds of up to 330Mbps when bre is connected launching new IP hosted communications services including SIP all the way to the customer premises.
trunking, IP Centrex and hosted contact centre solutions.
In April 2013 we launched FTTP-on-Demand, which will initially be available within a subset of the FTTC footprint.
It will let end-users IP Exchange IPX in FTTC areas get a FTTP connection if they need one we think SMEs We offer voice interconnect services so that a phone call will reach its will be especially interested in the faster speeds.
destination at an agreed level of quality.
The migration of voice calls With our Fibre Voice Access product, CPs can offer voice services to IP requires new interconnect arrangements which are made simple over bre which offer similar functionality to copper voice services.
It enables xed and mobile operators with differing VoIP Our bre broadband network can also carry broadcast Internet networks to connect VoIP-to-VoIP and VoIP-to-traditional voice calls Protocol television IPTV services.
We have launched a multicast by seamlessly translating them in an electronic clearing house and it capability which cuts the costs of delivering broadcast TV over our supports emerging services such as HD Voice.
network and means CPs generally triple play providers can prioritise We sell IPX through BT Wholesale in Great Britain and broadcast TV over other web trafc.
internationally through BT Global Services.
Passive Infrastructure Access PIA Transit PIA products allow CPs to rent space in Openreachs ducts or on We route voice services between CPs across our network, both in the telegraph poles.
CPs can use this space for their own bre instead of UK and internationally, but this is a low-margin product with buying bre-based broadband from us.
Wholesale Line Rental WLR Managed Network Services MNS WLR lets CPs offer own-branded phone services with their own Our managed network services give CPs access to our expertise and pricing and billing using our equipment and network.
They pay to economies of scale and help them reduce their operational and future use the copper line between our exchanges and customer premises capital spending.
but can avoid investing in extra network equipment or infrastructure.
16 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 Report of the Directors Business
