targeting issues including early life failures those that occur near the and free BT Cloud storage.
We offer our broadband service together start of a new service, repeat visits and how we respond to major with voice and TV in competitively-priced bundles.
keep existing customers and attract new ones.
To nd more opportunities to reduce costs and to run our business Fibre broadband lets people do even more.
BT Innity sales have better we will keep benchmarking ourselves against other large accelerated and we are selling faster and higher tier options to telecoms operators and the best companies in other industries existing customers while attracting people away from other around the world.
Broadband will increasingly be at the heart of how people watch Investing for the future TV.
We are extending our appeal to all segments of the TV market.
We We are investing in the future of our business to help drive profitable have launched YouView from BT to allow customers who currently revenue growth and deliver long-term value for our shareholders.
only take Freeview to try pay-TV.
Extra TV, our package of 22 TV The more we can save through our cost transformation activities, the channels, targets households currently subscribing to basic pay-TV more we can invest in the long-term value of our business without channels from Sky or Virgin.
And we are launching our BT Sport affecting our financial performance in the short-term.
channels this summer, for customers who want a wide choice of In 2012 13 we made a number of key investments around our six premium sports but at much better value than currently available.
strategic priorities which position us well for the future.
Our future plans include: TV and broadband are increasingly complementary as viewing launching BT Sport becomes more interactive.
We are making significant investments in completing the rollout of Extra TV across our multicast IP network TV to improve what we offer, rolling out new services and providing further improving our TV channel line-up and on-demand content new channels and on-demand content.
encouraging customers to switch to BT Innity through marketing For SMEs, we have invested in improving our range of IT services campaigns, competitive pricing and by offering Extra TV and BT and acquired Tikit one of the largest independent suppliers of Sport to BT Innity customers over their broadband connection.
technology services to legal and accountancy rms.
We also successfully bid for 4G mobile spectrum which will Being the Brand for Business for UK SMEs allow us to offer an enhanced range of converged xed and mobile We want to be the first choice for SMEs for all their xed and mobile broadband services to both consumer and business customers, communications and IT needs.
We aim to offer a wide range of building on our existing strength in wi-.
products and services so they do not have to rely on multiple We continued to invest in our IP Exchange platform to meet the suppliers.
growing demand for IP interconnect services resulting from the In xed communications we face stiff competition in a fragmented massive growth in voice over IP VoIP trafc worldwide.
market, but we have maintained a clear leading position.
We have made further investments in the high-growth regions of We are still ahead because we consciously build on our the world.
We improved our product portfolio and invested in people advantages: the national coverage of our services and sales teams: and infrastructure in Asia Pacic, Latin America, Turkey, the Middle the breadth of our portfolio of services: the strength of our sales East and Africa.
These investments are helping our multinational channels: and our brand.
We are looking to improve the products and customers expand into these regions and support local companies as services we sell and how we sell them to defend and grow our they grow internationally.
We are developing new IP-based voice and We are supporting the launch of 4G services in the UK by investing data products, which will help drive penetration of bre broadband.
in backhaul capacity at key mobile base station sites.
We are also improving processes and systems so our people can give We have invested in expanding our Ethernet portfolio and our customers a better service.
footprint in response to growing data trafc and demand for higher In our IT services businesses, our focus is on providing service capacity and greater exibility in our wholesale customers networks.
rather than hardware alone which tends to be low margin.
Where And we have accelerated our bre rollout.
It should be available to we can, we will cross-sell our networking and IT solutions.
We also two-thirds of UK homes and businesses during spring 2014, more encourage customers to take higher-value products and services such than 18 months ahead of our original schedule.
as managed hosted data and applications, and cloud services.
We believe our bre investment will support a more connected Our future plans include: society, transforming the way people use the internet, giving them strengthening our product portfolio in unied communications better access to information, education and jobs.
We are also and VoIP so SMEs can make the most of these growing investing in products and services that will allow our customers to technologies reduce their own carbon footprints.
developing our mobile services capabilities, in particular building on our investment in 4G spectrum.
We will combine xed and OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES mobile services to give our customers the best possible connection We made further progress against our six strategic priorities in the year.
wherever they are growing our IT services businesses, building on synergies between Driving broadband-based consumer services them to improve their positions in the market.
Broadband is now available to virtually all UK homes and businesses and is increasingly at the centre of peoples lives.
Our investments in BT Global Services a global leader broadband-based services are helping everyone get much more We are a leader in the worldwide market for managed networked IT from it.
We are truly global with one of the largest networks in the We differentiate our products from competitors by offering the world and more than 60% of our people based outside the UK.
most comprehensive broadband service with a range of packages to Our customers tell us there are a number of things which make us choose from.
For example, our newly-launched BT Totally Unlimited stand out: our global assets, people and technology: industry Broadband lets people download as much as they like with no speed experience and solutions: our consulting capability: our innovation: restrictions.
and our strength in the UK.
We provide lots of extra features, like our free BT Home Hub, free BT Wi connectivity over the worlds largest in-country winetwork Report of the Directors Strategy British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 3 Our future plans are to invest and build on these strengths.
adding new features to IP Exchange, including the support of We are supporting our multinational customers by investing in video and 4G mobile services, and introducing more global nodes high-growth regions.
improving our customers experience, for example, by introducing We are developing our industry expertise.
For example, we will a new online portal that will offer better tools for pricing, ordering build on years of experience supporting the financial services and support sector where our award-winning products and services support further reducing our cost base millions of financial transactions every day.
increasing the skills and productivity of our people.
We will invest in our BT Advise team of around 4,000 experts who share their knowledge and skills with our customers.
The best network provider We will use our strength in the UK, including our bre broadband Our network in the UK is a critical national asset and we take our network, to keep innovating our products and services.
For guardianship of it seriously.
We aim to be the best network provider example, we are improving our conferencing services by using in the UK by investing in it and by providing the best services over it.
We continue to upgrade capacity, offer new services and make it We will use feedback from our customers to improve our service to more efficient and reliable.
And we plan to drive down cost and become a more agile and More than 15m premises can now get our bre broadband, giving competitive organisation.
That way, we will be able to take advantage us the largest bre broadband footprint in the UK.
These premises of opportunities in the managed networked IT services market more have access to download and upload speeds of up to 80Mbps and quickly.
20Mbps respectively using bre-to-the-cabinet FTTC, or 330Mbps By building a better business, we will strengthen our position as a and 30Mbps using bre-to-the-premises FTTP.
We will bring bre to two-thirds of UK premises during spring 2014.
With EU, national and regional government funding, we The wholesaler of choice believe we can bring bre to more than 90% of UK premises in the We want to be the wholesaler of choice in the UK and international next three to four years.
We give CPs access to our platforms, skills We are rolling out national Ethernet products, with a wide range and technology, making our investments and economies of scale of ways to connect to our network.
These include high bandwidth work for them.
Our approach promotes competition, gives endEthernet bre connections, cost-effective Ethernet bonded copper customers more choice, avoids duplicating infrastructure, and solutions Ethernet in the First Mile and more recently, Ethernet over encourages innovation by helping CPs nd new ways to serve their our bre broadband network.
High levels of service availability and customers.
exibility, combined with nationwide coverage, make our Ethernet We are Europes largest telecoms wholesaler and BT Global services an attractive choice for customers.
Services sells our wholesale services to more than 1,200 telecoms Our future plans include: companies around the world.
making FTTP available throughout the bre broadband footprint Openreach provides local access and backhaul services: its with our FTTP-on-Demand service.
We launched this service in networks are already the most extensive in Great Britain, allowing CPs April 2013 in a subset of our footprint to provide ADSL broadband to 99% of homes and businesses and increasing FTTC speeds above 80Mbps using vectoring, a bre broadband to over half.
technology we will be trialling further during 2013 14 BT Wholesale aims to meet CPs needs where they cannot be met further increasing FTTP speeds building on trials conducted in by Openreachs products alone.
This typically involves using our 2012 13 network coverage and scale to provide nationwide voice, broadband extending the choices available to CPs for the delivery of bre and data end-to-end products.
We also create managed services broadband.
We plan to introduce a new option in 2013 14 that which combine those products with third-party components and will allow CPs to use their own modem rather than an Openreach professional services, using our deep expertise in solution design, one build, delivery and operation.
assessing the longer-term opportunities for wider and deeper BT Wholesale leads the market in mobile Ethernet backhaul bre deployment in the access network services and in wholesale broadband.
Our Wholesale Broadband extending our Ethernet footprint Connect WBC next generation copper broadband product is now in upgrading our core network with the latest generation of highexchanges serving more than 90% of UK premises.
More than 70 CPs speed optical equipment that provides multiple 100Gbps are now trialling or selling its bre-based variant.
A key area of investment over the past few years has been IP Exchange, which was developed in our Adastral Park research and A responsible and sustainable business leader development centre.
IP Exchange provides a common gateway to Our aim is to create a better future by generating value for our allow interworking between different CPs IP voice, data and business and our stakeholders.
Doing this in a responsible and multimedia services.
This year it handled 7.75bn voice minutes sustainable way contributes to this aim.
Our customers want to buy globally.
services from a company they can trust to act responsibly and We expect a variety of issues, such as regulatory charge controls sustainably.
This year corporate and government customers asked us and competitive pressures, to affect our wholesale business in about our sustainability credentials in over 2.8bn worth of contracts 2013 14.
So we are working to identify growth opportunities that that we bid for.
will help us offset their impact.
Each year we use a materiality process to work out the social and Our future plans include: environmental issues that are important to our stakeholders and launching new hosted communications services that will expand relevant to our business.
It helps us focus on the right things.
We our IP voice portfolio and combine it with our data and broadband measure and report our progress against seven non-financial products performance indicators which reect these issues.
extending our broadband, Ethernet and Mobile Ethernet Access Service MEAS footprints 4 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 Report of the Directors Strategy The Committee for Sustainable and Responsible Business of BT Group We have calculated our end-to-end impact as 5.0 megatonnes Mt plc oversees our corporate responsibility, environment and of CO2 equivalent CO2e emissions.
This is made up of 3.2Mt 64% community activities, and our Better Future programme.
It is from our supply chain, 0.4Mt 8% from our operations and 1.4Mt supported by our Sustainable Business Leadership team which 28% from the BT products used by our customers.
comprises senior executives from across our business units and is Today, we estimate that customers using our products and services charged with delivering our programme and embedding it avoid generating at least 5.0Mt of carbon emissions through throughout the group.
This is equivalent to our current business impact.
We plan to achieve our 2020 goal by growing our product Better business portfolio in this area whilst cutting our end-to-end emissions.
Our stakeholders expect us to invest in our networks, community and This year, we set up the Better Future Supplier Forum people and to run our business with high ethical, environmental and www.
com  to encourage our suppliers supply chain standards.
You will see from much of what we describe to develop products and propositions more sustainably.
elsewhere in our report, that it is our people and values that help us BT TSO is responsible for managing our energy consumption and achieve this.
direct carbon emissions see page 17.
We have signed contracts Working ethically is not just the right thing to do, it is also delivering 100% renewable electricity in the UK and Spain.
We have important to regulators and customers.
Our statement of business met our target to reduce our UK emissions by 80% from our 1996 97 practice, The Way We Work www.
com twww, is available in base year, three years early.
We are currently revising it to provide more guidance and examples.
We also have a number of ethical policies Improving Lives including Anti-Corruption and Bribery, Gifts and Hospitality and We believe our people and products can help improve the lives of Charitable Donations and Sponsorship.
hundreds of millions of people around the world.
Our 2020 goal is to We encourage our people to get involved in their local use our skills and technology to help generate more than 1bn for communities and we run a volunteering programme to help them do good causes.
In 2012 13 our people volunteered 43,600 days, worth an We have a long history of working with amazing causes to improve estimated 13m to those communities.
We have supported ChildLine for more than 25 years.
Our in responsible and sustainable business activities this year, meeting technology and people are the backbone of telethons such as the our target to invest at least 1% of our prior years adjusted profit annual Children in Need appeal and UNICEFs Soccer Aid.
Last year, supporting our 1bn goal, our people helped raise Our payroll giving scheme has over 11,000 BT members and 25m across our MyDonate telethon platform for our charity partners donated to more than 2,000 charities in 2011 12.
Payroll donations including Comic Relief and Children in Need.
We have been working from the UK, Ireland and the United States, rose to 2.9m, which was with Comic Relief since the charity was formed in 1985 and this year supported by an additional 1m contribution by BT.
we managed 458,000 incoming donation calls and co-ordinated more than 10,000 volunteers across 147 UK call centres, including Creating a better future around 1,000 BT volunteers in seven BT call centres.
Our society faces the challenge of living within immediate financial Our MyDonate website is changing the way people give to charity constraints and the planets ever-tighter resources.
We are helping UK charities and their supporters to fundraise Communication technology has a significant role to play in helping online free of charge, with every penny donated going to their cause.
businesses and people do this.
It helps them swap physical products This year 3,600 charities used it to raise funds.
with their virtual, streamed or digital equivalents.
And it provides solutions that help businesses manage their OUR BUSINESS MODEL resources as efficiently as possible.
We have a sustainable business model which supports our aim to It also has the power to make a difference to peoples lives: giving deliver value to shareholders and customers.
It is built around our them better access to information, education and jobs and helping strategy of Customer service delivery, Cost transformation them work together.
Our people, networks and technology can make and Investing for the future.
We make money by selling our services in the UK and around the world through our customer-facing lines of business.
These services Connected Society often use the same underlying networks, platforms and people.
The We aim to help improve society through the power of digital communications market is very competitive, particularly in the UK.
We never forget that customers have a choice.
We want everyone to be part of a connected society.
By the end of We sell our services through a range of channels including online, 2012 13 over half the people in the UK could access bre-based contact centres and desk or eld-based account managers.
Our goal is for more than nine out of 10 revenue is largely subscription or contract based.
People, households people to have access by the end of 2020.
We now believe that we and SMEs pay for standalone or bundled services monthly, quarterly can achieve this much sooner.
or annually typically on 12-24 month contracts.
Large corporate For years, our digital inclusion programmes have helped people and public sector customers typically buy managed networked IT overcome any fears of moving online.
Our Get IT Together campaign services, usually on contracts spanning several years.
Contract helps people in the UK discover the digital world with the help of a durations with our wholesale customers range from just one month friend or family member.
Our Including You website offers help and for regulated products, to five years or more for major managed support to customers with impairments, helping them and their services deals.
carers get more out of our products and services.
What sets us apart Net Good We have a unique combination of people, brand, networks and Our vision is to help society live within the constraints of our planets technology.
And we have the financial strength to make long-term resources through our products and people.
investments in the future of our business.
Our 2020 goal is to help our customers reduce carbon emissions by at least three times the end-to-end carbon impact of our business.
Report of the Directors Strategy British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 5 A committed, skilled and engaged group of employees is key to our Engagement business.
We have launched a new long-term initiative to make our Our employee engagement index is one of the seven performance people feel more empowered, invest in their skills and capabilities indicators that we use to measure how we are doing as a responsible and improve our ways of working.
It is based on a five point scale and Our assets and resources that help us to deliver our strategy are measured 3.69 2011 12: 3.68 a small improvement on our score described on page 7.
As well as our brand and networks they include last year.
We will continue our wide-ranging programme of activities the innovation activities we undertake to maintain our technology to support and involve our people and aim to improve engagement in advantage.
They also include our platforms, our properties and the coming years.
Our communication with BT people is based on two-way conversation.
Proper dialogue helps us keep them engaged about Delivering value where we are heading as a business, and makes it easier to track their Combining the things that set us apart with our products and our feedback.
customer service delivers value to our customers.
We keep our people informed about company results, major Improving our customer service helps our customers but also business decisions and other things that affect them.
We use a variety allows us to cut the cost of serving them.
By reducing the number of of print and digital communication channels to do this.
We give our times things go wrong, we spend less time and money putting things people plenty of chances for direct discussion with leaders, so they right.
This reinforces our financial strength and helps us to invest in can ask questions that matter to them.
These are either online chats, the things that set us apart.
town hall meetings or round-table events.
That is why the three foundations of our strategy Customer We also carry out surveys to ask our people for their opinion.
service delivery, Cost transformation and Investing for the future These help us measure how engaged they are overall, so we can spot are at the heart of the way we run our business.
issues that we need to look into.
In April 2013 we updated our The cash that we generate from our customers and cost company values to better reect the type of company our people transformation helps us reward our shareholders.
And it means we think we are and should be.
can full our financial obligations to our people and the pension We have a record of stable industrial relations and constructive scheme, and to our lenders and suppliers.
relationships with the recognised unions in the UK and with works What we do matters.
We make connections, create possibilities councils elsewhere in Europe.
In the UK, we recognise two main trade and deliver value.
And we give back to the communities we work in.
unions the Communication Workers Union CWU, which represents people in engineering, administrative and clerical positions, and We believe our business model is sustainable Prospect, which represents managerial and professional employees.
We are confident our business model is sustainable and that we will We also deal with unions around the world and operate a panbe able to deliver value in the long-term.
European works council, the BT European Consultative Committee.
Our Enterprise Risk Management framework see page 9 helps us to mitigate the challenges that we face, based on our view of the Talent and diversity markets in which we operate.
Our knowledge of market trends is We gain significant advantage by spotting and developing our own maintained through dedicated insight teams.
Governance talent as well as bringing in the best skills from outside.
committees make sure that the investments we make are appropriate We offer employees who show significant potential a range of and will deliver products and services that are attractive to customers.
support mechanisms and development opportunities.
These include We see more and more demand for our products and services access to senior leaders, talent events designed to build knowledge, because they play such an integral role in modern life.
Customers rely visibility and networks and support from Human Resources in on us.
They trust us with their condential information and their creating tailored development plans.
We take this responsibility seriously.
Our customer and supplier base is incredibly diverse and our diverse mix of employees helps us to understand their needs.
We OUR PEOPLE demonstrate our commitment to equality from board-level down: Every day our people touch the lives of millions, helping them 30% of our Board is female, exceeding our aim of at least 25%.
We communicate, do business and be entertained and informed.
We are were ranked in The Times Top 50 Employers for Women but recognise investing not only in our future but more than ever in our people.
we need to do more to increase the proportion of our people that are At 31 March 2013, we had 87,900 full-time equivalent female, particularly in senior executive roles.
employees of which 73,200 were based in the UK.
Safety and wellbeing Building our strengths and capabilities We aim to improve the overall wellbeing of the company by providing We are introducing new ways of working that will equip and empower information, guidance and instruction to make sure our people are our people to continuously improve their work and better serve our protected and work together to protect others.
We are setting up a BT Academy to be the vehicle for systems of work, equipment, support services and access to specialist delivering world-class leadership and critical skills development, as advice, all of which allow our people to understand the way in which well as being an enabler of cultural change.
It will allow us to quickly they need to work and any risks associated with their activities.
share the BT way which are the methods based on BT at its best.
Through our wellbeing framework, we create workplaces which In Openreach we invested in tools and improved the skills of more support our employees and where we can each contribute to the than 11,000 engineers, delivering more than 200,000 hours of health of our business, and of society as a whole.
classroom or simulated workplace training.
This year, we continued to partner with Business in the We have particularly focused on training to support the planning Community BITC to develop our wellbeing framework and in April and rollout of our bre network across the UK.
This investment in 2013 we were ranked as a top five company by BITC for public skills and capabilities will help our people do things better every day reporting of employee engagement and wellbeing.
Through this to meet our performance targets and improve quality and customer initiative we aim to remain at the forefront of good people service.
6 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 Report of the Directors Strategy We track our performance in lots of different ways.
But our sickness Volunteering absence rate SAR is a key measure.
In 2012 13, our SAR was 2.29% The BT Volunteering Programme is recognised for its range and 2011 12: 2.16%.
We missed our target to cut our SAR to 2.05% diversity and in 2012 received a Big Society Award from the Prime after some of our people experienced more strain caused in part by Minister.
All our people can volunteer and in the year BT people the bad weather.
Our sick pay costs were 84.6m in the year volunteered 43,600 days in work time to activities like digital 2011 12: 80.0m.
inclusion and helping the vulnerable get online.
The programme includes a number of projects which help us apply Recruitment and exibility our skills and services to support communities and it also encourages As our markets and environment change, the skills we need change people to choose activities they are passionate about.
If we no longer need a particular skill or role, our transition more than 800 employees serve their communities as school centre helps people learn new things and look for alternative roles in governors, more than 150 as military reservists, more than 70 as the business.
Since April 2006, more than 21,000 BT people have special constables, and more than 1,000 as youth leaders.
This year we recruited around 1,600 engineers to help with our OUR ASSETS AND RESOURCES accelerated bre rollout and to improve customer service.
We have These are what we need to help us deliver our strategy.
Many of them created new roles by bringing work into BT which we used to set us apart from our competitors and give us an advantage in outsource.
This year we brought around 4,000 roles back into the our markets.
We have also created our own recruitment team, which advertises Brand and reputation vacancies and deploys people across the business.
The BT brand is an important business asset.
Superbrands, a We want to foster a culture where everyone can do well.
So we respected assessment of brand strength, ranked BT as the UKs 62nd work with agencies to help recruit people with disabilities.
And we strongest Consumer Superbrand in 2013 up more than 100 places cover the cost of rehabilitation and retention services to help our from 2012 and the 12th strongest Business Superbrand 17th in people stay with us when their circumstances change.
In both cases, we came top in our category.
nearly 1,000 existing employees with disabilities through our Enable Our partnership with London 2012 strengthened our brand.
As a programme, which provides specialist advice with tailored sponsorship programme, we benefited in a number of ways.
First, the adjustments to keep people in productive work.
Games network we built showcased our expertise on the worlds Apprentices are a core part of our recruitment strategy.
They bring biggest stage and was vital to the success of the event.
new skills and innovation to the business and help shape the future Second, our communications services for the Games showed the workforce of the company.
Through the apprenticeship scheme world what we do in the UK every day, helping to bring people young people are able to join career paths that can, and often do, together to share in occasions big and small.
lead to senior management roles within the company.
Our Third, our sponsorship and in particular our work with the British apprentices regularly receive external recognition.
This year three of Paralympic Association demonstrated our belief in the power of our apprentices won regional apprentice of the year with the National communication to make a better world.
Apprenticeship Service and we also had two national winners in the Independent research by Nielsen London 2012s ofcial market STEMNET and ITP awards.
research provider showed that we were the domestic sponsor most associated with the Games and the single sponsor most recognised Pay and benets for providing expertise and services to support the event.
We pay our people competitively.
We compare salaries with other Our own research showed that consumers and BT people valued companies in the markets we work in, so we know we pay fairly too.
our brand more because of our involvement.
In September 2012 Engineers and support people get paid in the same way acrossmore than 70% of our people said that the London 2012 sponsorship the-board.
Managers pay and bonuses are linked to how we are made them proud to work for BT.
performing as a business and how they contribute to that personally.
Our brand health research shows an increase in emotional We offer our most senior managers long-term incentives.
These engagement with the BT brand amongst consumers and SMEs in the help us achieve our business goals and align a proportion of their pay year.
Brand engagement amongst large corporate and public sector with shareholder value creation.
The amount we pay out in these customers also improved, driven by a particularly strong performance plans depends on our corporate performance over a three-year in non-UK markets.
In accordance with our regulatory obligations, there are Some of the highest scores in our surveys indicate that our brand different arrangements for the most senior managers in Openreach strengths are around being trusted and liked, and being seen as whose incentives are tied to the business performance of Openreach relevant and innovative.
rather than the wider BT Group.
We operate savings-related share option plans saveshare in over Networks and platforms 25 countries.
Around 60% of our people take part in one or more of Networks these.
This year around 20,000 of our people benefited from Our networks are the foundation of the products and services our saveshare receiving, on average, shares in BT Group plc worth over customers rely on around the world.
We have domestic network 12,000, a gain of around 8,400.
Over the next two years, around assets, which provide in-country services, and global assets, which 34,500 of our people could each receive shares worth over 28,000 provide international services.
on average based on the share price as at 31 March 2013.
Our largest assets are in the UK where we offer the widest range of We also provide pension and retirement benets as well as network services, access technologies and coverage.
Our UK xedstatutory retirement arrangements.
line network is one of our most valuable assets and our bre broadband investment is key to sustaining its value for the UK.
We are growing our Ethernet footprint in response to strong demand and growing data trafc.
We have around 1,170 Ethernet bre nodes located across the UK with BT Wholesale increasing the Report of the Directors Strategy British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 7 number of Ethernet circuits installed in the year by 63%.
The total While our UK data centre and IT infrastructure grew in the year, we number of Ethernet circuits provided by Openreach increased by spent 8% less on associated energy costs.
We have programmes in 15%, with growth strongest at speeds of 1Gbps and above.
We also place to help us cut our IT energy use over the coming years including deployed the worlds largest high-density wiservice at the London using fewer IT applications.
2012 Olympic Park and installed more than 1,500 wireless access points across all of the Olympic venues.
Properties We also have deep in-country networks in Germany, Italy, the At 31 March 2013 we occupied around 6,400 properties in the UK Netherlands, the Republic of Ireland and Spain.
In Latin America we and around 1,750 in the rest of the world.
Most of our UK properties operate networks in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Mexico.
are owned by and leased from Telereal Trillium, part of the William Our major global asset is our MPLS platform, which is designed to Pears Group.
carry different network services over one common infrastructure.
This Of our UK properties, around 90% are operational telephone lowers costs and reduces the time to offer new services.
Our general purpose From this platform we offer our two most popular virtual private properties are mainly ofces, engineering depots and data centres.
network VPN services: IP Connect and Ethernet Connect.
IP Connect Outside the UK, around 90% of our properties are operational sites is available in more than 170 countries.
This year we invested in housing data hosting and telecoms equipment.
10 new IP Connect points of presence POPs, six new Ethernet access As part of our cost transformation, we continued to consolidate countries and five new network-to-network interfaces.
Ethernet ofce space and dispose of redundant premises.
This property Connect has grown substantially in the last year.
We invested in rationalisation will continue under our restructuring programme.
10 new Ethernet Connect POPs, and the service is now available in 43 countries.
Innovation Our internet platform is available in 38 countries.
We have also We have to create propositions that our customers nd attractive and invested in six new gateways from our internet platform to want to buy.
Innovation, supported by our global research and IP Connect, increasing coverage and reducing the cost of internet development, has therefore always been at the core of our business.
We have a large broadband satellite network.
Our open innovation model gives us access to thinking from We are expanding our UK and global IP Exchange service GIPX.
outside BT, from small, start-up companies to some of the best We have more than 150 customers in the UK alone on this product universities around the world.
We have teams working with and we have plans in place to add new features to support services customers, partners and universities in the US, Asia, Europe and the such as HD voice and video calling.
They help us to maintain our view of global This year we: developments in new technologies, business propositions and market expanded further in the high-growth regions of Asia Pacic, Latin trends.
This year we opened a new research laboratory with Tsinghua America, Turkey, the Middle East and Africa University in China.
upgraded capacity in Europe and around the world In 2012 13 we led patent applications for 69 inventions.
We simplied our networks closing some legacy services and routinely seek patent protection in different countries and at a migrating customers onto newer and better services, and lowering 31 March 2013 we had a worldwide portfolio of more than 4,400 our costs patents and applications.
We support the UK Governments new upgraded our European bre backbone that is the foundation of Patent Box initiative that recognises those companies investing in UK our services in nine European countries and 77 cities research, patents and innovation.
This initiative could provide tax invested in a new bre backbone in South Africa.
relief on profits from certain BT products which are based on our To make sure their own networks are performing at their best, CPs patented inventions.
can use our BT Connect Applications portfolio.
This is available This year we invested 544m 2011 12: 560m in research and globally and can be used to accelerate, optimise and monitor trafc development to cultivate innovation.
Our research, development and across their networks.
testing is done at global development centres located in the UK, US and Asia, and is headquartered at Adastral Park in the UK.
These Platforms centres help us to draw together complementary skills and resources Our platforms are the processes and technology that deliver our more easily both our own and third-party.
They reduce turnaround network products and services.
They are critical to running our time, ensure tighter feedback loops and help us get products and business.
services into the market sooner.
For example, our service management platform comprises our This year we opened a new development centre in Kuala Lumpur, service delivery and workow management processes.
It lets us coMalaysia, and recently opened a new building for our centre in ordinate everything we need to do to give our customers their Bangalore, India.
These complement our existing centres in Belfast, service.
It also keeps our customers updated on the progress of their Glasgow, Cardiff, Adastral Park and Dallas and give us local technical orders.
expertise and spread our development more evenly around the Our billing and payments platform is made up of the systems and world.
processes that work out charges, produce bills and collect payments Our people help us innovate and improve our service to from our customers.
This year our award-winning internal New Ideas Scheme The number of platforms we own has grown over time as we have received more than 1,000 submissions to improve service, generate bought companies, won outsourced contracts and brought in new revenue or reduce costs.
Our My Customer Challenge Cup technologies.
We continue to improve our platforms.
We modernise competition encourages our people to identify areas where customer and rationalise them, make them simpler, more reliable and service is not as good as it should be, and work together to make more exible and make them cheaper to run.
a On average, we file with four member states of The Patent Cooperation Treaty and three member states of the European Patent Convention.
8 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 Report of the Directors Strategy
