national and local government organisations and other public The Communications Act sector bodies in 26 countries around the world.
The Communications Act gives Ofcom legal powers and sets out the As well as pursuing new customers, we aim to grow our share of legal requirements for how electronic communications services existing customers spending through increasing the number of should be regulated in the UK.
It includes the conditions imposed by products and services we sell to them.
The Government is currently reviewing our sectors regulatory regime, with a new framework planned for 2015.
Wholesale customers The review is looking into how to encourage growth and innovation We serve the wholesale telecoms customer segment in Great Britain and how to remove unnecessary regulation.
through Openreach and BT Wholesale.
In Northern Ireland and the Ofcom Republic of Ireland, we serve wholesale customers through BT Ofcom is the independent regulator and competition authority for Ireland.
Everywhere else in the world, we serve the wholesale market the whole UK communications market.
Its main duties are: through the wholesale arm of BT Global Services.
Openreach sells local loop and backhaul services to around 500to further the interests of citizens in relation to communications CPs the largest being Sky, TalkTalk and BT lines of business.
matters BT Wholesale works with more than 1,400 CPs, including all theto further the interests of consumers in relevant markets, where big xed and mobile operators, ISPs and broadcasters.
We manage appropriate by promoting competition.
and support the network and services needs of many UK operators Under the powers of the Communications Act, Ofcom sets conditions including EE, KCOM Group, MBNL, O2, Virgin Media and Vodafone.
that CPs must comply with and can issue directions under these Our biggest competitors are Cable & Wireless Worldwide, Colt Group, conditions.
Some conditions, known as General Conditions, apply to TalkTalk and Virgin Media, as well as Ericsson for managed services.
Others apply to certain individual companies that Ofcom has Outside the UK, we offer wholesale telecoms services to more than decided are universal service providers or have SMP in a particular 1,200 CPs around the world.
We compete with the wholesale market.
Anyone can appeal against Ofcoms decisions through a divisions of local incumbents, alternative network operators and number of routes, including to the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT global wholesale telecoms companies like BICS and Level 3. or to the High Court.
We are Europes largest telecoms services wholesaler by revenue, The General Conditions that apply to all CPs are mainly about a with a market share of 17% by revenue.
protecting consumers general access and interconnection, planning for emergencies, providing information to Ofcom, and allocating and REGULATION transferring phone numbers.
Communications services are vital in a modern world.
This means We are the designated universal service provider for the UK the industry sometimes needs to be controlled and monitored.
In except for the Hull area where it is KCOM Group and so we have nearly all our markets, these services are subject to regulation by certain universal service obligations.
This is an important governmental and non-governmental bodies.
In this section we responsibility and we take it seriously.
Our main obligation is to make explain here some of the recent and upcoming decisions taken by sure that basic xed line services are available at an affordable price regulators and how they affect us.
to all consumers in the UK.
We are also obliged to provide public payphones.
European Union EU regulation The European directives require Ofcom to review relevant In EU countries, electronic communications services are governed by communications markets regularly, usually every three years, and to a number of European directives and regulations.
These create a decide whether any CP has SMP in those markets.
If Ofcom decides Europe-wide framework covering services including xed and mobile that a CP has SMP, it could put controls in place, typically on the voice, broadband, cable and satellite TV.
prices which the CP can charge.
Ofcom will generally try to set Different countries have implemented the existing directives in charges that are reasonably based on costs and an appropriate return different ways.
The directives include rules covering access and on the capital invested.
interconnection, universal service obligations, and how often Impact of regulation national regulators should review markets for significant market There are a number of regulatory decisions and outcomes of appeals power SMP.
They also cover how regulators set price controls.
They that affected us during the year and will impact us in the future.
require regulators to consult with the European Commission EC on any price control decisions before they are nalised to make sure theyOfcom nished its review of the business connectivity markets, are consistent with the European regulations.
which cover products such as Ethernet and private circuits.
It During 2013 14 the EC is expected to issue guidance on renewed price controls for another three years.
The main changes regulating next generation bre access networks.
We expect this to were an increase in the size of the deregulated London area and align the rest of Europe more closely with the existing UK approach.
deregulation of long distance wholesale private circuits and some The EC is also expected to review the scope of the relevant market retail leased lines.
We also now have SMP in high bandwidth segments covered by telecoms regulation.
Ethernet services outside the deregulated London area which will be subject to a charge control.
We expect the charge controls to UK Regulation have a net negative year on year impact of around 50m-100m The telecoms industry is regulated through various European on group revenue and EBITDA in 2013 14 with a further similar directives, the Communications Act 2003 the Communications Act impact in 2014 15. and Ofcom the UKs independent regulator as well as otherIn December 2012 Ofcom issued its final determinations on regulations and recommendations.
disputes over historic Ethernet pricing.
Ofcom concluded that between April 2006 and March 2011 the prices we set for certain Ethernet services were too high resulting in an overcharge of 151m over this period.
We disagree with the determinations and have submitted an appeal to the CAT.
a Source: Ovum, December 2012 based on 2011 data.
Report of the Directors Business British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 19 In July 2012 the Court of Appeal overturned the CATs favourable Most of the commitments in the Undertakings have been delivered, August 2011 decision in relation to wholesale ladder pricing.
but we were unable to move a small percentage of certain customer Ladder pricing links the amounts that BT charges mobile operators records to separated computer systems by the target date of for mobile calls to 0800, 0845 and 0870 numbers terminating on 31 December 2012.
Ofcom has issued a Direction, which we have our network to the retail price charged by mobile operators to accepted, that gives us until 30 November 2013 to meet this their customers.
We have been granted permission to appeal this commitment.
decision to the Supreme Court and the hearing is expected in early 2014.
In 2011 12 we recognised revenue of 56m and EBITDA of Our relationship with HM Government 29m from ladder pricing.
We did not recognise any revenue or We can be required by law to do certain things and provide certain profit from ladder pricing this year.
One-off charges of 85m services to government.
For example, under the Communications Act, against revenue and 58m against EBITDA have been recognised we and others can be required to provide or restore services during in the year relating to ladder pricing in the 2010 11 and 2011 12 disasters.
The Civil Contingencies Act 2004 also says that the years.
Government can impose obligations on us and others at times of In March 2011 we lost an appeal to the CAT relating to Ofcoms emergency or in connection with civil contingency planning.
The decision in a dispute over our charges to other CPs for trunk Secretary of State can also require us to take certain actions in the components of wholesale partial private circuits.
In July 2012 the interests of national security and international relations.
Court of Appeal issued its judgment on our appeal against the CATs decision.
The appeal failed to set aside Ofcoms Overseas regulation determination or the CAT judgment, but provided helpful The degree of regulation in international markets varies widely.
This clarification of Ofcoms powers.
can hinder our ability to compete.
We are pressing incumbent Sky appealed in June 2010 against Ofcoms decision to regulate operators and their national regulatory authorities around the world Sky Sports 1 and 2.
In August 2012 the CAT decided in Skys for fairer, cost-related wholesale access to their networks.
favour, and in April 2013 we received permission to appeal the In particular we are working with the industry and the regulator in CATs decision to the Court of Appeal.
the US to encourage early completion of the regulators review of the The charge controls for WLR, LLU and ISDN30 products which Business Access market and to put remedies in place to address any became effective in April 2012 had a negative impact of around dominance found.
120m on group revenue and EBITDA in the year.
We expect a further impact of around 120m in 2013 14.
During 2013 14, Ofcom is expected to complete its reviews of: the Fixed Access market including WLR, LLU, GEA, ISDN 2 and ISDN 30 products the Wholesale Broadband Access market including IPstream, Datastream and WBC the Wholesale narrowband market comprising calls and interconnection services.
Where we are found to have SMP, Ofcom will carry out consultations on setting controls.
These could change the prices we charge for these products.
Ofcom has recently opened a compliance investigation following a complaint which alleges that BT has acted anti-competitively, contrary to UK and EU law.
The complaint alleges that BT has abused its dominant position, claiming that the margin between the prices BT Retail charges for some of its superfast broadband products, and the price paid to Openreach for the relevant network inputs, is insufficient to allow other CPs to compete profitably with BT Retail.
Ofcom has stated that the initial information gathering phase of the investigation will take place during spring summer 2013 which will inform consideration during autumn winter 2013, of whether, and if so how, to proceed further with the investigation.
BTs undertakings In response to Ofcoms 2005 strategic review of telecommunications, we put forward some legally binding undertakings under the Enterprise Act 2002.
These Undertakings which include the creation of Openreach began in September 2005.
They aim to give clarity and certainty to the UK telecoms industry about the way we provide upstream regulated products.
This in turn supports effective and fair competition in related downstream markets.
20 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 Report of the Directors Business
