REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS STATUTORY INFORMATION The directors submit their report and the audited financial directors are satisfied that this cash ow forecast, taking into account statements of the company, British Telecommunications plc, and the reasonably possible risk sensitivities associated with this forecast group, which includes its subsidiary undertakings, for the 2012 13 and BT Group plcs current funding and facilities, alongside BT financial year.
Group plcs funding strategy, shows that the group will continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
The directors therefore continue Introduction to have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate The sections on Strategy, Business and Performance on pages 2 to resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 31 form part of this report.
The audited financial statements are future and continue to adopt a going concern basis in accordance presented on pages 37 to 89 and 107. with the guidance Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for During the year a final dividend of 1,400m has been paid to the Directors of UK Companies 2009 issued by the Financial Reporting parent company, BT Group Investments Limited 2011 12: nil.
The Council in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
directors have declared a final dividend of 1,300m for 2012 13.
There has been no significant change in the financial or trading position of the group since 31 March 2013.
Principal activity The company is the principal trading subsidiary of BT Group plc, Auditors which is its ultimate parent company.
 LLP and its predecessor rms have been BT Group plc is a leading communications services provider.
In BTs auditors since BT listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1984. the UK, we sell products and services to consumers and small and The BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee carried out the annual medium-sized enterprises SMEs.
Around the world, as well as in review of their performance by gathering feedback from Committee the UK, we provide managed networked IT services for large members and senior management, and by considering reports on multinational corporations, domestic businesses and national and the audit rms own internal quality control procedure and local government organisations.
We also sell wholesale telecoms assessment of independence.
Having assessed the responses the services to communications providers in the UK and internationally.
BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee did not consider it necessary to require them to tender for the audit.
Directors In light of the recent changes to the UK Corporate Governance The directors at 31 March 2013 were Tony Chanmugam, Glyn Parry Code to put the external audit contract out to tender every 10 years, and Sean Williams who served throughout 2012 13. the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee are considering how and when a tender process might be implemented and will make a Financial statements recommendation to the BT Group plc Board during 2013 14.
A statement by the directors of their responsibilities for preparing The external auditors are required to rotate the lead partner every the financial statements is included in the Statement of directors five years and other partners that are responsible for the group and responsibilities on page 34. subsidiary audits change at least every seven years.
Such changes Our significant accounting policies are set out on pages 43 to 48 are carefully planned to ensure business continuity without undue of the consolidated financial statements and conform with IFRS.
The partner responsible for BTs audit is completing These policies, and applicable estimation techniques, have been his fourth year within the group audit team and his first year as lead reviewed by the directors who have confirmed them to be partner, which is a role he can continue for a further three years.
appropriate for the preparation of the 2012 13 consolidated A resolution to reappoint  LLP as BTs financial statements.
auditors and to authorise the directors to agree their remuneration will So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant be proposed at the AGM.
information that has not been disclosed to the auditors and each of the directors believes that all steps have been taken that ought to Internal control and risk management have been taken to make them aware of any relevant audit The Board of BT Group plc, the companys ultimate parent, is information and to establish that the auditors have been made responsible for the groups systems of internal control and risk aware of that information.
management and for reviewing each year the effectiveness of those systems.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than Financial instruments eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives: any Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance group and exposure to interest risk, foreign exchange risk, credit risk, against material misstatement or loss.
The process in place for liquidity risk and price risk are given in note 24 on pages 78 to 87. reviewing BTs systems of internal control includes procedures designed to identify and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and, in Going concern the case of any categorised as significant, procedures exist to ensure The sections on Strategy, Business and Performance on pages 2 to that necessary action is taken to remedy the failings.
31 include information on the group structure, the performance of BT Group plc has enterprise-wide risk management processes for each of the lines of business, the impact of regulation and identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by competition and principal risks and uncertainties.
These processes have been in place during the year section on pages 21 to 31 includes information on our financial and have continued up to the date on which this document was results, financial outlook, cash ow, loans and borrowings and approved.
The processes are in accordance with the Revised balance sheet position.
Notes 20, 21, 22 and 24 of the consolidated Guidance for Directors on the UK Governance Code published by the financial statements include information on the groups investments, Financial Reporting Council the Turnbull Guidance.
cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, derivatives, financial risk Risk assessment and evaluation takes place as an integral part of management objectives, hedging policies and exposures to interest, BT Group plcs annual strategic planning cycle.
There is a detailed foreign exchange, credit, liquidity and market risks.
risk management process, culminating in a BT Group plc Board Alongside the factors noted above, the directors have considered review, which identies the key risks facing the group and each BT Group plcs cash ow forecasts, as they relate to the group, in business unit.
This information is reviewed by senior management particular with reference to the period to the end of May 2014.
The 32 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 Report of the Directors Statutory information as part of the strategic review.
Our current key risks are summarised Internal control over financial reporting in the Strategy section Our risks on pages 9 to 13.
BTs management is responsible for establishing and maintaining The key features of the enterprise-wide risk management and adequate internal control over financial reporting for the group internal control process comprise the following procedures: including the consolidation process.
Internal control over financial senior executives collectively review the groups key risks and reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the have created a group risk register describing the risks, owners reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial and mitigation strategies.
This is reviewed by BT Group plcs statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS.
Group Risk Panel and Operating Committee before being Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of reviewed and approved by the BT Group plc Board internal control over financial reporting based on the framework for the lines of business and internal service unit carry out risk internal control evaluation contained in the Revised Guidance for assessments of their operations, create risk registers relating to Directors on the UK Governance Code published by the Financial those operations, and ensure that the key risks are addressed Reporting Council the Turnbull Guidance.
senior executives with responsibilities for major group operations Based on this assessment, management has concluded that at report quarterly with their opinion on the effectiveness of the 31 March 2013, BTs internal control over financial reporting was operation of internal controls in their area of responsibility effective.
BT Group plcs internal auditors carry out continuing assessments There were no changes in BTs internal control over financial of the quality of risk management and control, report to reporting that occurred during 2012 13 that have materially management and the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee on affected, or are reasonably likely to have materially affected, BTs the status of specic areas identied for improvement and internal control over financial reporting.
Any significant deficiency, promote effective risk management in the lines of business and as dened by the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board internal service unit operations PCAOB, in internal control over financial reporting, is reported to the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee, on behalf of the the Audit & Risk Committee of the ultimate parent company, BT Group plc Board, considers the effectiveness of the operation BT Group plc.
of internal control procedures in the group during the financial  LLP, which has audited the year.
It reviews reports from the internal and external auditors consolidated financial statements of the group for 2012 13, has and reports its conclusions to the BT Group plc Board.
The also audited the effectiveness of the groups internal control over BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee has carried out these financial reporting under Auditing Standard No.
Joint ventures and associates, which BT does not control, have not been dealt with as part of the group risk management process and By order of the Board are responsible for their own internal control assessment.
BTs significant accounting policies are set out on pages 43 to 48.
The consistent application of those policies is subject to ongoing verication through management review and independent review Heather Brierley by internal and external auditors.
Secretary 15 May 2013 US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Registered Office: 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ BT has debt securities registered with the US Securities and Registered in England and Wales No.
As a result, we must comply with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to foreign issuers.
We comply with the legal and regulatory requirements introduced pursuant to this legislation, in so far as they are applicable.
Disclosure controls and procedures The principal executive officer and the principal financial officer, after evaluating the effectiveness of BTs disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report & Form 20-F, have concluded that, as of such date, BTs disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that material information relating to BT was made known to them by others within the group.
The principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that BTs disclosure controls and procedures are also effective to ensure that the information required to be disclosed by the company in reports that it les under the Securities Exchange Act 1934 Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC.
The principal executive officer and the principal financial officer have also provided the certications required by the SarbanesOxley Act.
Report of the Directors Statutory information British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 33
