REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS Our business is built around our customers serving their needs and BT Connect Networks that think delivering value to them.
Our network services connect our customers to their people, their own customers and to the world.
We offer a range of IP, Ethernet and webHOW WE ARE ORGANISED based network services.
We deliver these in more than 170 countries We have four customer-facing Iines of business: BT Global Services, over a range of access technologies including DSL, VPN and satellite.
BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
They are supported by our BT Contact Relationships that grow internal service unit, BT Technology, Service & Operations.
We provide a range of contact centre services to help our customers build stronger relationships with their customers.
Our services BT GLOBAL SERVICES provide the option of using email, web chat, social media and the We are a global leader in managed networked IT services.
We work for phone either via automated systems or dedicated advisors.
Our around 7,000 large corporate and public sector customers in more cloud solution gives customers more exibility and control over their than 170 countries worldwide.
Our corporate customers operate in a costs by allowing capacity to change in response to demand.
wide range of sectors including banking and financial services, manufacturing, logistics, pharmaceuticals, and consumer packaged BT One Communications that unify goods.
Businesses communicate in a number of different ways by phone, Our customers benefit from our global reach and our ability to SMS, voicemail, instant messaging, email, videoconferencing and deliver services locally in the countries they are in.
They also gain data-sharing solutions.
They want these channels to be integrated from our ability to tailor products and services to their industry.
Our collaboration services help customers simplify During the year we increased the number of industries we focus on to their communications and transform the way they interact with their include global systems integrators, logistics and mining, oil & gas.
customers, colleagues, partners and suppliers.
The UK is our largest region by revenue.
We have a large base of customers in the corporate sector and serve public sector bodies such BT Advise Knowledge that delivers as central government and local councils.
Our experts around the world provide consulting, integration and In continental Europe, we run large businesses in key countries managed services to our customers.
They help solve business such as Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Spain.
They have a range of specialisms, certications and Current Analysis ranked us second in the German market for panaccreditations to make sure customers get the best out of our a European and global IP and data services.
In Italy, we are the main products and services.
country-wide operator exclusively focused on business-to-business b services.
In Spain, the telecoms regulator ranked BT as the leading Industry-specic solutions c alternative to the incumbent operator in the enterprise data market.
As every industry has its unique needs and challenges, we provide a We also support customers in Central and Eastern Europe, the Nordics range of industry-specic solutions.
For example, BT Radianz links and Russia.
financial institutions from around the world, giving them access to In the United States and Canada, we serve customers from ofces hundreds of critical applications.
BT for Life Sciences R&D lets in more than 25 key cities.
research scientists collaborate on a secure platform.
BT Trace helps We have an increasing presence in the high-growth regions of organisations manage increasingly complex global supply chains by Asia Pacic, Latin America, Turkey, the Middle East and Africa.
We giving them a single real-time view of their operations.
operate in 85 countries in these markets, helping multinationals expand into these regions and supporting local companies as they BT RETAIL grow internationally.
We continue to invest in these markets, hiring BT Retail has four customer-facing divisions: BT Consumer, BT more people, improving our products and services and building Business, BT Ireland and BT Enterprises.
BT Consumer Products and services We are the leading consumer voice and broadband provider in Great We combine our products and services with industry expertise and Britain and have a growing pay-TV service.
We sell our services under consulting services.
We have simplied our products categorising the BT and Plusnet brands.
them around what our customers need and making them more We help our BT-branded services stand out from the competition straightforward to buy and link together.
Those categories are: by offering a range of extra features.
Plusnet provides voice and broadband services for more cost-conscious customers who value our BT Assure Security that protects highly-regarded customer service.
We are a member of the YouView People and businesses are using more mobile devices, social media TV consortium and during the year secured a wide range of sports and cloud services.
Together with the growth in cyber-attacks, this content to show on our BT Sport channels.
means that customers are prioritising security.
We provide a range of security products and services including rewalls, web security, BT Business intrusion prevention and threat monitoring.
We supply SMEs in Great Britain with xed calls and lines, broadband, mobility and IT services as well as data and voice networks.
We also BT Compute Services that adapt have specialist arms within BT Business including: Businesses want reliable but exible IT platforms and services for BT iNet: A Cisco centre of excellence specialising in infrastructure, their applications, data storage and security.
We provide IT services in security and unied communications our worldwide data centres and deliver them over our global BT Engage IT: A leading provider of business-to-business IT network.
equipment and services BT Business Direct: An online store providing IT, computing and networking equipment plus associated installation and support a services.
Current Analysis, BT Germany: company assessment August 2012, page 2. b AGCOM, Relazione annuale 2012: sullattivit svolta e sui programmi di lavoro July 2012, page 98. c CMT, Industry Sector Report 2011 June 2012, page 60.
14 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 Report of the Directors Business
