22 Annual report 2013 Caledonia Investments plc Business model Investment principles Our primary focus is to manage wealth The principles we apply in building and financing our over the long term through a portfolio portfolio include: structured prudently to balance risk We allocate our capital predominantly amongst quoted equities, private companies equities and debt and and return.
We identify a strategic allocation to each of these classes commensurate with our overall risk and We aim to deliver long term growth in return objectives.
capital and a growing annual dividend At least 50% of the value of the investment portfolio will normally be held in quoted equities.
As well as listed we may use derivatives to hedge risk exposures to investments, our portfolio contains a movements in markets and currencies.
We look to achieve a diverse investment portfolio by significant proportion of unquoted asset class, industry sector, geography and currency.
investments at various stages of maturity Overall exposures in each case are actively monitored and vintage both through direct and managed by our executive management, under the supervision of the board.
The portfolio is further minority and majority holdings and diversified through our fund investment portfolio through private equity funds and we and the selection of external fund managers with clear mandates.
therefore measure our performance We look to mitigate concentration risk by limiting the against the FTSE All-Share on a total value of an investment in any one company to less than return basis over ten years.
10% of our net asset value and will look for appropriate market opportunities to realise and recycle value throughout the portfolio to achieve this in an appropriate timeframe.
We maintain borrowing facilities primarily to provide additional temporary liquidity between buying and selling investments.
We would not expect gearing at any time to exceed 10% of net assets.
Pool structure We manage our investment portfolio in four distinct pools of capital, which facilitates delegated accountability and responsibility to specialist investment executives.
The Quoted pool focuses on midcap companies, identifying opportunities to build meaningful minority positions in long term value businesses.
The Unquoted pool takes direct minority and majority stakes in private companies, where an opportunity exists to partner a strong management team with growth capital, without the traditional restrictions of short term private equity financing.
We take a board seat in all significant private company investments.
The Funds pool contains investments in UK, European, North American and Asian private and public equity funds and, in particular, provides diversified overseas reach in areas where our investment model would make direct investing more difficult to manage.
The Income & Growth pool provides low market risk exposure to global mega cap companies offering capital growth potential and high dividend expectations.
This pool provides both a reliable platform for our overall income requirements and a source of liquidity.
Business review Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2013 23 Investment process involving monthly and quarterly reporting.
Both Our investment process is built on a disciplined series of individual investments and the investment portfolio as steps, building on Caledonias reputation and the a whole are periodically measured against a number of experience of our investment team.
The process looks to risk control metrics, including concentration, liquidity, identify long term value through each stage, including volatility and sector and geographical diversity.
In sourcing opportunities and initial reviews, through due addition, we are often represented on the boards of our diligence, approval and deal execution.
The performance substantial listed and private company investments, of each investment is subject to a formal review process where we have a significant holding.
Attract preferential deal flow Make significant investments Identify best opportunities Our reputation, network of deal We invest directly in both listed and We adopt a disciplined process of originators and family tradition enables unlisted opportunities around the research and due diligence to identify us to access premium investment world.
Our minimum investment size value opportunities in well-managed, opportunities not always available to is 10m and we are willing to invest long term businesses with established others.
This derives from both tracking between 20m and 50m for significant business models and strong cash flows.
quality management teams in proven equity interests in companies.
Such opportunities are typically not businesses and through the contacts we reliant on leverage for returns and offer make through our extensive board long term growth potential.
Identify best opportunities Attract Make preferential significant deal flow investments The Caledonia team At its heart, our investment process is focused on recruiting and retaining high quality investment executives to maintain deal flow and investment continuity, who understand and are able to execute Caledonias investment philosophy.
Develop Manage business and support network investees Manage and control risk Develop business network Monitor and risk control Manage and support investees Maintaining our reputation as a We manage our investments as pools Individual investments and the supportive and constructively involved investment portfolio as a whole are of capital, focusing ownership and long term investor enables us to develop responsibility on our executive team.
monitored for risk against our strategic our network of contacts, who will give objectives.
Consideration is given to Where we take a board seat, we can us priority consideration when new deal both actively monitor the development concentration exposure, volatility opportunities arise.
levels, liquidity and geographical and of our investment and contribute long term support and governance.
