Business review Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2013 31 Valuation methodology Investments are measured at the directors estimate of Maintainable earnings balance reliability and relevance.
fair value at the reporting date, in accordance with IAS 39 Generally, the latest historical accounts are used unless Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
reliable forecast results for the current year are available.
Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be Earnings are adjusted where appropriate for exceptional exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties in an or non-recurring items and an average of more than one arms length transaction.
years earnings may be used to estimate maintainable earnings for cyclical or volatile businesses.
Publicly traded securities Investments listed in an active market are valued at Net assets their bid price on the reporting date.
When a bid price The net assets methodology is likely to be appropriate is unavailable, the price of the most recent transaction for a business whose value derives mainly from the will normally be used.
underlying value of its assets rather than its earnings, such as a property holding company or an investment Unlisted companies business.
It may also be appropriate for a business that is Unlisted company investments are valued by applying not making an adequate return on assets and for which a an appropriate valuation technique, which makes greater value can be realised by liquidating the business maximum use of market-based information, is consistent and selling its assets.
A third party valuation may be used with models generally used by market participants and is to give the fair value of a certain asset or group of assets.
applied consistently from period to period, except where a change would result in a better estimation of fair value.
Fund interests Fund interests refer to participations in arrangements The value of an unlisted company investment is generally to create a designated pool of capital to invest in a wider crystallised through the sale or flotation of the entire range of assets than is feasible for an individual investor business, rather than the sale of an individual instrument.
and to share the costs and benefits.
Therefore, the estimation of fair value is based on the assumed realisation of the underlying business at the Open-ended funds, including investment companies with reporting date, based on the International Private Equity variable capital, typically report regular net asset values, and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines December which usually provide a reliable basis to estimate fair 2012.
Recognition is given to the uncertainties inherent value.
If the price reported by the fund is not available at in estimating the fair value of unlisted companies and the reporting date, the latest available price is used and appropriate caution is applied in exercising judgments may be adjusted to take account of changes or events to and making the necessary estimates.
Enterprise value is normally determined using one of Closed-ended funds include unlisted investment the following valuation methodologies: companies and limited partnerships.
For these investments, the fair value estimate is based on a Price of recent investment summation of the estimated fair value of the underlying Where the investment being valued was recently investments.
Fund manager valuation reports may be acquired or a recent transaction has taken place, its used where there is evidence that the valuation is derived cost or transaction price will generally provide a good using fair value principles and may be adjusted to take indication of fair value.
This methodology is likely to account of changes or events to the reporting date.
be appropriate only for a limited period after the date Adjustment may also be necessary for features of the fund of the relevant transaction.
agreement not captured in the valuation report, such as Multiples performance fees or carried interest.
This methodology involves the application of an earnings Other investments multiple to the maintainable earnings of the business Other investments include preference shares, loan notes and is likely to be appropriate for an investment in an or facilities, options, warrants and treasury instruments established business with an identifiable stream of that are not publicly traded and do not form part of an continuing earnings.
investment in an unlisted company.
For such investments, The earnings multiple used is determined by reference to appropriate valuation techniques are adopted and used market-based multiples appropriate for the business and consistently.
correlating to the period and calculation of earnings of the company being valued.
The aim is to identify comparator companies that are similar in terms of risk and growth prospects to the company being valued.
Earnings multiples are adjusted for points of difference between the comparator and the company being valued where appropriate, including the ability of Caledonia to effect change in the company and risks associated with holding an unlisted share.
