34 Annual report 2013 Caledonia Investments plc Directors report 1.
Or date of appointment, if later.
The directors present their report and accounts for the year 2.
Mr Wyatts beneficial interests included 6,485 shares 2012 11,845 shares in which The ended 31 March 2013.
The Chairman and Chief Executives Hon C W Cayzer had a non-beneficial interest and 920,000 shares 2012 914,000 held by report, Investment of Financial reviews, the Directors The Dunchurch Lodge Stud Company, a private family company controlled by Mr Wyatt and certain of his connected persons.
The Hon C W Cayzers non-beneficial interests included remuneration report and the Corporate governance report 12,500 shares 2012 12,500 shares in which Mr Wyatt also had a non-beneficial interest.
There have been no changes in the directors interests shown Principal activities and results above notified up to the date of this report.
Caledonia is an investment trust company.
A review of the activities of the company, together with the results for the year, Details of the directors options to acquire ordinary shares in the is given in the Chairman and Chief Executives report and the company and awards over ordinary shares under the companys Investment and Financial Reviews, which should be regarded as performance share scheme and deferred bonus plans as at part of this report.
There have been no significant changes in the 31 March 2013 are set out in the Directors remuneration report activities of the companys operating subsidiaries during the year, on pages 43 to 50. which principally comprised engineering, chemicals, property, Directors indemnity support services, leisure, financial services and investment.
Each of the directors has the benefit, under the companys The company has been approved by Her Majestys Revenue and articles of association, of an indemnity, to the extent permitted by Customs HMRC as an investment trust company for all the Companies Act 2006, against any liability incurred by him for relevant financial periods up to 31 March 2012.
New tax rules negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to for investment trust companies were introduced for accounting the affairs of the company.
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012, under which Share capital structure continuing approval may be granted by HMRC, subject to The company has two classes of share capital ordinary shares on-going compliance with the required eligibility conditions.
of 5p each and deferred ordinary shares of 5p each.
HMRC have confirmed Caledonias status as an investment trust company from 1 April 2012 and the directors are of the opinion The holders of the ordinary shares are entitled to receive that, since that date, the company has satisfied the eligibility dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one conditions for continued approval under section 1158 of the vote per share at meetings of the company.
All voting rights are Corporation Tax Act 2010 and associated regulations.
however suspended in respect of any of the companys shares that are held in treasury or by group companies.
Dividends An interim dividend of 12.9p per share 2012 11.7p was paid The deferred ordinary shares carry no voting rights and are not on 10 January 2013 and the board has proposed that a final redeemable.
They carry the right to a fixed cumulative preference dividend of 34.3p per share 2012 31.2p be paid on 8 August dividend of 1% per annum exclusive of any associated tax credit 2013.
This will result in total dividends for the year of 47.2p per of the nominal value of such deferred ordinary shares, being share 2012 42.9p.
0.05p per share, or 4,000 in aggregate, for all such shares currently in issue.
The company is required to pay the dividend Annual general meeting to the extent that it has distributable profits.
On a winding-up or The eighty-fourth annual general meeting of the company will be other return of capital, the deferred ordinary shares carry the held at Cayzer House, 30 Buckingham Gate, London SW1E 6NN on right to the payment of the amount paid up on such shares only Wednesday, 24 July 2013 at 11.30 am.
The notice of the annual after holders of the ordinary shares have received the sum of general meeting and details of all of the resolutions to be put to 100,000 in respect of each ordinary share.
All of the deferred shareholders are set out in a separate circular sent to ordinary shares are held by Sterling Industries PLC, a whollyshareholders at the same time as this annual report.
Directors and their interests At 31 March 2013, 56,222,028 ordinary shares and 8,000,000 The directors of the company are shown on pages 32 and 33. deferred ordinary shares were in issue.
The ordinary shares All of the directors served throughout the year, other than therefore represented approximately 88%, and the deferred Mr S J Bridges, who was appointed on 1 January 2013. ordinary shares approximately 12%, of the total issued share Mr J R H Loudon and Mr M E T Davies also served as directors capital by nominal value.
Of the ordinary shares in issue at until their retirements from the board on 25 July 2012 and 31 March 2013, 3,000 shares were held by a group company.
As stated above, all voting rights are suspended on these shares.
The interests of the directors and their families in the ordinary During the year, the company purchased and cancelled share capital of the company as at 31 March 2013 were as follows: 1,136,773 ordinary shares at a total cost of 18.0m.
Since the Beneficial Non-beneficial year end, an additional 121,011 ordinary shares have been 1 1 2013 2012 2013 2012 purchased and cancelled at a total cost of 2.2m.
The companys No No No No issued share capital after these transactions, as at 29 May 2013, R D Kent being the latest practicable date prior to signature of these 2 W P Wyatt 1,015,9201,014,920 19,093 19,093 accounts, was 56,101,017 ordinary shares and 8,000,000 deferred ordinary shares.
S A King 650 650 J M B Cayzer-Colvin 408,498 408,498 7,053 7,053 C M Allen-Jones 15,273 7,500 S J Bridges 2 Hon C W Cayzer 40,892 40,892 18,985 23,985 R Goblet dAlviella C H Gregson 610 610 D G F Thompson 3,000 3,000 3,000 3,000 R B Woods 2,000 Governance Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2013 35 Restrictions on the transfer of shares Appointment and removal of directors and the articles There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of the companys of association shares, although the articles of association contain provisions The appointment and removal of directors is governed by the whereby the directors may refuse to register a transfer of a companys articles of association and prevailing company law.
certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that such The articles of association provide that at every annual general refusal does not prevent dealings in the share from taking place meeting one-third of the directors, or if not a multiple of three, on an open and proper basis.
The directors may also refuse to the number nearest to one-third, shall retire by rotation and register the transfer of a certificated share unless it is a lodged, therefore be required to seek re-election by shareholders.
duly stamped, at the registered office or at such other place as New directors may be appointed by the board, but are subject to the directors may appoint, accompanied by the certificate for the election by shareholders at the next annual general meeting of shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the directors the company following their appointment.
However, to comply may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to with the provisions of The UK Corporate Governance Code, the make the transfer: b in respect of only one class of shares: and company requires that all directors should be subject to annual c in favour of not more than four transferees.
Shareholders may also appoint new The directors may refuse to register a transfer of shares if a directors by ordinary resolution.
The articles of association shareholder has not supplied information to the company in limit the number of directors to not less than two and not more default of a request duly served under section 793 of the than twelve, unless the shareholders resolve otherwise.
Companies Act 2006 and such shares represent at least 0.25% A director may be removed from office if requested to resign of the class of shares concerned.
by not less than three-quarters of the other directors or by an Substantial interests ordinary resolution of the shareholders.
As at 31 March 2013, the following had notified the company Any amendment of the articles of association requires the that they held 3% or more of the voting rights of the company: approval of shareholders by a special resolution.
Number Percentage Authority to allot and purchase shares of voting of voting At the annual general meeting of the company held on 25 July rights rights 2012, shareholders granted to the directors authority to allot The Cayzer Trust Company Ltd 19,608,252 34.9% ordinary shares up to a nominal amount of 954,305, 1 Rebelco S. A.
2,847,344 5.1% representing approximately one-third of the ordinary share capital then in issue, with authority to allot additional ordinary 1.
Rebelco S. A. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sofina S. A. shares up to a nominal value of 954,305, representing There have been no changes in the substantial interests notified approximately a further one-third of the issued ordinary share to the company up to the date of this report.
capital then in issue, by way of pre-emptive rights issues only, in accordance with guidance issued by the Association of British Employee share trust Insurers.
The directors were further authorised to issue ordinary The Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust acquires shares up to a nominal amount of 143,145 other than pro rata to and holds ordinary shares in the company for subsequent existing ordinary shareholders.
These authorities last until transfer to employees exercising options under the companys 25 October 2013 or, if earlier, the conclusion of the next annual executive share option schemes and under the performance general meeting.
share scheme or calling for awards vesting under the companys deferred bonus plans.
The voting rights of shares held by the At the annual general meeting held on 25 July 2012, shareholders trust are exercisable by the independent trustee.
The trustee also granted authority for the company to make market has also waived all dividends payable in respect of the ordinary purchases of up to 5,725,830 of its own ordinary shares, being shares held by the trust, except to the extent of 0.0001% of approximately 10% of the ordinary share capital then in issue, such dividends.
At 31 March 2013, the trust held 342,183 at a price not more than the higher of a 5% greater than the ordinary shares.
average of the middle market quotations for such ordinary shares during the five business days preceding any such purchase: and Restrictions on voting rights b the higher of i the price of the last independent trade in such The directors may direct that a shareholder shall not be entitled ordinary shares: and ii the highest current independent bid to attend and vote either personally or by proxy or exercise relating thereto on the trading venue where the purchase is any other right conferred by membership in relation to general carried out, nor at a price less than 5p, being the nominal value meetings of the company in respect of some or all of the shares of an ordinary share.
This authority lasts until 25 October 2013 held by him, if he or any person with an interest in such shares or, if earlier, the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
has been duly served with a notice under section 793 of the At the same time, shareholders who were not members of the Companies Act 2006 and is in default for the prescribed period Cayzer family concert party Cayzer Concert Party gave their in supplying to the company the information required or, in approval for a waiver by the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers purported compliance with such a notice, has made a statement of the obligation that could arise on the Cayzer Concert Party which is false or inadequate in a material particular.
under Rule 9 of the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers to make Agreements which may restrict the transfer of shares a general offer for Caledonia on the implementation by the or exercise of voting rights company of the above authority to purchase its own shares.
The The company is not aware of any arrangements which may approval was subject to the maximum percentage of voting rights restrict the transfer of any of its shares or the exercise of any in which the Cayzer Concert Party is interested not exceeding voting rights.
49.9% as a result of purchases by the company.
This waiver expires on 25 October 2013 or, if earlier, the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
36 Annual report 2013 Caledonia Investments plc Directors report continued Change of control rights Going concern There are no special control rights in relation to the The companys and groups business activities, together with companys shares.
the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairman and Chief Executives Options granted under the companys executive share option report on pages 3 to 5 and the Investment review on pages 6 to 9. schemes, awards made under its performance share scheme and The financial position of the company and group, its cash flows, awards made under its deferred bonus plans may become liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the exercisable or vest as a result of a change of control, although the Financial review on pages 26 and 27.
In addition, note 21 to the number of shares comprised in those options or awards may be financial statements includes the companys and groups reduced.
The service contracts of certain directors and associate objectives, policies and processes for managing capital, financial directors also contain provisions whereby a liquidated sum is risk management objectives, details of financial instruments and payable by the company in the event of termination within one hedging activities, and exposures to currency risk, interest rate year following a change of control.
Any such liquidated sum risk, price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
would be equivalent to no more than one years total emoluments.
The company and group have cash resources and committed bank facilities available to meet existing and new investment Customers and suppliers commitments.
As a consequence, the directors believe that The groups policy in relation to all of its suppliers is to settle the the company and group are well placed to manage business terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction.
The group will abide by those terms on condition that it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in The directors have a reasonable expectation that the company accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The group and group have adequate resources to continue in operational does not follow any code or statement on payment practice.
existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual and accounts.
report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report Auditor and the group and parent company financial statements in KPMG Audit Plc has advised the board that it has instigated an accordance with applicable law and regulations.
orderly wind down of its business and has therefore requested that the audit of the Caledonia group in future be undertaken Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent by its parent entity KPMG LLP.
Resolutions will therefore be company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that proposed at the annual general meeting to appoint KPMG LLP law they are required to prepare the group financial statements as auditor of the company in place of KPMG Audit Plc and to in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law authorise the directors to agree the auditors remuneration.
and have elected to prepare the parent company financial A description of how the Audit Committee ensures the objectivity statements on the same basis.
and independence of the auditor is set out on page 39 within the Corporate governance report.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair The directors who held office at the date of approval of this view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and Directors report confirm that, so far as each is aware, there is of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is group and parent company financial statements, the directors unaware and each director has taken all the steps that he ought are required to: to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant select suitable accounting policies and then apply them audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is consistently aware of that information.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and By order of the board prudent Graeme Denison Secretary state whether they have been prepared in accordance with 30 May 2013 IFRSs as adopted by the EU Registered office: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Cayzer House, 30 Buckingham Gate, London SW1E 6NN unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the Registered in England no 235481 parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors report, Directors remuneration report and Corporate governance report that comply with that law and those regulations.
