The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 7 Portfolio Managers Report FTSE All-Share Index Total Return from 30 June 2012 Job Curtis to 30 June 2013 rebased to 100 Investment Background 135 During the twelve month period under review, the UK equity 130 market, as measured by the FTSE All-Share Index, produced a 125 total return of 17.9%.
The market was in an upward trend 120 producing a positive return every month for eleven months 115 until June 2013.
The key factor behind the buoyant equity 110 market was the accommodative monetary policy from the 105 Bank of England and other leading central banks.
In the UK, 100 the base rate remained at the historically low level of 0.5% 95 and the total amount of gilts that has been purchased by the 90 Bank of England rose to 375 billion or some 30% of the J J A S O N D J F M A M J FTSE All Share Price Index outstanding stock of gilts.
Source: Datastream Economic growth in the UK picked up in 2013 with the London Brent Crude Oil Index US$ BBL Price Index from housing market being helped by the Governments Funding 30 June 2012 to 30 June 2013 for Lending Scheme.
Overseas, growth continued in the US 130 but the situation in Europe was mixed with weakness and high unemployment in many of the peripheral Eurozone 120 countries.
In emerging markets, the main feature was the slowdown in the growth of the Chinese economy as a 110 result of government inspired credit tightening.
A key development during the year was the expansion of 100 production in the United States of natural gas and oil 90 extracted from shale rock.
As a result, the US was able to reduce significantly its imports of oil and gas.
This helped the 80 oil price to trade within a relatively steady range and provide J J A S O N D J F M A M J Source: Datastream London Brent Crude Oil Index US$ BBL no inflationary shocks.
Price Index Throughout the twelve months, the UK equity dividend yield Base Rates, 10 Year UK Government Bond & FTSE All-Share remained significantly in excess of both the yield of ten year Index Yields from 30 June 2012 to 30 June 2013 gilts and base rates.
In the second quarter of 2013, the yield 4.5 of ten year gilts rose from a low of 1.7% to 2.4% in response 4.0 to improving growth and speculation about a possible end to 3.5 further quantitative easing.
3.0 2.5 Companies in City of Londons portfolio on average increased their dividends by 6.2% excluding special dividends.
Given 2.0 the equity markets combination of attractive dividend yield 1.5 and growth as well as other measures of value, gearing was 1.0 maintained in a range of between 6.8% and 10.5%.
During 0.5 the year, gearing contributed to performance by 2.1%, as 0.0 J J A S O N D J F M A M J shown in the table overleaf.
In addition, stock selection Source: Datastream FTSE All-Share Price Index UK Clearing Banks Base Rate UK Government Bond Series 10 Year contributed 4.1%.
Middle Rate Redemption Yield 8 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Portfolio Managers Report continued Estimated Performance Attribution Analysis Iron Ore US$ Metric Tonne relative to the FTSE All-Share Index total return 170 2013 2012 160 Stock selection 4.05% 6.64% 150 Gearing 2.11% -0.99% 140 Expenses -0.44% -0.45% 130 Share issues 0.23% 0.18% 120 Total 5.95% 5.38% 110 Source: Henderson Global Investors 100 Performance of Higher Yielding Shares compared with 90 Lower Yielding Shares 80 J J A S O N D J F M A M J The chart below compares the return of the FTSE 350 Higher Source: Datastream Iron Ore US$ Metric Tonne Yield Index the higher dividend yielding half of the largest 350 shares in the UK with the FTSE 350 Lower Yield Index The second biggest contributor to outperformance was being the lower dividend yielding half of the largest 350 shares in underweight the oil and gas sector which suffered from the the UK from 30 June 2012 to 30 June 2013 rebased to 100. sideways direction of the oil price and the difficulty that major 140 companies continue to have in replacing their reserves.
The holding in BP was added to on a significant discount to its 130 sum-of-the-parts even after taking into consideration the likely 120 costs of the final Macondo Gulf of Mexico spill claims.
BP appeared to have made an astute deal in swapping its stake in 110 TNK BP for 20% of Rosneft and showed confidence in the 100 future by increasing its dividend by some 20%.
In addition, a small holding was purchased in the convertible of Gulf 90 Keystone, which has interests in Kurdistan.
80 The biggest detractor to performance was being underweight J J A S O N D J F M A M J FTSE 350 Higher Yield FTSE 350 Lower Yield the banks sector.
It would have been difficult to hold either Source: Datastream Lloyds or Royal Bank of Scotland because they did not pay a Over the twelve month period, the FTSE 350 Lower Yield dividend.
The holding in Standard Chartered was switched Index slightly outperformed the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index.
into HSBC which was on a lower valuation and offered a Key factors were the outperformance of the lower yielding greater geographical spread of operations.
Elsewhere in the banks sector and the underperformance of the higher yielding financial sector, an overweight position was maintained in the oil and gas sector.
In addition, the lower yielding mining life assurance sector where most of our holdings performed sector underperformed.
well, especially Standard Life which produced a return of some 60% over the twelve months.
The one disappointment Portfolio Review in this sector was Aviva, which cut its dividend, and this City of London remained significantly under represented in the holding was reduced.
In nonlife insurance, a new holding was mining sector throughout the twelve months and this was the purchased in Direct Line, the market leader in UK personal biggest single sector contributor to outperformance relative to motor and home insurance which has scope to improve its the FTSE All-Share Index.
Mining companies were adversely return on equity through reduction in losses on insurance affected by the poor performance of commodities, such as policies in some areas and cost savings.
A holding was also iron ore, which experienced reduced demand from China.
bought in Munich Re, one of the worlds leading reinsurers, at a share price valuation which did not reflect its strong track In addition, many of the mining companies had committed to record.
The holding in RSA, the commercial insurer, was sold expansionary capital expenditure which had to be written after its disappointing performance and dividend cut.
After share price underperformance, BHP financial services sector, a new holding was purchased in Billiton and Rio Tintos dividend yields had risen to above the Tullett Prebon, the inter-deal broker, which has a good record average for the UK market and so additions were made to of cash generation.
In real estate investment trusts, significant these two holdings which offered long-term value.
The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 9 Portfolio Managers Report continued additions were made to the holding in British Land in view of 20% of the portfolio in overseas listed stocks, but we will only its attractive dividend yield supported by a portfolio of well let invest overseas when there is, in our view, an advantage over prime London and retail property.
A new holding was UK listed companies.
purchased in GCP Student Living which owns student Distribution of the Portfolio at 30 June 2013 accommodation in London where demand is expected to remain strong and supply constrained.
Large companies 76% constituents of the FTSE 100 Index Medium-sized companies Overseas listed companies Sectors sensitive to economic activity performed well as investors became more confident of economic growth in the UK and overseas.
The overweight positions in industrial 8% engineering contributed positively with IMI notable for a share price return of 54%.
In Travel & Leisure a particularly well 16% timed purchase was made in Tui Travel, the leading travel group of the UK and Northern Europe, where the share price doubled.
In addition, William Hill, the betting company with a fast growing on-line operation also had a very strong share 76% price return of 73%.
A further cyclical area to outperform were housebuilders where the holding in Persimmon had a share price total return of over 100%.
In the media sector, additions were made to the holding in Reed Elsevier which is a significant generator of cash now that some 80% of its revenues are derived from on-line and digital Outlook operations.
Also in the media sector, Daily Mail & General was City of Londons largest holdings partly reflect our belief in the a notable outperformer with a share price total return of 88%.
structural nature of the growth in numbers of the middle class in emerging markets and their increasing prosperity.
HSBC, Some defensive sectors underperformed partly due to the British American Tobacco, Diageo and Unilever all have switch into cyclicals but also due to the rise in bond yields.
significant exposure to emerging markets and will benefit Utilities are considered by some as proxies for bonds and react from growing demand for their goods and services.
Elsewhere adversely to falling bond prices.
However, the inflation-linked in the top ten holdings, we believe that after nature of UK utilities regulated revenues is attractive to longunderperformance both Royal Dutch Shell and BP are term investors.
This point was well illustrated by the takeover undervalued and should deliver attractive income and capital approach for Severn Trent which is held in the portfolio.
In pharmaceuticals, GlaxoSmithKline has scope to A new holding was purchased in Greencoat UK Wind which rerate as its earnings growth improves from existing products owns wind farms where revenues are underpinned by and those currently under research and development.
Its 6% dividend yield is expected to Vodafones key asset remains its 45% stake in Verizon grow with inflation.
Overseas, a new investment was made in Wireless, the leading US mobile operator, which is performing Duke Energy, a leading gas and electricity utility in the US.
well and which it agreed to sell in September 2013 at a good price.
The UK utilities, SSE, Centrica and National Grid, offer New holdings were also purchased in Nestl, the multinational an attractive combination of dividend yield and growth.
food and beverages manufacturer with some 40% of its revenues in emerging markets: and Laird, a technology The recovery in the UK economy is gathering momentum and company that provides components that protect electronic there are bright prospects in many, if not all, overseas devices from electromagnetic interference and heat and also economies.
From the point of view of stock selection, the aim enable connections through wireless applications.
Disposals is to buy into stocks where profits and dividend growth are were made of the holdings in Daimler and France Telecom.
not already discounted in share price valuation.
Despite the rise in the stock market over the last year, we believe there are Over the year there was a four percentage point reduction in plenty of stock opportunities to benefit from the improving the weighting in large companies with medium-sized economy.
companies increasing by three percentage points and overseas listed by one percentage point.
There is scope to have up to Job Curtis
