Close Brothers Group plc 10 Annual Report 2013 Corporate Overview Strategy and Key Performance Indicators Our strategy is to focus on developing our core and to maintain the prudent and consistent businesses, where we have a differentiated approach which has enabled us to continue proposition and benefit from our local serving our clients and deliver strong financial expertiseand established market positions.
results in a range of economic conditions.
The priority remains to maximise the opportunity for each of our three divisions: The groups overall strategic objectives are: Banking, Securities and Asset Management, Description Progress We focus on activities that Strong growth in adjusted operating profit and earnings per Drive sustainable generate recurring income and share despite a continued subdued economic environment.
profits adopt a prudent approach to Strong profit growth in Banking benefiting from loan book managing our business, to growth with improving credit quality.
generate sustainable, high Winterflood remained solidly profitable despite difficult market quality earnings.
conditions in the last two years.
Asset Management returned to profitability following completion of the restructuring in the prior financial year.
We develop and maintain strong Continued good loan book growth of 13%, with consistently Build client client relationships that deliver high repeat business.
franchises repeat business and recurring Winterflood maintained its position as the leading marketincome.
maker to UK private client brokers.
Good inflows of private client AuM through all distribution channels.
We maintain a strong funding, Strengthened our capital position while continuing to deliver Remain prudent capital and liquidity position and good loan book growth.
and efficient apply prudent, consistent Maintained a strong funding position with a prudent maturity criteria to our lending to profile, and a good level of high quality liquidity.
maintain the quality of our Maintained underwriting discipline and quality of loan book, balance sheet.
with further reduction in the bad debt ratio.
We aim to generate sustainable Increased return on equity to 16% with improved contribution Deliver shareholder growth in dividends and from all three divisions.
Increased full year dividend per share by 7%.
Strong share price performance driving 47% total shareholder return.
