Close Brothers Group plc 2 Annual Report 2013 Corporate Overview Our Business Close Brothers makes loans, trades securities and provides financial advice and investment management services.
We were established in 1878 and since then have held true to the principles of merchant banking supporting small businesses and individuals through all conditions.
Today we employ over 2,500 people, principally in the UK.
We are listed on the London Stock Exchange and a member of the FTSE 250.
The Banking division provides specialist The Treasury function provides funding Banking finance solutions through our three lending for the groups lending activities through business units: Retail, which provides corporate deposits and retail savings The Banking division provides specialist point of sale finance for cars, motorcycles products, as well as wholesale funding.
lending to small and medium-sized and light commercial vehicles through businesses and individuals across a motor dealers and specialist financing of diverse range of asset classes, and also insurance premiums through brokers: offers deposit taking services.
Commercial, which provides asset finance across a broad range of asset classes including commercial vehicles, plant, machinery and construction equipment as well as invoice factoring and discounting: and Property, which provides short-term financing principally for residential property development and bridging loans.
Winterflood is a leading market-maker to Close Brothers Seydler Bank AG, based Securities the UK private client broker community, in Frankfurt, offers securities and capital serving over 450 brokers and financial markets services focused on German The Securities division provides trading institutions.
We deal in over 15,000 UK and mid-sized companies.
services to retail brokers and institutions international securities and have access to principally through Winterflood, a leading all major exchanges and Multilateral Trading market-maker in the UK.
Facilities as well as our own internal liquidity pool, and offer guaranteed best execution to our clients.
The experience and expertise of our traders along with prudent and conservative risk limits allow us to provide continuous liquidity to our clients and trade profitably in all market conditions.
We employ around 130 advisers and Our investment management follows a Asset Management 50 investment professionals and service global, multi-asset investment approach.
clients either through personal face-toWe offer a broad range of directly invested, The Asset Management division provides face relationships or via telephone or multi-manager and passive funds, advice, investment management and self online support.
separately managed accounts and fully directed services to private and corporate bespoke portfolio management through clients and professional advisers.
Our financial advice helps clients to both our own advisers and third party IFAs.
achieve their specific financial and lifestyle goals by covering areas such as Our self-directed investment portal investment strategy, tax efficiency, pension enables investors to manage their own and retirement planning, protection and investments using our technology intergenerational planning.
