Close Brothers Group plc 28 Annual Report 2013 Governance Board of Directors Strone Macpherson Experience Chairman Strone is also chairman of British Empire Securities and General Trust plc, a Appointment to the board governor of Heriot-Watt University and a Strone was appointed a director in March trustee of the Kings Fund.
Formerly he was 2003, senior independent director in a director of Flemings, chairman of Tribal 2004, deputy chairman in 2006 and Group plc and of JP Morgan Smaller chairman in June 2008.
He is chairman Companies Investment Trust plc, executive of the Nomination and Governance deputy chairman of Misys plc and a Committee.
non-executive director of AXA UK plc and of Kleinwort Benson Private Bank Limited.
Elizabeth Lee Experience Group Head of Legal and Regulatory Elizabeth joined Close Brothers as general Affairs counsel in September 2009 and was also company secretary until January 2013.
Appointment to the board Formerly she was with Lehman Brothers Elizabeth was appointed a director in and General Electrics financial services August 2012 with responsibility for legal businesses.
Jonathan Howell Experience Finance Director Jonathan was previously finance director of London Stock Exchange Group plc Appointment to the board from 1999.
Prior to that he was at Price Jonathan was appointed to the board as Waterhouse where he qualified as a finance director in February 2008 when he chartered accountant.
In May 2013, he joined Close Brothers.
was appointed a non-executive director of The Sage Group plc.
Ray Greenshields Experience Independent Non-executive Director Ray is senior adviser to Standard Life Assurance and chairman of Octopus Appointment to the board VCT3 plc.
Formerly he was chairman of Ray was appointed a director in Bestinvest Group, a director of Standard November 2008 and is chairman Life Assurance Limited, managing director of the Risk Committee.
of Barclays Wealth Management, chief executive officer of Zurich Financial Services UK and International Life, and managing director of AMP Financial Services.
Douglas Paterson Experience Independent Non-executive Director Within the Goldman Sachs Group, Douglas is a director of Goldman Sachs Appointment to the board International Bank, Montague Place Douglas was appointed a director in Custody Services and Rothesay Life July 2004 and is chairman of the Audit Limited, and is a non-executive officer of Committee.
Formerly he was a senior partner in the banking and capital markets division of .
Close Brothers Group plc 29 Annual Report 2013 Preben Prebensen Experience Chief Executive Preben previously spent his career in a number of senior positions at JP Morgan Appointment to the board over 23 years, as well as being chief Preben was appointed to the board as executive of Wellington Underwriting plc chief executive in April 2009 when he from 2004 to 2006, and then chief joined Close Brothers.
investment officer and a member of the group executive committee at Catlin Group Limited.
Stephen Hodges Experience Managing Director and Banking Stephen spent eight years at Hambros Chief Executive before joining the Banking division of Close Brothers in 1985.
Appointment to the board Stephen was appointed a director in August 1995 with responsibility for the Banking division and became managing director in November 2002.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page Experience Independent Non-executive Director Shonaid is a non-executive director of GKN plc, Amlin plc, APR Energy plc, Origo Appointment to the board Partners plc and Greencoat UK Wind Shonaid was appointed a director in PLC.
Formerly she was chief operating August 2012. officer of CDC Group plc, a non-executive director of Havelock Europa plc, held executive positions with Unilever plc and was a financial sector audit partner at KPMG.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown Experience Senior Independent Director Bruce is chairman of Aon UK Limited, senior independent director of Catlin Appointment to the board Group Limited and a non-executive Bruce was appointed a director in June director of Moneysupermarket.
com 2006 and senior independent director GroupPLC.
Formerly he was with in June 2008.
He is chairman of the 3iGroup, Marsh & McLennan and Remuneration Committee.
Geoffrey Howe Experience Independent Non-executive Director Geoffrey is chairman of Nationwide Building Society and of Jardine Lloyd Appointment to the board Thompson Group plc.
Formerly he was Geoffrey was appointed a director in chairman of Railtrack plc, a non-executive January 2011. director of Investec plc and of JP Morgan Overseas Investment Trust plc, a director of Robert Fleming Holdings Limited and a managing partner of Clifford Chance.
