Close Brothers Group plc 8 Annual Report 2013 Corporate Overview Business Model Close Brothers makes loans, trades securities Each of our businesses is a specialist in its field and provides financial advice and investment and they share a number of key attributes.
We typically operate These key attributes allow us to offer a in segments of the financial market where differentiated proposition to our clients and we can differentiate ourselves and where underpin our long track record of financial we do not compete directly with traditional performance through the economic cycle.
Each of our businesses is a specialist in its field: Banking Securities Asset Management Provides specialist lending to small and Provides trading services to retail brokers Provides a full range of financial advice medium-sized businesses and individuals and institutions principally through and investment management services across a diverse range of asset classes Winterflood, a leading market-maker in toprivate and corporate clients and and also offers deposit taking services.
We provide finance to SMEs across Winterflood has a strong market We provide an integrated offering for theUK and to individuals through position as the largest market-maker private clients combining financial intermediaries such as motor dealers toUK retail brokers, with broad market planning advice and professional and insurance brokers.
Our loan book is predominantly We have a strong and unique culture We offer a wide range of funds, secured, has a short maturity and is with around 90 experienced traders and separately managed accounts and diverse across asset classes and a proprietary technology platform.
bespoke portfolios, all supported by an sectors.
Our focus on market-making, low fixed integrated investment process.
Through consistent service through the cost base and strong risk management We distribute our products and services cycle we build long-term relationships have allowed us to remain consistently through multiple channels including our with clients and intermediaries and profitable in a wide range of market own and third party advisers, high net generate high levels of repeat business.
worth portfolio managers and an online Our local, integrated teams are Seydler has a strong position in the portal for self directed clients.
responsible for loans from new business German small and mid-cap market as generation to collection.
designated sponsor to over 200 listed companies.
For more information on our divisions please see pages 18 to 23. g n i t k E n n x e p a d e u B r r t P S e c u Close Brothers Group plc 9 Annual Report 2013 Creating and sustaining value Simple Prudent The groups simple and transparent products, business activities The prudent nature of our business and balance sheet has and balance sheet ensure we maintain the confidence of clients, allowed us to continue meeting our clients financial needs and lenders and depositors, shareholders, and other stakeholders.
deliver solid returns through the economic cycle.
Our business activities are straightforward: we make loans: We have a prudent, diversified funding position and we borrow wetrade securities: and we provide financial advice and longer than we lend.
We have maintained a strong capital position through the cycle, We offer simple products with straightforward, transparent with a core tier 1 capital ratio of 13.3% and leverage ratio of pricing.
Our balance sheet is transparent and we do not invest in We apply prudent, consistent criteria to our lending and our complex securities products or derivatives.
loan portfolio is predominantly secured, short term and diverse.
In our trading businesses, exposures are short term and relate to market-making positions.
Expert Relationship driven Our local knowledge and experience allow us to provide a Strong relationships with clients, intermediaries and other differentiated and valuable service to our clients and is a core stakeholders ensure our service offering meets their needs and part of our risk management.
Our employees are experts in their fields with strong We offer high service levels and build long-term relationships knowledge of their products, markets and clients.
Our experienced local lending teams have delegated decision Our local distribution network allows us to deliver personal making authority, with strong central oversight.
service levels and ensure we understand and meet client Our remuneration structures aim to balance long and shortneeds.
term performance to promote sustainability of profits.
Our financial strength and prudent, consistent model ensure we can continue serving our clients at all stages of the economic cycle.
