Close Brothers Group plc 31 Annual Report 2013 Governance Report of the Directors The directors present their report and the audited financial Directors indemnity statements for the year ended 31 July 2013.
The Company has granted indemnities to all of its directors on terms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
Business Review and Principal Activities Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of Close Brothers Group plc the Company is the parent section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were accordingly in company of a specialist financial services group which makes force during the course of the year, and remain in force at the loans, trades securities and provides financial advice and date of this report.
Company Secretary The principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 July 2013 and their On 1 July 2013, Nicholas Jennings, a chartered accountant, was principal activities are listed in note 26 on page 94 of the Financial appointed company secretary.
He succeeded Emily Upton who Statements.
had succeeded Elizabeth Lee, who stepped down from the role on 23 January 2013, but remains an executive director and group The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business head of legal and regulatory affairs.
Review can be found in the following sections of the Annual Report, each of which are incorporated by reference into, and Share Capital form part of, this Report of the Directors: At 31 July 2013 the Company had 150.6 million ordinary shares in issue with a nominal value of 25p each.
Details of changes in Pages the Companys ordinary share capital during the year are given in note 23 on page 91 of the Financial Statements.
On a show of Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement 4 to 7 hands, each member has the right to one vote at general Business Model 8 and 9 meetings of the Company.
On a poll, each member is entitled to Strategy and Key Performance Indicators 10 and 11 one vote for every share held.
The shares carry no rights to fixed Business Review 12 to 23 income.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all shares are fully paid.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 24 to 27 Board of Directors 28 and 29 During the year the Company issued 25,531 ordinary shares Corporate Governance 33 to 43 of25p each in satisfaction of option exercises.
Full details of Corporate Responsibility 44 to 46 optionsexercised, the weighted average option exercise price Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration 47 to 60 and the weighted average market price at the date of exercise can be found in note 31 on pages 99 and 100 of the Financial Statements.
Results and Dividends The consolidated results for the year are shown on page 62.
The Restrictions on the transfer of shares directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 29.5p 2012: There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of the 27.5p on each ordinary share which, together with the interim Companys shares which are governed by the general provisions dividend of 15.0p 2012: 14.0p, makes an ordinary distribution for of the articles of association and prevailing legislation.
The final dividend, if approved by shareholders at the 2013 Annual General Meeting The Company is unaware of any arrangements between its AGM, will be paid on 26 November 2013 to shareholders on shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of the register at 18 October 2013. shares and or voting rights.
Directors New issues of share capital Biographical details of the current directors of the Company at Under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, the directors may the date of this report appear on pages 28 and 29.
Shonaid allot equity securities only with the express authorisation of Jemmett-Page and Elizabeth Lee were appointed to the board shareholders which may be given in general meeting, but which on 1 August 2012.
Jamie Cayzer-Colvin retired from the board on cannot last more than five years.
Under section 561 of the 22November 2012 after five years service: all other directors Companies Act, the board may also not allot shares for cash held office throughout the year.
otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme without first making an offer to existing shareholders to allot such shares In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all to them on the same or more favourable terms in proportion to directors offer themselves for re-election at the 2013 AGM with their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived the exception of Douglas Paterson who is retiring from the board by a special resolution of the shareholders.
The existing authorities given to the Company at the last AGM to Directors interests allot shares will expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
The directors interests in the share capital of the Company at Details of the resolutions renewing these authorities are included 31July 2013 are set out on page 56. in the Notice of AGM.
Powers and appointment of directors Purchase of Own Shares Details on the powers and appointment of directors are set out Under section 724 of the Companies Act 2006 a company may on page 36. purchase its own shares to be held in treasury Treasury Shares.
Close Brothers Group plc 32 Annual Report 2013 Governance Report of the Directors continued The existing authority given to the Company at the last AGM to Risk Management purchase Treasury Shares of up to 10% of its issued share capital The group has procedures in place to identify, monitor and will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM.
evaluate the significant risks it faces.
The groups risk management objectives and policies are set out on pages 37 The board considers it would be appropriate to renew this to 39 and in note 33 on pages 102 to 111 of the Financial authority and intends to seek shareholder approval to purchase Statements.
Treasury Shares of up to 10% of its issued share capital at the forthcoming AGM in line with current investor sentiment.
Supplier Payment Policy All banking, securities and investment transactions are settled in Details of the resolution renewing the authority are included in the accordance with applicable terms and conditions of business Notice of AGM.
The average payment period for all other approved expenses was 10 days 2012: 19 days.
Awards under the Companys employee share plans are met from a combination of shares purchased in the market and held Charitable and Political Donations either in treasury or in the employee share trust as well as by The group made charitable donations in the year amounting to newly issued shares.
Further details are set out in the Corporate Responsibility report on pages 44 to 46.
No political During the financial year the Company transferred 639,000 donations were made during the year 2012: nil.
shares out of treasury, to satisfy share option awards, for a total consideration of 1.7 million.
It did not purchase any Treasury Resolutions at the AGM Shares.
The maximum number of Treasury Shares held at any The Companys AGM will be held on 21 November 2013. time during the year was 3.5 million with a nominal value of Resolutions to be proposed at the AGM include the renewal of 0.9million.
the directors authority to allot shares, the disapplication of pre-emption rights, authority for the Company to purchase its Employee Share Trust own shares and the re-election of all the directors standing for Bedell Trustees Limited is the trustee of the Close Brothers re-election.
Group Employee Share Trust, an independent trust, which holds shares for the benefit of employees and former employees of the The full text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of AGM sent group.
The trustee has agreed to satisfy a number of awards to the Companys shareholders.
A letter from the chairman, under the employee share plans.
As part of these arrangements which explains the purpose of the resolutions, accompanies the the Company funds the trust, from time to time, to enable the Notice of AGM.
trustee to acquire shares to satisfy these awards, details of which are set out in note 31 on pages 99 and100 of the Financial Auditor Statements.
Resolutions to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditor and to give the directors the authority to determine the auditors During the year, the employee share trust did not make any remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
market purchases of ordinary shares.
Disclosure of Information to Auditor Substantial Shareholdings Each of the persons who are directors at the date of approval of Details on substantial shareholdings in the Company are set out this Annual Report confirms that: on page 43.
So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Significant Contracts They have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as A change of control of the Company, following a takeover bid, a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant may cause a number of agreements to which the Company is audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is party to take effect, alter or terminate.
These include the aware of that information.
Company bonds due 2017, certain insurance policies, bank facility agreements and employee share plans.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The group had committed facilities totalling 1.2 billion at 31 July 2013 which contain clauses which require lender consent for any By order of the board change of control.
Should consent not be given, a change of control would trigger mandatory repayment of 1.1 billion of the Nicholas Jennings facilities.
Company Secretary All of the Companys employee share plans contain provisions 24 September 2013 relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options may vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject where appropriate to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time and pro-rating of awards.
In the context of the Company as a whole, these agreements are not considered to be significant.
