Business model Provider of essential services to engineering manufacturers Heat Treatment and Metal Joining Hot Isostatic Pressing HIP Surface Technology Heat treatments are controlled processes HIP combines very high temperature Surface technologies are used extensively used to alter the microstructure of with inert gas under very high pressure.
to prolong the working life of components materials such as metals and alloys to HIP can be used to eliminate porosity and protect them from environmental impart properties which benefit the in castings and manufacture specialist factors such as corrosion and abrasion.
Metal joining includes specialised processes used to join and assemble parts, sometimes dissimilar in material.
The global leader Customer focus Global network Transferable know-how Bodycote is focused on continual Bodycotes global network of over The global Bodycote network provides 12,13 improvement of our quality of service and 190 market-focused facilities in 26 unique opportunities for the transfer of takes an active role in finding solutions countries brings economies of scale, knowledge and skills, and the transfer of to technical issues and promoting particularly for energy consumption technology.
mutual business development with our and equipment utilisation.
This makes With some of the best metallurgists, customers.
Bodycotes processing inherently engineers and technicians in the industry, more efficient than customers inBodycote seeks to secure service-specific Bodycote is ideally placed to provide 29 house operations and enhances our arrangements with our customers which solutions for customers, whatever their competitive position in the sub-contract provide protection from supply disruption market or wherever in the world they market.
by leveraging Bodycotes unique facility may be.
The capital intensive nature of Bodycotes Bodycotes scale enables continuous but business also provides significant focused investment, both in the latest barriers to entry.
The scope of Bodycotes processes and in the most efficient and network enables us to specialise more environmentally friendly equipment.
effectively than competitors at individual locations and provides comprehensive back-up for our customers.
The supplier of choice Service Quality Expertise Bodycote has become the supplier of Bodycotes quality management systems, Bodycotes extensive facilities and 10 choice for many of the worlds most validated by major engineering OEMs, expertise mean that projects can extend respected and innovative engineering have been developed to meet the beyond customers in-house capabilities, companies by providing highly efficient, requirements of international and national combining identification and provision cost-effective services to the highest accrediting bodies.
All Bodycote facilities of technical solutions which address quality standards through strategic hold industry and customer approvals in-service specification and deliver valueinvestment in people and the latest appropriate to the services they offer and adding material properties.
technology, equipment and quality the markets they serve.
Our own enhancements and systems.
improvement of standard processes has led to Bodycote offering a range of proprietary processes which far outperform their standard counterparts.
Creating value For customers For Bodycote For investors Value-adding services.
Mutually beneficial customer Financially stable and sustainable relationships.
Global supplier which can meet multiple processing needs.
Wide customer base means Bodycote is Good growth drivers.
not reliant on any one customer.
Access to entire Bodycote knowledge Superior return on investment.
Ideally positioned to promote growth Strong margins and cash flow.
in emerging markets and selected Cost and environmental benefits versus technologies.
Superscript numbers indicate references to other pages in the report where further information can be found.
08 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2013 23065.02 11 March 2014 1:46 PM Design Shell
