Core technologies Thermal processing The supplier of choice Bodycote provides thermal processing services which improve Bodycote has become the supplier of choice for the worlds material properties such as strength, durability and corrosion most respected and innovative engineering companies by resistance, enabling manufacturers components to work more providing highly efficient, cost-effective services to the highest efficiently with significantly extended operational lifetimes.
quality standards through strategic investment in people and Bodycotes services consist of a number of core technologies: the latest technology, equipment and quality systems.
heat treatment and metal joining, hot isostatic pressing HIP By outsourcing non-core but vitally important thermal processing and surface technology.
requirements to Bodycote, customers are able to concentrate Heat treatment and metal joining their business resources where they are needed most.
Bodycotes services offer tangible benefits to customers such as reduced Heat treatments are controlled processes used to alter the equipment maintenance, capital expenditure, energy costs, people microstructure of materials, such as metals and alloys, to impart costs and a major reduction in CO emissions.
properties which benefit the working life of a component, for 2 example: increased surface hardness, temperature resistance, Bodycote has a long history of successful outsourcing ductility and strength.
Metal joining includes specialised processes relationships, working with a range of customers from global to such as electron beam welding, vacuum and honeycomb brazing - local manufacturers.
In many cases, these relationships lead to complex operations requiring a fusion of expertise and technology.
component and service-specific arrangements, which provide protection for the customer from supply disruption by leveraging Bodycote offers an extensive range of heat treatment services and Bodycotes unique facility network, and optimising asset utilisation.
specialist metal joining techniques from facilities around the world.
Such arrangements are normally exclusive in character and With unmatched capacity and computerised systems, Bodycote provide the basis for mutual business development, with both facilities can process a wide range of component sizes to exacting companies freed to concentrate capital and other resources on core standards with reliable, repeatable results.
Hot isostatic pressing HIP Making innovations possible HIP combines very high temperature up to 2,000C with inert Bodycotes extensive facilities and expertise mean the identification gas under very high pressure up to 30,000 psi - equivalent to that and provision of technical solutions can expand far beyond found at an ocean depth of 11,000m such as at the bottom of the customers in-house capabilities, helping to realise goals more Mariana Trench in the Pacific Ocean.
HIP can be used to eliminate quickly and more cost-effectively.
porosity in castings and consolidate encapsulated powders to dense materials.
Dissimilar materials can be bonded together to Bodycotes experienced staff are able to innovatively apply existing manufacture unique cost-effective components.
Every week a or enhanced technologies to optimise customers specifications, typical Bodycote HIP plant will process many tons of titanium, tailoring and combining processes to deliver value-adding services.
aluminium, steel and super-alloy castings, removing porosity and This may include the enhancement of specific processes and improving the performance of parts such as turbine blades and equipment for a customer or verification of materials or designs, oilfield components.
With the largest operational capacity in the world and a wide variety of sizes of equipment, Bodycote HIP is able to accommodate large volumes of small product as economically as large individual components.
Surface technology Surface technologies are used extensively to prolong the working life of components and protect them from environmental factors such as corrosion and abrasion.
The range of surface treatments available from Bodycote covers a wide variety of applications, providing manufacturers with solutions to meet requirements such as durability, wear resistance, improved hardness and electrical conductivity.
Bodycote is a provider of specialised plasma spray, high velocity oxy fuel HVOF and thermally formed ceramic treatments and is able to surface engineer components including complex geometric shapes and internal bores that are designed to operate in the most demanding of industrial applications.
10 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2013 23065.02 11 March 2014 1:46 PM Design Shell
