Governance Committee reports What did the Committee say it would do in 2013?
Audit Committee report Provide oversight of the actuarial reporting process: a review of the Groups control environment and processes Provide oversight of the Group Audit programme of activity to ensure that Group Audit continues to meet the expectations of the Board and satisfy emerging regulatory and industry standards for internal audit Ensure the provision of training and development within the Group, particularly in relation to new legislation and regulation What have we achieved?
Reviewed the interim report for the half year ended 30 June 2013 issued in August and the interim management statements issued in May and November Andrew Palmer, Chair of the Audit Committee Reviewed the draft preliminary statement and draft Annual Role and focus Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013, The Committee is responsible for the oversight and challenge with particular focus on accounting policies and critical of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of financial control, estimates and judgements to confirm that it is fair, balanced financial and regulatory reporting and other internal controls.
and understandable The Committee reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of Reviewed a number of specific items including: the Groups internal financial controls and internal control an update on flood insurance: systems, as well as the procedures for monitoring their effectiveness.
It monitors the work of internal and external the planned migration of the Groups IT systems from auditors and actuaries.
RBS Group: a consultation with the Chartered Institute of Internal The Audit Committees terms of reference are available on our Auditors on the role of Internal Audit functions: website at: www.
reserving policy: Membership and attendance updates on the tender process relating to the appointment Scheduled Ad hoc of external actuaries: and 1 1 meetings meetings the financial reporting control framework in a non-US Committee Chair Sarbanes Oxley SOX environment following separation from RBS Group.
Andrew Palmer 6 of 6 1 of 1 Agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken Non-Executive Directors by the external auditor and Group Audit Jane Hanson 6 of 6 1 of 1 Considered the adequacy of the resources available to 2 Glyn Jones 4 of 6 1 of 1 Group Audit and the results of the effectiveness review of the function and concluded that they were adequate Clare Thompson 6 of 6 1 of 1 Monitored Group Audits independent and objective reports regarding the appropriateness, effectiveness and Other attendees include sustainability of the Groups system of internal controls Chief Executive Officer Reviewed regular reports of the work conducted by the Chief Financial Officer external auditors and Group Audit and noted mitigating Chief Risk Officer actions proposed by management where required Group Financial Controller Monitored key control issues reported by Group Audit on General Counsel and Company Secretary a quarterly basis with the aim of ensuring the Groups risk exposure is properly mitigated Group Head of Audit Considered plans and key assumptions relating to the Groups External Auditor actuarial reserves, received regular updates regarding movements and emerging trends, and recommended the Minimum number of meetings per annum level of reserves to the Board each quarter The Committee meets at least four times a year at appropriate times in the financial and regulatory reporting and audit cycle and otherwise as required.
Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number of meetings possible or applicable for the Director to attend.
Glyn Jones was unable to attend two scheduled Audit Committee meeting due to other commitments.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 65 Committee reports continued Monitored the Groups compliance with statutory and Financial reporting control framework regulatory requirements and made recommendations RBS Groups shareholding in the Company fell to below 50% within the scope of the Committees terms of reference in March 2013.
Prior to this, the Group had been operating a formal financial control framework including identification, Reviewed the appropriateness of all accounting policies cataloguing and testing of controls in line with requirements including revenue recognition and those in relation to set out by SOX legislation.
Following divestment, this no significant areas pertinent to changes taking place in the longer applied to the Group.
However, as good governance business, including provisions for restructuring costs practice, the Group has continued to adopt the embedded Assessed the external auditors performance features of the existing SOX framework, albeit tailored to As part of the annual review, the Committee recommended respond to the changes in the business control environment.
to the Board revisions to its terms of reference In formulating the approach for the new framework, the Considered the ability of the Company and its principal principles from the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations subsidiaries to operate on a going concern basis of the Treadway Commission framework have been followed.
Reviewed the draft Audit Committee report for inclusion The approach aligns with our existing operational risk in the Annual Report & Accounts for the year ending framework with assurance work undertaken across the business 31 December 2013 focusing on our key financial reporting controls.
Reports are presented to the Committee every six months highlighting any What will we be focusing on in 2014?
deficiencies and mitigating action required.
In addition to its regular monitoring, challenge and oversight Internal control responsibilities, the focus for the Committee in 2014 is Group Audit carries out independent internal audit work.
expected to include the following: The Group Head of Audit reports to the Chair of the Considering the impact of ongoing regulatory changes Audit Committee and has functional reporting to the on the assumptions and judgements used in our reserves Chief Financial Officer.
and in our reporting Providing oversight to ensure that the control environment Group Audit provides the Committee with independent for financial reporting is not impacted by the migration and objective reports on the appropriateness, effectiveness of our underlying systems and sustainability of the Groups risk management, systems of internal control, governance frameworks and processes.
Ensuring Group Audit adopts industry best practice in line The Groups statement of internal controls can be found with recently published guidance on page 64.
Overseeing the enhancement in the process for setting reserve margins The key control issues that Group Audit reports to management and to the Committee are monitored on a quarterly basis with Considering the potential rotation of the auditor the aim of ensuring the related risk exposures have been properly mitigated.
Frequency of meetings During 2013, the Committee met on seven occasions, Reserves six of which were scheduled meetings, and one was an ad The Committee approves annual plans for reviews of reserves, hoc meeting.
The members attendance record is set out on informed by internal and external emerging issues.
It also the previous page.
considers an appropriate balance between internal and external actuarial review.
Consultants appointed to provide Committee expertise validation of actuarial reviews are subject to approval by Committee members bring considerable financial and the Committee.
During the year, an open tender process was accounting experience to the Committees work.
All members conducted and the Committee approved the appointment have past employment experience in either finance or of a professional services company to carry out the external accounting roles, or comparable experience in corporate actuarial review for the year ended 31 December 2013. activities, and are members of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
At least half-yearly, the Committee reviews and challenges the key assumptions and judgements, the emerging trends, The Board is satisfied that each of these members has recent movements and analysis of uncertainties underlying the and relevant financial experience, as recommended by assessment of the actuarial best estimate reviews.
Reports to the Board The Chair of the Committee submits a report to the subsequent scheduled meeting of the Board on the Committees work.
66 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance Simultaneously with this review, the Committee also considers the Chair of the Committee approves non-audit services and challenges the appropriateness of proposals made by costing less than 100,000, while the Committee approves the Chief Financial Officer for management best estimate services costing 100,000 or more: and reserves for booking, informed both by actuarial analysis, the Committee receives an annual report on all services wider commercial and risk management insights and principles provided during the year and their related costs.
of consistency from period to period.
The Committee will review annually and where appropriate Following their review of actuarial best estimate and recommend updates to the Minimum Standard to ensure management best estimate reserves, the Committee proposes alignment with the latest standards and practice in establishing, the respective reserves to the Board.
maintaining and monitoring the independence and objectivity of auditors.
Financial reporting The review process undertaken by the Committee prior to The key issues and areas of focus during 2013 the publication of the Groups financial statements focuses The external auditor provided updates to the Committee on the on the Groups critical accounting policies and practices, following key issues during 2013: and on any changes and decisions that require a major element of judgement, unusual transactions, clarity of reserve valuation: disclosures and significant audit adjustments.
In addition, investment valuation: the Committee reviews the going concern assumption, compliance with accounting standards and obligations reinsurance asset valuation: under applicable laws, regulations and governance codes revenue recognition: and makes appropriate recommendations to the Board.
transformation projects: and In addition to the focus on matters relating to reserving, issues planned migration of the Groups IT systems to the considered by the Committee in 2013 and the judgements that Capgemini platform.
were made included: Fees payable to the auditor the overall presentation of the financial statements to ensure fairness and balance and, in particular, the presentation of During the year ended 31 December 2013, Deloitte LLPs adjusted performance, including the appropriateness of fees for audit services and other services supplied were restructuring and other one-off costs: 2.2 million.
reports on the assumptions underlying the provisions made In accordance with the Groups Audit Non-Audit Services for redundancy and onerous leases: Minimum Standard, all services were approved prior to work commencing and each of the non-audit services was confirmed the assessments made for goodwill impairment and to be permissible for the external auditor to undertake.
The confirmed the carrying value remained supportable: Committee approved fees of 0.1 million payable to Deloitte the judgements made in respect of tax, in particular the LLP for services not related to audit work, which accounted for carrying value of any deferred tax assets and liabilities 4.5% of total fees paid to the external auditor in the year.
recognised: and the carrying value of the investments held by the Group A breakdown of fees paid to the auditor for the year ended and the need for any impairment provisions.
31 December 2013 is set out below: Total fees for audit and other services 2.2 million External audit The Committee plays a key role in managing the relationship Audit fees 2.1 million 95.5% with the Groups external auditor, Deloitte LLP.
The external Non-audit fees 0.1 million 4.5% auditor provides some non-audit services, primarily in the provision of audit-related assurance services.
The Groups The non-audit fees of 0.1 million related to audit-related Audit Non-Audit Services Minimum Standard ensures that assurance services.
the independence and objectivity of the external auditor are not impaired.
The Committee and Board remain satisfied that the provision of non-audit services by Deloitte LLP has not compromised Both audit and non-audit services provided by the Groups Deloittes independence as the Companys external auditor.
external auditor are closely monitored: Auditor performance and independence the Committee formally approves a list of audit and non-audit services in advance of each financial year in line with the The performance of the external auditor is assessed every Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standard 5: year, including its independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
The effectiveness all permitted services must be approved before any work review includes regular questioning of the external auditor commences and applications for approval must be submitted during Committee meetings.
on a prescribed form, signed by the relevant member of the Executive Committee: Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 67 Committee reports continued The Committee reviews the external audit plan and receives Board Risk Committee report reports from Deloitte LLP on its own policies and procedures regarding independence and quality control, including an annual confirmation of independence in line with industry standards.
The Committee concluded that the performance of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process were satisfactory.
Re-appointment of auditor The Committee intends to undertake a formal review on a regular basis to assess whether the external audit should be re-tendered.
Deloitte LLP, the external auditor, has been the Groups auditor since 2000.
Prior to listing in 2012, the Group was audited as a division of RBS Group.
The Committee is recommending to the Board that Deloitte Jane Hanson, Chair of the Board Risk Committee LLP be re-appointed as auditor of the Company.
A resolution for the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Role and focus Company will be put to a shareholder vote at the AGM The Board Risk Committee provides oversight and advice on 15 May 2014. to the Board in relation to current and potential future risk The new UK Corporate Governance Code requires FTSE exposures of the Group and future risk strategy.
It recommends 350 companies to put the audit services contract out to risk appetite and tolerance to the Board and promotes a risk tender at least once every 10 years, to enable the Committee awareness culture within the Group.
to compare the quality and effectiveness of the services The Board Risk Committees terms of reference are available provided by the incumbent auditor with those of other audit on our website at: www.
Transitional arrangements provided by the Financial Reporting Council FRC indicate the Company should Membership and attendance tender the audit, at the latest, at the time of the next audit partner rotation.
The latter is currently scheduled following Scheduled Ad hoc 1 1,2 meetings meetings the 2015 year end.
Committee Chair We may, however, put the audit out to tender at any time before this date.
There are no contractual obligations Jane Hanson 6 of 6 3 of 3 restricting our choice of external auditor and no auditor Non-Executive Directors liability agreement has been entered into.
Equally, any Andrew Palmer 6 of 6 3 of 3 recommendation to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company is dependent on continued satisfactory performance.
Clare Thompson 6 of 6 3 of 3 Evaluation of the Committee Priscilla Vacassin 6 of 6 3 of 3 The annual evaluation of the Committees effectiveness was initiated by the Chairman of the Board and undertaken Other attendees include by Edis-Bates Associates, as external facilitators.
The evaluation Chief Executive Officer concluded that the Committee continued to operate effectively, Chief Financial Officer and the Committee will consider the results and recommended actions resulting from the evaluation in 2014.
Further details Chief Risk Officer of the effectiveness review can be found on page 63.
General Counsel and Company Secretary This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on Group Head of Audit 25 February 2014.
Minimum number of meetings per annum The Committee meets at least four times a year at appropriate times in the risk and regulatory reporting cycle.
Andrew Palmer, Chair of the Audit Committee Notes: 1.
The Committee met jointly with the Remuneration Committee on 30 September 2013.
68 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance What did the Committee say it would do in 2013?
Reviewed, in conjunction with the Remuneration Committee, the incentive arrangements in the customer facing areas Foster a culture which is aligned to appropriate outcomes for the customer As part of the annual review, the Committee recommended to the Board revisions to its terms of reference Deliver a mature and embedded conduct risk framework Reviewed the draft risk management report and the Board Consider and recommend for approval by the Board: Risk Committee report for inclusion in the Annual Report the Groups risk appetite, framework and tolerance levels & Accounts for the year ending 31 December 2013 for current and future strategy: and the design and implementation of risk management and What will we be focusing on in 2014?
measurement strategies across the Group.
In addition to its regular monitoring, challenge and oversight responsibilities, the focus for the Committee in 2014 is What have we achieved?
expected to include the following: Reviewed and challenged the following, receiving reports Guiding the continued development of an embedded risk as standing agenda items: and control culture which reinforces adaptability, flexibility significant risks and any other specific matters regarding and improving efficiency, while overseeing alignment the Groups risks, received from the Chief Risk Officer of culture to appropriate customer outcomes and Risk and Compliance functions: Challenging our level of preparedness for external the High Level Controls and System of changes and driving business improvement of processes Governance document: and frameworks legal and regulatory issues: and Overseeing preparations for changes in market, legal whistle-blowing issues, statistics and trends.
and regulatory environments, including emerging risks, the Groups approach to periodic payment orders and Reviewed the comprehensive Individual Capital Adequacy preparations for Solvency II Standards Plus ICAS submission including the draft in development Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA Continuing the pro-active governance, oversight and challenge of risk and control across the Group Reviewed, challenged and recommended to the Board the high-level risk appetite and the supporting statements In readiness for greater capability in a digital world, overseeing and monitoring processes currently being Considered the results of the stress tests and scenario embedded in the business analysis completed in 2013 and the material risk assessment undertaken by the Risk function Reviewing and overseeing operational risk management in the context of significant change programmes Received the annual report from the Money Laundering Reporting Officer Overseeing a review of the maturity and effectiveness of the Risk Management Committee Reviewed and challenged the new Conduct Risk Policy, agreed our Conduct Risk appetite statements and monitored Evaluation of the Committee Key Risk Indicators KRIs The annual evaluation of the Committees effectiveness Reviewed and recommended the new Compliance, was initiated by the Chairman of the Board and undertaken Whistle-blowing and Customer Conduct policies by Edis-Bates Associates, as external facilitators.
The evaluation to the Board for approval concluded that the Committee continued to operate effectively, Approved the Risk functions target operating model, and the Committee will consider the results and recommended adjusted to align with the business transformation plan, actions resulting from the evaluation in 2014.
Further details and to differentiate clearly between the roles and of the effectiveness review can be found on page 63. responsibilities across the three lines of defence model This report was reviewed and approved by the Board Reviewed the Direct Line Group tax strategy for consistency on 25 February 2014. with risk appetite Reviewed the governance framework of the Group and in particular the High Level Controls and System of Governance document, which was recommended to the Board and approved Jane Hanson, Chair of the Board Risk Committee Reviewed and approved the Enterprise-wide Risk Management ERM strategy and framework document Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 69 Committee reports continued What have we achieved?
Corporate Social Responsibility Scrutinised and challenged standing reports relating Committee report to key focus areas of the Committee as follows: priorities and targets on key CSR matters: health and safety, including consideration of updates on the 2013 plan, health & safety dashboards detailing performance against plan and compliance with policies and procedures: workplace policies and engagement: and community engagement activities.
Monitored progress by Human Resources and the employee network, Diversity Network Alliance, in achieving the key objectives of raising diversity awareness through training, and collecting management information Performed the annual review of relevant Direct Line Group policies and procedures and oversaw compliance with them Jane Hanson, Chair of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Analysed and set the Health & Safety plan for 2014 Determined the Groups position on emerging CSR issues Role and focus The remit of the Committee is to ensure that the Group conducts Agreed the Groups approach to responsible investment its business in a responsible manner, including in relation to and identified activities to support our CSR strategy health and safety, environmental, corporate social responsibility, Discussed and agreed the 2014 CSR strategy and social and ethical matters.
The Committee also oversees the sustainability targets allocation of charitable donations and community involvement.
As part of the annual review, the Committee recommended to the Board revisions to its terms of reference Membership and attendance Reviewed the draft Corporate Social Responsibility report Scheduled Ad hoc 1 1 meetings meetings and the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee report for inclusion in the Annual Report & Accounts for the year Committee Chair ending 31 December 2013 Jane Hanson 4 of 4 1 of 1 What will we be focusing on in 2014?
Committee members In addition to its regular monitoring, challenge and oversight responsibilities, the focus for the Committee in 2014 is Paul Geddes 4 of 4 1 of 1 expected to include the following: Clare Thompson 4 of 4 1 of 1 Sustaining and measuring the Groups CSR progress and Tom Woolgrove 4 of 4 1 of 1 impact, continuing to embed CSR into our business strategy and operations Other attendees include Engaging with external stakeholders, to shape our future Human Resources Director CSR strategy and identifying emerging issues General Counsel and Company Secretary Reviewing and recommending the 2015 CSR strategy, Director of Communications plan and targets Head of Public Affairs and Sustainability Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups CSR communications Encouraging employee engagement in CSR and Minimum number of meetings per annum community programmes The Committee meets at least four times a year.
Evaluation of the Committee What did the Committee say it would do in 2013?
The annual evaluation of the Committees effectiveness was Review the Groups overall Corporate Social Responsibility initiated by the Chairman of the Board and undertaken by CSR strategy, measures, policies and compliance Edis-Bates Associates, as external facilitators.
The evaluation Review performance and priorities against both internal concluded that the Committee continued to operate effectively, targets and relevant external benchmarking indices and the Committee will consider the results and recommended Review the extent, effectiveness and transparency actions resulting from the evaluation in 2014.
Further details of external reporting of the effectiveness review can be found on page 63.
Consider and recommend the Groups positioning on relevant This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on emerging CSR issues 25 February 2014.
Oversee the Groups compliance with its health and safety statutory and regulatory requirements and overseeing the embedding of a health and safety culture across the Group Note: Jane Hanson, Chair of the Corporate Social 1.
Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the Responsibility Committee number of meetings possible or applicable for the Director to attend.
70 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance Review the merits of derivative and asset strategies proposed Investment Committee report to mitigate risks associated with long-term liabilities Monitor the selection and implementation process for any new asset classes approved for the investment portfolio What have we achieved?
Reviewed a major asset and liability management study on UK Insurance Limited, particularly in the context of a low interest rate environment.
The study used the internal capital model to examine the capital consequences of asset allocations proposed Recommended to the Board the inclusion of a new asset class in the U K Insurance Limited investment portfolio and oversaw the subsequent implementation of the asset class into the portfolio Glyn Jones, Chair of the Investment Committee Determined an appropriate liquidity policy for the investment Role and focus portfolio and how liquidity needs could continue to be met The role of the Investment Committee is to oversee the in a stressed scenario management and performance of the investment strategy Agreed changes to the risk management framework of the Group.
underpinning investment activity, in line with risk appetite set by the Board on the recommendation of the Board Membership and attendance Risk Committee Scheduled Ad hoc 1 1 meetings meetings Considered reports from the Director of Investment Management and Treasury covering, inter alia key market Committee Chairs developments, financial performance from investment activity, 2 Andrew Palmer 3 of 3 1 of 1 performance of external fund managers and the custodian, and compliance with risk and exposure limits set 3,5 Glyn Jones 3 of 3 Agreed oversight and support arrangements in respect Committee members of the international businesses regarding treasury and investment activities Jane Hanson 3 of 3 1 of 1 4,5 Reviewed the findings and recommendations from the Clare Thompson 3 of 3 internal audit of the Investment and Treasury function and monitored resolution of the actions arising Other attendees include Considered how investment activities should support Chief Executive Officer the Companys corporate social responsibility agenda Chief Financial Officer Examined the investment returns forecast for the Chief Risk Officer 2014-2017 period Director of Investment Management and Treasury As part of the annual review, the Committee recommended General Counsel and Company Secretary to the Board revisions to its terms of reference Reviewed members training requirements for 2014 Minimum number of meetings per annum The Committee meets at least three times a year.
Reviewed the draft Investment Committee report for inclusion in the Companys Annual Report & Accounts for the year What did the Committee say it would do in 2013?
ended 31 December 2013 Consider changes to the existing asset benchmark composition for the Groups investment portfolio with the aim of improving the expected risk-adjusted returns, taking into account the Groups investment risk appetite set by the Board Use the internal capital model to support asset strategy decisions by understanding and monitoring the capital and solvency implications Notes: Review the liquidity requirements of the business and 1.
consider the adequacy of liquidity available to meet such 2.
Andrew Palmer stepped down as Chair of the Committee on needs from the investment portfolio 28 March 2013 and remained a member of the Committee.
Glyn Jones was appointed a member and Chair of the Committee on 28 March 2013.
Clare Thompson was appointed a member of the Committee on 28 March 2013.
Glyn Jones and Clare Thompson attended a meeting of the Committee on 14 February 2013 before being appointed members of the Committee.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 71 Committee reports continued What will we be focusing on in 2014?
Nomination Committee report In addition to its regular monitoring, challenge and oversight responsibilities, the focus for the Committee in 2014 is expected to include the following: Finalising the appropriate combination of assets and the use of derivatives, if deemed appropriate, to back the Groups long-term liabilities PPOs with the benefit of the November 2013 European agreement on Omnibus II Solvency II Within the Boards risk appetite, seeking to reduce further the excess liquidity above stressed requirements within the U K Insurance Limited portfolio and reinvesting this in assets offering an illiquidity premium and or better risk adjusted returns Mike Biggs, Chair of the Nomination Committee Monitoring the pace of economic recovery and the Role and focus tapering of quantitative easing and the resulting impact on interest rates, credit spreads and asset values and then The Nomination Committee is responsible for considering reviewing the implications for the positioning of the Groups and making recommendations to the Board regarding the investment portfolio appointment and re-appointment of Directors.
It also makes recommendations regarding the membership and chairmanship Receiving an asset and liability management study covering of the Board Committees.
the investment portfolios of the International division The Nomination Committees terms of reference are available Evaluation of the Committee on our website at: www.
The annual evaluation of the Committees effectiveness Membership and attendance was initiated by the Chairman of the Board and undertaken by Edis-Bates Associates, as external facilitators.
The evaluation Scheduled Ad hoc 1 meeting meeting concluded that the Committee continued to operate effectively and the Committee will consider the results and recommended Committee Chair actions resulting from the evaluation in 2014.
Further details Mike Biggs 1 of 1 1 of 1 of the effectiveness review can be found on page 63.
Non-Executive Directors This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 25 February 2014.
Glyn Jones 1 of 1 1 of 1 Andrew Palmer 1 of 1 1 of 1 Other attendees include Chief Executive Officer Glyn Jones, Chair of the Investment Committee General Counsel and Company Secretary Minimum number of meetings per annum As required, but not less than once a year.
Frequency of meetings The Committee meets at least once a year to consider the Board composition and membership of the principal Committees and to consider the suitability of all Directors standing for re-election at the AGM.
The Committee will also meet as required to consider candidates for appointment to the Board.
Changes to the Board Mark Catton resigned from the Board on 25 April 2013 when RBS Group reduced its shareholding in Direct Line Group below 50%, whereupon RBS Groups entitlement to nominate Directors under the Relationship Agreement with the Company reduced from two to one.
Mr Catton rejoined the Board on 1 October 2013 when Bruce Van Saun resigned in order take up an appointment with RBS Group in America.
As RBS Group are entitled to nominate a Director to the Board under the terms of their Relationship Agreement with the Company, it was not appropriate to engage an external search agency nor to use Note: 1.
72 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance open advertising to fill the vacancy on Mr Van Sauns Remuneration Committee report resignation.
Mr Catton will step down as a Director when RBS Groups holding in the Company falls below 20%.
Board Appointment and Reappointment Process No new Directors were appointed during 2013.
The Committee does, however, have a pre-established Board appointment process.
It includes the use of independent external search consultants, an evaluation of the balance of skills, diversity, independence and knowledge on the Board and establishment of target criteria for the appointment of new Directors.
Details of the latter are shown on page 61 of this Report.
In advance of the proposed re-election of Directors at the 2013 AGM, the Committee reviewed the independent status of Non-Executive Directors.
It was concluded that Ms Hanson, Mr Jones, Mr Palmer, Ms Thompson and Ms Vacassin were Priscilla Vacassin, Chair of the Remuneration Committee independent within the meaning of the UK Corporate Governance Role and focus Code.
Mr Biggs was independent on his appointment as The Committee is responsible for setting and oversight of the Chairman.
Mr Van Saun and Mr Catton, being RBS Group Groups remuneration policy.
It also makes recommendations nominated Directors, did not meet the independence criteria to the Board regarding the remuneration arrangements of the of the Code though both had demonstrated a sufficient level of Board challenge to be considered independent in character Companys Executive Directors and senior executives.
Accordingly, it was recommended to the The Remuneration Committees terms of reference are available Board and Shareholders that all serving Directors be reon our website at: www.
Diversity Membership and attendance The Group seeks to hire the best candidates for all positions at Scheduled Ad hoc all levels throughout the business, irrespective of gender, including 1 1,2 meetings meetings candidates at Board level.
With three female independent Non-Executive Directors, 33% of the current Board is female, Committee Chair which is a greater percentage than that recommended by the Priscilla Vacassin 7 of 7 3 of 3 Davies Report on Boardroom Diversity.
However, both the Nomination Committee and Board recognise the benefits of Non-Executive Directors gender diversity and will ensure that this is taken into account 3 Mike Biggs 6 of 7 3 of 3 when considering any particular appointment.
Accordingly, this is embedded in the Nomination Committees terms of reference.
Andrew Palmer 7 of 7 3 of 3 Work on encouraging the promotion of women to senior and executive management roles within the business will continue.
Clare Thompson 7 of 7 3 of 3 Please refer to page 63 for the Groups approach to diversity, Other attendees include including gender diversity.
Chief Executive Officer Terms of reference Human Resources Director As part of the annual review, the Committee recommended General Counsel and Company Secretary to the Board revisions to its terms of reference.
Director of Performance and Reward Evaluation of the Committee The annual evaluation of the Committees effectiveness was FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP independent adviser initiated by me as Chairman, and undertaken by Edis-Bates The Committee works closely with the Chairs of the Board Risk Associates as external facilitators.
The evaluation concluded that Committee and the Audit Committee.
the Committee has not since the IPO had to deal with the usual workload of such a committee, given the short period since the Meeting frequency IPO.
In addition, the only changes to the Board in 2013 were The Committee meets at least four times a year.
changes to the RBS Group-nominated Directors, which RBS Group was entitled to do pursuant to the Relationship Agreement between RBS Group and the Company.
One of the actions arising from the Nomination Committee performance evaluation was the need for greater focus on succession planning, which has been incorporated in the Committees forward agenda for 2014.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 25 February 2014.
The Committee met jointly with the Board Risk Committee on 30 September 2013.
Mike Biggs was unable to attend a scheduled meeting of the Committee Michael N Biggs, Chair of the Nomination Committee due to another commitment.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 73 Committee reports continued What did the Committee say it would do in 2013?
Reviewed the proposed approach to salary benchmarking for Executive Directors, the Executive Committee and other Consider the 2013 remuneration and incentive plan strategic leaders arrangements within the context of the pay review budget for 2013 and the outcomes from the annual performance review Considered the effectiveness of the performance of FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP during 2013 and agreed Approve the grants of awards under the Groups to re-appoint them as independent external advisers to share schemes the Committee for 2014 Oversee the roll-out of the all-employee Buy-As-You-Earn As part of the annual review, the Committee recommended BAYE scheme to the Board revisions to its terms of reference Determine the share ownership guidelines for members Reviewed the draft Remuneration Committee report and of the Executive Committee the Directors remuneration report for inclusion in the Review the possible outcomes of the 2013 Annual Incentive Companys Annual Report & Accounts for the year Plan AIP and the structure of the 2014 AIP in light of the ending 31 December 2013 experience in 2013 What will we be focusing on in 2014?
In addition to its regular monitoring, challenge and oversight After consultation with the Chief Risk Officer and the responsibilities, the focus for the Committee in 2014 is Board Risk Committee, approved the outcomes under the expected to include the following: 2012 AIP and made awards under the Companys deferred share incentive arrangements Greater alignment between reward and shareholder value creation Reviewed the overall remuneration policy to ensure it continues to support the Companys strategic objectives Differentiation between average and great performance going forward Ensuring that short-term results are not driven at the expense Determined the share ownership guidelines and reviewed of maximising shareholder value compliance against these by the Executive Directors and Ensuring that reward is predicated upon satisfied and well members of the Executive Committee served customers Developed extensive payment gateways for the AIP which Ensuring that there is an appropriate level of oversight and requires the Committee to be satisfied that it is appropriate balancing risk and reward in all of our schemes to permit payment of a bonus or at a given level Reviewed and approved the overall 2013 salary budget Evaluation of the Committee for Direct Line Group, including proposed salaries for The annual evaluation of the Committees effectiveness was Executive Directors, members of the Executive Committee commissioned by the Chairman of the Board and undertaken and other strategic leaders by Edis-Bates Associates, as external facilitators.
The evaluation Agreed the high level principles and key terms of the concluded that the Committee continued to operate effectively, incentive plan arrangements for 2013 and rolled out and the Committee will consider the results and recommended the BAYE scheme in the United Kingdom and Italy actions resulting from the evaluation in 2014.
Further details of the effectiveness review can be found on page 63.
Approved the Direct Line Groups termination policy Reviewed the approach to malus and clawback This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 25 February 2014.
Reviewed the implications for the 2013 Directors remuneration report of changes in regulations introduced by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills Obtained advice from the Board Risk Committee on risk weightings and implemented adjustments to be applied Priscilla Vacassin, Chair of the Remuneration Committee to performance objectives and remuneration arrangements Determined the implications for remuneration arising from the evolution of the Groups strategy through liaison with the Audit Committee and Finance function Oversaw the review of incentive arrangements in the customer facing areas of the business following the publication of FCA guidance in conjunction with the Board Risk Committee 74 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance Relations with shareholders Presentations of our financial results We consider that actively engaging with our shareholders is Investor road shows in the UK, Europe, the United States fundamental to our business.
We believe that ensuring an active and Canada dialogue and ongoing engagement is vital to keeping in touch Attending key conferences to enable communication with with opinions, providing us with the opportunity to address any a large number of existing and target investors in a time questions and concerns in a proactive way.
efficient manner The Executive Directors frequently meet with investors.
The Briefings with investors and stockbrokers to convey key Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive messages and performance and strategy Directors are available to attend meetings with major shareholders at the shareholders request so that they have the opportunity to What arrangements are we making for the discuss governance and strategy with shareholders and ensure Annual General Meeting?
that any particular shareholder views are communicated to the The Notice of the AGM will be sent to shareholders well Board.
The Board is also kept aware of shareholder views by in advance of the meeting.
We will propose all items requiring the Companys corporate brokers who regularly attend Board shareholder approval under separate resolutions.
We will provide proxy appointment forms for each resolution, The Board is also given the opportunity to understand the views of with the option for shareholders to vote for, or against, or major shareholders through analysts reports and broker briefings.
We have instructed our registrars, Computershare Investor Services plc, to ensure that all valid What did we do in 2013?
proxy appointments are properly recorded and counted.
Roadshows We will announce the result of the poll as soon as practical 4 trips to the US targeting investors in New York, Boston, after the meeting and also post the result on our website after San Francisco and Chicago that date.
The proxy form and announcement of the results 1 trip to Canada explicitly state that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will therefore not be counted in the calculation when deciding 1 trip to Copenhagen whether the resolution has been passed.
1 trip to Dublin We anticipate that all Directors will attend the AGM and 3 roadshows in London that the Chairs of the Audit, Board Risk, Corporate Social 2 visits to Edinburgh Responsibility, Investment, Nomination and Remuneration Committees will be available to answer questions.
Conferences 2013 Stock broker briefings What is the procedure at the AGM?
March Following presentations by members of the Board, voting Morgan Stanley European Royal Bank on the resolutions at the AGM will be conducted on a poll.
1 Financials, London of Canada Shareholders proxy votes can be submitted electronically May through the Company Registrars website.
Further details can be found in the Notice of AGM.
Autonomous conference, London Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs 2013 & 2014 AGMs key highlights June 2013 AGM Held on 6 June 2013 at The Auditorium, Allen & Overy LLP, Goldman Sachs European Financials, 1 One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD.
Brussels August Full Director attendance Nomura 1,250 million to 1,258 million votes cast for each resolution September 83% of issued share capital All Directors were elected or re-elected to the Board, Keefe, Bruyette & JP Morgan small mid cap conference, receiving at least 99% of the votes cast in favour Woods and Numis London Remuneration report resolution passed, with 98.84% in favour Keefe, Bruyette & Woods conference, London November Highest votes in favour 99.75% to authorise political Bank of America Merrill Lynch donations and expenditure 1 conference, London Canaccord Lowest votes in favour 98.84% to approve the Remuneration report Note: 2014 AGM 1.
The conferences where the Chief Executive Officer gave a brief presentation To be held on 15 May 2014 at The Auditorium, Allen & to all delegates Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD.
What are we focusing on in 2014?
All Directors are expected to stand for re-election to the Board We will continue to provide detailed disclosures on the Each Director has been formally evaluated by the Groups financial performance and strategic plans and host Nomination Committee before standing for re-election a number of events to foster engagement.
The Group recognises the importance of maintaining an active dialogue The Board believes that each Director is effective and demonstrates commitment to his or her role with our shareholders, target investors and other important insurance sector investors.
Planned activities for 2014 include: There will be a vote on the Directors remuneration policy.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 75
