Directors report The Directors present their report for the financial year ended Directors indemnities 31 December 2013.
The Articles of the Company permit it to indemnify the officers of the Company and the officers of any associated company Strategic report against liabilities arising from the conduct of Company The Company has chosen, in accordance with section 414c ll business to the extent permitted by law.
Accordingly, the of the Companies Act 2006, and as noted in this Directors Company executed deeds of indemnity for the benefit of report, to include certain additional matters in its Strategic each Director in respect of liabilities that may attach to them report that would otherwise be required to be disclosed in their capacity as Directors of the Company or of associated in this Directors report.
These indemnities are qualifying third-party indemnities as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
No amount was paid under any of these indemnities Annual Report & Accounts to include a management report.
The information that fulfils this requirement can be found in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 49.
The Company also purchased directors and officers liability insurance during the year, which provides appropriate cover The subsidiary and associated undertakings which principally for legal actions brought against its Directors.
affect the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
Authorisation of conflicts of interest The Companys Articles of Association permit the authorisation The forward-looking statements disclaimer is set out on of a Directors potential conflict of interest or duty.
Such page 179. authorisations may be given by the remaining Directors who are independent of the potential conflict.
Corporate governance statement The information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate The Board has approved a number of authorisations in this governance statement for the purposes of Disclosure and manner.
Notwithstanding such authorisation, the Board Transparency Rule 7.2 can be found in this Directors report continues to ensure that any actual conflict of interest or duty, and in the corporate governance report on pages 56 to 75, should it arise, is dealt with appropriately, which will usually which is incorporated into this Directors report by reference.
be by arranging that the Director takes no part in the relevant Board or Committee discussion or decision.
Post-balance sheet events and likely future developments At no time during the year did any Director hold a material Details of events after the statement of financial position date interest in any contract of significance with the Company or the are contained in note 40 to the consolidated financial Group other than the Relationship Agreement with RBS Group, statements and form part of this report.
the indemnity provision described above and service contracts between each Executive Director and the Company.
Dividends Share capital and control The Board is recommending a final dividend of 8.4 pence per share to shareholders, which, subject to shareholder approval, The issued and fully paid share capital of the Company will be paid on 20 May 2014 to all holders of Ordinary is 1,500,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each.
Shares on the Register of members at close of business on During the AGM held on 6 June 2013, the Directors were 14 March 2014. authorised to: In addition, the Company paid a special interim dividend allot shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal of 4.0 pence per share in December and the Board is now amount of 50,000,000, or grant rights to subscribe for declaring a second special interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share.
Both these special interim dividends relate to or to convert any security into shares: items in 2013 that were not expected at the start of the allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of year.
The second special interim dividend will be paid 100,000,000, for the purpose of a rights issue: and on 20 May 2014 to all holders of Ordinary Shares on the make market purchases of up to 150,000,000 shares Register of members at close of business on 14 March 2014. of the Company representing approximately 10% of the Directors Companys issued share capital at the time.
Details of the Companys rules on the appointment and term These authorities have not been used to date and shareholders of appointment of Directors are given on pages 61 to 62. will be asked to renew them at the 2014 AGM.
Details are Remuneration of Directors contained in the Notice of AGM.
The Remuneration report starting on page 76 forms part of the Following the IPO on 16 October 2012, the Ordinary Shares Directors report and includes details of the nature and amount have a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
As at of each element of the remuneration including share options the date of this report, 28.5% of the Companys issued shares of each of the Directors.
are held by The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc.
Secretary Details of the Companys share capital and shares under option Details of the Company Secretary of Direct Line Insurance at 31 December 2013 are given in notes 27 and 33 of the Group plc, including his qualifications and experience, consolidated financial statements which form part of this report.
100 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance The Company held no Treasury Shares during the year Significant agreements or at the date of this report.
A number of agreements may take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company including following The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys a takeover bid, for example commercial contracts and Ordinary Shares, together with the powers of the Companys distribution agreements.
None is considered to be significant Directors, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, in terms of its impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
which can be obtained from the Companys website, www.
Unless expressly specified The Relationship Agreement between the Company and RBS to the contrary in the Articles of Association, they may Group remains in force until such time as the RBS Groups only be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholding reduces below 20% of the issued share capital shareholders at a general meeting.
There are also provisions which provide the RBS Group with the right automatically to terminate the Details of Directors remuneration, service contracts, Relationship Agreement if the Company ceases to be listed, employment contracts and interests in the shares of the or if it passes a resolution to wind up, or if an administration Company are set out in the Directors remuneration report order is made or it makes an arrangement with creditors.
There are no provisions in the Relationship Agreement which allow RBS Group to terminate the agreement in the event Relationship Agreement with RBS Group of a change of control of Direct Line Group Under the terms of a Relationship Agreement between the Company and RBS Group, RBS Group has the right All of the Companys employee share incentive plans to nominate Directors to the Board of the Company: whilst contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards would typically vest and become RBS Group held over 50% of the shares of the Company exercisable on a change of control, subject to the RBS Group was entitled to nominate two Directors and such Directors were Bruce Van Saun and Mark Catton.
satisfaction of any performance conditions, and normally with an additional time based pro-rata reduction where Following the reduction of RBS Groups shareholding below performance conditions apply 50% on 13 March 2013, RBS Group became entitled to nominate one rather than two Directors and Mark Catton Substantial shareholdings accordingly resigned on 26 April 2013.
On the resignation In accordance with the provisions of chapter 5 of the of Bruce Van Saun on 1 October 2013 on account of his Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct work for RBS Group moving to the United States, Mark Catton Authority, the following shareholder has provided the Company re-joined the Board as RBS Groups nominated Director in with notice of interests in the Companys voting rights.
1 Shareholder 31 December 2013 25 February 2014 Under the terms of the agreement, after ceding control of the Company, RBS Group may only nominate one Director until The Royal Bank of such time as its shareholding reduces below 20%.
2 Scotland Group plc 28.50% 28.50% With the exception of the Relationship Agreement, there is no Notes: arrangement or understanding with any shareholder, customer, 1.
The interests of RBS Group indicated above are held directly.
supplier, or any other external party, providing the right to 2.
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Disclosure and appoint a Director or a member of the Executive Committee.
Transparency Rules is publicly available via the regulatory information services and on the Companys website.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares The Relationship Agreement in place between the Company Employee consultation and RBS Group contains certain restrictions on the transfer The Groups statement on our employees is set out in the of the Ordinary Shares registered in the name of RBS Group.
In summary, we encourage open, honest and transparent communication and dialogue In addition, there are restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary with employees.
Shares under the Companys employee share incentive plans while the shares are subject to the plan rules.
Where, under We have well-established Employee Representative Bodies an employee share incentive plan operated by the Company, ERBs that comprise elected representatives of employees participants are the beneficial owners of shares but not the across our business.
ERBs help shape initiatives by helping registered owners, the voting rights are normally exercised us share and discuss proposals and initiatives which affect at the discretion of the participants.
our future and advise the Executive Committee regarding employee matters.
Other than those specified above, there are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the Companys Ordinary Shares or These bodies are consulted as part of future change the transfer of securities in the Company.
There are no special programmes, and in particular about collective redundancies rights with regard to control of the Company attached to the and TUPE transfers.
They complement our existing communication Companys Ordinary Shares.
The Company is not aware of processes and represent their constituents interests.
any agreements between holders of shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or voting rights.
On 26 June 2013, the Company announced proposals to improve its operational efficiency as part of its business transformation plan.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 101 Directors report continued These proposals resulted in approximately 3,200 roles being Direct GHG emissions are those from sources that are owned or controlled by the Group.
Indirect GHG emissions are those put at risk.
The Group ensured meaningful consultation took that are a consequence of the activities of the Group, but that place with elected representatives regarding ways to avoid, occur at sources owned or controlled by another organisation.
reduce or mitigate the impact of proposed reductions in the The Group has considered the six main GHGs, reported in number of roles.
CO e tonnes equivalent and have set 2013 as the base year.
2 Employees can also raise issues and ideas through BEST The Group has included emissions from all of its overseas Quest an intranet based communication tool which subsidiaries.
It has not included emissions associated with its facilitates on-line information sharing.
We will be phasing this investment portfolio.
out and replacing it with Yammer: a business social networking tool which will help reinforce some of our core values such as Scope 1 direct emissions including fuels used in office working together say it like it is and bring all of yourself to buildings, accident repair centres and owned vehicles work and reduce the impact of geographic and organisational Scope 2 indirect emissions resulting from the generation barriers to communication.
of electricity purchased for office buildings and accident repair centres The Group values the diversity of its employees and is committed to creating a working environment that is inclusive The Groups total GHG emissions for 2013 were 30,624 of all.
The Group embraces peoples differences in order to tonnes see table below.
This primarily comprised of emissions attract and retain talent and seeks to enable employees to from purchased electricity and natural gas, diesel fuel and reach their potential: these differences include but are not refrigerant gas used.
limited to age, belief, disability, ethnic or national origin, gender, gender identity, marital or civil partnership status, In addition to total emissions, the Group also monitors political opinion, race, religion and sexual orientation.
emissions per million of net earned premium.
In 2013, this These commitments extend to recruitment and selection, was 8.7 tonnes per million of net earned premium.
This is training, career development, flexible working arrangements, a measure of how efficiently insurance products are provided promotion and performance appraisal.
and allows comparison between insurance companies.
Numerical data relating to the gender diversity of the Board, The GHG emissions data has been externally verified by senior executives and the employees may be found on page 47.
The verification statements can be found on the Groups website www.
Employees with disabilities As an organisation we are committed to ensuring that diversity Further information on the Groups approach to energy and the is promoted across all areas of our business.
At recruitment we environment can be found in the corporate social responsibility make adjustments to facilitate applications and the selection report on page 44. process and provide guidance and where necessary additional training for interviewers.
Greenhouse gas emissions total Group For the year ended 31 December 2013 CO e tonnes Our Diversity Network Alliance has a strand which focuses 2 on matters important to our employees with a disability and Scope 1 direct 8,424 to identify areas that we can improve upon.
To facilitate continued employment we make reasonable adjustments to the Scope 2 indirect 22,200 working environment equipment, the role or role requirements Total gross emissions 30,624 and ensure that the same opportunities are available to all.
Emissions per million of net earned premium 8.7 Political contributions The Group made no political donations during the year Financial instruments 2012: nil.
The Groups companies use financial instruments to manage certain types of risk, including those relating to foreign currency Governmental regulation exchange, cash flow, liquidity and interest rates.
Details of the To comply with European Union EU state aid requirements, objectives and management of these instruments are contained RBS Group agreed to cede control of Direct Line Group by in the Risk management and Capital management sections the end of 2013 and divest its entire interest by the end of on pages 22 to 27 and 42.
An indication of the exposure 2014.
The initial minority tranche of the divestment of Direct of Group companies to such risks is also contained in note Line Group, by way of a public flotation, was effected on 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
16 October 2012 and RBS Group ceded control of Direct Line Group on 13 March 2013 and reduced its shareholding Going concern further to 28.5% on 27 September 2013.
The Group has sufficient financial resources to meet its financial needs including the management of a mature portfolio of Greenhouse gas emissions insurance risk.
The Directors believe that the Group is well The Group has followed the 2013 UK Government positioned to manage its business risks successfully in the environmental reporting guidance for greenhouse gas current economic environment.
GHG emissions, used the UK Governments greenhouse gas conversion factors and adopted the financial-control The finance review on pages 34 to 43 describes the Groups approach.
GHG emissions are classified as either direct or capital management strategy, which covers how it measures indirect, and are divided into Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
its regulatory and economic capital needs and how capital 102 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance is deployed.
The financial position of the Group is also The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting covered in that section, including a commentary on cash and records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys investment levels, reserves, currency management, insurance transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any liability management, liquidity and borrowings.
In addition, time the financial position of the Company and enable them to note 3.2 to the consolidated financial statements describes ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies capital management needs and policies and note 3 covers Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the underwriting, market, liquidity and credit risks which may assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps affect the Groups financial position.
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity After making due enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate of the corporate and financial information included on the resources to continue in operational existence for the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they have adopted the going governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
concern basis in preparing this Annual Report & Accounts.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on Statement of disclosure of information to auditors pages 52 to 53 confirm, that to the best of their knowledge: Each Director at the date of the approval of this Annual Report & Accounts confirms that: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit position and profit or loss of the Company and the information of which Deloitte LLP, the Companys external undertakings included in the consolidation taken as auditor, is unaware: and a whole: and the Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to the Strategic report given on pages 2 to 49 includes a fair have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware review of the development and performance of the business of any relevant audit information and to establish that and the position of the Company and the undertakings Deloitte LLP is aware of that information.
included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance that they face.
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Auditor Statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual Report & Accounts Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as external auditor.
A resolution to reappoint the firm will be The Directors confirm that they consider that the Annual proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary Directors responsibility statement for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report model and strategy.
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable In arriving at this conclusion, the Board was supported by a law and regulations.
number of processes which included: Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial the Annual Report & Accounts were drafted by management statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors with overall governance and co-ordination provided by a are required to prepare the Group financial statements in steering group comprised of a team of cross-functional senior accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards management to ensure consistency across sections: IFRSs as adopted by the EU and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard IAS Regulation and have also chosen a verification process was undertaken to ensure that the to prepare the Parent Company financial statements under content was factually accurate: IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Under company law, the Directors drafts of the Annual Report & Accounts were reviewed by must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that members of the Executive Committee: they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the an advanced draft was reviewed by the Companys Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that Disclosure Committee and legal advisers: and period.
In preparing these financial statements, IAS 1 requires the substantially final draft was reviewed by the Audit that Directors: Committee prior to consideration by the Board.
properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a This Directors report was reviewed and approved by the manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Board on 25 February 2014. understandable information: By order of the Board provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and Paul Geddes, John Reizenstein, make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer as a going concern.
25 February 2014 25 February 2014 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 103 Contents 35.
Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 162 Financial statements 36.
Contingent liabilities 162 Independent auditors report 105 37.
Related parties 166 Consolidated financial statements 40.
Post balance sheet events 167 Consolidated income statement 108 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 109 Parent Company financial statements Consolidated balance sheet 110 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 111 Parent Company balance sheet 168 Consolidated cash flow statement 112 Parent Company statement of comprehensive income 169 Parent Company statement of changes in equity 169 Parent Company cash flow statement 170 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the Parent Company 1.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 120 3.
Earnings and net assets per share, return on equity 144 13.
Goodwill and other intangible assets 145 14.
Directors and key management remuneration 174 19.
Insurance liabilities, unearned premium reserve and reinsurance assets 152 31.
Life insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets 156 32.
Trade and other payables including insurance payables 161 104 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013
