Business model Generating value and sustainable returns We use a multi-brand, multiGenerating value for our customers through our people product and multi-distribution Our customers channel business model, Our business model starts with our customers, whom we aim to keep at the core of aiming for each of our brands what we do.
We aspire to give them the products that best suit their needs and to offer a specific proposition encourage them to expect a high quality of service throughout their relationship with to a distinct customer segment.
We also strive to be a business that can adapt to their changing needs.
We treat We believe that this approach, each phase of the customer journey as an opportunity to provide an excellent service and outcome from the moment customers select our products, through to the time they when combined effectively make a claim or need to resolve an unexpected event.
with our significant scale, Our people should help us achieve high Everyone from front-line staff, who interact directly with our customers, to our people performance in distribution, in support and central functions, who run the processes that support our products and pricing, claims and cost.
services plays a part in ensuring we are meeting customers needs.
Without our In turn, this enables us to aim people, we could not generate value for our customers and sustainable returns for to generate value for customers our shareholders.
and sustainable returns for Our shareholders our shareholders.
Our shareholders form a crucial part of our business model by investing in us, in the expectation of achieving a return.
We aim to deliver value for our shareholders by sustaining the generation of business profit, which is reinvested in the business or distributed to shareholders in the form of dividends.
Product Pricing and distribution underwriting Premiums Our customers Claims Settling claims Managing finances Expenses Our people Investment and other income Reinvest in Capital Profit the business Dividends Our shareholders Managing risk 6 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report For information on key performance indicators that measure the effectiveness of our business model see p. 20 For information on our risk management see p. 22 Our focused processes Our disciplined approach Product distribution Managing finances We aim to make our products easy to access and We seek to ensure that our business is well to give our customers what they are looking for, governed and controlled.
We aim to manage our to ensure they are appropriately covered when finances carefully by spending money on items that unexpected events happen.
add the most value to our customers, balancing this with the need to generate a suitable and We apply a multi-brand, multi-product and sustainable return to our shareholders.
multi-distribution channel business model to sell to retail customers and businesses.
Products can We hold assets in excess of our expected liabilities be purchased online, including via PCWs, by in the form of capital, which is designed to absorb phone and indirectly through partners and in our unexpected losses that might occur, as well as to Commercial business, via brokers.
Each brand meet regulatory capital requirements.
provides products targeted at one or more insurance We have a conservative approach to reserving segment: motor, home, rescue, pet, travel and and this may result in significant prior-year commercial.
By tailoring the mix of distribution reserve releases.
channel for each product, we can offer our customers a combination of brands, products and services that Managing risk best suits their needs.
We ensure that our products meet regulatory standards and that customers understand what Pricing and underwriting they are purchasing from us.
We also aim to make The scale of our business, which has been sure we price our policies prudently and we invest operating for almost 30 years, gives us deep insight our assets appropriately to minimise any potential into the risks we underwrite, which enables us to losses.
We mitigate risks by adopting policies improve pricing accuracy.
It also allows us to invest and minimum standards that are regularly reviewed more heavily in data and achieve efficiencies, which and updated to ensure that we are in line with means we can more accurately set the appropriate the risk appetite set by the Board.
Regular reviews price for the risks we underwrite.
by external experts supplement this internal Settling claims control framework.
If the time comes to make a claim, it is at that point that customers see the value of their policy.
Through active engagement with our customers, we aim to settle their claim as quickly and as easily as possible.
Doing this the right way helps us to demonstrate the value of the products and services we provide and manage our claims costs.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 7 Business model continued New offerings Pricing and underwriting Our new customer offerings, such Have our black box fitted as our telematics black box and to your car or download smartphone apps, are helping the smartphone app 1 us to improve our pricing models.
In June 2013, we moved from a test and learn phase to launching our telematics propositions on our own motor brands, Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege.
This included our black box solution for View feedback on how youre driving 2 young drivers aged 17 to 25, and our downloadable app available to all ages.
We are now selling approximately 400 telematics policies a week and have sold 12,000 to date.
This represents a growing proportion of our new motor business and we believe telematics has an increasingly important Safe driving behaviour could save role to play in motor insurance, not just with young you money on car insurance drivers but across the market.
3 12,000 live telematics devices to date Benefits to young drivers Young drivers as a high-risk, high-premium group are expected to gain the greatest benefit from telematics.
We are seeing that around one-in-five will help with our ongoing campaign miles of customer data, giving Direct Line new policies taken out by to the UK Government to contribute to us a more accurate picture of our under 25s over the phone have selected an improvement in young driver safety.
customers, how they use their cars, telematics.
This also allows feedback Our extensive data and large customer and what cover is suitable for them.
to customers on their driving, which is base mean we, alongside specialist Once we have analysed this data anticipated to reduce the likelihood of partners, are well positioned to over a period of time, we will have accidents and improve safety on our capitalise on this growing market.
the ability to price and underwrite roads.
This is a really positive step and To date, we have gathered 22 million more accurately.
8 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 9 Business model continued Timely updates Settling claims Motor Our claims transformation programme is improving the way we deal with Notify us of your accident 1 customers, making it smoother and faster.
Our ongoing roll-out of ClaimCenter has passed the milestone of registering 1 million customer claims, as well as bringing Commercial and Italian motor claims onto the platform.
All new customer motor Damage assessed 2 and home claims for our Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege brands, as well as some of our partnership brands, are now handled through the system.
Over Your car is taken in by our garage 3 1, 000,000 claims on the new system Check the progress of your car on the portal 4 Keys to your car returned 5 Improving our customers experience We identified that providing timely updates during car repairs is a key challenge in our claims business and important to our customers.
Therefore, to resolve this in our Motor This transparency should give them business, our customers are now able peace of mind and, once active across to receive regular updates on when our entire accident repair centre their car will be ready.
network, is expected to reduce call volumes and avoidable frustrations.
10 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 11 Business model continued Weather response Settling claims Home Over the last year the UK experienced Before the storm hits, we ensure there are some of the worst wind and rain storms extra people available to help you on the phone and on the ground in a quarter of a century, leaving many 1 homes damaged and without power.
Before each storm hit, we put our severe weather plans into action, making sure there were extra CHARLIE, our emergency response vehicle, staff on the phones and on the ground to help is sent to the worst affected areas 2 our customers.
On the day of greatest impact, we received more than double our normal customer call volumes.
We also deployed our emergency response vehicle, CHARLIE, to the worst affected areas to help customers on the ground get on with the claims process.
Contact us as soon as possible to make a claim 3 Property advisers attend your home and instantly send through list of damage 4 Damage repaired and claim paid 5 Supporting our customers on the ground We have been looking at how we can best use our people on the ground to support our customers when they make a home claim.
To make access to us more adviser.
The cost of the repairs convenient, we are introducing can then be priced using our home the use of smartphone technology to estimation tool, thereby getting the capture and send claim details while claim moving much faster.
connected to a customer services Where the storm hit the UK in November 2013 12 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 13
