Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and audited accounts for the 52 week period ended 29 March 2013. Business review Information contained in the Chief Executives Review and the Group Finance Directors Report fulfilling the requirements of Section 417 Companies Act 2006 are incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
The Corporate Governance Report incorporating the Audit Committee Report and the Nomination Committee Report and the Remuneration Report also form part of and are incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
Financial risk management Policies on financial risk management are set out in note 18 to the Financial Statements.
Key performance indicators KPIs The principal KPIs used to monitor the financial performance of the business are operating profit margin, operating profit, profit after tax and levels of net debt relative to plan.
Other key non-financial measures are customer satisfaction and health and safety.
Results and dividends The Group recorded a profit for the period of 83.1m 2012: 74.9m as shown in the Consolidated Income Statement for the period ended 29 March 2013 which is set out on page 42.
The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 2.25 pence per Ordinary Share.
If approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 10 July 2013, this final dividend will be payable on 12 July 2013 to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 14 June 2013.
An interim dividend of 0.38 pence per share was paid on 30 November 2012.
If the final dividend is approved by shareholders, dividends for the year will total 2.63 pence per Ordinary Share 2012: 2.28 pence.
Interests of Directors in contracts During the period no Director had any material interest in any significant contract to which the Company or any subsidiary was a party.
Changes of control All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
The Company is not a party to any other significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid other than its bank facility agreement, which provides that on a change of control the lender shall not be obliged to fund a utilisation except for a rollover loan and, if it so requires, may cancel its commitment and declare its participation in all outstanding utilisations immediately due and payable.
Further the Company is not party to any agreement with the Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs as a result of a takeover bid other than with Charles Wilson, in that in the event of a change of control of the Company, Charles Wilson has the right to terminate his employment on 30 days notice and to receive a payment equal to his gross salary for his contractual notice period.
Directors The names of those persons serving as Directors of the Company during the year are set out below.
The Directors held office throughout the period unless otherwise stated.
Charles Wilson Jonathan Prentis Mark Aylwin Guy Farrant Bryn Satherley Richard Rose lord Bilimoria Andrew Cripps Karen Jones Stewart Gilliland Helena Andreas appointed 14 November 2012 Biographical details of the Directors are set out in the section headed Directors and Officers on pages 10 and 11.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association Helena Andreas will be standing for election at the 2013 Annual General Meeting and, in accordance with the Code, each of the other Directors has resolved to stand for re-election annually and will be standing for re-election at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
37 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT continued Conflicts of Interest In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and section 175 of the Companies Act 2006, formal procedures for the notification and authorisation of potential and actual conflicts of interest have been approved by the Board.
These procedures, which enable the Directors to impose limits or conditions when giving or reviewing authorisation, ensure that only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered can authorise conflicts, and require the Board to review the register of Directors conflicts annually and on an ad hoc basis when necessary.
Any potential conflicts of interest in relation to newly appointed Directors are considered by the Board prior to appointment.
These procedures have operated effectively throughout the current financial period.
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance The Company maintains appropriate directors and officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its Directors and officers.
The Directors may also be indemnified in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the maximum extent permitted by law, although no such indemnities are currently in place.
The insurance does not, and any indemnities if granted would not, provide cover where the relevant Director or officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Corporate Governance The Company prepares a separate Corporate Governance Report, Audit Committee Report, Nomination Committee Report and Directors Remuneration Report.
Substantial interests The Company has been notified under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests in the voting rights attaching to the Companys issued share capital as at 22 May 2013.
Metro Cash & Carry International Holding Bv 9.07% Prudential Plc 6.32% Charles Wilson 6.27% Ameriprise Financial Inc 4.78% Artemis Investment Management 4.43% Blackrock Inc 4.33% Schroder Investment Management 4.29% Cazenove Capital Management 4.01% Aviva Plc 3.89% legal & General Group Plc 3.17% 38 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2013 Directors share interests Details of the share interests of all Directors, and their connected persons, as at 29 March 2013 are shown below.
There have been no changes in the interests between 29 March 2013 and 22 May 2013.
Ordinary Shares in Booker Group plc Ordinary Shares in Booker Group plc 29 March 2013 30 March 2012 108,241,986 Charles Wilson 108,241,986 Jonathan Prentis 10,413,807 10,413,807 Mark Aylwin 1,100,000 1,100,000 Guy Farrant 668,547 668,547 Bryn Satherley 8,363,486 8,363,486 910,282 Richard Rose 910,282 lord Bilimoria 50,000 50,000 Andrew Cripps 200,000 200,000 Karen Jones 145,000 145,000 Stewart Gilliland 50,000 50,000 Helena Andreas n a Employees It is the Groups policy to involve employees in the business and to ensure that matters of concern to them, including the Groups aims and objectives and its financial performance, are communicated in an open and regular way and, when appropriate, employees views are taken into account.
This is achieved through the use of business briefings and other less formal communications.
The Directors encourage employees to become shareholders to promote active participation in and commitment to the Groups success.
This policy has been pursued for all employees through the SAYE scheme.
As at the year end 1,951 employees were contributing monthly to the 2012 SAYE scheme and 1,821 employees were contributing monthly to the 2011 SAYE scheme.
The promotion of equal opportunities for all employees, including disabled persons, is regarded as an important Group priority.
Applications for employment and promotion of disabled persons are treated on the same basis as those from other applicants having regard to aptitude, ability, requirements of the job and experience.
The Groups policy is to seek to continue the employment of, and to arrange appropriate training for, employees who have become disabled during the period when they were employed by the Group.
In the year the average number of persons employed by the Group excluding Makro employees but including Directors increased from 9,375 to 9,658.
Suppliers The Group works closely with its suppliers to ensure the delivery of its policies on product quality and integrity, health and safety, and the environment.
Payments to suppliers are made in accordance with terms and practices agreed with individual suppliers.
Trade creditors for the Group at the financial year end represented 41 days of purchases 2012: 41 days.
39 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT continued Share capital As at 29 March 2013, the Companys share capital consisted of 1,727,090,560 issued and fully paid Ordinary Shares with a nominal value of 1 pence per share, listed on the london Stock Exchange.
A total of 156,621,525 Ordinary Shares were issued to Metro Cash & Carry International Holdings Bv on 4 July 2012 which, as at that date, represented 9.99% of the Companys issued share capital.
A total of 3,079,233 Ordinary Shares were issued during the year in connection with the exercise of options under the Companys share option schemes.
Ordinary Shares may be held in certificated or uncertificated form.
At the Annual General Meeting held in 2012, the Company was granted authority by shareholders to purchase up to 156.7 million Ordinary Shares, representing less than 10% of the Companys ordinary share capital as at 29 May 2012.
No Ordinary Shares were purchased pursuant to this authority during the year.
In accordance with current best practice, the Company will seek to renew this authority at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys Ordinary Shares are contained in the Companys Articles of Association, a copy of which can be viewed on the Companys website or obtained by request to the Company Secretary.
The Articles of Association can only be changed by special resolution passed in a general meeting of shareholders.
Each Ordinary Share carries the right to one vote on a poll, and to attend and speak at a general meeting of the Company, to appoint proxies to exercise full voting rights and to participate in any distribution of income or capital.
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of the Ordinary Shares, nor are there any requirements for prior approval for their transfer.
Under the Articles of Association, the Directors have the power to suspend voting rights and the right to receive dividends in respect of Ordinary Shares in circumstances where the holder of those shares fails to comply with a notice issued under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006.
Ordinary Shares acquired through the Companys share option schemes rank equally with all other Ordinary Shares in issue and have no special rights.
Details of share options granted but not exercised or lapsed as at 29 March 2013 are set out in note 25 to the Financial Statements.
Provisions dealing with the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Articles of Association, which provide that a Director may be appointed by ordinary resolution of shareholders or by the existing Directors, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
The Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of the applicable legislation, the Articles of Association and any directions given by the Company in general meeting.
The powers of the Directors include those in relation the issue and buy-back of shares.
There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by persons other than holders of the shares, nor any known arrangements on restrictions on share transfers or voting rights.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 11:00am on Wednesday 10 July 2013 at Booker Branch Wimbledon, Endeavour Way, Durnsley Road, london SW19 8PlG.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting, which separately accompanies this document, includes details of the business to be transacted at the meeting and contains an explanation of all resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting.
It is the intention that the entire Board will stand for election or re-election, as applicable, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Electronic Communications The Company is authorised under its Articles of Association and pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 to communicate with shareholders or anyone with an indirect interest in shares by making such communication available on its website.
The Company has written to all shareholders to invite them to indicate how they wish to receive copies of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Accordingly, the Company will distribute its printed Annual Report and Accounts only to shareholders who have indicated to the Company that they wish to receive it in that form.
The Company will periodically canvas new shareholders on the form in which they wish to receive their shareholder communications.
40 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2013 Ethical Code Details of the Groups Ethical Code can be found on the Groups website, www.
com Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group and Company financial statements.
Further information in relation to the Directors assessment of going concern is contained in note 1 to the financial statements.
Political and charitable contributions The Group made no political contributions or donations during the period, nor did it incur any other political expenditure, either in the UK or overseas.
During the year to 29 March 2013, employees and Directors raised 47,043 for local charities across the country and the Group donated 4,436 to Grocery Aid, formerly Caravan and Sweet Charity.
In addition donations totalling 59,188 were made to charities by employees through the Give as you Earn scheme.
Disclosure of information to auditor Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and that he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor The Committee has recommended to the Board and to shareholders that KPMG should be re-appointed as the Companys auditor at the AGM on 10 July 2013 and KPMG has signified its willingness to continue in office.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 22 May 2013 Mark Chilton Company Secretary 41
