Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2013 DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS Richard Rose Age: 57 Jonathan Prentis Age: 51 Bryn Satherley Age: 52 Non-Executive Chairman and Chairman Group Finance Director Operations Director of Nomination Committee Jonathan qualified as a chartered accountant Bryn is Operations Director responsible for Richard was an Executive Director and with Deloitte.
He was appointed as Group property, IT, logistics and supply chain of the Chairman of Blueheath Holdings plc Blueheath Finance Director of Booker in 2005.
Prior to this Booker Group.
Bryn was at Booker plc between immediately prior to the reverse acquisition appointment, Jonathan was Finance Director of 1999 and 2001 and rejoined Booker in 2005. of Blueheath by the Booker Group in 2007 Woodward Foodservice ltd and then Finance Prior to 1999 he was at Exel plc and was on and became Non-Executive Chairman of the Director of Group logistics within The Big Food the board of Alldays ltd. Company upon completion of the merger.
Prior to 2003, he was with TDG plc.
Richard was formerly Chief Executive of Whittard of Chelsea plc, a multi site retailer of tea and coffee which was sold in 2006.
Previously he was a Director of Hagemeyer UK ltd, a distributor of professional products and services, with a UK turnover approaching 1 billion through 360 outlets.
Prior to that he had been Chief Executive of WF Electrical plc, a fully listed electrical distributor, where he created a substantial Mark Aylwin Age: 49 Mark Chilton Age: 50 improvement in shareholder value.
Hagemeyer Managing Director Booker Direct Company Secretary purchased WF Electrical plc in 2000.
He was Mark is Managing Director of Booker Direct.
Mark acts as Company Secretary and General also Non-Executive Chairman of AC Electrical Prior to that, he was Chief Executive of Counsel to the Group and was appointed to Wholesale ltd where he led a successful growth Blueheath.
Mark was previously Supply his present role in June 2007.
Mark qualified strategy resulting in a substantial increase in Chain and IT Director at Musgrave Budgens as a solicitor in 1987.
Mark was appointed as shareholder value.
The business was sold to londis.
He has over twenty years trading, Company Secretary of the Booker Group in Wolseley in 2006.
He was Executive Chairman supply chain and logistics experience in the 2006.
Previously, he was head of legal at The of Helphire Group plc from 2009 to 2011.
He is food industry, principally at Safeway where Big Food Group plc.
Prior to that, he was at also Non-Executive Chairman of Anpario plc, he was Commercial Director for Non-Foods The Greenalls Group Plc.
Crawshaw Group plc and a Non-Executive and Supply Chain Director.
Director of DRl Group ltd. Charles Wilson Age: 47 Guy Farrant Age: 51 Chief Executive Managing Director UK Cash and Carry Charles started his career in 1986 with Procter Guy is Managing Director of the Groups UK and Gamble following which he was a consultant cash and carry business.
Guy has a wealth with OC&C Strategy Consultants and a Director of food experience having worked in the food of Abberton Associates.
In 1998 he became an industry for 25 years rising to be Director of Food Executive Director of Booker plc which merged and, latterly, Operations and Retail Director at with Iceland plc in 2000.
In 2001 he became an Marks and Spencer plc.
Executive Director of Arcadia Group plc and in 2004 he became an Executive Director of Marks and Spencer Plc.
In 2005 he was appointed as Chief Executive of Booker.
10 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2013 Lord Bilimoria CBE, DL Age: 51 Stewart Gilliland Age: 56 Helena Andreas Age: 38 Non-Executive Director and Senior Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Independent Director Stewart was formerly Chief Executive of Muller Helena is Group Head of Retail & Distribution Karan Bilimoria is the founder of Cobra Beer, Dairies UK and Ireland after a long career at vodafone Group and covers retail channel Chairman of the Cobra Beer Partnership spent in senior roles with leading consumer strategy, in-store customer experience, limited, a Joint venture with Molson Coors, facing companies, including Whitbread and operational efficiency including processes, and Chairman of Molson Coors Cobra India.
His current roles include Nonpeople and IT.
She is also leading a global He is the Founder of the UK India Business Executive Directorships of Sutton and East in-store transformation programme.
Prior to Council and a founding member of the Prime Surrey Water Plc, vianet Group plc, formerly joining vodafone Helena held senior positions Minster of Indias Global Advisory Council.
Brulines Group plc, Natures Way Food limited in marketing and operations at Tesco Group Karan is a former Chancellor of Thames valley and C&C Group Plc.
plc and as a business consultant within Retail University now the University of West london, and Consumer at Accenture.
Helena holds an He is an honorary fellow of Sidney Sussex MBA from INSEAD.
Helena is a Non-Executive College Cambridge and a Member of the Director of Extenda, a leading supplier of retail Advisory Board of the Judge Business School, POS systems.
Karan is an Independent Crossbench Peer in the House of lords.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Ernst & Young and graduated in law from the University of Cambridge.
He is also an alumnus Karen Jones CBE, Age: 56 of the Cranfield School of Management, the Non-Executive Director and Chairman london Business School and the Harvard of Remuneration Committee Business School.
Karen was Chief Executive of Spirit Group ltd, a private equity backed pub & restaurant group, which was built up by acquisition and sold to Punch Taverns in 2006.
Prior to Spirit, Karen founded, grew and floated The Pelican Group Plc, owner of a number of restaurant chains including Caf Rouge, which was acquired by Whitbread in 1996.
Karen has a first class honours degree from University of East Anglia, Andrew Cripps Age: 55 and also attended Wellesley College, USA.
Non-Executive Director and Chairman Karen is a founder and Chairman of Food and of Audit Committee Fuel ltd, a hospitality company, which currently Andrew read Economics at the University of consists of eleven gastropubs in london.
Karen Cambridge prior to qualifying as a Chartered is a Non-Executive Director of ASOS Plc, Accountant with KPMG.
Following twenty years COFRA AG, Firmenich International SA, Rex with Rothmans International and British American Restaurant Associates ltd and Royal National Tobacco Plc, he has held a number of NonTheatre Enterprises ltd. She is a Governor Executive Directorships in the UK and Europe.
of Ashridge Business School and has been Andrew is currently Non-Executive Deputy appointed to the Board of the Womens Prize Chairman of Swedish Match AB and a Nonfor Fiction.
Executive Director of Boparan Holdings limited.
