Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial Future Trends statements for the year ended 31 August 2013.
The regions economies have high rates of growth, strong trade and fiscal surpluses and rapidly developing capital Business Review markets.
Nevertheless the past has demonstrated regional risks and the outlook for the region is provided in the This Business Review, in conjunction with the rest of the Chairmans Statement and Managers Review.
Report and Accounts, is intended to provide shareholders with the information and measures that the Directors use to Risk Management assess, direct and oversee the Manager in the management of the Companys portfolio.
The Business Review is prepared The major risks associated with the Company are detailed in accordance with the requirements of Section 417 of the below.
Resource risk The Company is an investment trust and has no employees.
Principal Activity The responsibility for the management of the Company has been delegated to Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited the The Company is registered as a public limited company in Manager under the management agreement.
The terms of Scotland and is an investment company as defined by the management agreement cover the necessary duties and Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys conditions expected of the Manager.
The Board reviews the registration number is SC106049.
performance of the Manager on a regular basis and their compliance with the management contract formally on an The Company carries on business as an investment trust and annual basis.
the Directors do not envisage any change in this activity in the foreseeable future.
The Company has received requisite Investment and market risk approval of investment trust status from HM Revenue and The Company is exposed to the effect of variations in share Customs for accounting periods up to and including 31 prices due to the nature of its business.
Investment in Asian August 2012. equities involves a greater degree of risk than that usually associated with investment in the major securities markets, The Company has been accepted as an approved investment including the risk of social, political and economic instability trust company from 1 September 2012 subject to the including changes in government which may restrict Company continuing to satisfy the ongoing requirements of investment opportunities and have an adverse effect on Chapter 4 of Part 24 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and economic reform.
Changes in legal, regulatory and the Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations accounting policies, currency fluctuations and high interest 2011. rates may affect the value of the Companys investments and the income derived therefrom.
The Company has conducted its affairs so that its Ordinary shares satisfy the requirements as a qualifying security for The Board continually monitors the investment policy of the Individual Savings Accounts.
The Directors intend that the Company, taking account of stockmarket factors, and Company will continue to conduct its affairs in this manner.
reviews the Companys performance compared to its benchmark index and peer group.
Further details on other Investment Objective and Policy risks relating to the Companys investment activities, The Companys objective is to achieve long term capital including market price, liquidity and foreign currency risks, growth through investment in the Far East.
The Companys are provided in note 18 to the financial statements.
benchmark is the MSCI All Country Asia ex Japan Index.
Investments are made in stock markets in the region with the Concentration risk exception of Japan and Australasia, principally in large Trading volumes in certain securities of emerging markets companies.
The Manager may accumulate investment positions across all its managed funds that represent a Details of the Company's investment policy and strategy are significant multiple of the normal trading volumes of an provided in the Investment Objective and Policy section on investment which may result in lack of liquidity and price page 3. volatility.
Accordingly, the Company will not necessarily be able to realise, within a short period of time, an illiquid Review of Performance investment and any such realisation that may be achieved An outline of the performance, market background, may be at considerably lower prices than the Companys investment activity and portfolio strategy during the year valuation of that investment for the purpose of calculating under review, as well as the investment outlook, is provided the NAV per Ordinary Share.
in the Chairmans Statement and Managers Review.
20 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc Gearing risk At 31 August 2013, the Company had 196,368,689 2012 As at 31 August 2013 the Company had 59.8 million 196,360,259 fully paid Ordinary shares of 20p each in issue nominal of 3.5% Convertible Unsecured Loan Stock 2018 and 59,821,680 2012 59,847,853 nominal of CULS.
Gearing has the effect of exacerbating market falls There have been no changes in the Companys issued share and gains.
In order to manage the level of gearing, the Board capital and borrowings subsequent to the year end and up to has set a maximum gearing ratio of 20%.
Regulatory risk The Ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends which The Company operates in a complex regulatory environment are declared from time to time by an ordinary resolution of and faces a number of regulatory risks.
Serious breaches of the Company up to the amount recommended by the regulations, such as the tax rules for investment companies, Board and to receive any interim dividends which the the UKLA Listing Rules and the Companies Act, could lead to Directors may resolve the Company should pay.
On a a number of detrimental outcomes and reputational damage.
winding-up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the The Audit Committee monitors compliance with regulations surplus assets will be paid to Ordinary shareholders in by reviewing internal control reports from the Manager.
On a show of hands, every Ordinary shareholder present in person, or by proxy, has one vote and, on a poll, every Ordinary shareholder present in Discount volatility person has one vote for each share held and a proxy has one The Companys share price can trade at a discount to its vote for every share represented.
The Board monitors the discount level of the Companys shares and has in place a buyback There are no restrictions concerning the holding or transfer mechanism whereby the Manager is authorised to buy back of the Company's Ordinary shares and there are no special shares within certain limits.
rights attached to any of the shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders which may Monitoring Performance Key Performance Indicators result in restriction on the transfer of shares or the voting At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of rights.
performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving its objectives.
The key performance indicators The interest rate on the CULS is 3.5% per annum, payable KPIs are established industry measures, and are as follows: semi-annually in arrears on 31 January and 31 July in each year.
CULS holders are entitled to convert their CULS into Net asset value total return Ordinary shares every six months from 31 July 2011 until 31 Share price total return January 2018.
In accordance with the terms of the CULS Performance attribution Issue, the conversion price of the CULS was determined at Discount to net asset value 310.1528 pence nominal of CULS for one Ordinary share, which represented a 10% premium to the published An analysis of these measures is disclosed on pages 4 to 9. unaudited NAV per Ordinary share including income of Performance is measured against the Companys benchmark, 281.9571 pence at close of business on 5 January 2011.
Any the MSCI All Country Asia ex Japan Index and the Board CULS not previously redeemed, purchased or converted will also considers peer group comparative performance.
be repaid by the Company on 31 January 2018 at its nominal amount.
CULS holders have the power by Extraordinary Social, Community, Employee Responsibilities and Resolution to sanction any modification, abrogation or Environmental Policy compromise of, or arrangement in, respect of their rights As an investment trust, the Company has no employees and against the Company and to assent to any modification of has no direct social, community, employee or environmental the provisions of the Trust Deed.
Details of the Companys Socially Responsible Investment policy are set out in the Corporate In the event of a winding-up of the Company, the Ordinary Governance Report.
shares will rank behind any creditors or prior ranking capital of the Company, including the CULS.
Capital Structure and Borrowings During the year to 31 August 2013, the Company issued Other Information 8,430 2012 13,909 Ordinary shares following elections by The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of CULS holders to convert 26,173 2012 - 43,160 nominal Directors, amendments of the Articles of Association and of CULS.
There were no buybacks of Ordinary shares during powers to issue or buy back Company's shares are contained the year.
in the Articles of Association of the Company and the Companies Act 2006.
There are no agreements which the Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 21 Directors Report continued Company is party to that might affect its control following a No contract or arrangement subsisted during the period in takeover bid: and there are no agreements between the which any of the Directors was materially interested.
No Company and its Directors concerning compensation for loss Director had a service contract with the Company.
Other than the Management Agreement with the The Directors interests in the shares of the Company as at Manager, further details of which are set out on page 22, the 31 August 2013 are shown in Table 1.
The Company has not Company is not aware of any contractual or other been notified of any subsequent changes in Directors agreements which are essential to its business which ought interests.
to be disclosed in the Directors Report.
Directors Liability Insurance Dividends The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity provisions The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 2.20p per contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Ordinary share 2012 2.20p be paid on 20 December 2013 Company maintains insurance in respect of Directors and to shareholders on the register on 22 November 2013.
The officers liabilities in relation to their acts on behalf of the ex-date is 20 November 2013.
Directors Management Agreement Details of the current Directors of the Company are shown The Manager to the Company is Aberdeen Asset Managers on pages 18 to 19.
Under the Management Agreement, the Manager is required to give a notice period of six months if it wishes to Iain Watt retired from the Board at the conclusion of the terminate the agreement.
The notice period for the Company Annual General Meeting held on 11 December 2012.
Kathryn is three months or on shorter notice in certain circumstances.
Langridge was appointed as a non-executive Director on 29 Compensation is payable in lieu of the unexpired notice October 2012. period if actual notice is less than the notice period.
The management fee is 0.25% per quarter of the net assets of The Articles of Association provide that Directors retire and the Company less i the value of any investment funds are subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting managed by the Manager and ii 50% of the value of any following their appointment and thereafter must offer investment funds managed or advised by investment themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
In managers other than the Manager.
order to meet the requirements of Section B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in June 2010, all Auditor Directors of the Company will stand for annual re-election.
Following their intention to gradually wind down the activity Resolutions 4 to 8 inclusive, which relate the re-election of in their registered firm, KPMG Audit Plc, KPMG have each of the Directors, will be proposed at the Annual General proposed that an alternative entity, KPMG LLP, become the Meeting.
Accordingly, KPMG have notified the Company that KPMG Audit Plc are not seeking reappointment and have provided a statutory statement of 31 August 2013 1 September 2012 circumstances upon ceasing to hold office pursuant to Ordinary Ordinary section 519 of the Companies Act 2006.
In accordance with CULS shares CULS shares section 520 of the 2006 Act, a copy of this statement is Allan 28,820 25,000 28,820 15,000 enclosed with the report and accounts distributed to McKenzie shareholders ahead of the AGM.
The Board has decided to David Gairns put KPMG LLP forward to be appointed as auditor and a Kathryn n a n a resolution concerning their appointment will be put to the Langridge forthcoming AGM of the Company.
There is no impact on appointed 29 the terms in which the auditor will be retained.
The October respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditor in 2012 connection with the financial statements are set out on pages 29 and 31.
Tony Lowrie Iain McLaren 20,379 10,000 20,379 10,000 A further resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming Peter 2,500 2,500 Annual General Meeting to to authorise the Directors to fix Maynard the auditors remuneration.
During the year ended 31 Table 1 Directors and their interests in the Company August 2013, 4,370 2012 - 4,240 was paid to the auditor for non-audit services.
This related to further assurance work regarding the interim report.
22 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this ii Limited Disapplication of Pre-emption Provisions Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, As noted above, resolution 11 will, if approved, give the there is no relevant audit information of which the Directors a general authority to allot securities up to an Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken aggregate nominal amount of 13,091,246.
Resolution all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to 12, which is a special resolution, seeks to give the make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to Directors power to allot Ordinary shares and to sell establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that Ordinary shares held in treasury see below i by way of information.
a rights issue subject to certain exclusions, ii by way of an open offer or other offer of securities not being a rights issue in favour of exisiting shareholders in Corporate Governance propostion to their shareholdings subject to certain The Statement of Corporate Governance, which forms part exclusions and iii to persons other than existing of the Directors Report, is contained on pages 26 to 29. shareholders for cash up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 1,963,687 being 5% of the current Payments Policy issued share capital of the Company, without first being It is the Companys policy to settle all investment required to offer such shares to exisiting shareholders pro transactions in accordance with the terms and conditions of rata to their exisiting shareholding.
the relevant markets in which it operates.
All other expenses are paid on a timely basis in the ordinary course of business.
This authority will expire on 28 February 2015 or, if In certain circumstances, settlement terms are agreed prior earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General to business taking place.
Meeting of the Company unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting.
Substantial Share Interests At 4 November 2013 the substantial interests in the The Company may buy back and hold shares in treasury Ordinary share capital which had been notified to the and then sell them at a later date for cash or cancel Company during the period are shown in Table 2. them.
Such sales are required to be on a pre-emptive, pro rata basis to existing shareholders unless shareholders agree by special resolution to disapply such Number of pre-emption rights.
Accordingly, in addition to giving the Holder Ordinary shares % Directors power to allot unissued Ordinary share capital Lazard Freres Asset 22,190,008 11.3 on a non pre-emptive basis, resolution 11 will also give Management the Directors power to sell Ordinary shares held in Investec Wealth & 17,692,041 9.0 treasury on a non pre-emptive basis, subject always in Investment both cases to the limitations noted above.
Pursuant to Derbyshire County Council 12,000,000 6.1 this power, Ordinary shares would only be issued for City of London Investment 9,438,601 4.8 cash and treasury shares would only be sold for cash at Management a premium to the net asset value per share calculated Table 2: Substantial share interests after the deduction of prior charges at market value.
Treasury shares are explained in more detail under the Annual General Meeting heading Market Purchase of the Companys own Among the resolutions being put at the Annual General Ordinary Shares below.
Meeting of the Company to be held on 17 December 2013, the following resolutions will be proposed: The Directors consider that the powers proposed to be granted by the above resolutions are necessary to i Section 551 Authority to Allot Shares provide flexibility to issue shares should they deem it to Resolution 11, which is an ordinary resolution, will, if be in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
approved, give the Directors a general authority to allot new securities up to an aggregate nominal value of iii Purchase of the Companys own Ordinary shares 13,091,246 representing approximately 33.33 per cent.
Resolution 13, which will be proposed as a special of the total Ordinary share capital of the Company in resolution, will authorise the Company to make market issue as at the date of this Directors Report, such purchases of its own shares.
Shares so repurchased will authority to expire on 28 February 2015 or, if earlier, at be cancelled or held in treasury.
The Company may do the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of either of the following in respect of its own Ordinary the Company unless previously revoked, varied or shares which it buys back and does not immediately extended by the Company in general meeting.
cancel but, instead, holds in treasury:- Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 23 Directors Report continued a sell such shares or any of them for cash or its Recommendation equivalent : or The Directors believe that the resolutions to be proposed at b ultimately cancel the shares or any of them.
the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole, and recommend No dividends will be paid on treasury shares, and no that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the voting rights attach to them.
Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings totalling, in aggregate, 37,500 Ordinary shares, The maximum number of Ordinary shares which may and representing 0.019% of the existing issued Ordinary be purchased pursuant to the authority shall be 14.99% share capital of the Company.
of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of the passing of the resolution approximately By order of the Board, 29.4 million Ordinary shares.
The minimum price Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited which may be paid for an Ordinary share exclusive of Secretary expenses shall be 20p.
The maximum price for an Ordinary share again exclusive of expenses shall be an Edinburgh, 4 November 2013 amount being not more than the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the Companys Ordinary shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid relating to an Ordinary share on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if to do so would enhance the net asset value per share and is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
This authority will expire on 28 February 2015 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting.
iv Notice period for general meetings The Companys Articles of Association enable the Company to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days' notice.
In order for this to be effective, the shareholders must also approve the calling of meetings on 14 days' notice by separate resolution.
Resolution 14, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks such approval.
The approval will be effective until the Company's next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations before it can call a general meeting on 14 days' notice.
