Your Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and independent of the Manager, supervise the management of Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc and represent the interests of shareholders.
Allan McKenzie David Gairns Kathryn Langridge Status: Independent Non-Executive Status: Senior Independent Status: Independent Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Director Length of service: 7 years, appointed a Length of service: 10 years, appointed Length of service: 1 year, appointed on Director on 1 September 2006 a Director on 1 July 2003 29 October 2012 Experience: former chief operating Experience: a chartered accountant Experience: 30 years experience in the officer and a managing director of and has spent his professional career investment industry.
She is currently BlackRock International Limited prior to with KPMG, retiring in 1991 as senior fund management director at Jupiter his retirement in 2006.
Between 1972 partner of the Hong Kong firm.
He is a Asset Management responsible for and 1991 he was actively involved in former non-executive director of The running the Jupiter Global Emerging fund management, specialising in Asian Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Markets Fund.
She was previously the equity markets.
Since 1991 his role Corporation and Mass Transit Railway Head of the Global Emerging Markets was in marketing and client relationship Corporation.
team at Lloyd George Management, management at both Scottish Widows Committee membership: Audit where she was responsible for Investment Management and Committee and Remuneration developing investment strategy and BlackRock International Limited.
Committee Chairman managing equity portfolios across a Formerly he was chairman of Impax Remuneration: 27,300 per annum range of emerging markets.
Prior to Asian Environmental Markets plc, with effect from 1 September 2013 this, she was at INVESCO Perpetual for director of BlackRock Global Series plc All other public company 17 years holding positions that included and chairman and director of the directorships: None Head of Asian investments and Head of Thailand International Fund Limited.
Employment by the Manager: None International Equity Products.
She Committee membership: Audit Other connections with Trust or began her career in Asia with Jardine Committee and Remuneration Manager: None Fleming.
Committee Shared Directorships with any other Committee membership: None Remuneration: 37,800 per annum Trust Directors: None Remuneration: 25,200 per annum with effect from 1 September 2013 Shareholding in Company: None with effect from 1 September 2013 All other public company All other public company directorships: None directorships: None Employment by the Manager: None Employment by the Manager: None Other connections with Trust or Other connections with Trust or Manager: None Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: 25,000 Shareholding in Company: None Ordinary shares and 28,820 CULS 18 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc Tony Lowrie Peter Maynard Iain McLaren Status: Independent Non-Executive Status: Independent Non-Executive Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Director Director Length of service: 9 years, appointed a Length of service: 2 years, appointed a Length of service: 3 years, appointed a Director on 4 October 2004 Director on 12 October 2011 Director on 6 September 2010 Experience: has over 30 years Experience: qualified as a solicitor and Experience: a chartered accountant involvement in Asian investment, was Group Legal Director at Prudential and was a partner at KPMG for 27 originally with Hoare Govett and HG plc from 1998 to 2009 and Company years, including Senior Partner in Asia and ABN Amro where he was a Secretary from July 1999.
Prior to that Scotland from 1999 to 2004, retiring managing director prior to his he was with HSBC for 14 years during from the firm in 2008.
He is the Senior retirement in 2007.
He is a director of which time he was variously a Director Independent Director and Audit Kenmare Resources plc and Petra of HSBC Investment Bank, President Committee Chairman of Cairn Energy Diamonds Limited and a former nonand Chief Executive Officer of James Plc.
He is also chairman of Investors executive director of JD Wetherspoon Capel Inc in New York and finally Capital Trust Plc and a non-executive and Allied Gold.
Recently director of Baillie Gifford Shin Nippon Committee membership: he has been the Head of Group Plc, Ecofin Water & Power Remuneration Committee Governance and Regulatory Opportunities plc and a director of a Remuneration: 25,200 per annum Compliance at Old Mutual plc.
He is a number of other companies.
He is a with effect from 1 September 2013 former chairman of the GC100 and was former President of the Institute of All other public company a supervisory board member of the Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
directorships: Kenmare Resources plc London Business School Centre for Committee membership: Audit and Petra Diamonds Limited Corporate Governance.
He is a nonCommittee Chairman Employment by the Manager: None executive director of Brunner Remuneration: 29,400 per annum Other connections with Trust or Investment Trust plc.
with effect from 1 September 2013 Manager: None Committee membership: Audit All other public company Shared Directorships with any other Committee directorships: Cairn Energy Plc, Baillie Trust Directors: None Remuneration: 27,300 per annum Gifford Shin Nippon Plc, Ecofin Water Shareholding in Company: None with effect from 1 September 2013 & Power Opportunities plc and All other public company Investors Capital Trust Plc directorships: Brunner Investment Employment by the Manager: None Trust plc Other connections with Trust or Employment by the Manager: None Manager: None Other connections with Trust or Shared Directorships with any other Manager: None Trust Directors: None Shared Directorships with any other Shareholding in Company: 10,000 Trust Directors: None Ordinary shares and 20,379 CULS Shareholding in Company: 2,500 Ordinary shares Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 19
