General Information Marketing Strategy Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc contributes to the marketing Internet programme run by the Aberdeen Group AAM on behalf of The AAM Investment Trust website contains details of closed a number of investment trusts under its management.
Under funds and investment companies managed or advised by the this agreement the Companys contribution is matched by Aberdeen Group.
This contribution is reviewed annually.
Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc has its own dedicated website at: The purpose of the programme is to communicate effectively www.
This allows web users to access with existing shareholders and gain more new shareholders, information on the Companys share price performance, thus improving liquidity and thereby enhancing the value and capital structure, stock exchange announcements and rating of the Companys shares.
AAMs experience has also monthly reports.
The site is continuously being evaluated for shown that well targeted marketing of the Companys improvement.
investment merits through packaged products, whether singly, or in conjunction with other trusts run by AAM, can It is intended that ongoing programme activities in these be a cost-effective way of gaining new investors.
various fields, both proactive and supportive, will assist the Company to increase and maintain its shareholder base, These aims can be met in several ways: improve liquidity and sustain ratings.
Investor Relations Programme The Company is committed to the close monitoring of the AAM runs an investor relations programme to existing and Programme.
The AAM Group Head of Brand reports to the prospective institutional investors in investment trusts.
Each Board and provides a written summary quarterly.
month institutional investors and prospects receive a Managers report on your Company that includes detailed If you have any questions about your Company, the Manager performance analysis.
or performance, please telephone AAM Customer Services Department direct private investors on 0500 00 00 40.
Alternatively, internet users may e-mail AAM at Group Schemes inv.
com or write to AAM at The AAM Group administers several savings schemes Aberdeen Investment Trusts, PO Box 11020, Chelmsford, including the Share Plan, ISA and the Childrens Plan.
schemes allow investment at lower costs and have proved popular with private investors.
Newsletter The Bulletin newsletter, an informed commentary on markets and investment trusts managed by AAM, is distributed free of charge.
Public Relations AAM undertakes to brief journalists, write regularly through placed articles and ensure Company results and any corporate activity are brought to public attention.
Shareholder Services AAM runs an investment help desk for retail enquirers and investors.
Enquirers or investors will be sent any relevant literature on request and have queries answered immediately.
The Marketing Programme is under the direction of AAMs Group Head of Brand who has considerable experience in the marketing and communications of investment products.
He is supported by a team of marketing professionals.
Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 49 How to Invest in Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc nominee accounts.
Investors have full voting and other rights How to Invest of share ownership.
Investors can buy and sell shares directly through a stockbroker or indirectly through a lawyer, accountant or Stocks and Shares ISA other professional adviser.
Alternatively shares can be bought directly through Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children and An investment of up to 11,520 in the Ordinary shares of Aberdeens Investment Trust Share Plan, Investment Trust Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc can be made through the ISA or ISA Transfer.
Aberdeen Investment Trust ISA in the tax year 2013 2014.
The CULS are not considered as a qualifying investment for the Aberdeen ISA due to their limited life.
Suitable for Retail The Companys Ordinary shares are intended for investors There are no brokerage or initial charges for the ISA, although primarily in the UK including retail investors,  will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can be a advised private clients and institutional investors who are significant amount.
Investors only pay Government Stamp seeking a high level of capital growth through equity Duty currently 0.5% on purchases.
Selling costs are 15 investment in the Asia Pacific countries ex Japan and who VAT.
The annual ISA administration charge is 24 VAT, understand and are willing to accept the risks of exposure to calculated annually and deducted on 31 March or the last equities.
Investors should consider consulting a financial business day in March either by direct debit or, if there is no adviser who specialises in advising on the acquisition of valid direct debit mandate in place, from the available cash in shares and other securities before acquiring shares.
Investors the Plan prior to the distribution or reinvestment of any should be capable of evaluating the risks and merits of such income, or, where there is insufficient cash in the Plan, from an investment and should have sufficient resources to bear the sale of investments held in the Plan.
Under current any loss that may result.
legislation, investments in ISAs can grow free of capital gains tax.
Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited AAM runs an ISA Transfer Investment Plan for Children the Childrens Plan which You can choose to transfer previous tax year investments to covers a number of investment companies under its us which can be invested in Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc while management including Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc.
Anyone retaining your ISA wrapper.
The minimum lump sum for an can invest in the Childrens Plan, including parents, ISA transfer is 1,000 and is subject to a minimum per trust grandparents and family friends.
All investments are free of of 250. dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, although investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some Note occasions, be a significant amount.
Lump sum investments Please remember that past performance is not a guide to the start at 150 per trust, while regular savers may invest from 30 per month.
Investors simply pay Government Stamp future.
Stock market and currency movements may cause Duty currently 0.5% on entry.
the value of shares and the income from them to fall as well There is no restriction on how long an investor need invest in as rise and investors may not get back the amount they the Childrens Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend originally invested.
participation by instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In common with other schemes of this type, all investments are As with all equity investments, the value of investment trusts held in nominee accounts.
purchased will immediately be reduced by the difference between the buying and selling prices of the shares, the market makers spread.
Aberdeens Investment Trust Share Plan AAM runs a Share Plan the Plan through which shares in Investors should further bear in mind that the value of any Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc can be purchased.
There are no tax relief will depend on the individual circumstances of the dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, although investor and that tax rates and reliefs, as well as the tax investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some treatment of ISAs, may be changed by future legislation.
Lump sum investments start at 250, while regular savers may invest from 100 per Trust Information month.
Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently 0.5% on entry.
There If investors would like details of Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc or information on the Childrens Plan, Share Plan, ISA or ISA is no restriction on how long an investor need invest in a Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend participation by Transfers please telephone 0500 00 00 40 or write to instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In common with Aberdeen Investment Trusts, PO Box 11020, Chelmsford, other schemes of this type, all investments are held in Essex CM99 2DB or e-mail inv.
Details are also available on www.
co. uk 50 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc Investor Warning Literature Request Service Aberdeen is aware that some investors have received For literature and application forms for the Managers telephone calls from people purporting to work for Aberdeen, investment trust products, please contact: or third parties, who have offered to buy their investment Telephone: 0500 00 40 00 trust shares.
These may be scams which attempt to gain Email: aam@lit-request.
com personal information with which to commit identity fraud or could be boiler room scams where a payment from an Keeping You Informed investor is required to release the supposed payment for their The Companys share price appears daily in the Financial shares.
These callers do not work for Aberdeen and any third party For internet users, detailed data on the Company, including making such offers has no link with Aberdeen.
Aberdeen price, performance information and a monthly fact sheet is never makes these types of offers and does not cold-call available on the Companys website investors in this way.
If investors have any doubt over the www.
co. uk and the TrustNet website veracity of a caller, do not offer any personal information, www.
Alternatively you can call 0500 00 00 end the call and contact Aberdeens investor services centre 40 for trust information.
Contact Us The above information has been approved for the purposes of For information on Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc and for any administrative queries relating to the Investment Plan for Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 2000 as amended by the Financial Services Act 2012 by Children, Share Plan, ISA or ISA Transfer please contact: Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Aberdeen Investment Trusts PO Box 11020 Chelmsford Essex CM99 2DB Telephone: 0500 00 00 40 Alternatively, if you have an administrative query which relates to a certificated holding, please contact the Registrar, as follows: Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone: 0871 384 2499 Fax: 0871 384 2100 Shareview Enquiry Line: 0871 384 2020 Textel hard of hearing: 0871 384 2255 Calls to the above Equiniti numbers will be charged at 8 pence per minute plus network extras.
Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
