Managers Review We are overweight to India, which is home to companies Background Portfolio Review that rank among the best in the region in terms of return on Asian equities posted gains on strong capital inflows, as equity and earnings growth.
Quality has always been evident quantitative easing QE in the West compelled investors to at the company level in spite of the challenging look for better returns elsewhere.
This liquidity trumped macroeconomic and fiscal backdrop.
This year, however, the concerns over weakening regional growth, even as subdued performance of corporates was negated by a sliding rupee, inflation freed most central banks to cut interest rates and which significantly diminished returns.
Our holdings had a adopt measures to buttress economies.
Cost pressures and oversupply affected the rose steadily through to mid-May.
Thereafter, concerns over share prices of Grasim Industries and its subsidiary UltraTech a potential QE unwinding unsettled financial markets and Cement.
Our financial holdings fared better.
HDFC closed flat currencies, with India and Indonesia bearing the brunt of the in local currency terms, as the company continued to post sell-off.
Nonetheless, Asian markets held on to earlier gains healthy results on the back of a stable core mortgage and closed higher for the year.
business and robust growth in its life and general insurance divisions.
Private lender ICICI Banks earnings were The Companys net asset value NAV gained 6.7%, underpinned by resilient net interest margins, solid loan compared to the 10.1% rise in the MSCI All Country Asia ex growth and quality assets.
In other sectors, motorcycle Japan Index.
Both asset allocation and stock selection maker Hero MotoCorp reported record sales for its latest detracted from relative performance.
quarter, bucking the sluggishness of the broader domestic market.
Infosyss foreign currency-based revenues benefited It is worth remembering that our exposure to individual from the depreciating rupee, as its customer base grew on markets result from where we find the best companies.
In good demand for software and platform products.
Both Hero China, we have long been apprehensive about the quality of MotoCorp and Infosyss shares posted gains in rupee terms domestic companies and, hence, remain underweight there.
In short, corporate results were much firmer This position has hurt performance, as the Chinese than the share price returns suggested.
stockmarket was one of the best performers, despite a slowing economy and banking-sector worries, while the yuan In Singapore, we continue to find many well-run businesses, was Asias strongest performing currency rising by about 6% with high standards of corporate governance and scope to against sterling over the period.
Our overweight detracted from performance, as the markets moderate gain trailed the In seeking exposure to the Chinese economy we prefer to broader region.
Among our holdings, City Developments invest in well-established Hong Kong-domiciled companies, share price underperformed on the back of a slew of property many of which operate in the mainland.
The company posted sharply higher position in the territory contributed positively to second-quarter earnings, driven by gains from non-core asset performance, as the market rallied in tandem with its sales, although it was impacted by lower hotel contributions mainland Chinese counterpart.
Some of our holdings, though, and the timing of profit recognition for residential projects.
An example is property developer Hang While Singapore Airlines continued to suffer from lower Lung Group, which grappled with rising costs and lower passenger and cargo yields, it has a robust balance sheet and residential sales as a result of fewer property launches.
But its is reasonably valued.
Another laggard was Keppel Corp, core leasing business remained stable, while rental reviews which saw a contraction in profits year-on-year after were still positive in China, albeit slower than in the previous significant property-related income last year.
Jardine Strategic was weighed down by concerns over margins were steady in its key offshore & marine division, its ASEAN exposure.
Among its underlying businesses, Astra whilst it maintains a healthy order book with deliveries in Indonesia was hampered by weakening consumer extending through to 2019.
On the positive side, ST sentiment and rupiah weakness, while Dairy Farm, which is Engineering was among the top contributors to overall also a direct holding, suffered some margin erosion in its performance.
The company posted steady earnings growth food businesses in Malaysia and Singapore.
This was offset by and management expects a better second half, underpinned good underlying profit growth in two other units Hongkong by a significant order book.
Our financial holdings were more resilient.
HSBC continued to focus on expanding Our Korean holdings performed well.
Samsung Electronics selectively across the region and divesting legacy businesses, announced solid earnings, as it gained from the success of its while keeping tight cost discipline.
AIA was bolstered by Galaxy products and the strategy to provide cheap higher trading income and growth in new business.
We have smartphones to consumers in developing countries.
Samsung become increasingly comfortable with HSBC and AIA, which continues to hold key market positions in LCD, mobile is reflected in our higher weightings in the two companies phones and memory chips.
We hold the preference shares, within the portfolio.
which reversed their prior underperformance relative to the 8 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc ordinary shares during the review period.
Regional banks BS Indonesias Bank Danamon.
This came after protracted Financial and DGB Financial also boosted performance.
Both negotiations, which were hindered by regulatory and political reported robust loan growth, particularly corporate lending, constraints.
although there was some pressure on net interest margins.
As mentioned in the interim report, we were concerned over Other positive stock contributors were PTTEP and Siam investigations involving the top executives of Hong KongCement in Thailand, TSMC in Taiwan as well as Bank of the listed Sun Hung Kai Properties, and sold our holding on these Philippine Islands BPI and Ayala Land in the Philippines.
corporate governance concerns after a rebound in the share PTTEPs profits benefited from higher volumes and selling price.
prices, as well as lower exploration expenses.
Siam Cements earnings were lifted by solid demand and expectations that We top-sliced Ayala Land, Unilever Indonesia and ST the profitability of its chemical business would improve.
Both Engineering following strong relative performance.
Against had underperformed in the previous year, as domesticthat, we added to Li & Fung on share price weakness and focused companies came to the fore.
topped up China Mobile, John Keells, OCBC and Swire Pacific which continue to offer decent value.
In Taiwan, TSMCs recent results were supported by healthy demand for mobile-related applications.
The company is the Outlook worlds largest semiconductor foundry.
Despite being in a Asian stock markets had a good year despite external commoditised industry, TSMC benefits from scale and headwinds and slowing regional growth, but some caution is technology advantage and has a good track record of prudent, as Mays sell-off gave us an insight into the managing its balance sheet and capital efficiently.
It remains potential impact of reduced US Federal Reserve buying of US the leader in next-generation technology within its industry.
Treasuries and thereby higher US interest rates, which could trigger capital outflows from Asia and renewed volatility.
Elsewhere, good results from our Philippine holdings Your Chairman has also highlighted some crucial challenges underpinned the strong performance of their share prices.
While the macroeconomic backdrop is mixed, BPIs higher profits were driven by good loan growth, higher the outlook remains bright enough from a corporate non-interest income and lower provisions.
We expect positive earnings growth from Asian reported record earnings for its 2012 financial year and companies in the year ahead, while valuations remain continued its excellent profit growth in the first half of 2013. reasonable.
Portfolio Activity Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Limited During the period, we only made two significant portfolio 4 November 2013 changes one initiation and a divestment.
This reflects our conviction in the companies we hold and their business on behalf of Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited prospects, but it is also an indication of elevated valuations Both companies are subsidiaries of Aberdeen Asset in other companies that we would consider owning.
the portfolio, we have tried to be as disciplined as possible in taking profits from the more fully valued companies, although we also saw the market reward companies with a more defensive earnings profile, which in many cases began the period on rich multiples.
Against that, we added to existing holdings on share price weakness, where the operating performance of the businesses has remained within our expectations.
In June, we introduced DBS Group, which is Singapores largest bank in terms of assets.
Like the two other Singapore lenders that we hold UOB and OCBC, it has selective regional exposure and is well capitalised.
The lender has posted consistently good results over the past few quarters.
DBS has improved its profitability in Hong Kong and has good growth prospects, particularly in Southeast Asia, which complements its strong domestic position.
However, it still had some setbacks.
The most recent was in late July, when the lender dropped its bid to buy a controlling stake in Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 9
