The Investment Process Philosophy and Style Risk Controls Our investment philosophy is that markets are not always We seek to minimise risk by our in-depth research which efficient.
We believe that superior investment returns are underpins the focused portfolio of the Company.
We do not therefore attainable by identifying good companies which view divergence from a benchmark as risk we regard are cheap in terms of the fundamentals that in our opinion security price risk as investment in poorly run and or drive share prices over the long term.
In fact where risk parameters are substantial due diligence before initiating any investment expressed in benchmark relative terms, asset allocation including company visits in order to assure ourselves of the including sector constitutes a significant constraint on quality of the prospective investment.
We are then careful stock selection.
not to pay too high a price when making the investment.
Subsequent to that investment we then keep in close touch Aberdeens performance and investment risk unit with the company, aiming to meet management at least independently monitors portfolio positions, and reports twice a year.
Given our long-term fundamental investment monthly.
As well as attributing performance it also produces philosophy, one would not expect much change in the statistical analysis, which is used by the Manager primarily to companies in which we invest.
We do, however, take check the portfolio is behaving as expected, not as a opportunities offered to us by what we see as anomalous predictive tool.
price movements within stock markets to either top up or top slice positions, which typically accounts for the bulk of Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Limited the activity within the portfolio during the year under review.
on behalf of Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited AAM Asia is based in Singapore.
Founded in 1992, the office is run by Hugh Young, the founding managing director who oversees a team of portfolio managers in Singapore who act as generalists, cross-covering the region.
In addition, AAM Asia has offices in Kuala Lumpur, Hong Kong, Sydney, Taipei, Tokyo and Bangkok.
Regional Teams Company visit note Risk controls Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Quality Aberdeen Price Portfolio universe construction c200 stocks Asia Pacific ex Japan Pass or fail?
Model c35-75 stocks Watchlist Review Potential revisit Monitor c80 stocks Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 11
