14 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2013 The Directors present their report, including the Business Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
together with the audited financial statements of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc the Company for the year ended 31 March 2013. BUSINESS REVIEW Business and Status The Company was incorporated and registered in Scotland as a public limited company on 1 March 1889, registered number SC1836.
It is an investment company as defined by section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as an investment trust.
It was approved as an investment trust under section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 CTA for the year ended 31 March 2012 and has also received upfront approval for the year ended 31 March 2013 and thereafter.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so as to enable it to maintain such approval.
The Board does not at present envisage any significant changes to the business of the Company.
No important events affecting the Company have occurred since the end of its financial year.
A review of the Companys business is provided in the Chairmans Statement on pages 6 and 7 and in the Managers Report on pages 8 and 9.
Objective and Investment Policy The Company invests primarily in UK securities with the long term objective of achieving: 1. an increase of the Net Asset Value per share by more than the growth in the FTSE All-Share Index: and 2. growth in dividends per share by more than the rate of UK inflation.
The Company will generally invest only in companies quoted on a recognised stock exchange in the UK or in those which are about to enter the FTSE All-Share Index.
The Company may also invest up to 20% of the market value of the Companys investment portfolio, measured at the time of any acquisition, in securities listed on stock exchanges outside the UK.
The portfolio is selected by the Manager on the basis of its assessment of the fundamental value available in individual securities.
Whilst the Companys overall exposure to individual securities is monitored carefully by the Board, the portfolio is not primarily structured on the basis of industry weightings.
The securities of no one company may, as determined at the time of acquisition, represent more than 10% of the market value of the Companys equity portfolio.
Similarly, the Company will not hold more than 5% of the issued share capital or voting shares in any one company.
Investment in convertibles is subject to normal security limits.
Should these or any other limit be exceeded by subsequent market movement, each resulting position is specifically reviewed by the Board.
The Company borrows money to provide gearing to the equity portfolio up to a maximum of 200 million.
Use of derivative instruments is monitored carefully by the Board and permitted within the following constraints.
The writing of covered calls, to a maximum of 10% of the value of the portfolio and investment in FTSE 100 futures up to 15% of the value of the portfolio.
Other derivative instruments may be employed, subject to prior Board approval, provided that the cost and potential liability of exercise of all outstanding derivative positions at any time should not exceed 25% of the value of the portfolio at that time.
The Company may hedge exposure to changes in foreign currency rates in respect of its overseas investments.
Results and Dividends At the year end the mid-market price was 572p per ordinary share 2012: 497.6p.
The net asset value debt at par and net asset value debt at market value per ordinary share were 581.89p and 559.01p respectively.
The comparative figures on 31 March 2012 were 502.03p and 478.30p.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final proposed dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 of 7.8p 2012: 7p per ordinary share will be payable on 31 July 2013 to shareholders on the register on 14 June 2013.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend on 12 June 2013.
This will give total dividends for the year of 22.8p per share, an increase of 3.6% on the previous years dividend of 22p.
The revenue return per share for the year was 22p, which was a small decrease on the 2012 return of 22.1p.
THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 15 Performance The Board reviews the Companys performance by reference to a number of key performance indicators KPIs which are set out below.
Notwithstanding that some KPIs are beyond its control, they are measures of the Companys absolute and relative performance.
The KPIs assist in managing performance and compliance and are reviewed by the Board at each meeting.
YEAR TO 31 MARCH 2013 2012 Total Return: 1 Net asset value per share debt at par 21.1% 15.2% 1 Net asset value per share debt at market 22.4% 15.8% 2 FTSE All-Share Index 16.8% 1.4% 2 Share price 20.1% 17.6% 1 Discount to NAV debt at par 1.7% 0.9% 1 Premium discount to NAV debt at market 2.3 % 4.0 % Revenue return per share 22.0p 22.1p Gross gearing 17.6% 20.4% Net gearing 17.6% 20.3% Ongoing charges ratio excluding performance fee 0.7% 0.7% 1 3 Performance fee 1.2% 0.4% 1 Calculated in accordance with AIC Guidelines 2 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream 3 Calculated as total ongoing expenses average NAV debt at market value.
Note that since the Companys performance fee is based on average NAV debt at par of up to 1% of period end net assets, the ongoing charges ratio can result in a figure that is higher or lower than 1% of period end net assets which is the basis used in these accounts.
For a full explanation of the Companys performance fee, see page 24.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
Expenses are reviewed at each Board meeting enabling the Board, amongst other things, to review costs and consider any expenditure outside that of its normal operations.
The Board also regularly reviews the performance of the Company in relation to the 21 investment th trusts in the UK Growth and Income sector.
As at 31 March 2013, the Company was ranked 16 by th th NAV performance in this sector over one year, 4 over three years and 5 over five years source: JPMorgan Cazenove.
Analysis of Performance FOR YEAR Analysis of Performance analyses the TOTAL RETURN BASIS ENDED relative performance of the Company to its 31 MARCH 2013 benchmark index.
% Portfolio outperformance measures the Net asset value total return 21.1 relative effect of the Companys investment Benchmark total return 16.8 portfolio against that of its benchmark.
Relative performance 4.3 Net gearing effect measures the impact of Analysis of Relative Performance the debenture stocks and cash on the Companys relative performance.
Portfolio total return 20.6 Less Benchmark total return 16.8 Interest arising from the debenture stocks reduces the assets available to invest, in a Portfolio outperformance 3.8 resulting negative impact on performance.
Debenture borrowings: Net gearing effect 4.6 Management fees including both the base Interest 2.0 fee and any performance fee, reduce the Base management fees 0.6 Companys net assets and decrease Performance fee 1.2 performance.
Other expenses 0.1 Tax 0.2 Other expenses reduce the level of assets and tax and therefore result in a negative Total 4.3 effect for relative performance.
16 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Borrowings and Debt The Company has 200 million of borrowings in the form of two 100 million nominal debentures.
1 3 The 11 2% debenture matures in 2014 and the 7 4% debenture in 2022.
The weighted average interest rate is 9.625%.
The Company also has a bank overdraft facility of 10% of assets held by the Custodian which was undrawn at 31 March 2013: this facility is available to facilitate settlement of short-term cash timing differences and was largely unused during the year.
Future Trends Details of the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Companys business can be found in the Managers Report on pages 8 and 9.
Further details concerning the risks affecting the Company are set out under the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section that follows.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Companys key long-term investment objectives are an increase in the capital net asset value per share by more than the growth in the FTSE All-Share Index the benchmark or index and an increase in dividends by more than the growth of RPI.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company are an integral consideration when assessing the operations in place to monitor these objectives, including the performance of the portfolio, share price and dividends.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the risk control systems but the day-to-day operation and monitoring is delegated to the Manager.
Market Risk The uncertainty over future equity market price movements is an inherent part of the rationale for the Companys existence.
The Companys assets principally consist of quoted securities.
The prices of these securities and the income derived from them are influenced by many factors such as general economic conditions, interest rates, inflation, political events, and government policies as well as by supply and demand reflecting investor sentiment.
In addition, there continues to be a risk that European policy makers fail to implement an effective and lasting solution to the Eurozone crisis.
Such factors are outside the control of the Board and Manager and may give rise to high levels of volatility in the prices of investments held by the Company.
The asset value and price of the Companys shares and its earnings and dividends may consequently also experience volatility and may decline.
Investment Performance Risk The Board sets performance objectives and delegates the investment management process to the Manager.
The achievement of the Companys performance objectives relative to the market requires active management of the portfolio of assets and securities.
The Managers approach is to construct a portfolio which is compatible with the Managers view of future trends in the UK and global economies.
The Manager is a long term investor, prepared to take substantial positions in securities and sectors which may well be out of fashion, but which the Manager believes will have potential for material increases in earnings and, in due course, dividends and share prices.
Strategy, asset allocation and stock selection decisions by the Manager can lead to underperformance of the benchmark index and or income targets.
The Managers style may result in a concentrated portfolio with significant overweight or underweight positions in individual stocks or sectors compared to the index and consequently the Companys performance may deviate significantly, possibly for extended periods, from that of the benchmark index.
In a similar way, the Manager manages other portfolios holding many of the same stocks as the Company which reflects the Managers high conviction style of investment management.
This could significantly increase the liquidity and price risk of certain stocks under certain scenarios and market conditions.
However the Board and Manager believe that the investment process and policy outlined above should, over the long term, meet the Companys objectives of capital growth in excess of the benchmark index and real dividend growth.
Investment selection is delegated to the Manager.
The Board does not specify asset allocations.
Information on the Companys performance against the benchmark and peer group is provided to the Board on a quarterly basis.
The Board uses this to review the performance of the Company, taking into account how performance relates to the Companys objectives.
The Manager is responsible for monitoring the portfolio selected and seeks to ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk-reward profile.
THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17 Gearing Risk The Company has the ability to invest up to 200 million from its debenture stocks in the equity market.
The principal gearing risk is that the level of gearing may have an adverse impact on performance.
Secondary risks relate to whether the cost of gearing is too high and whether the term of gearing is appropriate.
The Company also has a new secondary risk concerning its ability to replace, if it so chooses, the 100 million debenture stock which matures in June 2014 with a form of gearing that is acceptable, both in type and cost, to the Company and the Manager.
The Companys performance could be adversely affected if the debenture stock were not replaced.
The Manager has full discretion over the amount of cash from the Companys Debenture Stocks to be invested in the equity market whilst the issuance, repurchase or restructuring of debt are for the Board to decide.
Information related to gearing is provided to the Directors as part of the Board papers.
The Board regularly reviews the level of gearing.
Additionally, the Board keeps under review the cost of buying back debt.
Income Dividend Risk The Company is subject to the risk that income generation from its investments fails to reach the level of income required to meet its objectives.
The Board monitors this risk through the review of detailed income forecasts and comparison against budget.
These are contained within the Board papers.
The Board considers the level of income at each meeting.
Share Price Risk There is a risk that the Companys prospects and NAV may not be fully reflected in the share price from time to time.
The share price is monitored on a daily basis.
The Board is empowered to repurchase shares within agreed parameters.
The discount at which the shares trade to NAV can be influenced by share repurchases.
The Company has not repurchased shares in the last year.
Control Systems Risk The Board delegates a number of specific risk control activities to the Manager including: best practice standards in fund management operations: financial controls: meeting regulatory requirements: the management of the relationship with the Custodian in respect of the custody and security of the Companys assets: and the management of the relationship with the Registrar.
Consequently in respect of these activities the Company is dependent on the Managers control systems and those of its Custodian and Registrars, both of which are monitored by the Manager in the context of safeguarding the Companys assets and interests.
There is a risk that the Manager fails to ensure that these controls are operated in a satisfactory manner.
In addition, the Company relies on the soundness and efficiency of the Custodian for good title and timeliness of receipt and delivery of securities.
A risk-based programme of internal audits is carried out by the Manager regularly to test the controls environment.
An internal controls report providing an assessment of these risks is prepared by the Manager and considered by the Audit Committee, and is formally reported to and considered by the Board.
Reliance on Third Party Providers The Company has no employees and the Directors are all appointed on a non-executive basis.
The Company is reliant upon the performance of third party providers for its executive function.
The Companys most significant contract is with the Manager, to whom responsibility both for the Companys portfolio and for the provision of company secretarial and administrative services are delegated.
The Company has other contractual arrangements with third parties to act as Auditor, Registrar, Custodian and Broker.
Failure by any service provider to carry out its obligations to the Company in accordance with the terms of its appointment could have a materially detrimental impact on the operation of the Company and could affect the ability of the Company to pursue successfully its investment policy and expose the Company to risk of loss or to reputational risk.
In particular, the Manager performs services which are integral to the operation of the Company.
The Manager may be exposed to the risk that litigation, misconduct, operational failures, negative publicity 18 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued and press speculation, whether or not it is valid, will harm its reputation.
Any damage to the reputation of the Manager could result in counterparties and third parties being unwilling to deal with the Manager and by extension the Company.
This could have an adverse impact on the ability of the Company to pursue its investment policy.
The Board seeks to manage these risks in a number of ways: The Manager monitors the performance of all third party providers in relation to agreed service standards on a regular basis, and any issues and concerns are dealt with promptly and reported to the Board.
The Manager formally reviews the performance of all third party providers and reports to the Board on an annual basis.
The Board reviews the performance of the Manager at every board meeting and otherwise as appropriate.
The Board has the power to replace the Manager and reviews the management contract formally once a year.
The day-to-day management of the portfolio is the responsibility of Neil Woodford, Head of Investment at Invesco Perpetual, who has worked in equity markets since 1981 and has been the portfolio manager of the Company since Invescos appointment in September 2008.
The Board has adopted guidelines within which the portfolio manager is permitted wide discretion.
Any proposed variation outside these guidelines is referred to the Board and the guidelines themselves are reviewed at every board meeting.
The risk that the portfolio manager might be incapacitated or otherwise unavailable is mitigated by the fact that he works within, and is supported by, the wider Invesco Perpetual UK Equity team.
Other Risks The Company may be exposed to other business and strategic risks in the future, including fiscal, legal or regulatory changes, and the perceived impact of the designated Investment Manager ceasing to be involved with the Company.
The instruments in which the Companys cash positions are invested are reviewed by the Board to ensure liquidity and concentration risks are adequately managed.
Where an Invesco Group vehicle is utilised, it is assessed for suitability against other similar investment options.
The Company is subject to laws and regulations by virtue of its status as an investment trust and is required to comply with certain regulatory requirements that are applicable to listed closed-ended investment companies.
The Company is subject to the continuing obligations imposed by the UK Listing Authority on all companies whose shares are listed on the Official List.
A breach of the conditions for approval as an investment trust could lead to the Company being subject to capital gains tax on the sale of the investments in the Companys portfolio.
A serious breach of other regulatory rules may lead to suspension from listing on the Stock Exchange or a qualified Audit Report.
The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive will impose obligations on the Company and the Manager which may have significant consequences for the Company and may increase its compliance and regulatory costs.
Failure to meet these obligations may impair the Managers ability to manage the investments of the Company, which may materially adversely affect the Companys ability to implement its investment strategy and achieve its investment objective.
The Manager reviews compliance with investment trust tax conditions and other financial and regulatory requirements on a daily basis.
There is an ongoing process for the Board to consider these other risks.
In addition, the composition of the Board is regularly reviewed to ensure the membership offers sufficient knowledge and experience to assess and anticipate these risks, as far as possible.
Audit Information The Directors who held office at the date of the approval of the Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Principles and Compliance The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of Corporate Governance and is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
The Board of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc has considered the principles and recommendations of the 2010 AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010, will provide better information to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010, except as set out below.
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 includes provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive executive directors remuneration the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc, being an externally managed investment company.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The terms of reference for the Board and the Audit Committee are reviewed and updated periodically to bring them in line with latest best practice and to ensure compliance with the AIC Code.
The Companys Corporate Governance procedures are considered regularly by the Board and amended as necessary.
The Board At the year end the Board comprised five non-executive Directors.
Since the year end Victoria Hastings and Glen Suarez have been appointed to the Board.
The Board regards all Directors as wholly independent of the Companys Manager.
Some commentators have a view that length of service on a board can compromise independence from the manager.
The AIC does not believe that this is the case for investment companies and therefore does not recommend that long serving directors be prevented from forming part of the independent majority.
Chairman The Chairman of the Company is Jim Pettigrew.
He has been a member of the Board since 2005 and was the audit committee chairman until 22 July 2011, when he was appointed as Chairman.
Senior Independent Director The Companys Senior Independent Director is Sir Nigel Wicks.
Board Balance The Directors have a range of business, financial and asset management skills as well as experience relevant to the direction and control of the Company.
Brief biographical details of members of the Board are shown on page 11.
Appointment, Re-election and Tenure Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of ordinary shareholders and Directors have the power to appoint a Director.
The Articles of Association require that a Director shall be subject to election at the first AGM after appointment and re-election at least every three years thereafter.
All Directors served throughout the year, with the exception of Victoria Hastings and Glen Suarez who were appointed on 23 May and 24 May 2013, respectively, and will stand for election at the AGM on 19 July 2013.
20 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued In accordance with the UK Code of Corporate Governance 2010, at every AGM all Directors shall retire and offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Nomination Committee All Directors are members of the Nomination Committee which is chaired by Jim Pettigrew.
The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference which clearly define its duties and responsibilities.
These include regularly evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and whether to recommend the re-election of Directors at each AGM to shareholders.
The Committee is also responsible for identifying and nominating for approval of the Board, candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available for inspection at the AGM, at the registered office of the Company and are also available on the Managers website.
As mentioned earlier, Nicola Ralston will retire at the conclusion of this years AGM.
In order that the Board continues to have a balance of skills, experience and length of service and knowledge of the Company, it was decided that two new Directors be appointed.
The Board instructed the Nomination Committee to carry out this process taking into consideration the above requirements as well as diversity of the Board and the ability of any new Director to devote sufficient time to the Company to carry out his or her duties effectively.
The Nomination Committee appointed an external search consultancy to identify potential candidates.
The Board was pleased that this process successfully identified a number of strong candidates and subsequent to the year end, the Board appointed Victoria Hastings and Glen Suarez as Directors of the Company with effect from 23 May and 24 May 2013, respectively.
The Board considers that, with Victorias and Glens considerable knowledge and experience, they will make a valuable contribution to the Board and, therefore, recommends that shareholders support resolutions 3 and 4 at the Companys AGM.
No Director has a contract of employment with the Company.
Directors terms and conditions of appointment are set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company and will also be available at the AGM.
A Director can be removed from office without notice or compensation upon being served with a written notice signed by all his co-Directors.
Board, Committee and Directors Performance Appraisal The Directors recognise the importance of the AIC Codes recommendation in respect of evaluating the performance of the Board as a whole, the Committees and individual Directors.
During the year, the Directors undertook an extensive review of the Board structure, including an evaluation of the performance of the Board, the Committees and of individual Directors.
Since the year end, an external evaluation by Lintstock Limited was completed.
The conclusion of the continuous evaluation process was that the performance of the Board as a whole, the Committees of the Board, the Chairman and individual Directors was deemed fully satisfactory.
Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings All Directors are considered to have a good attendance record at Board and Committee meetings of the Company.
The following table sets out the number of scheduled Directors meetings held during the year and the number of meetings attended by each Director: MANAGEMENT AUDIT ENGAGEMENT BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEETINGS MEETINGS MEETINGS Meetings held 4 3 1 Meetings attended: 1 Jim Pettigrew 431 2 Richard Barfield 111 Gordon McQueen 4 3 1 Nicola Ralston 4 3 1 3 William Samuel 321 Maxwell Ward 4 3 1 Sir Nigel Wicks 4 3 1 1 The Chairman is not a member of the Audit Committee but was in attendance at the meetings.
Board members attended a significant number of informal meetings to discuss other ad hoc items.
THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 Directors Remuneration The Board as a whole reviews Directors remuneration periodically.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 29 and 30.
Board Responsibilities The Directors are equally responsible under United Kingdom law for the proper conduct of the Companys affairs and for promoting the success of the Company by directing and supervising its affairs within a framework of effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
In addition, the Directors are responsible for ensuring that their policies and operations are in the interest of all of the Companys shareholders and that the interests of creditors and suppliers to the Company are properly considered.
The Board is committed to the prevention of corruption in the conduct of the Companys affairs and, taking account of the nature of the Companys business and operations, has put in place procedures for and on behalf of the Company that the Board considers adequate to prevent persons associated with it from engaging in bribery.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its consideration, which clearly define the Directors responsibilities.
The main responsibilities include: setting the Companys objectives, policies and standards: ensuring that the Companys obligations to shareholders and others are understood and complied with: selecting an appropriate Manager, approving accounting policies and dividend policy: managing the capital structure: setting long-term strategy: reviewing investment performance: assessing risk: approving loans and borrowing: and controlling risks.
The Board ensures that shareholders are provided with sufficient information in order to understand the risk:reward balance to which they are exposed by holding their shares, through the portfolio details given in the half-yearly and annual financial reports, interim management statements, factsheets and daily NAV disclosures.
Finally, the Board as a whole undertakes the responsibilities which would otherwise be assumed by a remuneration committee, determining the Companys remuneration policy.
The Board takes into account all factors which are deemed necessary in order to ensure that members of the Board are provided with appropriate compensation and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Company.
The remuneration of Directors is reviewed periodically and reported on in more detail in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Supply of Information To enable the Directors of the Board to fulfil their roles, the Manager ensures that all Directors have timely access to all relevant management, financial and regulatory information.
On being appointed to the Board, Directors are fully briefed as to their responsibilities and are continually updated throughout their term in office on industry and regulatory matters.
The Manager and the Board have formulated a programme of induction training for newly appointed Directors.
They have also put arrangements in place to address ongoing training requirements of Directors which include briefings from key members of the Managers staff and which ensure that Directors can keep up to date with new legislation and changing risks.
The Board meets on a regular basis at least four times each year.
Additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Regular contact is maintained by the Manager with the Board between formal meetings.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda, which includes a review of the investment portfolio with a report from the Manager on the current investment position and outlook, strategic direction, performance against stock market indices and the Companys peer group, asset allocation, gearing policy, cash management, revenue forecasts for the financial year, marketing and shareholder relations, corporate governance, regulatory changes and industry and other issues.
There is an agreed procedure for the Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take legal advice at the Companys expense up to an initial cost of 10,000, having first consulted with the Chairman.
22 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Company Secretary The Board has direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Invesco Asset Management Limited, which is responsible for ensuring that the Board and Committee procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary is also responsible to the Board for ensuring timely delivery of information and reports and that the statutory obligations of the Company are met.
Finally, the Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Companys systems of internal financial and non-financial controls internal controls which are designed to safeguard shareholders investments and the Companys assets which have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of this report.
The Companys internal controls and risk management systems have been reviewed with the Manager against risk parameters approved by the Board.
The Board reviews, at least annually, the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance and risk management systems.
The Companys system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve the Companys investment objective and or adhere to the Companys investment policy and or investment limits.
This system can therefore provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that the necessary actions are taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from their review.
There are no significant failings or weaknesses that have occurred throughout the year ended 31 March 2013 and up to the date of this annual financial report.
The Board reviews financial reports and performance against forecasts, relevant stock market criteria and the Companys peer group.
In addition, the Manager and Custodian maintain their own systems of internal controls and the Board and the Audit Committee receive regular reports from the Internal Audit and Compliance Departments of the Manager.
Formal reports are also produced annually on the internal controls and procedures in place for the operation of secretarial and administrative, custodial, investment management and accounting activities.
The programme of reviews is set up by the Manager and the reports are not necessarily directed to the affairs of any one client of the Manager.
Accountability and Audit The Directors responsibilities for the Companys accounting records and financial statements are set out on page 31 and the Independent Auditors Report is set out on page 32.
Going Concern The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors consider this is the appropriate basis as they have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being taken as 12 months after the signing of the balance sheet.
In considering this, the Directors took into account the maturity of the debentures, the diversified portfolio of readily realisable securities which can be used to meet funding commitments, and the ability of the Company to meet all of its liabilities and ongoing expenses from its assets.
The Directors also considered the revenue forecasts for the forthcoming year and future dividend payments in concluding on the going concern basis.
Audit Committee The Board is supported by an Audit Committee chaired by Gordon McQueen, consisting of all non-executive Directors with the exception of Jim Pettigrew.
The Committee has written terms of reference which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, including its role and authority, were updated during the year to ensure best practice and compliance with the 2010 AIC Code.
They will be available for inspection at the AGM and can be inspected at the Registered Office of the Company or on the Managers website.
The Audit Committee is responsible to the Board for reviewing each aspect of the financial reporting process, systems of internal control and the management of financial risks, the audit process, THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 relationships with external auditors, the Companys processes for monitoring compliance with laws and regulations, its code of business conduct and for making recommendations to the Board.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board in respect of the appointment, reappointment and removal of the auditor and for the terms of their audit engagement.
It is also responsible for reviewing the Managers whistleblowing arrangements.
Duties of the Audit Committee include discussing with the external auditor the nature and scope of the audit and reviewing the external auditors quality control procedures: considering the scope of work undertaken by the Managers internal audit and compliance departments: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Managers internal audit: reviewing the Companys procedures for detecting fraud: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company: reviewing the half-yearly and annual financial reports of the Company prior to their submission to the Board: and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control systems including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
They also include responsibility for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the audit process and the external auditors independence and objectivity with particular regard to the provision of non-audit services.
The Audit Committee of the Board meets the external auditor in the absence of representatives from the Manager at least once a year to review these and other appropriate matters.
Shareholders have the opportunity at each Annual General Meeting to vote on the re-appointment of the external auditor for the forthcoming year and to authorise the Directors to determine the level of auditors remuneration.
The Committee also reviews corporate governance issues, the existence and performance of all controls operating in the Company including compliance with the conditions for approval as an investment trust, the relationship with and the performance of third party service providers.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year in the performance of their duties.
In addition, the Audit Committee Chairman meets with the Manager on a regular basis, and from time to time with the external Auditor.
The Committee has received satisfactory reports on the Managers internal operations from the Managers Compliance and Internal Audit departments.
The Committee has reviewed the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 with the Manager and the auditor at the conclusion of the audit process.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at the AGM to deal with questions relating to the accounts.
The Committee has recommended approval by the Board of an audit fee of 23,000 including expenses, exclusive of VAT.
The Committee has considered and is satisfied with the objectivity and the independence of the auditor.
Non-audit fees for the year to 31 March 2013 were 7,000 and related to the review of the half-yearly financial report and the annual certificates of compliance to the trustee of the debenture stocks.
The Committee does not believe that this has impaired the auditors independence and objectivity.
Non-audit services up to 5,000 do not require approval in advance of the Audit Committee: amounts in excess of this require the approval of the Audit Committee.
The Committee has reviewed the recent changes to the UK Corporate Governance and AIC Codes including the provision for FTSE 350 companies to put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
Having considered the FRCs guidance on aligning the timing of such tenders with the audit engagement partner five year rotation cycle and following the satisfactory outcome to the Committees regular review of auditor effectiveness, performance and independence, the Committee recommends to the Board a resolution proposing the reappointment of KPMG Audit LLP at the forthcoming AGM.
The Committee also intends to initiate a tender process in time for the 2014 annual audit appointment.
Relations with Shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Board and the Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with shareholders is through the half-yearly and annual financial reports, which aim to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys activities and their results.
This information is supplemented by the daily calculation and publication of the net asset value of the Companys ordinary shares, interim management statements and by monthly and daily fact sheets produced by the Manager.
This information can be accessed at the Managers investment trust website at www.
At each AGM, a presentation is made by the investment manager following the formal business of the Meeting and shareholders have the opportunity to attend, vote and most importantly to communicate directly with the whole Board.
24 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued There is a regular dialogue between the Manager and major institutional shareholders to discuss aspects of investment performance, governance and strategy and to listen to shareholder views in order to help develop an understanding of their issues and concerns.
General presentations to both institutional shareholders and analysts follow the publication of the annual results.
All meetings between the Manager and shareholders are reported to the Board.
During the year, the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the other Directors also met representatives of those major shareholders who accepted an invitation from the Chairman to meet.
Stewardship The Board considers that the Company has a responsibility as a shareholder towards ensuring that high standards of Corporate Governance are maintained in the companies in which it invests.
To achieve this, the Board does not seek to intervene in daily management decisions, but aims to support high standards of governance and, where necessary, will take the initiative to ensure those standards are met.
The principal means of putting shareholder responsibility into practice is through the exercise of voting rights.
The Companys voting rights are exercised on an informed and independent basis.
The Companys stewardship functions have been delegated to the Manager.
The Manager has adopted a clear and considered policy towards its responsibility as a shareholder on behalf of the Company.
As part of this policy, the Manager takes steps to satisfy itself about the extent to which the companies in which it invests look after shareholders value and comply with local recommendations and practices, such as the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A copy of the Managers policy on Corporate Governance and stewardship can be found at www.
Conflicts of Interest A Director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or has the potential to conflict with the companys interests.
The Articles of Association of the Company give the Directors authority to authorise potential conflicts of interest and there are safeguards which apply when Directors decide whether to do so.
Firstly, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors can impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Directors have declared any potential conflicts of interest to the Company.
The Register of Potential Conflicts of Interests is kept at the Registered Office of the Company.
It is reviewed regularly by the Board and the Directors will advise the Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of any potential conflicts of interest.
The Manager Investment Management Agreement IMA Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML acts as Manager and Secretary to the Company under an investment management agreement dated 15 September 2008.
The agreement is terminable by either party by giving not less than 3 months notice.
The management fee is payable monthly in arrears and is equal to 0.05% of the market capitalisation of the Companys ordinary shares at each month end.
In addition, the Manager is entitled to a performance fee not greater than 1% of the period end net asset value, prior to deduction of the current period's performance fee.
This performance fee is calculated at 15% of the outperformance of the Companys net assets over its benchmark, the FTSE All-Share Index, once a hurdle rate of 1.25% per annum has been achieved.
This fee is calculated on average quarterly net asset values debt at par of the Company over a period of the previous three accounting years ended at the balance sheet date.
Note that since the performance fee calculation is based on average NAV debt at par at up to 1% of period end net assets, the ongoing charges ratio calculated as total ongoing expenses average NAV debt at market value can result in a figure that is higher or lower than 1% of period end net assets which is the basis used in these accounts.
THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 25 The Managers Responsibilities The Directors have delegated to Invesco Asset Management Limited the Manager the responsibility for the day-to-day investment management activities of the Company.
The Manager has full discretion to manage the assets of the Company in accordance with the Companys stated objectives and policies.
The Manager has discretion to make purchases and sales, make and withdraw cash deposits, enter into underwriting commitments and exercise all rights over the investment portfolio.
The Manager also advises on borrowings.
The Manager provides full administration and company secretarial services to the Company, ensuring that the Company complies with all legal and regulatory requirements and officiating at Board meetings and shareholders meetings.
The Manager additionally maintains complete and accurate records of the Companys investment transactions and portfolio and all monetary transactions from which the Manager prepares half-yearly and annual financial statements on behalf of the Company as well as interim management statements.
The Board has reviewed and accepted the Managers whistleblowing policy under which staff of Invesco Asset Management Limited can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties or irregularities in matters affecting the Company.
The Managers Investment Process and Performance At the core of Invesco Perpetuals investment philosophy is a belief in active investment management.
Fundamental principles drive a genuinely unconstrained investment approach, which aims to deliver attractive total returns over the long term.
These fundamental principles place an emphasis on sound balance sheets, good cash flows, the ability to pay and sustain dividends, strong asset bases and on market conditions.
The investment manager and the UK Equities team employ a pragmatic, valuation-orientated approach that allows investment freedom, such that the investment manager can select stocks free from the constraint of the weighting within the benchmark.
The investment managers focus is on absolute rather than relative returns, as he chooses to take a long term view in the companies he invests in and to invest where he sees value and opportunity.
The aim of the investment process is to identify companies whose outlook or growth prospects are not reflected in their valuations.
To identify these companies the investment manager combines bottom-up research with a top-down macro-economic view.
Stocks are then subjected to detailed fundamental analysis augmented by a qualitative assessment of the company.
The output from this analysis is then used to construct and review the portfolio with the aim of maximising exposure to the most attractive opportunities within its risk parameters.
Assessment of the Investment Manager The Management Engagement Committee meets annually to review the investment management and secretarial arrangements.
The Committee considers, among other matters investment performance, marketing activity, secretarial and administrative services, the finance and control environments, compliance, audit and terms of the Investment Management Agreement.
The Board, based on its recent review of activities, considers that the continuing appointment of Invesco Asset Management Limited is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Social and Environmental Policies As an investment trust with no employees, property or activities outside investment, environmental policy has limited application.
The Manager considers various factors when evaluating potential investments.
Some are financial ratios and measures, such as free cash flow, earnings per share and price-to-book value.
Others are more subjective indicators which rely on first hand research: for example quality of management, innovation and product strength.
The Companys policy is that, subject to an overriding requirement to pursue the best financial interests of the Company, the Manager should take account of social, environmental and ethical factors in making and holding investments and in the use of voting powers conferred by such investments.
The Company is able to supply documents or information to shareholders in electronic form e. g. by email or by means of a website.
This will deliver environmental benefits through reduced use of paper and the energy required for its production and distribution.
26 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Directors Directors Disclosable Interests The beneficial interests of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company are set out below: 31 MARCH 31 MARCH 2013 2012 Jim Pettigrew 20,000 20,000 Victoria Hastings appointed 23 May 2013 Gordon McQueen 2,000 2,000 Nicola Ralston 15,000 15,000 Glen Suarez appointed 24 May 2013 2,000 Maxwell Ward 20,000 20,000 Sir Nigel Wicks 3,500 3,500 Save as aforesaid, no Director had any interests, beneficial or otherwise, in the shares of the Company during the year.
No Director held any of the Companys debenture stocks at either date.
No changes to these holdings had been notified up to the date of this report.
No Director was a party to, or had any interests in, any contract or arrangement with the Company at any time during the year or at the year end.
The Company has entered into a Deed of Indemnity with Directors individually.
Director Indemnification and Insurance A Deed of Indemnity was executed between the Company and each Director.
Under the terms of the indemnities, a Director may be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all costs, charges, losses, expenses and liabilities which the Director may sustain or incur in the execution or purported execution or discharge of his or her duties or the exercise of his powers or discretions as a Director of the Company.
This includes any liability incurred by the Director in disputing, defending, investigating or providing evidence in connection with any actual or threatened or alleged claims, demands, investigations or proceedings whether civil or criminal, and any settlement in respect thereof.
Directors will continue to be indemnified under the terms of the indemnities notwithstanding that they may have ceased to be Directors of the Company.
However, Directors will not be entitled to be indemnified for any liability to the Company for fines payable to regulatory authorities, for defending any criminal proceedings in which they are convicted or in defending any civil proceedings brought by the Company in which judgment is given against a Director.
In these circumstances, the Director will repay to the Company any amount received from the Company under his indemnity.
The indemnity does not apply to the extent that a liability is recoverable from any insurers, if it is prohibited by the Companies Act 2006 or otherwise prohibited by law or if a liability arises from an act or omission of the Director which is shown to have been in bad faith or arising from gross negligence.
Share Capital Capital Structure At the year end, the Companys issued share capital consisted of 195,116,734 ordinary shares of 25p each.
To enable the Board to take action to deal with any significant overhang or shortage of shares in the market, it seeks approval from shareholders every year to buy back and issue shares, however, no shares were bought back or issued in the year.
Restrictions There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Company, no special rights with regard to control attached to securities, no agreements between holders of securities regarding their transfer known to the Company, and no agreements to which the Company is party that might affect its control following a successful takeover bid.
Voting At a general meeting of the Company, every shareholder has one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, one vote for each share held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or present in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27 Substantial Shareholders Details of the substantial shareholders of the Company are disclosed below.
Repurchase Powers The Boards current powers to repurchase shares and proposals for their renewal are disclosed below.
Substantial Holdings in the Company The Company has been notified of the following holdings of 3% and over of the Companys share capital carrying unrestricted voting rights: AS AT AS AT 30 APRIL 2013 31 MARCH 2013 HOLDING % HOLDING % Brewin Dolphin, Stockbrokers 14,252,897 7.3 14,285,029 7.3 Charles Stanley, Stockbrokers 10,037,700 5.1 10,061,967 5.2 Hargreaves Lansdown, Stockbrokers Non-discretionary 9,180,541 4.7 8,822,044 4.5 Aberdeen Retail Plans 9,076,280 4.7 9,129,537 4.7 Rathbones 8,854,675 4.5 8,910,615 4.6 Alliance Trust Savings 8,479,712 4.4 8,373,105 4.3 Investec Wealth & Investment 7,572,485 3.9 7,614,998 3.9 Legal & General Investment Management 6,139,341 3.2 6,176,430 3.2 Special Business at the Annual General Meeting The notice of the Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company to be held on 19 July 2013 at 11.00 am is on pages 51 to 54.
In addition to the ordinary business, four resolutions are proposed as special business, one as an ordinary resolution and three as special resolutions.
Ordinary Resolution 12 and Special Resolution 13: Authority to Allot Shares Resolution 12 is an Ordinary Resolution seeking renewal of the current authority for the Directors to allot up to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital, this being an aggregate nominal amount of 4,877,918 as at 28 May 2013.
Resolution 13 is a Special Resolution which seeks renewal of the current authority to issue up to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital pursuant to a rights issue or otherwise than in connection with a rights issue, dis-applying preemption rights.
This will allow shares to be issued to new shareholders, within the prescribed limits, without having to be offered to existing shareholders first, thus broadening the shareholder base of the Company.
The Directors will not dilute the interests of existing shareholders by using the authority to issue shares at a price which is less than the Net Asset Value calculated with debt at market value of the existing shares in issue at that time.
These authorities will expire at the next AGM of the Company or fifteen months after the passing of the resolutions, whichever is the earlier.
Special Resolution 14: Authority to Buy Back Shares Resolution 14 seeks to renew the Directors authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital, this being 29,247,998 ordinary shares as at 28 May 2013.
The authority will expire at the Companys next AGM or 15 months following the passing of this resolution, if earlier.
The principal purpose of share buy backs is to enhance the net asset value for remaining shareholders and purchases will only be made if they enhance the net asset value for the remaining shareholders.
In accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority UK Listing Rules, the maximum price which can be paid is 5% above the average of the middle market values of the ordinary shares for the five business days before the purchase is made.
The minimum price which may be paid will be 25p per share, this being the nominal value of a share.
In making purchases, the Company will deal only with member firms of the London Stock Exchange.
The Company will finance the purchase of ordinary shares by using its existing cash balance or by selling securities in the Companys portfolio.
The Directors might consider holding repurchased shares as treasury shares with a view to possible resale.
28 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Special Resolution 15: Notice Period for General Meetings The EU Shareholder Rights Directive increased the notice period for general meetings of companies to 21 days unless certain conditions are met in which case it may be 14 days notice.
A shareholders resolution is required to ensure that the Companys general meetings other than Annual General Meetings may be held on 14 days notice.
Accordingly, Special Resolution 15 will propose that the period of notice for general meetings of the Company other than AGMs shall not be less than 14 days notice.
The Directors recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all the resolutions.
Independent Auditor The Audit Committee has considered the independence of the auditors and the objectivity of the audit process and is satisfied that KPMG Audit Plc has fulfilled its obligations to shareholders as independent auditor to the Company.
Resolutions proposing the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as the Companys Auditors and authorising the Directors to determine their remuneration will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
Individual Savings Account ISA The ordinary shares of the Company are qualifying investments under applicable ISA regulations.
Supplier Payment Policy It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all business, including purchases of investments, and to abide by those agreed terms.
The Company had no trade creditors at 31 March 2013 2012: nil.
Donations The Company made no political or charitable donations during the year 2012: nil.
Invesco Asset Management Limited Company Secretary 30 Finsbury Square London EC2A 1AG 28 May 2013
