THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11 DIRECTORS 1 Jim Pettigrew Investment Policy Committees and Chairman of Baillie Jim Pettigrew was appointed to Gifford Overseas.
From 1989 until 2000 he was manager of the Board on 27 October 2005 Scottish Mortgage and Trust plc.
Following his retirement and became the Chairman on from Baillie Gifford, he floated The Independent Investment 22 July 2011.
He is a Chartered Trust plc and has been its managing director since.
He is a Accountant and he is also a former non-executive Director of Aegon UK plc and Foreign member of the Association of and Colonial Investment Trust plc.
Following 2 Sir Nigel Wicks a number of finance function Sir Nigel Wicks, GCB, CVO, CBE positions in Scotland and in was appointed to the Board in London including Group Treasurer of Sedgwick Group plc, 2005 and is the Senior he was Group Finance Director of ICAP plc, a FTSE 100 Independent Director.
After company and the worlds largest specialist inter-dealer working for The British broker from January 1999 to June 2006.
He was Chief Petroleum Company, Sir Nigel Operating and Financial Officer of Ashmore Group plc joined HM Treasury in 1968.
He from 2006 to 2007 and was Chief Executive Officer of worked for Prime Ministers CMC Markets plc from 2007 to 2009.
He is a Harold Wilson, James Callaghan Non-Executive Director of Hermes Fund Managers Limited, and Margaret Thatcher.
He has been the United Kingdoms Royal Bank of Canada Europe Limited, Aberdeen Asset Executive Director at the International Monetary Fund and Management plc, AON UK Limited, Clydesdale Bank plc World Bank and the Prime Ministers representative and Crest Nicholson Holdings plc.
Sherpa for the Economic Summits of the Group of 2 Gordon McQueen Seven Industrialised Nations.
From 1989 to 2000, he was Gordon McQueen was the Treasurys Second Permanent Secretary responsible for appointed to the Board on international financial matters.
The Prime Minister 31 May 2011 and is Chairman appointed him as Chair of the Committee on Standards in of the Audit Committee.
He is a Public Life for the period March 2001 to April 2004.
He Chartered Accountant and a was formerly the Chairman of Euroclear plc and a Fellow of the Chartered Institute Commissioner of the Jersey Financial Services Commission.
He is a He is Chairman of British Bankers Association.
former Finance Director of Bank of Scotland and, until 2003, he Directors Appointed After the Year End was an Executive Director of HBOS plc, where his main role 2 Victoria Hastings was Chief Executive, Treasury.
He is a Director and Audit Victoria Hastings was appointed Committee Chairman of Shaftesbury PLC, Scottish to the Board on 23 May 2013.
Mortgage Investment Trust Plc and JPMorgan Midcap She has nearly 25 years Investment Trust Plc.
experience in the investment management industry and is a 2 Nicola Ralston non-executive director of Nicola Ralston was appointed to Henderson Global Trust plc the Board in 2003.
She started and Impax Environmental her financial career in 1977 Markets plc.
Her roles have moving to Schroders in 1979. included investment director at JO Hambro Capital During her time with the Management: chief investment officer, private clients at Schroder Group, Nicola Merrill Lynch Investment Managers London : a fund undertook a variety of manager in the Merrill Lynch European Equity team: and analytical, fund management non-executive director of Charter European Trust.
and business management roles, becoming Head of Investment Management for the 2 Glen Suarez Schroder Group in 1999.
After leaving Schroders in 2001, Glen Suarez was appointed to Nicola worked with a management consulting firm and the Board on 24 May 2013. was a Director of several hedge funds.
From 2005 to 2006 Glen is Deputy CEO of Knight she was Head of Global Investment Consulting at Hewitt.
Prior She is now a Director of PiRho Investment Consulting, to joining Knight Vinke, he was which she co-founded in 2008.
She is also a member of a Partner in Soditic Limited and the FTSE Policy Committee.
before that he was Head of 2 European Utilities at Morgan Maxwell Ward Stanley.
He is a specialist in the Maxwell Ward was appointed to banking and energy sectors, and is a Fellow of the Institute the Board on 8 August 2011. of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and the Mr Ward joined Baillie Gifford in Royal Society of Arts.
1971 becoming a partner in the firm in 1975 and was head of the UK Equity Department from 1 Member of the Management Engagement and 1981 until his retirement in April Nomination Committees.
He was also a member of 2 Member of the Audit, Management Engagement and the firms Management and Nomination Committees.
