08 MANAGERS REPORT Market Review After a nervous start to the period, UK equities shrugged off concerns over the outlook for global economic growth and the on-going Eurozone crisis.
The statement last June by Mario Draghi, President of the European Central Bank, that he would do whatever it takes to save the euro marked the turning point as, fuelled by ever increasing amounts of monetary stimulus, both the FTSE 100 and FTSE All-Share indices delivered positive returns for 10 straight months the first time this had been witnessed in over 50 years.
This occurred Neil Woodford despite some very mixed news from the global economy, further bail outs of Eurozone banking systems, profit downgrades from companies and further reductions in forecasts for UK economic growth.
Portfolio Strategy and Review The Company produced a net asset value total return with debt at market value of 22.4% during the year, compared to total return from the FTSE All-Share Index of 16.8%.
A strong performance was delivered by the pharmaceutical sector, where over a quarter of the Companys assets are invested.
The holding in Roche again delivered exceptional returns, as the company confirmed its ability to lead the industry in terms of drug discovery and innovation.
The holding in AstraZeneca, which had delivered a relatively disappointing performance the previous year, also contributed strongly as the appointment of a new chief executive, Pascal Soriot, and his subsequent outline of a strategy to return the company to growth, has been very well received.
The Manager remains convinced that, over the longer term, a significant exposure to this sector will continue to prove rewarding.
There were positive performances from a range of the Companys other major holdings.
Shares in BAE Systems had performed strongly in the months before the company confirmed that it was in early stage talks with EADS regarding a merger.
The deal did not look particularly beneficial to shareholders and the two companies subsequently confirmed that merger negotiations had been terminated.
Waning concerns over the possible impact of US defence spending cuts saw BAE Systems shares continue to outperform through to the end of the period.
Reckitt Benckiser pleased the stock market with a very good operational performance and news that it had trumped Bayer to the purchase of Schiff Nutrition, a deal which gives it access to the $30 billion vitamins and nutrition supplements market.
Reckitt Benckiser has an excellent track record of creating value through acquisitions and this is a highly fragmented but well regulated market, with scope for growth in both emerging and developed markets.
BT continued to deliver very strong share price performance.
Results from the company underlined why the Manager expects this stock to continue to deliver good profit and dividend growth.
While headline profits came in just slightly ahead of expectations, the stock market warmed to the prospect of further cost-savings.
The current management team has very effectively reduced the cost-base in recent years and the announcement of a new group-wide restructuring in February opens a path for the next wave of efficiencies.
The Companys zero weighting in the mining sector provided another positive impact on performance.
This is a sector which has tended to do well in previous market rallies, but the Manager is increasingly seeing evidence that the risk-on crowd is slowly falling out of love with it.
News from Rio Tinto highlighted the scale of the value destroyed by the sectors acquisition spree of recent years.
Rio announced a further write down of assets since acquiring Alcan for $38 billion in 2007, the company is estimated to have written down $25 billion of the price paid.
Imperial Tobacco fell during the year following confirmation of tough trading conditions in southern Europe and growing concerns that the UK may follow Australia in introducing plain packaging for cigarettes.
The Manager believes the low valuation of the shares of Imperial Tobacco compared with its peers more than discounts these concerns and that the tobacco sector as a whole continues to offer attractive and dependable growth opportunities.
BG saw its shares fall sharply on the news last October that it had reduced production growth forecasts.
The Manager had reduced the position earlier in the year at higher share price levels but the remaining holding weighed on performance over the year.
There was also disappointing news from THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 09 Chemring.
Carlyle called off its discussions about a possible takeover of the company while Chemring also issued a significant profit warning and a decline in its order book.
With a new management team now in place, the Manager is confident that long-term value can be realised from the high quality businesses within the company.
There was disappointing news from Vodafone as the company reduced its forecasts for revenue growth on the back of on-going weakness in its core southern European markets and announced a share buy-back rather than the hoped for special dividend with its dividend from Verizon.
The Manager has reservations about the companys ability to generate profits from data services while the cash flow cover of the dividend has fallen to what he views as uncomfortably low levels, and hence has disposed of the Companys holdings in the shares.
In terms of portfolio activity, as outlined above the holding in Vodafone was sold and the holding in BG was reduced.
The holding in International Power was sold following a bid for the company while the holdings in Hibu formerly Yell and Tate & Lyle were also disposed of.
The holdings in Capita, Centrica, Rentokil, Serco and Smith & Nephew were added to while new investments were made in Elan, G4S, Lancashire Holdings, Revolymer and Smiths.
Outlook The UK stock markets rise of the past year, fuelled by monetary stimulus and central bank policy initiatives, has occurred despite cuts in forecasts to economic growth and associated reductions in the forecasts of company earnings most notably in the mining sector but also across the a range of companies most exposed to the economic cycle.
Equity valuations on the whole, therefore, are no longer as compellingly cheap as they were a year ago.
At a time when the UK market appears more relaxed about the risks facing the world economy and financial markets, the Manager has become a bit more cautious.
The environment is still very challenging in a real sense, but financial markets have been propped up by symptomatic treatment rather than by a cure of the worlds economic problems However, while the Manager has concerns over the economic environment and believes the stock market may be vulnerable to some near term volatility, he has very strong levels of conviction in the attractiveness of the businesses in which the Company is invested.
The overall market is no longer as cheap as it was, but some high quality, dependable growth companies remain significantly undervalued.
The Manager remains convinced by their potential to deliver attractive positive returns over the medium long term, regardless of the economic headwinds we expect to prevail.
Neil Woodford Investment Manager 28 May 2013
