Valuation Changes The majority of the changes in valuation of the direct unlisted portfolio during the year to 30 September 2013 were made to recognise a realisation.
The largest gain related to Allflex, where the sale provided a realised gain of 113 million, equivalent to an uplift of 73% on the value of the investment at 30 September 2012.
Electra realised a gain of 15 million, or an uplift of 25%, on the IPO of esure, and 3 million, or an uplift of 57%, on the disposal of its investment in Noumena.
In respect of direct unlisted investments retained at the end of the year, the most significant increases in unrealised appreciation arose in respect of AXIO Data Group, Park Resorts and Premier Asset Management.
Although the investment in AXIO was less than six months old at 30 September 2013, its valuation was increased by 20 million to reflect a cash surplus generated since acquisition from business operations and from the sale of a minority investment.
Electra Partners led the consensual restructuring of Park Resorts in August 2013.
This restructuring extended the maturity of the companys borrowing facilities from May 2014 to December 2017 and allowed 60 million of capital to be made available for improvement of facilities in existing holiday parks.
At the same time Electra Partners announced the appointment of a new chief executive with extensive experience in the leisure sector.
These changes will give the company a solid foundation on which to continue its growth.
The stabilisation of this investment has enabled the previous discount to be eliminated, resulting in a 20 million increase in valuation.
The 13 million increase in the valuation of Premier Asset Management reflects profits growth from improving net sales of investment products and investment performance, together with an increase in the valuation of comparable listed companies.
Electra Partners has worked with the management team of the company to strengthen the business through a period of turbulence in the financial markets.
This included making a further investment in the company in 2009 to finance an acquisition and to support increasing investment in people and marketing.
This has led to improved investment performance and product distribution.
The largest decreases in unrealised appreciation related to Davies, Lil-lets and Allflex.
The valuation of the investment in Davies was reduced by 9 million to reflect the low level of claims activity in the market and a churn in customer contracts.
A new chief executive has been appointed with a focus on returning the company to profits growth.
Davies is investing in IT systems to improve many of its work place processes and has won a number of significant new clients this year which will drive revenue growth over the coming years.
The valuation of the investment in Lil-lets was reduced by 4 million to recognise the impending sale of the investment to a South African buyer.
The reduction was explained by a weakening currency in South Africa and masks a number of achievements during the period of Electras investment.
These achievements included strengthening the management team, investments in brand and product development and geographic expansion within Africa.
The new investment in Allflex was reduced by 4 million as a result of adverse currency movements.
Direct Unlisted Investments - Valuation Basis At 30 September 2013 2012 % % Earnings basis 69 71 Recent transaction 18 13 Redemption and exit value 13 8 Yield basis - 8 17
