Large Private Equity Investments Park Resorts Equity Ownership: 48.9% Valuation: 86,823,000 Cost: 69,568,000 Type of Deal: Debt Valuation based on multiple of earnings Location: UK In 2012 Electra, in a number of transactions, acquired senior debt in Park Resorts for 70 million at a significant discount to face value, making Electra the largest lender to the group.
Park Resorts is a leading UK operator of caravan holiday parks.
The company has a strong management team and a leading position in a defensive, fragmented sector that has performed strongly throughout the recession.
While the investment case produced attractive returns in the event of the debt position being held to maturity, the investment strategy was to take an equity position in Park Resorts through a restructuring of the companys debt and thereafter to grow the business both organically and through acquisition.
The restructuring of Park Resorts debt was completed in August 2013, when funds managed or advised by Electra Partners became the majority shareholders, and a significant amount of capital was made available to improve park facilities.
Park Resorts is trading well with EBITDA ahead of budget and prior year.
com Peverel Group Equity Ownership: 49.4% Valuation: 39,943,000 Cost: 21,972,000 Type of Deal: Buyout Valuation based on multiple of earnings Location: UK In 2012 Electra made a 22 million equity investment in the 62 million acquisition of Peverel, the UKs leading property management services group, from its administrators.
Peverel provides residential property management services to 4,000 retirement and other residential developments across the UK and also performs telecare and telehealth monitoring.
The business is the market-leader in a robust market, and offers the opportunity to grow as a result of demographic change and the outsourcing of local authority telecare services.
Investment in service improvement initiatives and business development capabilities is expected to enable the business to solidify its market leadership position and grow its customer base.
Peverel has completed the recruitment of its senior management team, redesigned business processes in order to improve customer service, and started to work more closely with customers to better meet their requirements.
Profits in the current year will be in line with last year due to the level of investment in the management team and change programme.
co. uk 25 Lil-lets Group Equity ownership: 61.7% Valuation: 37,035,000 Cost: 28,144,000 Type of deal: Buyout Valuation based on exit value Location: UK and South Africa In 2006 Electra made a 26 million equity investment in the management buyout of Lil-lets from Accantia Group.
Having previously seen the return of 5 million, Electra made a further 7 million equity investment in 2012 in order to support growth.
Lil-lets is a leading branded feminine hygiene business and offers a complete portfolio of feminine hygiene products under one brand.
The business occupies leadership positions both in the mature UK and growing African markets, supported by a trusted brand and an innovative approach to new product development.
In the UK, growth has been stimulated through brand investment.
In Africa, the business has been expanded through geographic extension and performance improvement.
In November 2013 Lil-lets was sold to Premier Foods Pty Limited, a major South African manufacturer and distributor of fast-moving consumer goods.
Electra received gross proceeds of 37 million which generated a return of 1.3x cost and an IRR of 5%.
com Premier Asset Management Equity Ownership: 73.7% Valuation: 35,904,000 Cost: 56,069,000 Type of Deal: Buyout Valuation based on multiple of earnings Location: UK In 2007 Electra made a 33 million equity and debt investment in the take-private of Premier.
In 2009 Electra made a further 24 million equity investment to support the acquisition of two OEICs from Aberdeen Asset Management.
Premier is a retail asset manager with the bulk of its assets under management AUM in branded retail funds, of which the largest franchises are in multi-asset, UK equities, global equities and fixed income.
The retail investment market displays growth drivers, including demographic and regulatory change and trends in pensions provision, from which Premier is well-placed to benefit due to its strong product portfolio and investment performance.
The intention is to accelerate growth by attracting highquality investment managers and by building scale through acquisition.
In the year to 30 September 2013 Premier has grown its AUM by 13% to 2.3 billion.
Net sales of investment products have improved driven by strong performance in the multi-asset funds, which are particularly in demand with retail investors and their advisers in the post-RDR environment, as well as an increased marketing investment.
co. uk 26 Nuaire Equity Ownership: 38.8% Valuation: 35,180,000 Cost: 23,088,000 Type of Deal: Buyout Valuation based on multiple of earnings Location: UK In 2007 Electra invested 23 million in the 83 million secondary management buyout of Nuaire from ECI Partners.
Nuaire is a leading UK based manufacturer and distributor of ventilation equipment for commercial and residential applications, headquartered in Caerphilly, South Wales.
Nuaire is well-placed to benefit from increasing demand for ventilation systems to comply with more stringent UK building regulations and energy efficiency requirements.
In addition to market growth, Nuaire is seeking to broaden its addressable markets with a series of new product launches in adjacent markets.
Nuaire achieved modest growth in profits during the year to 30 September 2013 and continues to materially reduce its net debt.
Industry statistics for UK construction are now predicting modest growth in activity levels, which together with Nuaires new product development initiatives, offer the opportunity for improved growth in the year to September 2014. www.
co. uk Daler-Rowney Equity Ownership: 41.1% Valuation: 27,524,000 Cost: 17,435,000 Type of Deal: Buyout Valuation based on multiple of earnings Location: International In 2011 Electra made a 17 million equity investment in support of the buyout of Daler-Rowney from private shareholders.
Daler-Rowney is one of the largest suppliers of fine art materials in the world with a comprehensive product range including artists paints, brushes, papers and canvases which meet the needs of artists from beginners to professionals.
The company manufactures its products in the UK and the Dominican Republic and sells in more than ninety countries worldwide.
The company occupies a leading position in a stable, niche market benefiting from high barriers to entry created by products, brands and supply chain complexity.
The intention is to continue to invest in product development and in sales and marketing in order to grow market share, and at the same time to undertake further geographic expansion.
Daler-Rowney has continued to grow sales and profits this year.
In December 2012 the company acquired the business of Dr. Fr.
Schoenfeld GmbH & Co, comprising the Lukas and Nerchau brands, and thus became the largest fine art product supplier in Germany, which itself is Europes largest market.
co. uk 27 Promontoria Equity Ownership: 10.7% Valuation: 27,104,000 Cost: 12,606,000 Type of Deal: Buyout Valuation based on net assets Location: Germany In 2002 Electra provided 23 million in acquisition funding to a new company which was subsequently acquired in 2007 by Promontoria, an unleveraged investment company.
Electra received consideration in the form of ordinary shares and loan stock in Promontoria.
Today the company owns 93 retail properties situated throughout Germany.
Of these, 80 are leased to the German discount chain Woolworth, which underwent a financial restructuring in 2010.
The strategy is to optimise the portfolio by improving the tenant mix and disposing of surplus properties.
The German retail property market has remained buoyant during 2013.
Promontoria has continued to progress: over the past year a number of properties have undergone refurbishment with more than 10,000m of retail space being leased to a range of high street names.
A further ten redevelopments have been identified and will be progressed.
Promontoria has continued to make distributions to shareholders in 2013, with Electra receiving 5 million.
This is in addition to the 9 million received in previous years.
PINE Equity Ownership: 99.0% Valuation: 18,250,000 Cost: 14,030,000 Type of Deal: Growth Capital Valuation derived from property investment value Location: UK Electra first invested in PINE as a start up business in 2005 to exploit an identified opportunity to create a new institutionally acceptable property asset class in conjunction with an experienced property specialist and a nursery school operator.
PINE initially comprised a sale and leaseback property investment portfolio of nursery schools let on index-linked leases to nursery school operators, as well as a nursery school operating business Treetops Nurseries.
In 2012 Treetops Nurseries was spun out of PINE as part of a refinancing and is now a standalone investment in Electras portfolio, valued at 9 million at 30 September 2013.
Treetops is one of the UKs top 10 operators currently operating 34 schools.
PINEs property portfolio is cash positive post debt servicing and has maintained its value in a difficult sub-prime commercial property market through a combination of rental growth and general market appetite for index-linked rental income.
com 28 Labco Equity Ownership: 4.6% Valuation: 16,266,000 Cost: 25,336,000 Type of Deal: Co-investment Valuation based on multiple of earnings Location: Europe In 2008 Electra invested 30 million in a minority equity position in Labco.
Labco is Europes largest private network of clinical laboratories with over 4,500 professionals performing 500,000 tests per day for approximately 15 million patients each year.
It is the market leader in France, Spain and Portugal and also occupies leading positions in Italy and Belgium.
The company operates in fragmented markets in which demand is growing due to an ageing population, medical advances and an increased propensity to test preventatively.
At the same time, regulatory changes and public spending pressure are expected to lead to market consolidation favouring larger players.
The strategy is to support Labco in its acquisition of smaller laboratory groups, with the companys scale and infrastructure subsequently being used to improve the acquired businesses.
Today the company is one of the largest independent operators with approximately 200 labs and a market share of 5%.
In September 2013 Labco sold its sub-scale German business to competitor Sonic Healthcare for 76 million.
eu Davies Group Equity Ownership: 46.2% Valuation: 14,832,000 Cost: 35,789,000 Type of Deal: Buyout Valuation based on multiple of earnings Location: UK In 2011 Electra invested 36 million in equity in the management buyout of Davies Group from LDC.
Davies Group provides insurance claims services, including claims management, validation and loss adjusting, and claims fulfilment on behalf of insurance companies, specialist sectors, service companies, brokers and self-insured entities.
Davies intends to grow its customer base by offering insurers a compelling outsourced solution.
Building upon Davies scale and national coverage, the company is investing in IT and business process redesign to increase service levels and improve value for money.
In parallel, the company is diversifying into non-weather correlated markets, such as liability and commercial insurance lines.
The company has experienced low claims levels as well as customer losses over the past year.
More recently, Davies has won a number of significant new clients which will drive revenue over the coming years and is in the midst of a transformational project to migrate many of its workflow processes from paper to digital.
A new Chief Executive was appointed in July 2013 and is focused on returning the company to profit growth.
com 29 Sentinel Performance Solutions Equity Ownership: 50% Valuation: 13,471,000 Cost: 15,535,000 Type of Deal: Buyout Valuation based on multiple of earnings Location: UK In February 2011 Electra invested 43 million in equity in the secondary management buyout of Sentinel Performance Solutions from The Riverside Company.
In April 2011 Electras investment was reduced to 16 million by a subsequent debt and equity refinancing.
Based in Runcorn, Sentinel supplies water treatment products which improve the performance and efficiency of residential heating and hot water systems by protecting against limescale and corrosion and by removing sludge and flux.
Sentinel enjoys a market-leading position in the UK, France, Germany and Italy, strong barriers to entry, and resilient demand supported by regulation and the nondiscretionary nature of new boiler installations over 70% replace a broken boiler.
With regulation and energy efficiency targets as the key drivers, the strategy is to grow the company organically, through greater market penetration in Europe and new product development.
During 2013 Sentinel appointed a new Chief Executive.
The current financial year has started well with a recovery in the boiler market on the back of government-sponsored energy efficiency schemes, such as ECO, and the impact of new product launches.
co. uk Kalle Equity Ownership: 8.8% Valuation: 12,278,000 Cost: 9,001,000 Type of Deal: Co-investment Valuation based on multiple of earnings Location: Germany In 2010 Electra made an equity investment of 10 million alongside Silverfleet Capital in the management buyout of Kalle from Montagu Private Equity.
Kalle is a leading global manufacturer and supplier of sausage casings with operations in Europe and the US.
The company offers a broad portfolio of differentiated products and a pipeline of innovative new product developments.
Growth is expected to result from increasing demand for protein in developing economies and greater penetration of artificial casings.
The intention is for Kalle to continue to invest in product innovation to grow ahead of its markets, as well as to address adjacent markets, and to seek out opportunities to grow through acquisition.
In the year to 31 December 2012, Kalle grew turnover by over 5% and achieved over 8% profit growth.
This year has proven more challenging with sales broadly flat on prior year and margins impacted by input cost inflation with the result that profits are behind prior year.
