Directors Attendance at Meetings of the Board and Committees of the Board Remuneration and Management Audit Nomination Valuations Engagement Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of Meetings 9 3 3 2 2 Dr C Bowe 9 3 K Barker 9 3 2 2 G Cullinan 8 2 3 2 2 RK Perkin 9 3 3 2 L Webber 4 4 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 R Yates 8 3 3 1 2 F Barnes 5 5 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 J Gold 1 1 Dr Bowe is not a member of the Audit, Valuations or Management Engagement Committees.
Ms Barker and Mr Perkin were not members of the Management Engagement Committee during the year The Board receives information that it considers to be sufficient and appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Directors receive board papers several days in advance of Board meetings and are able to consider in detail the Companys performance and any issues to be discussed at the relevant meeting.
The Directors believe that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to enable it to provide effective strategic leadership and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, including their relevant experience, can be found on pages 83 and 84.
Independence of the Board Dr Bowe, Mr Perkin and Mr Cullinan were non-executive Directors of Electra Private Equity Investments PLC throughout the year and Mr Yates was appointed as a non-executive Director of that company on 26 November 2013.
Electra Private Equity Investments PLC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Electra which was established solely for the purpose of issuing and redeeming Zero Dividend Preference shares.
The Board has carefully considered the independence of each Director under the provisions of the AIC Code and, notwithstanding the cross-directorships detailed above, has concluded that each Director is wholly independent on the basis that the Board firmly believes that independence is a state of mind and the character and judgement which accompany this are distinct from and are not compromised by crossdirectorships.
The Board carries out a formal appraisal process of its own operations and performance and those of its Committees each year.
In 2012, the Board commissioned Boardroom Review to carry out an  evaluation of its operations and performance and those of its Committees.
Issues covered included Board composition, meeting arrangements and communication.
Boardroom Review presented a detailed report to the Board on the conclusions of its evaluation and these were discussed with the Board.
The report did not identify any material weaknesses or concerns.
The Chairman has led on implementing those changes recommended by Boardroom Review that the Board considered should be made.
The Board considered that it was not necessary to carry out an  evaluation of its operations and performance and those of its Committees in 2013 but carried out the appraisal through questionnaires which were completed by Directors, the results of which were discussed by the Board.
The process was considered by the Board to be constructive in identifying areas for improving the functioning and performance of the Board and its Committees.
The Board concluded that its performance and that of its Committees was satisfactory.
The Chairman carried out a formal appraisal of each of the Directors during the year and the Board, under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director, similarly appraised the Chairman.
Relevant matters considered included the attendance and participation at Board and Committee meetings, commitment to Board activities and the effectiveness of the contribution made by the relevant Director.
As a result of this process, the Chairman has confirmed that each of the Directors being proposed for election or re-election continues to be effective and that each of them continues to show commitment to her role.
The Senior Independent Director has also confirmed the continuing effectiveness and commitment of the Chairman.
