Strategic Report The Strategic Report describes the business of Electra and details the principal risks and uncertainties associated with its activities.
These are amplified in the Managers report.
Objective, Investment Policy and Business Model The Objective and Investment Policy set out on page 3 also describes the Companys strategy and Business Model.
The Company carries on business as an approved investment trust as a result of which it does not pay tax on its capital gains.
HM Revenue & Customs has accepted Electra as an investment trust for the accounting period to 30 September 2012.
HM Revenue & Customs will accept Electra as an approved investment trust with effect from 1 October 2012 provided it continues to meet the eligibility conditions of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and of the ongoing requirements for approved companies in the Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
The business and affairs of Electra are managed by a discretionary Manager which is also the Investment Manager of its assets and investments.
Electra Partners manages the Companys investments in accordance with guidelines determined by the Directors and as specified in limited partnership and in management and investment guideline agreements.
Electra Partners was appointed as the Manager in 2006.
Current and future Development A review of the year and outlook is contained in the Chairmans Statement, the Investment Highlights and Portfolio Review.
The Board regularly reviews the development and strategic direction of the Company.
The Board believes that the current investment strategy which was approved by shareholders in 2006 remains effective in the light of existing market conditions.
The Boards main focus continues to be on the Companys long-term investment return.
The Board, in consultation with the Manager, reviews, sets a strategy for and monitors the Companys total capital position and gearing.
Performance A detailed review of performance is contained in the Investment Highlights and Portfolio Review.
A number of performance measures are considered by the Board and the Manager in assessing the Companys success in achieving its objectives.
The Key Performance Indicators KPIs used to measure the progress and performance of the Company are established industry measures and are as follows: Return on equity over the long term: The movement in net asset value per ordinary share: The movement in share price.
Details of the KPIs are shown on pages 1 and 2.
Risk Management It is the role of the Board to review and manage all risks associated with the Company, mitigating these either directly or through Electra Partners.
The Board consider that the following are the principal risks facing the Company: Macroeconomic Risks The performance of the Companys underlying portfolio is materially influenced by a combination of economic conditions, the availability of appropriately priced debt finance, interest rates and the number of active trade and financial buyers.
All of these factors have an impact on the Companys ability to exit from its underlying portfolio and the levels of profitability achievable on exit.
6 Gearing Risks One of the principal risks of gearing is that it can cause both gains and losses in the asset value of a Company to be magnified.
Another significant risk associated with gearing is the potentially severe operational impact on the Company of a breach of its banking covenants.
Secondary risks relate to whether the cost of gearing is too high and whether the length of the gearing is appropriate.
The Board regularly monitors the headroom available under banking covenants and reviews the impact of the various forms of gearing and their cost to the Company.
The Company uses gearing in a number of forms, through its multi-currency revolving credit facility, its Subordinated Convertible Bonds and Zero Dividend Preference Shares ZDP Shares.
Foreign Currency Risk The Companys total return and net assets are affected by foreign exchange translation movements as a significant proportion of the investments held are denominated in currencies other than sterling.
The foreign investments held are principally held in the USA, Continental Europe and Asia.
During the year, the Company held loans denominated in US Dollars and Euros, which partially offset foreign currency risk on foreign currency investments.
The ratio of loans held in US Dollar and Euro is under regular review in order to partially hedge as efficiently as possible.
Long-term Strategic Risk The Company is subject to the risk that its long-term strategy and its level of performance fail to meet the expectations of its shareholders.
The Board monitors the level of discount of share price to net asset value per share and considers the most effective methodologies to keep this at a minimum, including the share buy-back policy.
With the need to fund the future redemption of the ZDP Shares and anticipating attractive investment opportunities, the Board considers that the purchases of shares for cancellation will be less likely in the medium term.
Nevertheless, Directors will continue to seek shareholder authority on an annual basis to enable them to purchase shares for cancellation when they believe it will be in the best interests of shareholders.
In addition the Board regularly reviews the Objective and Investment Policy in light of prevailing investor sentiment to ensure the Company remains attractive to its shareholders.
Investment Risks The Company operates in a very competitive market.
Changes in the number of market participants, the availability of funds within the market, the pricing of assets, or in the ability of Electra Partners to access deals could have a significant effect on the Companys competitive position and on the sustainability of returns.
In order to source and execute good quality investments the Company is primarily dependent on Electra Partners having the ability to attract and retain executives with the requisite investment experience and whose compensation is in line with the Companys objectives.
Once invested, the performance of the Companys portfolio is dependent upon a range of factors.
These include but are not limited to: i the quality of the initial investment decision: ii the ability of the portfolio company successfully to execute its business strategy: and iii actual outcomes against the key assumptions underlying the portfolio companys financial projections.
Any one of these factors could have an impact on the valuation of a portfolio company and upon the Companys ability to make a profitable exit from the investment within the desired timeframe.
A rigorous process is put in place by Electra Partners for managing the relationship with each investee company.
This includes regular asset reviews and in many cases, board representation by one or more Electra Partners executives.
The Board reviews both the performance of Electra Partners and its incentive arrangements on a regular basis to ensure that both are appropriate to the objectives of the Company.
7 Valuation Risk The value of investments in accordance with IAS 39 requires considerable judgement and is explained on page 52 and 53.
Operational Risk The Companys investment management, custody of assets and many administrative systems are provided or arranged for the Company by Electra Partners.
Therefore the Company is exposed to a range of operational risks at Electra Partners which might arise from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external factors affecting these.
These include operational events such as human resources risks, legal and regulatory risks, information technology systems failures, business disruption and shortcomings in internal controls.
The Companys system of internal control mainly comprises the monitoring of the services provided by Electra Partners, including the operating controls established by them to ensure they meet the Companys business objectives, as further detailed in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 75 to 79.
Community, Social, Employee, Human Rights and Environmental Issues In carrying out its activities and in its relationships with the community, the Company aims to conduct itself responsibly, ethically and fairly, including in relation to social and human rights issues.
The Company has no employees and the Board is composed entirely of non-executive Directors.
As an investment trust, the Company has no direct impact on the environment.
However the Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and ethical factors when selecting and retaining investments.
Electra believes that high standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make good business sense and have the potential to protect and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, the investment process takes social, environmental and ethical issues into account when, in Electra Partners view, these have a material impact on either investment risk or return.
Electra recognises and supports the view that social, environmental and ethical best practice should be encouraged.
It favours investing in companies committed to high standards of CSR and to the principles of sustainable development.
Board Diversity There are currently four female and three male Directors on the Board.
On the retirement of the current Chairman in March 2014, there will be three female and three male Directors.
There have been at least two female Directors on the Board since 2007.
The Company aims to have a balance of relevant skills, experience and background amongst the Directors on the Board and believes that all Board appointments should be made on merit and with due regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender.
The Boards aim is to continue to maintain a diverse Board and, subject to appointing the best candidates available when current Directors retire, to have a proportion of at least one third female Board representation.
Apart from the main Board Directors all six non-executive Directors of the Companys consolidated subsidiaries, all of which are investment holding or finance vehicles, are male.
The Company is an investment trust which has no employees other than the non-executive Directors of its main Board and therefore has no disclosures to make in this regard.
Dr Colette Bowe Chairman 26 November 2013 8
