Report of the Directors To the Members of Electra Private Equity PLC The Directors present the audited Accounts of the Group for the year ended 30 September 2013 and their Report on its affairs.
In accordance with the new requirement for the Directors to prepare a Strategic Report and an enhanced Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2013, the following information, some of which has been previously included within the Directors Report, is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 8: a review of the business of the Company including details about its objective, investment policy and business model, information about the Companys investment trust status, details of the principal risks and uncertainties associated with the Companys activities, information regarding community, social, employee, human rights and environmental issues and the Companys policy regarding Board diversity.
Information about Directors interests in the Companys ordinary shares and or subordinated convertible bonds is included within the Annual Report on Remuneration section of the Directors Remuneration Report on page 73.
Results A revenue loss attributable to shareholders of 8,975,000 2012: loss of 8,584,000 was transferred to Revenue Reserves.
No dividend is proposed in respect of the year ended 30 September 2013 2012: nil.
Management Arrangements Electra Partners is appointed as the Manager of the Company under a management agreement dated 12 October 2006.
The agreement may be terminated by either party giving notice of not less than 12 months.
Whatever notice period is worked, Electra Partners will be entitled to receive additional compensation equivalent to 12 months priority profit share determined by reference to the previous 12 months priority profit share.
If Electra Partners terminates the management agreement, Electra may pay compensation in lieu of any part of the notice period but Electra Partners is not entitled to any additional compensation.
During the year the Company continued to operate carried interest and co-investment schemes for executives of Electra Partners and details of these schemes are contained in Notes 22 and 23 of the Notes to the Accounts.
As detailed in the Corporate Governance Statement, the Board reviews the activities of Electra Partners on an ongoing basis and believes that the continuing appointment of Electra Partners on the terms agreed is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Electra Partners is responsible for the investment management of a number of limited partnership funds to which the Company has subscribed.
Electra Partners manages the Companys investments in accordance with guidelines determined by the Directors and as specified in limited partnership and in management and investment guideline agreements.
Share Capital On 29 December 2010 the Company issued 100 million of 5% Subordinated Convertible Bonds due 29 December 2017 at an issue price of 100 per cent and with an initial conversion price of 2,050p.
Bondholders may convert their bonds into ordinary shares of the Company from 7 February 2011 up to and including the date falling seven business days prior to 29 December 2017.
The conversion price of 2,050p will be adjusted to deal with certain events which would otherwise dilute the conversion of bondholders.
These events include dividends paid to ordinary shareholders, share rights and share related securities issued to shareholders, issue of other securities to shareholders, demergers and other events detailed in the Prospectus for the Bond.
During the year, 39 Subordinated Convertible Bonds were converted into 1,901 ordinary shares 2012: No Subordinated Convertible Bonds were converted into ordinary shares.
At 30 September 2013 there were 35,342,292 ordinary shares of 25p each in issue.
The Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
63 Since the year end and prior to 21 November 2013 being the latest practicable date before the signing of this Directors Report a further seven Subordinated Convertible Bonds have been converted into a total of 340 ordinary shares.
Authority to Make Market Purchases of Shares As at 30 September 2013, the Company had authority to purchase for cancellation up to 5,297,524 shares.
This authority will lapse at the 2014 Annual General Meeting when a Special Resolution will be proposed to renew the Companys authority to make market purchases of its own shares.
During the year the Company did not purchase any shares for cancellation.
Multi-Currency Loan Facility At 30 September 2013 borrowings under the 195 million 2012: 195 million multi-currency revolving credit facility amounted to 158,340,000 2012: 153,629,000.
In 2011, the Company completed a refinancing of the facility, increasing the size from 185 million to 195 million and extending the loan term from January 2013 to June 2016.
During the year to 30 September 2013, the repayment date was extended to December 2017.
Directors The current Directors of the Company are listed on pages 83 and 84.
Dr C Bowe, Ms K Barker, Mr G Cullinan, Mr RK Perkin, and Mr R Yates served as Directors throughout the year ended 30 September 2013.
Ms F Barnes was appointed as a non-executive Director on 7 March 2013 and Ms L Webber retired from the Board on the same day.
Mrs J Gold was appointed as a non-executive Director on 12 September 2013.
No other person was a Director of the Company during any part of the year.
Ms K Barker will retire at the Annual General Meeting in 2014 and, being eligible, offer herself for reelection.
Ms F Barnes and Mrs J Gold will both offer themselves for election at the Annual General Meeting in 2014.
Dr C Bowe has announced her intention to retire as a Director and Chairman of the Company at the Annual General Meeting in 2014.
Directors Conflicts of Interest Directors report on actual or potential conflicts of interest at each Board meeting.
The Board has agreed that the Remuneration and Nomination Committee is responsible for considering and reviewing conflicts of interest and that any Director or Directors with a potential conflict would be excluded from such a review.
After consideration, if required, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee would subsequently make a recommendation to the Board of Directors.
Directors Indemnity Directors and Officers Liability insurance cover has been put in place.
In addition, the Companys Articles of Association provide, subject to the provisions of applicable UK legislation, an indemnity for Directors in respect of costs incurred in the defence of any proceedings brought against them by third parties arising out of their positions as Directors, in which they are acquitted or judgement is given in their favour.
Substantial Interests The Company has received the following notifications of interests of 3% or more in the voting rights attached to the Companys ordinary shares: 64 Voting Rights Percentage of Notified Direct Voting Rights Direct No.
% Indirect % Prudential PLC group of companies 3,399,845 1,825 9.62 Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 2,118,422 5.99 HSBC Holdings PLC 2,491,558 7.05 Schroders plc 1,850,086 5.24 Percentage shown as a percentage of 35,342,632 ordinary shares, being the number of shares in issue at the latest practicable date before the publication of this Directors Report.
Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions for the Year ended 30 September 2013 Electra has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from the operations of the Company, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013, including those within its underlying investment portfolio.
Audit Information Each of the Directors confirms that so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware and they have taken all steps they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
A separate resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting authorising the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors.
The Auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office.
Going Concern The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are described in the Chairmans Statement, the Investment Highlights, the Portfolio Review and the Strategic Report.
At each Board meeting, the Directors review the Companys latest financial information.
The Board regularly considers commitments to private equity investments, long-term cash flow projections for the Company and the use of gearing.
After due consideration of the balance sheet and activities of the Company and the Companys assets, liabilities, commitments and financial resources, the Directors have concluded that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Accounts of the Company.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on Tuesday 11 March 2014.
In addition to the ordinary business, the following special business will be considered: Authority to Purchase own Shares Resolution 9 A special resolution will be proposed to renew the Boards authority to purchase its own shares, so as to permit the purchase of up to 5,297,860 of the Companys ordinary shares or such lesser number of shares as is equal to 14.99% of the total number of ordinary shares in issue at the date of the passing of the resolution subject to the constraints set out in the special resolution.
The Directors would intend to use this authority to purchase shares only if this would result in an increase in net asset value per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Should any shares be purchased under this authority, it is the intention of the Board that such shares be cancelled.
The Directors believe that the renewal of the Boards authority to purchase shares, as detailed above, is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and therefore recommend shareholders to vote in favour of Resolution 9.
