Between December 2012 and March 2013 Electra acquired limited partnership interests in seven private equity funds-of-funds for a total investment of 78 million.
These funds-of-funds, known as EP1, have interests in approximately 1,000 underlying primary funds spread across geographies, strategies and vintages, of which approximately 60% are US funds and 70% buyout funds.
The investment was made at a significant discount to the valuation of the investments in the underlying primary funds.
These funds are mature and cash generative and have so far generated 15 million of cash since the investment was made.
EP1 had 21 million of outstanding commitments to the underlying funds which are not expected to be fully called in view of the maturity of these funds The investment in Allen & Heath was made in June 2013.
Allen & Heath designs and manufactures audio mixing consoles for live sound such as concerts, theatres and houses of worship.
It is a leading brand with an extensive product portfolio and a track record of year-on-year growth: it is an international business with more than 90% of sales being made outside the UK and more than 40% in developing economies around the world.
The intention is to continue this growth trend with investment in new product development, in sales and marketing and in acquisitions.
Electra invested 42 million in the buyout of Allen & Heath which was purchased at a favourable valuation.
Allflex is the worlds leading manufacturer and distributor of animal identification tags and manufactures over 200 million tags annually.
Allflex has seen strong growth driven by increased regulation of the food chain to ensure food safety and has capitalised on growing demand by developing new technologies and products and by expanding into new geographical markets.
In early 2013, 15 years after the initial investment, Electra Partners initiated the realisation of the investment in Allflex which at the beginning of the year represented 17% of Electras net assets.
The sale to a private equity buyer was completed in July 2013 and Electra made a new investment of 57 million for a 15% minority interest.
It is expected that the company will continue to benefit as global population growth leads to an increase in demand for food chain security.
In September 2013 Electra invested 21 million in South Lakeland Parks, which owns and operates nine holiday parks in the English Lake District and Morecambe Bay areas.
Electras existing portfolio company, Park Resorts, now manages South Lakeland Parks sites.
It is expected that the Park Resorts management team will be able to improve the operating performance of the acquired sites.
Operating together, the two businesses constitute one of the largest holiday parks operators in the UK with fortyeight properties.
Electra made a number of other smaller investments, including 13 million in CALA Group and a further 14 million drawn down by private equity funds in which Electra is a limited partner.
Commitments outstanding to private equity funds, including EP1, increased to 94 million at 30 September 2013, compared to 83 million a year earlier.
This record level of disposals reflected the willingness of the markets to pay full prices for high-quality private equity assets.
The most significant realisation related to Allflex.
Electra initially invested 23 million in Allflex in 1998: a number of refinancings between 2003 and 2007 returned 89 million to Electra, and in July 2013 Electra received proceeds of 267 million from the sale of this investment.
Allflex has generated a gross return of 15x original cost and an IRR of 28% over its fifteen-year holding period.
Allflexs profits grew six-fold during the period of Electras investment.
Electra Partners worked with the companys management to achieve this growth through geographic expansion, by developing new 15
