Key New Investments and Realisations New Investments Allen & Heath Equity Ownership: 88.2% Cost: 42,275,000 Valuation: 42,275,000 Type of Deal: Buyout Valuation based on price of recent transaction Location: UK In June 2013 Electra invested 42 million in debt and equity in the 43 million acquisition of Allen & Heath from its Japanese parent, D&M Holdings.
Allen & Heath designs and manufactures audio mixing consoles used to manage live sound in concert venues, theatres, houses of worship and other settings.
The company has a well-regarded and broad range of products, a strong brand and a global sales network, with over 90% of revenues being earned outside the UK and over 40% in developing economies around the world.
The company has a long-term track record of growth.
The intention is to continue this growth record with a strategy based on investment in new product development as well as in sales and marketing to extend Allen & Heaths market position.
The companys market is fragmented and it is anticipated that Allen & Heath will be able to further build its market presence by making acquisitions of other professional audio brands and products.
Since acquisition, Allen & Heath has launched a number of new products and is performing in line with budget.
com AXIO Data Group Equity Ownership: 68.8% Cost: 85,033,000 Valuation: 104,804,000 Type of Deal: Buyout Valuation based on recent transaction and cash generation Location: International In April 2013 Electra invested 91 million in debt and equity to finance the 148 million acquisition of UBM plcs Data Services division.
AXIO comprises seven information businesses serving a range of sectors in over 25 countries: healthcare, intellectual property licensing, containerised trade and breakbulk services, aviation and forest products.
Its product brands include Vidal, MIMS, TechInsights, JOC and PIERS, Breakbulk, OAG and RISI.
AXIOs portfolio of businesses is defensive by virtue of its industry and geographic diversity.
Its strong brands occupy leadership positions in niche markets and it is robust and cash-generative.
The strategy is to grow profits through revenue growth, performance improvement and acquisition, and to realise multiple arbitrage by selling the portfolios components to strategic acquirers.
Trading has been positive in 2013 and group management, now strengthened with the appointment of a Chairman and a new Group Chief Financial Officer, is focusing on implementing the investment strategy.
net 19 CALA Group Equity Ownership: 10.7% Cost: 13,303,000 Valuation: 15,642,000 Type of Deal: Co-investment Valuation based on net assets Location: UK In March 2013 Electra made an equity investment of 13 million alongside Patron Capital Partners and Legal & General in the 210 million acquisition of CALA Group from Lloyds Banking Group.
Headquartered in Edinburgh, CALA Group is a national house builder which provides high quality homes in the north, east and west of Scotland, in the Midlands and in the south east of England.
The company focuses on high-quality, well-designed homes in prime locations, from starter homes to luxury detached family properties.
The UK currently experiences a significant undersupply of new houses.
Loosening planning regulations, legislation intended to improve mortgage availability and an improving macroeconomic environment all mean that this is a favourable time in the cycle to be investing in the house building sector.
CALA benefits from a reputation as a high-quality builder.
Having acquired a sizeable land bank at attractive valuations since 2008, the company is well-placed to benefit from the ongoing recovery in the new build housing market.
The company is experiencing strong demand for new housing, resulting in sales volumes and margins ahead of plan.
co. uk group South Lakeland Parks Equity Ownership: 78.2% Cost: 21,218,000 Valuation: 21,218,000 Type of Deal: Buyout Valuation based on price of recent transaction Location: UK In September 2013 Electra invested 21 million in equity in the 47 million management buyout of South Lakeland Parks from White Ocean Leisure and its lenders.
South Lakeland owns and operates nine high-quality holiday parks in the English Lake District and Morecambe Bay area, including two parks bordering Lake Windermere.
Electras existing portfolio company, Park Resorts, now manages South Lakelands parks under a new management contract.
The key attraction of South Lakeland is its high-quality holiday parks which fit well with the existing Park Resorts portfolio.
Electra evaluated the opportunity alongside Park Resorts and it is expected that Park Resorts management team will deliver operational improvements and profit growth in the South Lakeland portfolio.
The intention is to invest in the infrastructure and facilities of the holiday parks to further enhance their appeal to both caravan owners and holiday-makers.
There is also scope to further develop the existing South Lakeland estate.
Trading is in line with expectations.
