products to tag a wide range of animal species and by investing in new technologies such as electronic identification or genetic tags.
Additionally, the company has built new manufacturing capabilities in Brazil, Poland and China and made a total of 15 bolt-on acquisitions.
During the year Electra realised its investment in esure, the insurance services business which achieved a successful initial public offering in March 2013.
Together with proceeds received prior to the offering, Electra has realised 82 million from this investment and in addition retained shares which at 30 September 2013 had a valuation of 5 million.
The total proceeds received from this investment together with the value of the shares retained provided a return to Electra of almost 3x original cost and an IRR of 45% in just over three years.
Electra was a member of a syndicate of investors which supported the management buyout of esure from Lloyds Banking Group in 2010.
The investment rationale was based on an attractive entry price, the possession of a number of well-established brands including Sheilas Wheels, Gocompare.
com and esure itself, and the opportunity to back a strong management team led by Peter Wood, who had founded Direct Line before founding esure in 2000.
Since 2010 esure has become one of the UKs leading motor insurers.
In addition to the proceeds from Allflex and esure, Electra received a further 12 million in respect of the sale of BDR Thermea, 9 million from the sale of property holding company Noumena, and 49 million from private equity funds in which Electra held a limited partnership interest.
In October 2013, Electra agreed to sell its interest in feminine hygiene brand Lil-lets.
The transaction completed in November 2013 providing Electra with proceeds of 37 million.
Performance During the year to 30 September 2013 Electras investment portfolio generated a total return of 222 million, an increase of 26% on the opening portfolio of 868 million.
This return includes favourable currency movements during the year of 9 million.
This return arose principally from the direct unlisted portfolio which generated a total return of 199 million representing an increase of 33%.
The secondaries portfolio contributed 33 million to the total return.
Private equity funds and listed investments produced negative returns in the year of 3 million and 7 million respectively.
The total return of 199 million from the direct unlisted portfolio included 138 million of realised gains with the balance being unrealised.
Unrealised appreciation included an increase of 33 million resulting from debt repayment by portfolio companies, 17 million due to the restructuring of Park Resorts, 2 million in respect of profit increases and 9 million from changes in multiples used for valuation purposes.
Analysis of Gains Direct Unlisted Portfolio m Realised profits 138 Debt repayment 33 Restructuring 17 Increase in profits 2 Multiple changes 9 Total return 199 16
