Key New Investments and Realisations New Investments Allen & Heath Equity Ownership: 88.2% Cost: 42,275,000 Valuation: 42,275,000 Type of Deal: Buyout Valuation based on price of recent transaction Location: UK In June 2013 Electra invested 42 million in debt and equity in the 43 million acquisition of Allen & Heath from its Japanese parent, D&M Holdings.
Allen & Heath designs and manufactures audio mixing consoles used to manage live sound in concert venues, theatres, houses of worship and other settings.
The company has a well-regarded and broad range of products, a strong brand and a global sales network, with over 90% of revenues being earned outside the UK and over 40% in developing economies around the world.
The company has a long-term track record of growth.
The intention is to continue this growth record with a strategy based on investment in new product development as well as in sales and marketing to extend Allen & Heaths market position.
The companys market is fragmented and it is anticipated that Allen & Heath will be able to further build its market presence by making acquisitions of other professional audio brands and products.
Since acquisition, Allen & Heath has launched a number of new products and is performing in line with budget.
com AXIO Data Group Equity Ownership: 68.8% Cost: 85,033,000 Valuation: 104,804,000 Type of Deal: Buyout Valuation based on recent transaction and cash generation Location: International In April 2013 Electra invested 91 million in debt and equity to finance the 148 million acquisition of UBM plcs Data Services division.
AXIO comprises seven information businesses serving a range of sectors in over 25 countries: healthcare, intellectual property licensing, containerised trade and breakbulk services, aviation and forest products.
Its product brands include Vidal, MIMS, TechInsights, JOC and PIERS, Breakbulk, OAG and RISI.
AXIOs portfolio of businesses is defensive by virtue of its industry and geographic diversity.
Its strong brands occupy leadership positions in niche markets and it is robust and cash-generative.
The strategy is to grow profits through revenue growth, performance improvement and acquisition, and to realise multiple arbitrage by selling the portfolios components to strategic acquirers.
Trading has been positive in 2013 and group management, now strengthened with the appointment of a Chairman and a new Group Chief Financial Officer, is focusing on implementing the investment strategy.
