The Manager About Electra Partners Experienced, Flexible and Well-Resourced Electra Partners is an independent private equity fund manager with over 25 years experience in the mid-market.
Over this time, the Electra Partners team has invested in excess of 3 billion in more than 150 deals, with a consistent focus on mid-market companies.
The firms long-term investment performance has been consistently superior to private equity and other benchmarks: over the last ten years Electra, which is managed on an exclusive and fully discretionary basis by Electra Partners, has seen diluted NAV per share grow by 279%.
This track record of investing through numerous economic cycles gives Electra Partners both broad and deep experience across sectors, geographies and business models.
As at 30 September 2013 Electra Partners had funds under management of over 1.5 billion including capital available for investment of over 450 million.
Electra accounts for more than 90% of Electra Partners funds under management: the balance is managed on behalf of US and European pension funds, asset managers and family offices.
Electra Partners staff of more than forty people operates from a single office in London.
The Electra Difference Flexible Capital Electras investment strategy and structure is different from that of almost every other private equity fund.
This has two key implications: First, Electra Partners is able to invest across the full range of private equity opportunities: control and minority, equity and debt, direct and indirect.
This means that it can tailor its investment strategy to suit changing market conditions and invest where many others cannot.
Second, Electra Partners is able to provide stable long-term capital.
It doesnt face expiring investment periods or exit pressure driven by fund-raising cycles.
This means that it can fully support investee companies with a long-term strategy and access to capital, and exit when returns are maximised for shareholders.
Investment Strategy Throughout its history, Electra Partners has focused on investing for profit growth by backing the right management teams, comprising talented and experienced people with a credible strategy.
Electras flexible capital allows Electra Partners to invest across all forms of private equity situations, which it categorises into three groups: 1.
Buyouts and Co-investments: direct investment in good-quality, well-managed businesses that have the potential for profits growth through expansion, operational improvement, refocusing of strategy or acquisition.
As lead investor, Electra Partners typically invests 40 100 million in companies with an enterprise value of up to 300 million.
Electra Partners also co-invests 20 60 million in minority positions alongside founders, other private equity firms, corporates or the public markets.
Secondaries: secondary purchases of existing investors positions in either individual or portfolios of private equity funds, as well as acquisitions of portfolios of businesses, known as secondary directs.
Debt: secondary purchases from existing lenders of individual or portfolios of either performing or stretched loans, where stretched refers to debt in good businesses with bad balance sheets where Electra Partners can take a role in the restructuring of the capital structure.
Electra Partners applies the disciplines of buyout investing to its appraisal and management of investments in all three of these groups.
