Board of Directors Colette Bowe Chairman An economist by profession, Dr Bowe has worked in Whitehall, City regulation and the fund management industry.
She is currently Chairman of the Ofcom board, a board member of the UK Statistics Authority, a board member of AXA Investment Managers, and a member of the supervisory board of AXA Investment Managers Deutschland GmbH.
Dr Bowe was appointed a Director in 2007 and as Chairman in 2010.
Kate Barker Ms Barker is a non executive director of Taylor Wimpey PLC and the Yorkshire Building Society, a non executive member of the Office for Budget Responsibility and a senior adviser to Credit Suisse.
She was, until May 2010, a member of the Monetary Policy Committee of the Bank of England, on which she served for three terms, and has held a range of other senior positions, including chief economic adviser to the Confederation of British Industry from 1994 to 2001.
Ms Barker was appointed a Director in 2010.
She is Chairman of the Valuations Committee, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee and the Senior Independent Director.
Francesca Barnes Ms Barnes recently retired from a 27 year career in finance, the last seven of which were spent as Global Head of Private Equity for UBS.
She worked for Chase Manhattan for 11 years in the UK and US then Swiss Bank UBS working in restructuring, loan portfolio management and ultimately running the global private equity business.
Ms Barnes is now a non executive director of Coutts and Co: non executive director of Capvis private equity: Chair of Governors of the Bridge Academy Hackney and Chair of Trustees of Penny Brohn Cancer Care.
Ms Barnes was appointed a Director in 2013.
Geoffrey Cullinan Mr Cullinan was a Director of Bain & Company from 1997 to 2005.
He was the founder and leader of their private equity business in Europe and continues to be an Adviser to Bain.
He was formerly Chief Executive of Hamleys plc 1996 and senior non executive director of Datamonitor plc 1994 to 2002.
Prior to that he was the managing partner of OC&C Strategy Consultants, which he co-founded in 1986.
Mr Cullinan was appointed a Director in 2011.
He is Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee.
Josyane Gold Mrs Gold has 32 years' experience as a lawyer in corporate practice in the City.
For 25 years Josyane was a partner of SJ Berwin where she was a founder of its private equity and investment funds practices.
Josyane continues to act as a consultant to the firm now King & Wood Mallesons SJ Berwin.
Mrs Gold was appointed a Director in 2013.
83 Roger Perkin Mr Perkin is a former senior partner at Ernst & Young with extensive global accounting experience and financial services expertise.
He spent 40 years at Ernst & Young and its predecessor firms, including over 30 years as a Partner, working with a wide range of clients before specialising in financial services.
He is a director of Nationwide Building Society, Resolution Limited and Tullett Prebon plc.
Mr Perkin was appointed a Director in 2009.
Mr Perkin is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Roger Yates Mr Yates has 30 years experience as an investment professional and a business manager in the fund management industry having begun his career with GT Management Limited in 1981.
He was Chief Executive of Henderson Global Investors from 1999 to 2003 and then, following the companys listing, of Henderson Group Plc until 2008.
Prior to that he was Chief Investment Officer of Invesco Global and Morgan Grenfell Investment Management Limited.
He is currently non executive Chairman of Pioneer Global Asset Management, part of the UniCredit Group, and a non executive director of JP Morgan Elect plc and IG Group Holdings plc and was, from 2009 to 2010, non executive director of F&C Asset Management plc.
Mr Yates will join the board of St. James' Place plc as a non executive director with effect from 1 January 2014.
Mr Yates was appointed a Director in 2012.
