Corporate governance report continued E ectiveness The Board Executive Directors service contracts and Non-Executive The Board comprises ten members: the Chairman, two Directors terms of appointment Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman and each of the Executive Directors have a The Chairman, Peter Wood, has served in this role since 2000 service contract with the Group.
The service agreements of and, on appointment, was not independent.
Of the seven the Chairman and the Executive Directors can be terminated Non-Executive Directors: by not less than 12 months notice by the Chairman or the Executive Director as appropriate and 12 months notice Dame Helen Alexander, Mike Evans, Shirley Garrood, Anne by the Group.
The Non-Executive Directors have a letter of Richards and Mara Dolores Dancausa are considered by appointment that sets out the terms and conditions of their the Board to be independent for the purposes of the UK Directorship, including the fees payable and the expected Corporate Governance Code: and time commitment.
Each Non-Executive Director is expected Anthony Hobson and Peter Ward have served on the to commit su cient time as is reasonably necessary for Board for more than nine years from the date of their the proper performance of their duties.
Additional time respective first elections, but are considered by the commitment is required to ful l the roles of Chairman or Board to be independent for the purposes of the UK Board committee member.
Corporate Governance Code notwithstanding the length of their service.
Succession planning and Board appointments The Nomination Committee has continued to work on In reaching these conclusions regarding the independence ensuring an appropriate mix amongst both the Executive of Anthony Hobson and Peter Ward, the Board has: and Non-Executive Directors.
Considered the requirements of the UK Corporate On 25 February 2013, Andrew Whitehouse stepped down as Governance Code and the nature of the relationships and a Director: as part of the succession planning he had already circumstances outlined above which are relevant to the relinquished his role as Finance Director.
On 27 March 2013, Boards determination of independence: and following the Companys IPO, as Tosca Penta Investment LPs Evaluated the historic contribution of these Directors to representatives, David Calder and Charles Schrager Von the Group in scrutinising the performance of management, Altishofen resigned as Non-Executive Directors.
The Group monitoring the reporting of performance and constructively appointed Mike Evans as a Non-Executive Director in June challenging and assisting the development of the Groups 2013, Shirley Garrood in July 2013 and Mara Dolores proposals on strategy.
In addition to the assessment of independence pursuant to Board induction and professional development the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board also believes On joining the Board, Directors take part in an induction that the ongoing involvement of Anthony Hobson and Peter programme to increase their knowledge and understanding Ward as Non-Executive Directors and their ful lling roles of the Business.
They are provided with information about the recommended for independent non-executives by the UK Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its Corporate Governance Code is in the best interests of the decision.
Each Director is provided with the terms of reference Group and shareholders bearing in mind their extensive and membership of the main Board committees as well as experience of, and detailed knowledge of, the Business.
corporate governance policies and procedures.
Meetings are The Company therefore considers that it complies with the arranged with each of the Executive Directors, members of the relevant requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code Executive Committee and senior managers across the Business in relation to the balance of Executive and independent as part of the induction programme.
Non-Executive Directors on the Board and with the The induction programme also includes training on: requirements for composition of the Groups Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
Directors duties and responsibilities: Board procedures and governance related issues: Directors election and re-election Shirley Garrood, Mike Evans and Mara Dolores Dancausa will Con icts of interest: and stand for election at the Annual General Meeting, to be held Procedures for dealing in esure Group plc shares.
All other Directors are being proposed for re-election at the AGM.
Biographical details of each of the Directors, together with details of their skills and experience, may be found on pages 32 to 33.
Following a performance evaluation of each Director and the Board as a whole, all Directors are considered by the Board to be fully e ective.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 38 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Evaluation of Board performance Website The Chairman and Company Secretary carried out a Board The Groups website www.
com provides a source performance evaluation in November 2013 comprising written of information for shareholders about the Group and contains questionnaires followed by one-to-one meetings with the financial presentations and investor publications, including the Chairman.
In addition, the Audit, Nomination, Investment, Risk online Annual Report and recent press releases.
Our financial and Remuneration Committees undertook an evaluation of reporting is presented in such a way as to provide a fair, their e ectiveness.
balanced and understandable assessment of our position and prospects for future growth.
The resulting report was presented and discussed at the Board meeting in January 2014.
Further information about our registrars, shareholder services, Investor Relations and our principal shareholders can also be The Senior Independent Director met with the Non-Executive found on the website.
Directors to review the Chairmans performance and then discussed the feedback with the Chairman.
Additional information The following information, which is required to be disclosed Shareholder engagement within the Corporate Governance Report, can be found in the The Chief Executive O cer and Chief Finance O cer, as well Directors report and is incorporated by reference: as other senior executives, held meetings with a number of the Groups institutional shareholders and prospective Substantial Shareholdings page 62 shareholders to discuss the Groups strategy and financial Special Rights page 63 performance.
The Chairman met with a number of the largest shareholders during the year.
All Non-Executive Directors, Appointment, retirement and removal of Directors page 63 including the Senior Independent Director have an invitation Purchase of own shares page 61 to attend investor meetings if they wish.
During the year Dame Helen Alexander, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Annual General Meeting and Senior Independent Director had meetings with several The Companys Annual General Meeting AGM will be held of the Groups largest institutional shareholders to discuss on 13 May 2014 at the Hilton Hotel, Gatwick, West Sussex, remuneration issues and associated governance.
It provides all shareholders with the opportunity The Directors are provided with regular reports on to develop their understanding of the Groups strategy and shareholders and analysts views and of changes in the operations, and to ask questions of the full Board on the holdings of the principal shareholders.
matters to be put to the meeting, including the Annual Report.
All Board members attend the AGM: and in particular, the esure Group has established procedures to ensure the timely Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration release of inside information and the publication of financial Committees are available to answer questions.
results and regulatory financial statements.
The Disclosure Committee, a Committee of senior executives and chaired The Notice of AGM is sent out at least 20 working days before by the Company Secretary, also reviews all signi cant the meeting.
announcements for accuracy and compliance requirements.
The Notice of AGM and the accompanying circular, which sets out a clear explanation of each resolution to be Substantial shareholdings proposed at the meeting, can also be found at The holdings of our major shareholders can be found in the www.
com investor Directors Report on page 62.
To ensure that the views of shareholders are re ected Shareholder services proportionately, all resolutions will be voted on a poll and The share register is managed on the Groups behalf by the results will be announced via the Regulatory News Equiniti.
Shareholders are able to carry out a number of online Service and made available on the Groups website.
administrative transactions, such as checking their holdings Shareholders unable to attend the AGM are encouraged and dividend accounts, changing address details and arranging to submit proxy voting instructions electronically at for dividends to be paid directly into a bank account.
co. uk esure Group Annual Report 2013 39
