Directors report Strategic Report Mike Evans, Shirley Garrood and Mara Dolores Dancausa will The information that ful ls the requirements of the Strategic stand for election by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
All of Report, and which should be treated as forming part of this the other Directors intend to retire and seek re-election at report by reference is included in the following sections of the AGM.
the Annual Report: Further details of the election and re-election of the Directors Strategic Report pages 1 to 31 can be found on page 38 and in the notes to the AGM Notice on our website at www.
com investors Chairmans Statement pages 2 to 3 The governance structure of the Board is illustrated on page 35 Business Model and Strategy pages 6 to 8 and the activities of the Boards governance committees are Chief Executive O cers Statement pages 10 to 12 summarised on pages 40 to 47.
Risk Management and Financial Risks pages 24 to 29 Directors and O cers insurance and indemnities The Group maintains Directors and O cers liability insurance Results and dividends which gives appropriate cover should legal action be brought The results for the year are shown in the consolidated against its Directors.
In addition, indemnities are in force under statement of comprehensive income on page 67. which we have agreed to indemnify the Directors against all liabilities and related costs that they may incur in the Dividends execution of their duties.
Copies of these indemnities are kept Final dividend at our registered o ce and are open for inspection by any per share Interim dividend Total dividend proposed to be paid per share per share member.
These indemnities do not cover the Directors for on 23 May 2014 paid 18 October 2013 for 2013 fraudulent activity.
13.3p 2.5p 15.8p Corporate governance A report on corporate governance and compliance with the Signi cant changes and events provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, which forms On 26 February 2013, the Company was re-registered as a part of this Directors Report, is set out on pages 36 to 47. public limited company from a private company limited by shares and changed its name from esure Group Holdings Employees Limited to esure Group plc.
The Group is committed to creating an environment in which individual di erences and contributions are recognised On 27 March 2013, the Companys shares were admitted and valued, and to safeguard a working environment that to the premium listing segment of the O cial List of the promotes dignity and respect to all.
No form of victimisation, UK Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock discrimination, bullying or harassment will be tolerated.
Exchanges main market for listed securities.
We seek to promote equal opportunities for all through the Board of Directors provision of employment practices and policies which The names and biographical details of our current directors recognise the diversity of our employees and ensure that are set out on pages 32 to 33 and are also available on our neither our employees nor prospective employees receive less website at www.
com about-us managementfavourable treatment on the basis of their perceived or actual structure age: disability: race: religion or belief: sex including gender, marital status, pregnancy or maternity, or gender reassignment The following changes to the Board took place in 2013: or sexual orientation : working hours part-time, full-time or Andrew Whitehouse resigned from the Board with e ect xed-term employees or physical characteristics.
from 25 February 2013: The Group is committed to employing people who are disabled David Calder resigned from the Board with e ect from or who become disabled during their career by making 27 March 2013: reasonable adjustments as appropriate.
Actively working with the Access to Work government scheme enables the Group Charles Schrager Von Altishofen resigned from the Board to support the continued employment of disabled employees with e ect from 27 March 2013: and prospective disabled employees.
The training, career Mike Evans was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on development and promotion of disabled people is, as far 10 June 2013: as possible, identical to that of other employees.
Shirley Garrood was appointed as a Non-Executive Director Employees are kept up to date with regular CEO brie ngs, on 31 July 2013: and quarterly business updates, team meetings and other internal communications.
Employees views are gathered through Mara Dolores Dancausa was appointed as a Non-Executive our employee consultation group, department forums and Director on 9 December 2013. employee surveys.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 60 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Political donations UK GHG Mandatory Reporting output Our policy is not to make any donations or contributions to political parties or organisations and no such payments were GHG Emissions Data for Period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e made during the year.
2 esure Group plc Environment UK-based general insurance provider with Global emissions three o ces and two apartments, solely This report presents a narrative report for the 2013 trading in the UK 2013 Greenhouse Gas GHG Mandatory Reporting requirement of esure Groups UK operations.
January 2013 Emissions from: December 2013 Methodology: The footprint is calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocol and Carbon Trust CT guidance on Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and operation calculating organisational footprints.
Activity data has been of facilities 431 converted into carbon emissions using published emissions Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling factors.
The data used has been provided by the Group and purchased for own use 3,143 sense checked but not formally veri ed by Environmental Industries Commission EIC.
Companys chosen intensity measurement: tCO e Turnover 2 Emissions sources: The footprint includes the Scope 1 tCO e Turnover 6.23 2 fossil fuel and refrigerant leakage and Scope 2 electricity emissions associated with the o ces in which the Group is Share capital based.
For the purposes of the report only Scope 1 Direct Our share capital consists of one class of ordinary shares of and Scope 2 Indirect emissions sources are required.
Each share ranks equally and carries the same rights 12 Organisational boundary: The footprint includes data for to vote and receive dividends and other distributions declared.
the three o ces in which the Group employs sta Reigate, There are no restrictions on the transfer or holding of shares in Manchester and Glasgow as well as the two domestic the Company.
Note that this does not include outsourced The rights attached to shares which are the subject of awards activities e. g. repair shops and third-party suppliers.
under any of our employee share plans are not available until Data quality: The quality of the data used for the footprint any award or option is exercised and the shares are allotted calculations has been rated as good, average, poor or or transferred to the relevant individual.
The Trustee of our 1 based on benchmarks.
Around 99.8% of emissions in the employee bene t trust is obliged to act in the best interests of footprint were based on good quality data, this is a weighted the share plans bene ciaries.
At General Meetings, the Trustee percentage according to contribution by the emissions source.
may exercise discretion and vote in respect of Trust shares although it may not always choose to do so.
Where shares are esure Group plcs 2013 GHG Mandatory Report bene cially held by an employee within a share plan they may This report is based on the 12 months between 1 January direct the Trustee to vote on their behalf.
2013 and 31 December 2013 re ecting the financial year of the Group.
Power of Directors to issue shares The total carbon emissions associated with the Groups UK The Directors require express authorisation from shareholders operations were 3,574 tCO e. This is made up of 431 tCO e 2 2 to allot new shares.
This authority can be granted for a period of Scope 1 direct emissions and 3,143 tCO e of Scope 2 2 of five years.
However, we will follow best practice and seek indirect emissions.
It will be proposed at the 2014 AGM that the Directors be granted authority to allot new shares.
Purchase of own shares The Directors require express authorisation from shareholders to purchase our own shares.
Accordingly, at the 2014 AGM, the Directors will seek authority to make market purchases of up to a maximum of 10% of issued share capital.
At the present time the Group has no plans to exercise this authority.
The Company did not repurchase any of its Ordinary Shares during 2013.
1 Good means that the calculation is based on actual data such as bills, miles travelled or meter readings.
Averagemeans that the calculation is based on a fair estimate such as a proportion of a whole years energy consumption.
Poor is where the emissions calculation is based on data that only broadly correlates with emissions like travel spend rather than distance.
Benchmark means that we have lled a data gap using an industry standard or a benchmark based on the Groups other operations.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 61 Directors report continued Substantial shareholdings The Directors have recommended KPMG LLP be put forward During the period up to 31 December 2013, the Company to be appointed as auditor and a resolution concerning their has received noti cations, in accordance with Disclosure and appointment will be put forward at the forthcoming AGM.
2R, of interests in 3% or more of the voting rights attached to the Companys issued share capital, Disclosure of information to auditor as set out in the table below: Each Director at the date of the approval of this report con rms that: Number of Ordinary % of Shareholder Shares Voting Rights So far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditor is unaware.
Peter John Wood 128,609,655 30.9 He or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to BlackRock, Inc. 45,201,884 10.8 have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware Standard Life Investments of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Limited 28,435,051 7.1 Groups auditor is aware of that information.
Schroders plc 21,866,450 5.3 Going concern FMR LLC 19,438,190 4.7 These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The financial performance and These gures represent the number of shares and percentage position of the Group, its cash ows and its approach to capital held as at the date of noti cation to the Company.
management are set out in the financial review on pages 18 to 23.
The Group has a strong financial position with no debt, No changes have been disclosed in accordance with Disclosure robust reserves, a conservative investment portfolio and and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R in the period between 1 January capital signi cantly in excess of the minimum regulatory 2014 and 7 March 2014, except as set out below: requirement.
In addition, the Board has reviewed the Groups Number of Ordinary % of projections for the next 12 months and beyond, including cash Shareholder Shares Voting Rights ow forecasts and regulatory capital surpluses.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate BlackRock, Inc. 50,057,221 12.02 resources to continue in operational existence for at least 12 months.
Restrictions on voting rights All shareholders entitled to attend and vote at a General Material contracts Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, speak and Save as disclosed below, there are no material contracts other vote in their place.
A member may appoint more than one than contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business proxy provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the to which the Group is a party: rights attached to a di erent share or shares held by the An agreement between the Group and CapGemini for the shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder.
Proxy forms outsourcing of IT services.
The initial term of the agreement must be received by our registrars at least 48 hours before the is for five years from 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2015 and time appointed for holding a meeting, as set out in any Notice continues therea er until terminated or in any form or proxy circulated by us.
The appointment of a proxy does not preclude a shareholder from attending and An Option and Shareholders Deed relating to voting in person at a General Meeting.
Further details may be Gocompare.
The Group found in the Notice of Meeting sent to shareholders in advance is entitled to appoint up to 50% in number of the board of of the 2014 AGM, a copy of which is also available on our directors of Gocompare.
com investors The Relationship Agreement between the Company and Peter Wood remains in force until the Ordinary Shares cease Change of control to be admitted to the O cial List of the FCA and to trading There are no material agreements to which the Group is party on the London Stock Exchange: or the Potential Controlling that take e ect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of Shareholders ceases to own, when taken together, 15% or the Group following a takeover bid.
more of the Ordinary Shares or the voting rights attaching to the Ordinary Shares unless at the time the Potential Auditor Controlling Shareholders shall cease to own, when taken KPMG Audit Plc has been our auditor for a number of years.
together, 15% or more of the Ordinary Shares or the The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with voting rights attaching to the Ordinary Shares, Peter Wood the auditor is working well and remains satis ed with their remains the Chairman of the Company, in which event the e ectiveness.
The auditor is required to rotate the audit Relationship Agreement shall terminate six months a er partner responsible for the Group and key subsidiaries audits.
Peter Wood ceases to be the Chairman of the Company.
There are no contractual obligations restricting our choice of auditor.
KPMG Audit Plc has instigated an orderly wind down of business.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 62 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Research and development audit function so that the Audit Committee may consider In the ordinary course of business, the Group develops new whether signi cant weaknesses exist.
During the course of products and services in each of its business divisions.
the reviews, the Audit Committee has not identi ed or been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined Special rights to be signi cant.
There are no persons holding securities that carry special To support Group policies and to facilitate the raising of rights with regard to the control of the Group.
concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or any other matters, the Group provides a Appointment, retirement and removal of Directors con dential telephone hotline, so that sta or third parties The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed may report anonymously any perceived inaccurate or unethical by the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, the working practices.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, the Companies Act 2006, the Relationship Agreement between the Chairman The Audit and Risk Committees endeavour to ensure that the and the Company and related legislation.
The Articles may only Group has in place the most appropriate and e ective controls, be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders.
checks, systems, and risk management techniques.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary Internal Audit resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board The Groups Internal Audit function is fully outsourced.
holds o ce only until the next following AGM of the Company The activities and e ectiveness of Internal Audit are monitored and is then eligible for reappointment.
and reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is Under the Relationship Agreement between the Chairman and responsible for ensuring that adequate access to information the Company, as long as the Chairman or any of his Connected and resource is given to the Lead Internal Auditor and for Persons, when taken together, hold at least 15% of the Shares approving the appointment and removal of the Lead Internal or Voting Rights attaching to the Shares, the Chairman will Auditor.
The Lead Internal Auditor reports directly to the be entitled to appoint, remove and reappoint one person to Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Internal Audit reports are be a Director, who may be either himself or another person presented to the Audit Committee on the e ectiveness of the nominated by him.
Groups systems of internal controls and the adequacy of these systems to manage business risk and to safeguard the Groups The Articles require that at each AGM at least one-third assets and resources.
Internal Audit uses the Groups risk rounded down of the Directors retire by rotation.
The retiring registers to plan and inform their annual audit programme Directors are eligible to stand for re-election.
The Code around the most signi cant risks to the Business to ensure recommends that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies should that controls are in place and are designed and operating be subject to annual re-election, and all Directors will stand e ectively.
The Audit Committee reviews and approves the for election or re-election at the 2014 AGM.
In addition, to any power of removal conferred by the By order of the Board Companies Act, the Company may by special resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his or her period of o ce.
Risk management and internal control Nick Edwards The Board is ultimately responsible for the e ectiveness of General Counsel and Company Secretary the Groups system of risk management and internal control.
10 March 2014 To ensure that this is achieved and that the risk management and internal controls are embedded in the running of the business, the Group operates a three Lines of Defence structure which is regularly reported on to the Audit and Risk Committees.
This framework mitigates the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, unforeseen losses and material financial misstatement.
There are a number of controls in place within this framework to ensure that the Group has robust procedures for preparing consolidated accounts and for financial reporting.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the e ectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems.
Its monitoring focuses on material risks and controls and is based principally on reporting upwards within the framework from business management, risk management and the internal esure Group Annual Report 2013 63
