Board of Directors An experienced and balanced leadership team Board balance and diversity 1.
Stuart Vann Chairman Chief Executive O cer Balance of Non-Executive and Executive Directors Peter Wood founded the Group in February Stuart was appointed to the Board in 2000.
Peter has served as the Groups September 2011 and Chief Executive Chairman Chairman since February 2000 and was the O cer in February 2012.
Stuart joined the Groups Chief Executive O cer from 2006 Company in 2000 and has held various until 2012. roles including Head of Insurance Risk and 1 Acquisition and Chief Operating O cer.
He Previously, Peter founded the Direct Line is a quali ed accountant, with approaching general insurance business in 1985, Executive Directors two decades of experience in the sector.
Peter also founded Privilege Insurance with Royal Stuart led the Groups response to the Bank of Scotland, together with two other personal injury claims phenomenon and 2 insurance companies in the US and one has been the driving force behind the in Spain.
Groups earnings diversi cation strategy.
Non-Executive Directors Peter was a non-executive director of Stuart is a member of the ABIs General Centrica plc from 1996 to 2000, he was a Insurance Council.
He is also a member of non-executive director of the Economist the Worshipful Company of Insurers.
Committees: Executive, Disclosure, In 1996, Peter received the honour of Investment Commander of the British Empire in Board gender balance recognition of his services to the UK financial services industry.
Female 4 Committees: Nomination Chairman, Disclosure 40% Male 6 60% Length of tenure of 6.
Shirley Garrood Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Mike was appointed to the Board as a Shirley was appointed to the Board in 0-3 years Non-Executive Director in June 2013.
She is also a non-executive also chairman of Hargreaves Lansdown plc director of Hargreaves Lansdown plc and a non-executive director of Chesnara and a governor of Peabody Trust.
70% plc and CBRE Global Investors Group UK Shirley is a Chartered Accountant and Limited.
Mike, who is a quali ed actuary, 9 years and over Corporate Treasurer, having trained with is also a member of the advisory board of KPMG.
She was appointed chief operating Spectrum Corporate Finance and chairs o cer of Henderson Group plc in 2001 the board of Trustees of Wessex Heartbeat.
30% and then chief financial o cer from 2009 Mike was formerly chief operating o cer until 2013.
Shirley was an executive at Skandia UK Limited.
director at Morley Fund Management Committees: Audit, Remuneration, Risk Aviva from 1998 to 2001 and also chief operating o cer from 2000 to 2001.
Committees: Audit, Remuneration, Investment esure Group Annual Report 2013 32 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 3.
Mara Dolores Dancausa Non-executive Director Chief Finance O cer Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Mara Dolores was appointed to the Darren is a quali ed accountant with over Board as a Non-Executive Director in 20 years experience of working within the Dame Helen joined the Board in December December 2013. insurance industry.
She is chairman of UBM plc, the Port Legal & General, primarily in the general of London Authority and Incisive Media, Mara Dolores is the chief executive o cer insurance division.
and a non-executive director of Rollsand managing director of Bankinter SA, a Royce Group plc.
She is a senior adviser leading Spanish bank.
She was previously Darren joined the Group in 2003.
He was to Bain Capital and Chancellor of the chief executive o cer and managing promoted to the position of Head of University of Southampton.
Dame Helen director of Linea Directa Aseguradora Finance in 2007 and was appointed to was chief executive of the Economist in Spain, the third largest Spanish the Board as Chief Finance O cer in Group until 2008, a former non-executive motor insurer.
November 2012. director of Northern Foods, BT and She has received several awards in her Committees: Executive, Disclosure, Centrica, and president of the CBI from business career, including being awarded Investment 2009 to 2011. the Aster-Esic Prize for Outstanding Dame Helen is also currently involved with Career Achievement and Financial not-for-pro t organisations in media, the Executive of the Year from Eco n internet, the arts and education.
magazine: nominated as In uential Woman in the list of the Top 100 Spanish She was awarded a CBE in 2004 and in Women Leaders: the award for Best 2011 was made a Dame Commander of the Executive of the Year in 2010 by FEDEPE.
Order of the British Empire.
Peter Ward Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Anthony has been a Non-Executive Anne was appointed to the Board in Peter was appointed to the Board as a Director since September, 2003.
Peter is an senior independent director of Dyson actuary who spent his career in insurance Anne is a director and the chief investment James Group Limited and chairman working for Commercial Union in Australia, o cer and head of the EMEA region of Changing Faces, the leading UK South Africa and the UK.
In 1994, Peter for Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
was appointed as a group executive Her career has included research analysis, director of Commercial Union plc, a Anthony was group finance director of portfolio management and global asset position from which he retired in 2000.
Legal & General Group plc from 1987 to allocation and includes time with Peter is a Fellow of the Institute of 2001.
He is a Chartered Accountant and JP Morgan and Mercury Asset Management, Actuaries and of the Chartered Insurance holds an MBA from the Darden Graduate later Merrill Lynch Investment Managers.
Institute, a Past President of the Insurance Business School.
He was chairman of The She holds non-executive positions with Institute of London and a Past Master of Sage Group plc from 2007 to 2012 and of the University of Edinburgh, the Scottish The Worshipful Company of Insurers.
Northern Foods plc from 2005 to 2011: Chamber Orchestra and the Duchy of and he has held a range of non-executive Committees: Audit Chairman, Risk Lancaster, and is a member of the FCA director roles including Thames Water plc, Chairman, Remuneration, Investment Practitioner Panel.
Anne is a Chartered Glas Cymru, HBOS plc, and JLT Group plc.
Engineer, a Fellow of the Chartered Committees: Investment Chairman, Audit, Institute for Securities and Investment and Remuneration, Risk, Nomination holds a Certi ed Diploma in Accounting and Finance ACCA.
Committees: Audit, Risk, Investment esure Group Annual Report 2013 33
