How we create value Our business model and strategy are designed to deliver sustainable value over the long term Business model Technical risk focus Our culture Strong brands Customer focus MultiDiversi ed Stakeholder channel income value distribution streams Our strategy Focus on Continued Targeted underwriting diversi cation of growth performance income streams esure Group Annual Report 2013 6 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Introduction business model and strategy Strong brands At esure Group, our objective is to build and safeguard value Our brands provide colour, meaning and depth to our Business.
for our stakeholders: to develop strong relationships with esure and Sheilas Wheels embody our promise to our customers, suppliers and sta : and to promote and protect customers and remain central to our continued success.
the reputation of our Business.
This objective is delivered through a customer-focused business model and promoted via a strategy of disciplined underwriting, targeted growth and continued diversi cation of our income streams.
This strategy is bolstered by a number of hallmark strengths including prudent reserving, e cient business processes and innovative development.
Our strategy is enacted by a team that is guided by Chairman, Peter Wood, a strong Board and an experienced management team led by CEO, Stuart Vann, and CFO, Darren Ogden.
Business model In simple terms, the Group provides Motor and Home insurance products and services to mainland UK customers through two core brands esure and Sheilas Wheels.
There is, of course, more to it than that: and our business model has been developed over the past 14 years.
Customer focus Our customers are at the heart of our business model and everything we do.
We attract and retain them with excellent products sold e ectively and compliantly through strong brands at competitive prices.
We then seek to service our customers with integrity and fairness throughout their relationship with the Group.
Technical risk focus We have built up discrete books of business that perform well, thanks to the tight risk control and rigorous technical pricing we employ.
Data is collated, modelled and analysed at a very granular level to provide powerful insights into the risks we underwrite.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 7 How we create value continued Diversi ed income streams Our underwriting discipline is founded on: Diversi cation of income beyond our Motor book helps to The active monitoring and management of underwriting mitigate the e ects of Motor market cyclicality.
Our Home risk exposure: insurance business reached a critical mass of over half a million customers in 2012 and has grown further in 2013.
Continued development and enrichment: and We also o er a range of optional additional insurance products Tight risk control at policy inception and renewal, including: to both Motor and Home customers to enhance their cover.
anti-fraud measures in our sales, policy management and Other income streams include the Groups income from its claims functions: conservative investment portfolio and the share of pro ts from the Groups 50% investment in the price comparison active management of segment exposure: and website Gocompare.
Multi-channel distribution Throughout our history, the Group has o ered convenient Our underwriting performance is a key driver of the Groups ways for our customers and potential customers to interact capital requirements, and its control is therefore a key with us.
Policies are currently o ered directly via our websites, foundation for delivering value.
This underpins the Groups over the telephone, via price comparison websites and most two other key strategic objectives.
Targeted growth Our culture The UK private Motor insurance market covers 24 million The Group works hard to encourage and promote the highest vehicles and receives annual net written premiums of over standards of professionalism and customer service which 8 billion.
The domestic Home insurance market covers over is embedded into our culture for the bene t of all of 19 million homes for buildings insurance and over 16 million our customers.
These markets provide plenty We recognise that it is our people who make the Group a of room for the Group to grow from its current position.
success and we strive to provide a rewarding place to work.
The Group seeks to acquire and retain customers via excellent We invest time in training our sta and encouraging them to customer service, keen pricing and its strong brands.
support and serve our customers accordingly.
The Group pursues targeted growth within market segments where we see the opportunity for positive Our strategy We aim to deliver sustainable value for our stakeholders underwriting performance.
via our strategy, that is designed to take advantage of the Growth needs the right infrastructure and the Group has made strengths inherent in our business model: signi cant investments in its IT platforms, Claims System and business premises in recent years.
As a result, the Group was Continued Focus on comfortably able to accommodate in-force policy growth Targeted diversi cation underwriting in 2013. growth of income performance streams Continued diversi cation of income streams The Group places a strong emphasis on diversifying its income Picking up these elements in more detail: streams beyond its core Motor insurance business in order Focus on underwriting performance to mitigate the e ects of the Motor markets cyclicality.
This element of the strategy is discussed further as part of the We price products for technical risk which, combined with our e ciency in running the business, translates as competitive Chief Executive O cers statement on pages 10-12. pricing within our target markets intended to deliver a positive contribution to the Group.
Summary The Groups strong financial position underpins its business model and strategy and the Board believes the Group is well placed to create and sustain value for all our stakeholders.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements esure Group Annual Report 2013 9
