Corporate governance report continued Accountability Role of the Audit Committee Board Committees The key responsibilities of the Audit Committee, as set out in its terms of reference, are to assist the Board in discharging its duties in respect of: Audit Committee Receiving and reviewing reports from the Groups external auditors, monitoring their e ectiveness and independence, and making recommendations to the Board in respect of their remuneration, appointment and dismissal: Monitoring and reviewing internal audit activities: Reviewing the Annual Report and Accounts of the Group: Overseeing the Groups procedures for detecting fraud, preventing bribery and non-compliance: and Reviewing the e ectiveness of the Groups system of internal financial controls and internal control systems.
The Committee is authorised to investigate any activity within its terms of reference and to seek any information that it requires from any employee.
It has the right to consult professional advisers and, if it is not satis ed with the advice received, seek further independent professional advice.
The terms of reference and the e ectiveness of the Audit Committee are reviewed annually and any recommendations referred to the Board.
The Committee Peter Ward is subject to an evaluation every year as part of the Board Chairman, Audit Committee Performance Evaluation.
The Audit Committees terms of reference can be viewed on our website at www.
com investors Directors attendance Composition There are currently five serving members of the Audit Director Meetings Attended Possible Attendance Committee, all are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Peter Ward Chairman 7 7 The membership of the Committee and attendance at meetings in 2013 is set out opposite.
The Board considers Anthony Hobson 7 7 that all members of the Committee have recent and relevant 1 Anne Richards 44 financial experience and that the skills, quali cations and commercial experience of its members are su cient for it to 2 Shirley Garrood 22 be able to perform its duties.
The UK Corporate Governance 2 Code recommends at least one member to have recent and Mike Evans 22 relevant financial experience.
3 David Calder 33 Although not members of the Committee, the Chairman, CEO, CFO, Chief Risk O cer, Chief Operating O cer, and Company 1 Anne Richards was appointed to the Committee on 25 February 2013.
Secretary are invited to attend each meeting as well as senior 2 Mike Evans and Shirley Garrood were appointed to the Committee on representatives from both external and internal audit.
Other 1 October 2013. members of senior management are invited to present reports 3 David Calder stepped down from the Committee on 26 February 2013. as necessary to enable the Committee to discharge its duties.
Further, the Committee is kept up to date with financial reporting and other developments through presentations from the Groups external auditors and senior management.
The biographies of the Committee members can be found on pages 32 to 33. esure Group Annual Report 2013 40 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Meetings A er discussion with both management and the external The Committee meets at least four times a year, or more auditor, the Committee determined that the key risk of frequently if required.
misstatement for the Groups financial statements related to technical provisions.
This risk was discussed with All the Committee meetings that took place in 2013 were management during the year and with the external auditor scheduled meetings and attended by all members.
when the Committee reviewed and agreed the Group audit plan, when the external auditor reviewed the interim financial Activities statements and also at the conclusion of the audit of the External financial reporting financial statements.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring, reviewing and challenging the integrity of the financial statements of the Technical provisions claims outstanding and claims Group and any other formal announcement relating to its outstanding recoverable from reinsurers see Note 19 in the financial performance, reviewing signi cant financial reporting financial statements issues and judgements they contain.
As an insurance entity, technical provisions form a signi cant part of the liabilities of the Group.
The Groups policy is to hold This includes compliance with legal, regulatory, statutory and su cient provisions including those to cover claims which accounting requirements giving due consideration to the have been incurred but not reported to meet all liabilities as provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the they fall due.
Apart from the provisions relating to Periodic requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing, Prospectus Payment Orders, claims provisions are not discounted.
and Disclosure and Transparency Rules and any other applicable rules as appropriate.
Management con rmed to the Committee that they remain satis ed that technical provisions included in the financial The Committee has considered, challenged and reviewed statements provide an appropriate margin over projected financial reporting for the Group including: ultimate claims costs and none of the Committees other Changes to the Groups capital structure in preparation enquiries, nor the external auditors work, identi ed any for IPO, including a capital reduction and repurchase and errors or inconsistencies that were material in the context cancellation of Non-Voting Ordinary Shares and Priority of the financial statements as a whole.
Return Shares from existing capital resources: Management also con rmed to the Committee that it had Financial reporting and regulatory reporting relating to the considered the appropriateness of the key assumptions used IPO, including the Historic Financial Information included in in the calculation of technical provisions by the independent the Price Range Prospectus: external actuary.
The Committee considered the quali cations and experience of the external actuary by examining the The interim financial statements and results announcement quali cations and experience of the appointed rm and for the six months ended 30 June 2013, including its representatives.
accounting and disclosures relating to the new financial reporting standard IFRS 13 Fair Value measurement The external auditor explained to the Committee the work and the Groups new share-based employee they had conducted during the year, including how their remuneration schemes: audit procedures were focused on those areas of technical provisions that involve the most judgement.
On the basis The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2013: of their audit work, the external auditor reported no That the Annual Report for the year ended 31 December inconsistencies or material misstatements in the context of 2013 was fair, balanced and understandable: the financial statements: and in the Committees view this supports the appropriateness of the Groups reserving The regulatory reports for the year ended 31 December methodology and valuation.
2013, speci cally the PRA and IGD returns: Internal audit Critical estimates and judgements: The internal audit function is ful lled by a third-party Principal risks and uncertainties: and organisation, Mazars LLP.
The Committees responsibilities include: Going concern assumption.
Review of the activities, resources, organisational structure and the operational e ectiveness of the internal audit activities, including ensuring adequate standing and freedom from restriction: esure Group Annual Report 2013 41 Corporate governance report continued Monitoring and reviewing internal audit activities, reports The Committee meets separately at least once a year and findings including management responses: with the Groups internal and external auditors without management present.
Approval of the annual internal audit plan to ensure adequate coverage and consideration of the Groups The Committee has considered and adopted a policy on the key risks: provision of non-audit services by the external auditor and procedures to protect the external auditors independence An assessment of the performance of the internal auditor and objectivity.
to ensure that the function remains e ective and t for purpose: and The external auditor is prohibited from carrying out the following services: Annual review and approval of the internal audit charter.
Work relating to the preparation of accounting records and Key areas covered by the internal audit function in 2013 were: financial statements that will be subject to external audit: Claims reserves review of: processes and controls around Internal audit services: the setting of case reserves, adequacy and timeliness of relevant management information and settlement protocols: Audit or management of IT systems and services where these form any part of the accounting system and where Sales incentives design and implementation of the Groups the external auditor places reliance upon them as part of sales incentive schemes to ensure compliance with new the audit: FCA guidelines: Tax services where the calculations are or may be Anti-money laundering, bribery and corruption review of expected to be used for material entries in the financial the Groups processes, systems and controls in place to statements: support in any litigation where this would ensure compliance with applicable legislation and FCA involve the estimation of the likely outcome of a pending requirements: and legal matter which could have a material e ect on the Incident and change management procedures at the Groups financial statements: IT outsource partner review the adequacy of the design Any form of management role: and and operating e ectiveness of the outsourcers procedures to ensure e ective risk management in line with the Arrangements where fees are contingent to a future audit Groups requirements.
judgement and will or are likely to have a material impact on the financial statements.
External audit The Committee oversees the Groups relationship with the The appointment of the external auditor for the following work external auditor and formally reviews the relationship, policies requires speci c approval: and procedures to ensure independence.
Any work that may be thought to give rise to the threat of During the year the Committee considered: auditor independence will require prior approval: The independence, objectivity and performance of KPMG Any service that is of a signi cant size, outside of scope in Audit Plc: nature or attaching special terms and conditions, will require prior approval from the Committee: The Committee welcomes KPMGs policy of audit partner rotation every five years, which facilitates independence Acquisition structuring and due diligence work with a fee and objectivity within the external audit team.
The current in excess of 50,000: external audit engagement partner is Murray Raisbeck, who Corporation Tax compliance work with a fee in excess was appointed to lead the audit in 2010: of 50,000: The e ectiveness of the 2013 audit processes, including Tax planning with a fee in excess of 50,000: and KPMGs reports and updates which summarised their conclusions and contained feedback on the Groups control Any service with a contingent fee arrangement.
environment: The Committee receives reports twice a year detailing the fees KPMGs proposed fee and audit plan: and paid to the external auditor for the provision of non-audit services and where non-audit fees exceed one third of external KPMGs noti cation that KPMG Audit Plc has instigated audit fees, including amounts relating to Listing, non audit an orderly wind down of its business.
The Committee has fees paid to the external auditor were 480,000, considerably recommended to the Board that KPMG LLP be put forward higher than the Group audit fee.
to be appointed as auditor and a resolution concerning their appointment will be put to the forthcoming AGM of the Group.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 42 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements IPO services are typically performed by auditors as they are mostly assurance related and the fee was not contingent or success based.
For the purposes of evaluating the independence of the external auditor, the Committee classi es the interim review fee as an external audit fee.
Excluding the work performed in respect of the IPO, non-audit fees paid to KPMG were 43% of external audit fees in the year.
Non-audit fees were principally related to tax advisory and compliance services.
A full breakdown of non-audit fees paid during the year is disclosed within the notes to the financial statements on page 83.
No con icts of interest were found to exist between the work performed for the purpose of an external audit and non-audit services provided by KPMG.
The Committee considers the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the appropriateness of tendering the external audit contract as part of normal business practice.
Based on its ongoing assessment, for example through the quality of the external auditors report to the Committee, and the audit partners interaction with the Committee, the Committee remains satis ed with the e ciency and e ectiveness of the audit.
The Committee therefore has not considered it necessary to require the audit to be put to tender.
Conclusion As a result of its work during the year, the Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference.
The Chairman of the Committee will be at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the activities of the Committee from shareholders.
On behalf of the Audit Committee: Peter Ward Chairman of the Audit Committee esure Group Annual Report 2013 43 Corporate governance report continued Responsibilities Nomination Committee The responsibilities of the Committee include reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board and ensuring that the Board comprises the right balance of skills, knowledge and experience, and making recommendations about any adjustments considered necessary.
Activities The Committee oversees the search and selection process for new Directors.
During the year the Chairman led the Committees successful search in the appointment of three new Non-Executive Directors.
The services of Zygos, external independent professional advisers, were used to assist in the search for two of the appointments.
As part of the recruitment process, the candidates met with the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, CEO and a number of other Directors before being appointed.
The Board con rms that Zygos has no other connection with the Group.
In conjunction with these appointments, we have also reviewed our Committee composition during the year, recommending the appointments of Mike Evans, Anne Richards and Shirley Garrood to the Audit Committee: Mike Evans and Shirley Garrood to the Remuneration Committee: Shirley Peter Wood Garrood, Anne Richards and Peter Ward to the Investment Chairman, Nomination Committee Committee: and Mike Evans and Anne Richards to the Risk Committee.
The Committee also reviews succession planning for our most senior executive positions.
Our policy is designed to ensure leadership continuity over the medium and long term and to identify and develop individuals with the potential to take on key or critical management positions in the future.
Directors attendance Diversity The Board has 40% women members and all future Director Meetings Attended Possible Attendance appointments will be made with regards to diversity, including Peter Wood Chairman 4 4 gender, as recommended in Lord Davies Women on Boards report February 2011.
Dame Helen Alexander 4 4 Meetings Anthony Hobson 4 4 Two members, both of whom must be independent NonDavid Calder stepped down from the Committee on 25 February 2013.
Other Directors attend by invitation.
Composition The Committee meets at least twice a year, or more frequently The Nomination Committee comprises a majority of if required.
The membership of the Committee and attendance at scheduled meetings in 2013 are Terms of reference set out above.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference can be viewed on our website at www.
com investors esure Group Annual Report 2013 44 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Directors attendance Investment Committee Director Meetings Attended Possible Attendance Anthony Hobson Chairman 6 6 2 Shirley Garrood 22 Darren Ogden 6 6 3 Anne Richards 55 Stuart Vann 6 6 Peter Ward 5 5 1 Andrew Whitehouse 55 4 David Calder 11 Charles Schrager 4 von Altishofen 11 1 Andrew Whitehouse stepped down from the Committee on 31 October 2013.
2 Shirley Garrood was appointed to the Committee on 2 October 2013.
3 Anne Richards and Peter Ward were appointed to the Committee on Anthony Hobson 25 February 2013.
Chairman, Investment Committee 4 David Calder and Charles Schrager von Altishofen stepped down from the Committee on 25 February 2013.
Composition The Investment Committee is chaired by Anthony Hobson and its membership comprises at least three Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors or other members of senior management.
The membership of the Committee and attendance at scheduled meetings in 2013 are set out above.
Nick Wrighton, Deputy CFO, was appointed a member of the Committee in December 2013.
The Investment Committee was established to oversee the Boards investment strategy and meets at least four times a year, or more frequently if required.
Activities The primary purpose of the Committee is to review the performance of the outsourced investment managers and to ensure that there are e ective investment policies and strategies in place:that the outsourced investment managers are workingwithin the investment guidelines of the Group and that they are regularly challenged: and that the guidelines re ect the Boards Risk Appetite.
Terms of reference The Investment Committees terms of reference can be viewed on our website at www.
com investors esure Group Annual Report 2013 45 Corporate governance report continued The Risk Committee was established in anticipation of our Risk Committee IPO.
It meets at least four times a year, or more frequently if required.
Composition The Risk Committee is comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Peter Ward.
The membership of the Committee and attendance at scheduled meetings in 2013 are set out opposite.
Although not members of the Committee, the Chairman, CEO, CFO, Chief Risk O cer, Head of Regulatory Risk and Compliance and Company Secretary attend each meeting.
The Committee meets with the Chief Risk O cer without other Executive Directors or other management present, at least once a year.
Activities The responsibilities of the Risk Committee include: Advising the Board on the Groups risk strategy, risk policies and current risk exposures, including any prudential risks: Overseeing the implementation and maintenance of the Peter Ward overall risk management framework and management Chairman, Risk Committee systems: and Reviewing the Groups risk assessment processes and capability to identify and manage new risks.
The Committees Chairman reports formally to the Board on its proceedings a er each meeting.
Key achievements Development, agreement and oversight of the: Directors attendance Risk Appetite statement: Director Meetings Attended Possible Attendance Risk governance framework: Peter Ward Chairman 4 4 Customer focus within the Business: 3 Mike Evans 11 Material and emerging risks that the Group faces as a Business: Anthony Hobson 4 4 1 ICA submission process: and Anne Richards 33 2 Stress and scenario testing.
David Calder 11 Terms of reference 1 Anne Richards was appointed to the Committee on 25 February 2013.
The Risk Committees terms of reference can be viewed on our 2 David Calder stepped down from the Committee on 25 February 2013. website at www.
com investors 3 Mike Evans was appointed to the Committee on 1 October 2013. esure Group Annual Report 2013 46 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Composition Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Dame Helen Alexander.
The Chairman, CEO and the Head of Human Resources may, by invitation, attend Committee meetings, except when their own remuneration is discussed.
No Director is involved in determining his or her own remuneration.
None of the Committee members have had any personal financial interest, except as shareholders, in the matters decided.
The role The role of the Committee is to determine the terms and conditions of employment, remuneration and bene ts of each of the Chairman, Executive Directors, senior executives and other members of the executive senior management.
Activities The activities of the Remuneration Committee include: Determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy and total individual remuneration packages of the Dame Helen Alexander Chairman and other Executive Directors and other senior Chairman, Remuneration Committee management, including where relevant, bene t and pension arrangements: Determining and agreeing with the Board any performancerelated pay schemes for senior management: and Overseeing any major changes in employee bene t structures throughout the Group.
The Committee takes into consideration the pay and conditions of employment for employees when considering Directors attendance executives remuneration.
Director Meetings Attended Possible Attendance The Committee is authorised to investigate any activity Dame Helen Alexander within its terms of reference and to seek any information that Chairman 5 5 it requires from any employee.
It has the right to consult professional advisers or, if it is not satis ed with the advice 1 Mike Evans 22 received, seek further independent professional advice at the 1 Companys expense.
Shirley Garrood 22 Anthony Hobson 5 5 Meetings The Committee meets at least four times a year and any two Peter Ward 5 5 members constitute a quorum.
2 David Calder 22 The Directors Remuneration Report, which describes the Charles Schrager Committees functions and its remuneration policies in more 2 von Altishofen 22 detail, is set out on pages 48 to 59.
1 Mike Evans and Shirley Garrood were appointed to the Committee on Terms of reference 2 October 2013.
The Remuneration Committees terms of reference can be 2 David Calder and Charles Schrager von Altishofen stepped down from the viewed on our website at www.
com investors Committee on 25 February 2013. esure Group Annual Report 2013 47
