The directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report for The directors believe that all the resolutions to be considered the year ended 31 December 2013. at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The directors Results and dividends unanimously recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of their The Group made a profit after taxation of 60.1 million own shares in the Company.
An interim dividend of 4.0p 2012: 3.0p net per share was paid on 22 November 2013.
The Board Directors proposes to pay, subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, a final dividend of 9.5p 2012: final Details of the directors are shown on page 32.
Malcolm Harris dividend of 6.0p net per share in respect of the 2013 financial retired as non-executive Chairman on 29 November 2013 and year on 23 May 2014 to shareholders on the register at the Ian Tyler was appointed on the same date.
Colin Holmes has close of business on 28 March 2014.
On this basis, the total decided to retire from the Board at the 2014 AGM after seven dividend for 2013 will be 13.5p 2012: 9.0p.
The dividend and a half years as a director and seven years as chairman of reinvestment plan, introduced in 2012, gives shareholders the the Remuneration Committee.
Details of directors pay, pension rights, service contracts and directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are Annual General Meeting included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 43 Notice of the 2014 Annual General Meeting to be held on to 61.
Friday 16 May 2014 is set out on pages 102 to 104.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the Members wishing to vote should return forms of proxy to the directors will retire at the Annual General Meeting, to be held Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time on Friday 16 May 2014, and being eligible, offer themselves for for holding the meeting.
Shareholders with internet access may re-appointment, with the exception of Colin Holmes.
Ian Tyler register their voting instructions via the internet by going to also offers himself for re-appointment in accordance with the www.
Following a review of remuneration policy by the Remuneration Committee to ensure an approach to remuneration that Directors indemnities underpins the Companys long term growth and returns As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under strategy, a resolution will be submitted to shareholders to which the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors, increase the usual maximum award under the Long term to the extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles Incentive Plan from 100% to 150% of basic salary.
of Association, in respect of all losses arising out of or in Following a consultation, major shareholders were supportive connection with, the execution of their powers, duties of this change, which focuses on the long term sustainable and responsibilities, as directors of the Company or any of performance of the Company.
As in prior years, it is proposed that a general meeting that is Corporate governance not an Annual General Meeting can be called on not less than The Board remains committed to high standards of corporate 14 clear days notice.
This resolution is required as a result governance.
Details relating to the Companys compliance with of the implementation of the Shareholder Rights Directive, the UK Corporate Governance Code are given in the Corporate which increased the notice period for general meetings of Governance report on pages 33 to 41. the Company to 21 days, unless shareholders have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
Ability to call a general meeting on 14 days notice would only be utilised in limited circumstances and where it was to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
The Board has also resolved that a resolution be submitted to shareholders proposing the renewal of the authority to enable the Company to purchase up to 10% of its own shares.
Presently, the directors have no wish to exercise the authority, but consider it appropriate to have the flexibility to do so.
Any shares purchased would be cancelled.
66 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Directors report Our governance The instrument of transfer of a certificated share may be in any Powers of the directors usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, UK legislation The Board may refuse to register any instrument of transfer of a and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the does not prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking powers of the Company.
The directors have been authorised to place on an open and proper basis.
allot and issue ordinary shares and to make market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares and these powers may be exercised The Board may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated under authority of resolutions of the Company passed at its Annual share unless the instrument of transfer: i is lodged, duly stamped General Meeting.
The rules in relation to the appointment and if stampable, at the registered office of the Company or any replacement of directors are set out in the Companys Articles other place decided by the Board accompanied by the certificate of Association.
for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor Share capital to make the transfer: ii is in respect of only one class of shares: At the date of this report the Companys issued share capital and iii is in favour of not more than four transferees.
Transfers of comprised a single class of share capital which is divided into uncertificated shares must be carried out using the relevant system ordinary shares of 50 pence.
As at 21 February 2014, 134,098,952 and the Board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated ordinary shares of 50 pence each have been issued, are fully paid share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
of the relevant system and with UK legislation.
There are no other limitations on the holding of ordinary shares in the Company and The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary the Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by or on voting rights.
writing to the Group Company Secretary.
In particular, subject to applicable statutes, shares may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution determine, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may determine.
Shareholders are entitled to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies and, if they are corporations, to appoint corporate representatives.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every shareholder present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote and on a poll every shareholder present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share held.
Further details regarding voting, including the deadlines for voting, at the Annual General Meeting can be found in the notes to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting at the back of this annual report and accounts.
No shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise any other shareholder rights if he or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and has failed to supply the Company with the requisite information within the prescribed period.
Shareholders may receive a dividend and on a liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
None of the ordinary shares of the Company, including those held by the Companys share schemes, carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Employees participating in the Bovis Homes Group Share Incentive Plan may direct the trustee to exercise voting rights on their behalf at any general meeting.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 67 Substantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2013, the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital had been notified to the Company: % of voting rights of % direct % indirect % financial Total number of the issued Ordinary shares of 50p each holding holding instruments shares held share capital BlackRock, Inc - 13.83 2.38 21,736,629 16.21 BlackRock UK Special Situations Fund 4.06 - - 5,448,553 4.06 Legal & General Group 3.04 - - 4,076,171 3.04 Norges Bank 4.96 - - 6,650,077 4.96 Sanderson Asset Management - 4.96 - 6,655,348 4.96 Between 1 January and 21 February 2014, the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital were notified to the Company: % of voting rights of 21 February 2014 % direct % indirect % financial Total number of the issued Ordinary shares of 50p each holding holding instruments shares held share capital BlackRock, Inc - 13.84 2.13 21,411,383 15.97 Norges Bank 3.81 - - 5,103,967 3.81 Employees Corporate social responsibility The Groups employment policies do not discriminate between The Group continues to pursue its commitment to sustainable employees, or potential employees, on the grounds of gender, development and transparent corporate conduct in social and sexual orientation, age, colour, creed, ethnic origin or religious ethical matters, corporate governance, health and safety and belief.
It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration the environment.
to the employment needs of disabled persons and persons The Groups corporate social responsibility policy focuses on who become disabled whilst employed by the Group where sustainable development, the environment, health and safety, requirements may be adequately covered by these persons research and development, human resources, an ethical code and to comply with any current legislation with regard to of conduct and stakeholder engagement.
The Group Executive disabled persons.
Committee co-ordinates developments in this area and an It is the policy of the Group to train and develop employees established process of risk identification and management is to ensure they are equipped to undertake the tasks for embedded in all activities.
The Health, Safety and Environmental which they are employed, and to provide the opportunity Consultative Committee monitors and maintains the high for career development equally and without discrimination.
health and safety and environmental standards expected from Employees receive regular training in health, safety and offices and sites.
The Board addresses risk in its own decision making and Information about the Groups performance and other matters takes regular account of the significance of sustainability, is provided regularly by a news magazine and emails and environmental, social and ethical matters through consideration through consultations at staff meetings and personal briefings of relevant information and data in Board reports and other from elected employee representatives.
The CEO and GFD documentation provided.
Ultimate responsibility rests with the provide presentations to staff at all regional offices at key points Board and induction and training in this area is supported.
Further details of risks and policies and procedures for their The Group operates both a defined benefit pension scheme and management are included in the Groups Corporate Social a defined contribution pension scheme.
Responsibility report dated 21 February 2014, which includes key developments and performance data.
A copy of the report The Company has a Share Incentive Plan, a Save As You Earn is available on the Groups website www.
Share Option Scheme, a Share Option Plan and a Long Term co. uk and on request to the Group Company Secretary.
Incentive Plan to motivate employees and encourage strong involvement with the Group.
68 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Directors report Our governance Greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas GHG emissions data for the period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 Emissions from: Quantity Unit Combustion of fuel at our facilities and construction sites as well as fleet vehicle use 4,118 Tonnes of CO e 2 Scope 1 emissions Purchased electricity 1,408 Tonnes of CO e 2 Scope 2 emissions Total GHG emissions Scope 1 and Scope 2 5,526 Tonnes of CO e 2 Companys chosen intensity measurements: i Total GHG emissions per legally completed unit 1.96 Tonnes of CO e per legally 2 completed unit ii Total GHG emissions per 1,000 sq ft legally completed 2.02 Tonnes of CO e per 2 1,000 sq ft legally completed There are a number of commercial contracts that could alter in the Methodology event of a change of control.
None is considered to be material in GHG emissions have been reported from all sources required under terms of their potential impact on the Group in this event.
the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within the Groups operational Financial risk management control and the consolidated statements.
The Group does not have responsibility for any emission sources that are not included in the Details of financial risk management and exposure to credit consolidated financial statements and are outside the boundary of liquidity risks are included in note 4.6 to the accounts.
Political donations During the year, measures were put in place to collect emissions No political donations were made during the year ended 31 data from our construction sites for the first time.
The Group has a policy of not making donations data was incomplete at the year end, we have extrapolated total to political parties or incurring political expenditure.
emissions by using i an averaging approach to extend data to a full year for sites with part-year data, and ii applied an average Auditors calculated from all sites to sites returning inadequate data.
The calculations allow for sites which opened and closed during Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this report the year.
confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit GHG emissions have been calculated using emission factors from information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2013.
Scope 1 emissions arise from the consumption of gas at each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have our facilities, diesel on construction sites and UK business mileage taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit in fleet cars.
Emissions from air conditioning in offices have been information and to establish that the Companys auditors are excluded as not being material.
Scope 2 emissions represent aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Takeover directive with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
On a change of control, provisions in the Groups syndicated The auditors, KPMG LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue banking facility agreements described in note 4.3 to the accounts in office and, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies would allow lenders to withdraw the facility.
Act 2006, resolutions concerning their re-appointment and All of the Groups share schemes contain provisions relating to a remuneration will be placed before the Annual General Meeting.
Under these provisions, a change of control would be a vesting event, allowing exercise of outstanding options and awards, subject to satisfaction of performance conditions, as required.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 69 Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also Directors responsibilities statement responsible for preparing a strategic report, a directors report, The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, a directors remuneration report and a report on corporate the directors remuneration report and the Group and Parent governance that comply with that law and those regulations.
Company financial statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed Company financial statements on the same basis.
on page 32 of this annual report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a the Group and Parent Company financial statements in this a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and report, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
as adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretation and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial under IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, statements, the directors are required to: financial position and profit or loss of the Company and of the Group taken as a whole: and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: b the strategic report contained in this report includes a fair, balanced and understandable review of the development make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and performance of the business and the position of the and prudent: Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a for the Group and Parent Company financial statements, description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: By Order of the Board prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis M T D Palmer unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Group Company Secretary Parent Company will continue in business.
21 February 2014 The directors confirm that they have complied with the Bovis Homes Group PLC above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Registered number 306718 The directors also confirm that they consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and Parent Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
70 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Directors report Our governance Bovis Homes Group PLC | 71
