I an Tyler 53 Alastair Lyons CBE 60 Colin Holmes 48 Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Deputy Chairman Non-executive Director Appointed non-executive Chairman on 29 Appointed non-executive Deputy Chairman and Colin was appointed an independent nonNovember 2013 and Chairman of the Nomination Senior Independent Director in 2008, Alastair is executive director in 2006 and Chairman of the Committee.
Ian is a Chartered Accountant and a Remuneration Committee in 2008.
He is a member non-executive Chairman of Admiral, Serco and non-executive director of BAE Systems plc, Cairn of both the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Previously, Alastair was Chief Colin is also a non-executive director of Admiral Energy PLC and Cable & Wireless Communications Executive of the National Provident Institution Group plc, where he is the Chairman of the Audit Plc, where he is also Chairman of the audit and the National and Provincial Building Society, Committee.
Additionally, he is the Chairman committee, and non-executive Chairman of Al Managing Director of the Insurance Division of of GoOutdoors Ltd, a rapidly growing retailer Noor Hospitals Group Plc.
Previously, Ian was Abbey National plc and Director of Corporate of outdoor equipment and clothing.
Colin is a Chief Executive of Balfour Beatty plc from 2005 to Projects at National Westminster Bank plc.
He served Chartered Management Accountant and was March 2013, having joined the company in 1996 as the Senior Independent Director of the Phoenix formerly a member of the Executive Committee as Finance Director and becoming Chief Operating Group until September 2013.
He has a broad base of Tesco plc.
During his 22 year career at Tesco Officer in 2002.
Prior to that, Ian was Financial of business experience with a particular focus on he held a wide range of positions including UK Comptroller of Hanson and Finance Director of mortgage lending and insurance industries.
Finance Director and CEO Tesco Express.
ARC Ltd, one of its principal subsidiaries, and He was awarded the CBE in 2001 for services to held financial roles at Storehouse plc.
non-executive director of VT Group plc until 2010 and is president of CRASH, the construction and property industry charity for the homeless.
Ian has considerable international business experience.
David Ritchie 44 Jonathan Hill 45 BSc Hons ACA, Group Finance Director BA Hons ACA, Chief Executive Joined Bovis Homes in 2010 as Group Finance Appointed Chief Executive in 2008, David was J ohn Warren 60 Director.
Previously, he was employed by TUI Group Managing Director from 2007 to 2008 Non-executive Director Travel plc in both group finance and divisional and Group Finance Director from 2002 to 2006. roles and held positions with Centrica plc, BT He joined Bovis Homes in 1998 as Group Group plc and Price Waterhouse.
Financial Controller and was previously Appointed an independent non-executive director employed by KPMG.
David has significant in 2006 and Chairman of the Audit Committee experience and knowledge of the sector, in 2007.
John is a Chartered Accountant and a including land acquisition, planning, non-executive director of Spectris plc, where he construction, marketing and customer service.
is the senior independent director, Welsh Water, 4imprint Group plc and Greencore Group plc.
At all the companies where John is a nonexecutive director, he chairs the Audit Committee.
M artin Palmer 55 He was previously Group Finance Director of WH Smith PLC and United Biscuits plc and a FCIS, Group Company Secretary non-executive director of Arla Foods UK plc, BPP Holdings plc, RAC plc, Uniq plc, Rexam plc and Joined Bovis Homes in 2001 and was previously Rank Group plc.
John has detailed financial and Group Company Secretary of London Forfaiting accounting expertise and considerable experience Company PLC from 1997 to 2001. in chairing audit committees.
32 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Directors and officers Our governance
