20 | STRATEGIC REPORT | Our strategic approach and commitment to corporate responsibility CR CR commitment CR categories supporting strategic ambitions The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of F&C has established key performance indicators KPIs for each of governance and corporate citizenship.
We recognise that, in the CR categories outlined below, details of which can be found in addition to our responsibilities to clients and shareholders, we also the Corporate Responsibility section of the Groups website.
A have responsibilities to employees, suppliers, the environment, the summary of our objectives in each area is set out below.
companies in which we invest and the wider community in which Marketplace we operate.
F&C will use the influence of its clients assets to engage with CR strategy companies on all relevant CR matters where this will improve The Group has two overarching, strategic CR ambitions: business performance.
F&C set the goal of achieving at least 285 milestones being an instance in which a company improves its To enable our clients to respond effectively to changing policies, procedures or practices following engagement and where dynamics in the world economy, through our products and F&Cs participation has been a major factor in 2013. through influencing companies to improve business performance.
F&C will issue voting instructions in line with its Corporate To ensure that we meet the highest practicable standards of Governance Operational Guidelines on 100 per cent of global corporate responsibility in our own operations.
resolutions for which it is mandated on behalf of clients and will publish its voting history.
F&C will contact 100 per cent of We have defined four key categories supporting our strategic companies following an abstention or vote against management.
ambitions: Marketplace, Environment, Workplace and human rights and Community.
Environment We are committed to monitoring and reporting on progress against F&C has assessed that the Groups largest environmental impact is the targets set within each category, both internally on a quarterly the carbon we emit from energy usage in our offices and through basis and externally at least annually.
F&Cs CR policies are guided business travel.
Details of these CO2 emissions, expressed in by a number of broadly-accepted international standards and tonnes and tonnes by employee are set out below.
Wherever practicable, we seek external validation of the Groups emissions, dating back to 2006, are contained in the our progress and publish these results.
Companys Corporate Responsibility Reports published on the Companys website.
F&C is targeting carbon neutrality internally and F&C considers the following key external measures to validate our is committed to helping our clients and suppliers cut carbon relative CR performance.
Over the next three years F&C will obtain 100 per cent of its energy usage from renewable sources, where such markets exist.
External validation 2012 Existing 2014 CO2 emissions position position target Co2 emissions tonnes per Category tonnes employee BITC Corporate Platinum Platinum N A 1 Responsibility Index status status Emissions from gas and electricity 323 0.49 Emissions from business travel 949 1.47 EIRIS FTSE4Good Inclusion Inclusion Inclusion Emissions of CO2 arising from office usage of gas and electricity have been UN Global Inclusion Inclusion Inclusion calculated using conversion rates from ClimateCare.
Compact CCP 1 Includes emissions from air conditioning refrigerant gas loss.
Carbon Disclosure Member Member Member Project F&C will source 100 per cent of its paper from chlorine-free recycled Principles for Founding Founding Founding supplies, reduce waste to landfill by 20 per cent and increase its Responsible signatory signatory signatory own recycling by 20 per cent.
Investment F&C, through its marketplace engagement activity, will widen its Having reached Platinum status in the previous two years, the Company influence to the companies in which it invests.
elected not to participate in the BITC Corporate Responsibility Index for 2014.
F&C identifies its key stakeholders as clients, shareholders, Workplace and human rights employees, suppliers, government and non-government F&C is committed to ensuring good practices in managing its own organisations, the wider community, other asset management workplace and human rights issues.
companies and companies in which we invest.
We engage widely with stakeholder groups, through regular dialogue tailored to meet F&C always seeks to employ the best person for each job and does the requirements of each stakeholder group.
not discriminate on grounds of gender, race, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, age or physical disability.
F&C will educate 100 per cent of employees on the importance of recognising and embracing diversity in the workplace and the community as a whole.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 21 Details of the Groups employees, equal opportunities and gender diversity within the workplace is set out on page 24.
CR key performance indicators Category KPI statistic 2013 performance 2014 targets Marketplace Number of resolutions voted on during the year 100% 100% Proportion of companies contacted following an abstention or vote against management 100% 100% Environment Carbon neutrality Full Full Reduction in paper consumption 5% 5% Workplace Diversity or Compliance training staff coverage 100% 100% Community Staff participation in Give As You Earn 10% 15% Employees participating in charitable events and charitable fundraising 356 475 Staff volunteering for community projects 31 staff days 365 staff days Community How is CR implemented by F&C F&C offers financial support and, wherever practicable, offers The Board is ultimately responsible for CR within the Group.
employees time off work to support charitable activities.
Development of F&Cs policies on CR and their implementation throughout the Group are co-ordinated by the CR Committee, In 2014 F&C is targeting 365 staff days of community volunteering chaired by David Logan.
Strategic Report summary F&C targets 15 per cent of employees participating in the Give As The Strategic Report on pages 6 to 21 of this document has been You Earn scheme and will match employee contributions up to a set monthly level.
approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Examples of our 2013 community or charity events 61 members of staff participated in the JPMorgan Chase Corporate Challenge, held in Battersea Park, London, raising funds for Barnardos.
Richard Wilson David Logan In 2013, 14 members of staff participated in the BiTCs Community Games initiative which formed part of their annual Give & Gain 9 April 2014 9 April 2014 event.
4 members of staff in the London office participated in the London Marathon, raising funds for a variety of charitable causes.
More than 20 members of staff based in the UK volunteered for a variety of events held by the Groups Charity of the Year, Brainwave.
