06 | STRATEGIC REPORT | This is F&C Strategic Report Pages 6 to 21 of the Strategic Report set out an overview of F&C, our strategy and the principal risks to the strategy.
They also illustrate the areas of key focus in 2014.
This is F&C F&C is a leading asset management company providing investment solutions across a range of asset classes and strategies.
However, the majority of our assets are sourced from, and all our assets are managed from, Europe.
Our clients are insurance companies, Institutional, Retail and Wholesale investors, representing over three million individuals for whom we managed 82.1 billion at 31 December 2013.
LIPPER LIPPER LIPPER 2013 Key Awards FUND AWARDS 2013 FUND AWARDS 2013 FUND AWARDS 2013 AUSTRIA EUROPE FRANCE LIPPER LIPPER LIPPER LIPPER FUND AWARDS 2014 FUND AWARDS 2013 FUND AWARDS 2013 FUND AWARDS 2013 UNITED KINGDOM GERMANY SPAIN NETHERLANDS Y T I L I B A T N U O I C N C N A O V ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 07 Fixed Income our teams deliver a range Clients: we put our clients first, adding What we do of products across the fixed income value and building relationships.
At F&C, asset management is all we do.
We spectrum, including sovereign and emerging Accountability: for performance in are dedicated to achieving the best possible market debt, investment grade and highdelivering, and indeed exceeding, all of results for our investors, be they return, yield corporate bonds and convertibles.
volatility, liability or solutions driven.
Property our property teams provide By focusing on the needs of our clients we Innovation: constantly challenging and access to commercial property from direct have continued to create investment improving the way we do things for the bricks and mortar to listed real-estate solutions that are relevant, innovative and benefit of our clients and ourselves.
address objectives that reflect market Respect: integrity and trust form the opportunities.
cornerstone of all our activities.
Responsible investments Rich in heritage and relevant We seek to deliver strong investment Our approach to investment for today performance through active management.
However, as a shareholder representative, An entrepreneurial culture provides our We are a forward-looking organisation but we engage with the companies in which we investment teams with autonomy and one with a rich heritage.
We trace our origins invest, aiming to enhance and protect longownership of their investment process.
Fund to the groundbreaking launch of the first-ever term shareholder value.
Our approach is to managers are fully accountable for listed pooled investment fund, the Foreign & have constructive dialogue with companies.
performance, and their interests are aligned Colonial Investment Trust, in 1868.
It is an We cast votes on shareholder resolutions with those of our clients.
Our teams are investment portfolio we are proud to continue globally, and disclose this to our clients on organised to provide the breadth and depth to manage almost a century and a half later, our website.
of investment resource required to deliver evidence that our clients have trusted us to the range of investment solutions demanded deliver for them across a range of investment by our clients.
Our approach is built on four Principal risks and cycles.
Our client base today consists of a core capabilities: broad range of Institutional and Retail uncertainties see pages11 and 12 investors including insurance companies, Investment Solutions by working closely In addition to the normal risks facing the pension schemes, sovereign wealth funds, with our clients we have developed tailored business relating to the market, interest rates private wealth managers, fund of funds, products and services to meet their current and foreign currency, the Board has identified family offices and financial advisors.
and evolving needs: the following as the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business: Liability Driven Investment tailored to Our culture specific client requirements.
Effective execution of strategy Our objective is simple: to create Balanced, fiduciary, multi-asset and value by delivering first quartile Uncertain economic outlook multi-manager solutions across performance in everything our Investment performance traditional and alternative asset classes.
Responsible investment and Loss of key employees engagement solutions focused on the Breach of client or portfolio limits environmental, social and governance issues faced by companies and Regulation institutional investors.
Loss of key clients Equities our fundamental research, Reliance on third parties bottom-up stock selection and conviction CLIENTS portfolios produce a range of equity solutions Business continuity and for accessing global, European and emerging information technology FIRST equity markets.
Counterparty credit exposure Scottish independence referendum AWARDS FOR EXCELLENCE AWARDS FOR EXCELLENCE LIPPER FUND AWARDS 2013 Europe LIPPER FUND AWARDS 2014 UK F&C Global Convertible Bond A EUR F&C Management Limited F&C European Small Cap A EUR AWARDS 2013 F&C Management Limited Best Fund over Best Fund over 5 Years 3 Years Bond Convertibles Global Equity Europe Small and Mid Caps Lars Asplund Managing Director, Lipper Ranjit Tinaikar Lars Asplund Managing Director, Asset Management Managing Director, Lipper A T I O N T C E P S E R
