ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 13 Our industry view The outlook for the asset management industry remains positive.
to a reduction in product and fund charges as cost becomes an Continued changes to the structure of pension provision have increasingly important differentiator between products and asset supported demand and provided impetus for ongoing innovation in managers.
It is encouraging to note that Retail fund flows from products.
Increasing personal wealth in the emerging economies advisers picked up in the second half of the year as both provides a new pool of assets to manage, creating scope for growth advisers and clients showed signs of adjusting to the new in the industry.
With a growing number of pension schemes of all sizes actively A further impact of RDR is the sharp increase in the number of seeking specialist investment expertise as they re-orientate consumers choosing to make their own investment decisions.
More themselves from a primary focus on return generation to fide-risking banks announced changes to their advice propositions in 2013, and immunisation of future liabilities, demand for liability driven further reducing availability of advice, particularly for those with lower strategies remains strong.
The asset management industry has levels of assets.
We expect significant Retail market disturbance to responded to this demand with a raft of increasingly sophisticated continue, if not increase, up to the Financial Conduct Authoritys and innovative offerings.
More broadly, asset managers are FCA sunset clause for pre-RDR trail commission in 2016.
This has increasingly providing options for those seeking sources of return come to the fore in the first quarter of 2014 with the recent flurry of outside core assets with multi-asset, emerging market debt and revised clean pricing structures across the self-directed market, diversified alternatives increasingly prevalent alongside more ahead of the April 2014 deadline for new business.
significant opportunity for well-positioned asset managers with straightforward consumer products designed for, and capable of As open defined benefit DB pension schemes become increasingly delivering cost effectively to, the mass lower net worth market.
scarce the defined contribution DC pensions market continues to grow rapidly.
Government initiatives have triggered greater inflows 2013 was a positive year for the Investment Trust sector.
Investment into DC pension products and raised public awareness of the performance has, in the main, been encouraging especially relative to importance of long-term pension planning.
Since October 2012 UK comparable open-ended offerings.
Discounts across the industry companies have been legally obliged to auto-enrol employees have narrowed to their lowest level for many years, IPOs and between the ages of 22 and the state pension age and earning more secondary issues are up on 2012 and share buy-backs have than 8,105 into a pension scheme and make a minimum fallen-off significantly.
Demand for Investment Trusts from wealth contribution on their behalf.
According to the Pension Regulator, by managers has been strong, encouraged by another good year in the end of 2013, around 2.6 million employees had been equity markets.
There is early evidence that RDR is creating some automatically enrolled into an appropriate pension scheme.
The additional demand for Investment Trusts from the intermediary sector National Employment Savings Trust NEST provides an option for and a number of IFA platforms have been active buyers of trusts, individuals with no access to a company pension scheme.
Equally interesting is the more significant growth in Investment Trust assets under administration on direct-toResponsible investment is now firmly on the mainstream investor consumer platforms: clearly one outcome of RDR has been a rise in agenda, with a growing consensus that consideration of the number of individuals choosing to self-manage their investments environmental, social and governance ESG issues can enhance rather than rely on advice.
We are still far from seeing the full effects investment analysis and underpin long-term returns.
The UN of RDR on the Investment Trust sector and there is more for the Principles for Responsible Investment, to which F&C was a founder sector to do to ensure advisers fully understand the intricacies of member, are proving to be an important driver in many markets, with Investment Trusts.
membership growing and a new reporting framework in place which requires institutions to be more transparent about their compliance.
A As noted above, product pricing in the UK Retail sector has major emerging trend is the growth in demand for meaningful ESG increasingly come under scrutiny, and this trend is extending to the integration the assessment of ESG issues within mainstream Wholesale and Institutional channel, partly as investors increased investment processes.
The aim of integration is to build a better their scrutiny of fund charges during the period of lower investment understanding of how issues such as corporate governance, climate returns that commenced with the financial crisis in 2008, and partly change and labour standards management may impact long-term as a result of the increasing availability of lower-cost passive products company performance.
in many areas of the market.
Increased regulatory focus in this area is likely to ensure that this increased scrutiny is a continuing theme.
Within the Retail and Wholesale markets the Retail Distribution Review RDR was noticeable in its impact during the first half of Regulatory change is another key feature of the market, with the FCA 2013.
Asset flows from advisers and wealth managers were lower rightly ensuring that market participants focus appropriately on the than normal as many advisory firms were focused on adapting their interests of their clients.
Whilst client focus has always been at the business models to meet the new regulatory environment.
Advisers centre of the Groups core values, over the last year we have taken are no longer able to receive payment from product providers for any the opportunity to reinforce this through training and communication new recommendations made to clients, and this means the cost of and have reviewed our governance policies and processes in a the advisers fee has transferred from the product provider directly to number of key areas, including our product governance and the client.
Greater transparency of costs and charges has, in turn, led oversight arrangements for fair treatment of customers.
