16 | STRATEGIC REPORT | Our financial performance Strategic and market backdrop Net revenue The Group conducted a thorough review of strategy in 2011 and the Net revenue for the year was 241.2 million 2012: 243.5 million.
resulting objectives are summarised on page9 of these Financial This included 11.6 million 2012: 9.5 million of performance fee Statements.
The review of strategy acknowledged that, as historical income.
Performance fee income was earned from a variety of fund Strategic Partner contracts came to maturity, there was a significant and client types, with our property Investment Trusts making the risk of repatriation of assets by those clients.
It sought to address most significant contributions: the TR Property Trust earned a this risk through a combination of active management of the Groups performance fee of 3.1 million, whilst the F&C Commercial Property cost base, to ensure that the Group remained financially robust Trust contributed performance fees of 2.6 million.
should a significant withdrawal of Strategic Partner assets and a Our revenue mix reflects the changing nature of our business, and related decline in revenues occur, and through targeting accelerated as Strategic Partner AUM declines, the associated revenue fell by growth in the Consumer and Institutional channel, to provide new some 10.8 million during the year.
By contrast, Consumer and sources of revenue.
It also sought to improve cashflow generation, Institutional revenues increased by 8.5 million.
to reduce the Groups net indebtedness and, in turn, its net interest expense.
The reduction in Strategic Partner revenues reflects the reduction in AUM.
Strategic Partner AUM at the start of 2013 was 58.5 billion, The Group is a manager of assets in equity, fixed income and some 5.2 billion, or approximately 8 per cent, lower than at the currency markets and its revenues are affected by movements in start of the previous year, with this reduction reflected in opening key variables within these markets.
Equity market levels and fixed revenues.
In addition, over the course of 2013, Strategic Partner income market levels impact our AUM and, consequently, our assets declined by a further 16.2 billion, to end the year at 42.3 revenues: at the end of 2013 approximately 50 per cent of our billion.
The reduction during the year included withdrawals of 6.0 assets were invested in fixed income securities, and a further 34 per billion of fixed income assets by Friends Life in June 2013 and 10 cent in equities.
In 2013 we earned approximately 41 per cent of our billion of own risk fixed income assets by Achmea in October 2013, revenues in Euros, primarily in respect of assets managed by our together with ongoing withdrawals, partially offset by market growth Dutch and Portuguese subsidiaries, and our reported revenues are and foreign exchange gains of 4.1 billion.
Our average fee rate impacted by the exchange rates used to translate these amounts to earned on Strategic Partner assets in 2013 was 13 basis points, Sterling.
Depending on the nature of our products and mandates, being consistent with the rate earned in 2012.
This rate is expected revenues may be determined by reference to daily, monthly or to fall due to the impact of lower fee rates associated with the quarterly AUM levels.
retained Achmea own risk assets.
Equity markets posted strong returns over 2013: the FTSE 100 The growth in Consumer and Institutional revenues principally opened at 5898: it increased significantly to 6840 in May before reflects greater AUM, together with increased performance fees.
subsequently falling to 6029 on 24 June 2013 and recovering Consumer and Institutional AUM opened 2013 at 36.7 billion, strongly to close the year at 6749.
The average FTSE 100 level over broadly in line with prior year opening assets.
Fixed Income markets posted lower levels of return course of 2013, net inflows of 1.3 billion, together with market during 2013 as investors increased their allocations to risk assets.
growth and foreign exchange movements of 1.8 billion, resulted in For example, the Barclays Euro Aggregate Index, a broad fixed AUM increasing to 39.8 billion by the end of the year.
Our average income index, opened the year at 159.5 and closed the year at fee rate was 43 basis points in both 2012 and 2013.
167.2, an increase of some 4.8 per cent.
Consumer and Institutional fund flows represent a key performance Presentation of financial results indicator KPI used by the Board and management to assess the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS require our progress of the business.
As noted above, Consumer and Financial Statements to consolidate the results of our Managed Institutional net inflows during 2013 were positive, at 1.3 billion.
Pension Funds MPF business on a line-by-line basis, impacting the However, the annualised revenues from these net flows were presentation of both our Income Statement and Statement of modest as the inflows carried an average revenue margin of 39 Financial Position.
Our MPF business provided certain clients with basis points, whilst the average revenue margin on outflows was asset management services inside an insurance product wrapper: approximately 45 basis points.
In addition, during Q3 2013 a however, as MPF was not an area of strategic focus for the Group significant property asset management contract expired and, whilst and AUM within MPF had declined substantially over the last few the asset management activities were successfully retained, the years, a project was initiated in 2012 to offer clients the opportunity related revenues reduced by approximately 2.8 million in 2013 and to transfer their funds to either pooled funds managed by F&C, or to will reduce by a further 5.7 million in 2014. an alternative provider.
As a result, the financial investments, investment contract liabilities and cash attributable to policyholders of MPF have reduced to fide minimis amounts by 31 December 2013 and the remaining balances were redeemed during Q1 2014.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 17 During the first half of 2013, we incurred a further 1.6 million of Revenue margin project management, implementation and consultancy costs Our revenue margin excluding performance fees, measured as our completing the transfer of our back and middle office functions to net management fee income divided by average AUM, increased State Streets long-term strategic platform.
This represented the final from 23.9 basis points in 2012, to 24.9 basis points in 2013.
The phase of our outsourcing project which commenced in 2011 and increase principally reflects the significant outflows of Strategic accordingly the exceptional expenditure ended at this point.
Partner assets, which carry a fee margin of approximately 50 per cent of the Groups average revenue margin.
Operating margin The Groups underlying operating margin for 2013 was 36.9 per Operating expenses cent compared to 29.2 per cent in 2012.
The Groups underlying operating expenses, excluding foreign exchange gains and losses, amortisation of intangible assets and Operating margin is measured as underlying operating profit as a exceptional items, were 152.4 million in 2013, a reduction of some percentage of net revenue.
For this purpose, adjusted operating 19.8 million, or 11.5 per cent, over prior year levels.
Over the last profit represents operating profit before the impact of exceptional two years, underlying operating expenses have reduced by some items but after deducting variable compensation payable to 49.7 million, as the Group successfully achieved its goal of members of Thames River partnerships.
reducing its cost base to provide financial flexibility as Strategic The successful implementation of the cost-reduction programme Partner AUM and revenues decline.
A summary comparison of has been a key contributor to the improvement in operating margin, underlying operating expenses for 2013 and 2012 is given on with 2013 cost reductions adding approximately 8.2 per cent.
Operating margin represents one of managements key performance The 2013 reduction comprises two elements.
However, as a result of the reduction in annualised expenses fell from 160.6 million in the prior year to 141.3 million in revenues from Strategic Partners, highlighted in our trading outlook, 2013, a reduction of 19.3 million.
This reflects the implementation together with the limited scope for further cost savings before such of the cost reductions outlined in the Groups strategic review and reductions have potentially adverse consequences on the growth we remain on track to generate cumulative cost savings in line with prospects of the business, it is likely that, in the short term, the original target of 48.8 million, although certain of these savings operating margin will reduce from its 2013 levels.
may be used to fund selective investment in key growth areas of the Groups business.
Secondly, distributions to the individual members Foreign exchange gains and losses of the Thames River Limited Partnerships fell from 11.6 million in As indicated earlier in this review, the Groups results are sensitive to 2012 to 11.1 million in 2013, reflecting reduced management fees foreign exchange rate fluctuations.
Translational gains and losses on from the Thames River Wholesale funds, partially offset by the revenues and expenses are reflected within the Sterling equivalent of distributions associated with the increased performance fees those revenues and expenses: however, the Group also incurs generated by the TR Property Trust.
The Groups largest cost exchange gains and losses on the retranslation of assets and remains personnel cost and during the year, headcount, on a fullliabilities held in foreign currency.
During the year these gains time equivalent basis, fell by some 65 to 658 at 31 December 2013. amounted to 0.4 million 2012: losses of 2.0 million.
Such gains and losses are excluded from underlying earnings as they do not During 2012, we incurred exceptional employment, premises and reflect the ongoing profitability of the business.
outsourcing expenses of 12.8 million and one of our goals for 2013 was to reduce these costs and the related cashflows significantly.
On a constant-currency basis, had 2013 results been recognised at This has been successfully achieved, with comparable 2013 the same average Euro Sterling exchange rate as 2012, the exceptional expenses of 4.3 million of which some 2.6 million was underlying operating profit would have been some 3.3 million lower incurred during the first half of the year.
These exceptional costs are than reported.
This equates to an underlying earnings per share excluded from our underlying results and are set out in more detail in impact of approximately 0.5p.
note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Financing revenue and expenses As noted above, we continued to implement the cost-reduction The Groups finance revenue fell to 2.3 million 2012: 3.9 million, programme which we announced as part of 2011s strategic review.
principally as a result of gains on debt repurchases arising in 2012: The majority of these cost savings were realised through headcount as there were no debt repurchases during 2013, no such gains reductions and during 2013 exceptional employment-related costs were recognised.
of 2.4 million have been recognised in respect of termination and benefits payments: these represent the one-off cost incurred to Our finance costs fell by 1.0 million to 22.1 million, primarily as a generate the annualised savings.
We do not anticipate any further result of reduced interest of 0.9 million on our senior and exceptional expenses associated with the implementation of the subordinated loan notes, as a consequence of the aforementioned strategic review in 2014 or beyond.
18 | STRATEGIC REPORT | Our &financial performance years in order to receive the full amount of their consideration, IFRS Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets requires the estimated value of the shares which may be issued Under IFRS, when an acquisition is made, there is a requirement to under the Commutation Arrangements to be treated as an expense, recognise separately the fair value attributed to intangible assets, in recognised between the date of award and the expiry of the period our case, management contracts.
The excess of consideration over in which the member must remain in the business.
The the fair value of net assets acquired represents the business value Commutation Arrangements can be split into two parts.
and infrastructure and is recognised as goodwill.
Under the first commutation, an investment team which had positive Management contracts are separated by client category and are fund flows in the 12 months prior to the commutation date could amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Where an indicator of require the Group to purchase a proportion of their profit share.
This impairment occurs, such as greater than anticipated fund losses, we commutation option was exercisable in H1 2012 and under these are required to review the carrying value of these contracts.
arrangements, the Group purchased approximately 1.4 million of During 2013, F&C REIT, the Groups property asset management profit entitlement, in return for the issuance of 10.7 million shares, of business, renegotiated and renewed the contract with one of its which 5.35 million vested immediately and the remaining 5.35 million major clients.
As previously noted, this resulted in a reduction in vest in April 2014. revenues of 2.8 million in 2013 and a further 5.7 million in 2014.
Under the second commutation, the Group could, if it wished, This was viewed as an indicator of impairment and accordingly a acquire profit share from each or any investment team.
The full impairment review of the related intangible asset was maximum amount of profit share which could be acquired through conducted, resulting in recognition of an impairment loss of the first and second commutation is typically 20 per cent of the 1.4 million and a reassessment of the remaining life of the profit share of each investment team.
The second commutation was unamortised asset.
Our total amortisation and impairment exercisable in September 2013 and the Group did not exercise its cost in respect of investment management contracts for 2013 rights: it did, however, agree with one investment team to extend the was 42.7 million 2012: 42.5 million : this cost is excluded from exercise date to April 2014.
An accounting cost of 1.7 million has underling earnings.
been recognised in the 2013 Financial Statements in respect of the We are also required to conduct an annual impairment review of the remaining commutation option.
On 4 April 2014, F&C exercised its carrying value of goodwill.
This review demonstrated that there was remaining commutation option.
Details are given in note 42 d to the no impairment and hence no requirement to write-down goodwill.
The aggregate commutation expense of 2.7 million therefore Thames River acquisition reflects the charge of 1.0 million for those commutation options The Group continues to incur various acquisition-related expenses which have been exercised and a charge of 1.7 million for the arising from the acquisition of the Thames River group: in line with remaining option which has been assumed to be exercised.
the treatment adopted in previous years, these amounts have also been classified as exceptional and excluded from the measurement F&C REIT of underlying earnings.
Our non-controlling interest partners in F&C REIT, the Groups Firstly, at the time of acquisition in 2010, the Group established a property asset manager, currently own 30 per cent of the business.
Management Retention Plan MRP to retain and incentivise certain In certain circumstances, they can require F&C to purchase their key individuals within Thames River.
Some 21.7 million F&C shares, interests at future dates and a liability for this potential obligation is with a value of 15 million at date of grant, were originally awarded included in our Financial Statements.
As this option is required to be under this plan.
The value of these share awards was treated as an carried at its exercise value, it is revalued each year, with any expense and charged to the Income Statement over the vesting revaluation gain or loss reflected in the Income Statement.
The MRP vested in August 2013 and some 19.2 million F&C 2013, an upward revaluation resulted in a charge of 3.0 million shares were issued to meet our commitments under the Plan.
The being included in the 2013 Income Statement.
This expense is cost of the Plan recognised in the eight months to 1 September excluded from underlying earnings.
Underlying earnings Secondly, at the time of the acquisition, the Group entered into The Board utilises underlying earnings per share as one of its key agreements the Commutation Arrangements with the Individual metrics in assessing financial performance.
The reconciliation Members of the Thames River Limited Partnerships.
Under the between underlying earnings and statutory earnings is provided in Commutation Arrangements, the Group agreed, under certain note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and is circumstances, to purchase part of the Individual Members profit summarised on page 82.
Underlying earnings per share for the year share in the partnerships by issuing F&C shares in consideration.
The year-on-year the Commutation Arrangements can only be exercised by members growth reflects an increase of 11.9 million in underlying profits who are still actively involved in the Thames River business and attributable to shareholders, partially offset by an increase of 5.0 per those members must continue in the business for a further two ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 19 cent in the average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, primarily reflecting shares issued to meet our commitments to employees under incentive and retention plans.
Dividends An interim dividend of 1.0 pence per share was paid during the year and on 28 January 2014 the Board declared a second interim dividend of 2.0 pence per share, in lieu of a final dividend, resulting in a total dividend for the year of 3.0 pence per share for 2013.
The second interim dividend will be payable no later than 20 May 2014.
Cash resources The Group has gross debt of some 258.0 million 2012: 258.0 million, comprising 116.0 million of subordinated loan notes and 142.0 million of senior loan notes.
Neither the subordinated loan notes nor the senior loan notes include any financial covenants.
Whilst the Group has a stated intention to reduce gross debt, in light of prevailing prices and market conditions during 2013, no subordinated loan notes or senior loan notes were purchased for cancellation.
The Group did, however, meet its objective of improving cash flow and reducing net indebtedness.
During 2013, Group cash resources attributable to shareholders increased by 21.3 million, to 182.0 million at 31 December 2013.
A significant portion of cash is held in our regulated subsidiaries against their regulatory capital requirements.
As asset management is a cashgenerative business, we should not require significant cash for working capital purposes beyond our regulatory capital requirements.
Our borrowings carry fixed rates of interest.
The subordinated loan notes currently bear interest at 6.75 per cent and the senior loan notes carry a fixed 9.0 per cent interest rate.
Our cash deposits earn interest based on bank deposit rates.
We use multiple counterparties for our cash deposits, which are approved by the Groups Credit and Counterparty Approval Committee.
The maximum amount that can be held with a single counterparty is 25.0 million.
