14 | STRATEGIC REPORT | Our trading performance and outlook representing the maturity of fixed life, unit-linked insurance policies, Introduction although approximately 260 million of outflows arose from the F&C provides asset management services to two groups of clients, termination of property asset management mandates during Q4 which we classify as Strategic Partners and Consumer and 2013, which Millennium BCP determined to manage internally.
Our proposition for Consumer and Institutional annualised revenue associated with these property mandates is investors comprises a wide range of investment products and funds, approximately 1.5 million.
sold to third-party Retail, Wholesale and Institutional clients.
The Achmea long-term contract expired in October 2013 and at that Strategic Partners represent a small group of insurance clients for date Achmea withdrew some 10 billion of own risk assets.
whom we have historically managed assets under longer-term Principally as a result of that withdrawal, assets managed on behalf contractual arrangements.
As these contractual relationships reach of Achmea fell from 22.8 billion at 31 December 2012 to 13.4 maturity, our focus is on the retention of those clients and assets billion at 31 December 2013, with the assets managed at which we can manage on a profitable basis aligned with our 31 December 2013 representing a combination of remaining own investment processes and priorities for our Consumer and risk assets, Retail funds and insured institutional pension schemes.
Key factors in maximising Strategic Partner The withdrawal of own risk assets during 2013, together with retention include a relevant, competitively priced product offering renegotiated fee rates for the remaining own risk assets, will result in which delivers appropriate investment performance and strong client an annualised reduction in all revenues from Achmea of service and relationship management.
relationships are generally of much greater size than our average customer relationships, whether measured by AUM or revenues.
Whilst the Friends First long-term contract extended to 2015, we agreed to amend our commercial arrangements with Friends First Given the nature of the business managed for our Strategic during Q3 2013.
In particular, we allowed Friends First to terminate Partners, we anticipate that, as a number of the underlying certain own risk mandates in advance of their contractual maturity, insurance products provided by Strategic Partners move towards as this permitted us to restructure our Irish operation and maturity, the assets managed for these clients will decline.
consequently reduce the Groups cost base.
Friends First AUM Accordingly, in order for the Group to win new AUM and revenues, declined from 2.4 billion at 31 December 2012 to 1.5 billion at we are heavily dependent on the Consumer and Institutional 31 December 2013, principally as a result of the reduction in own channel, and our marketing, sales and product development efforts risk assets.
This withdrawal reduced our annualised revenues from are therefore biased towards this area of our business.
Friends First by approximately 1 million.
Strategic Partner business Friends Life AUM at 31 December 2013 were approximately 16.2 billion 2012: 21.9 billion.
The Friends Life long-term Our Strategic Partners comprise: Millennium BCP Portugal, contract is due to expire during 2014.
However, on 18 March 2014 Achmea The Netherlands, Friends First Ireland and Friends Life F&C was informed by Friends Life that they have selected a new UK.
The assets managed for these entities principally comprise investment manager in respect of 12.2 billion of multi-asset and insurance funds but also include certain sub-advised mutual funds equity mandates currently managed by F&C and that they intend to and pension scheme assets.
We provide Strategic Partners with transfer a further 2.3 billion of sterling fixed income assets to portfolio management in multi-asset and single-asset class Friends Life Investments, their in-house asset manager.
The Group mandates and a range of investment solutions, such as liabilityhas received notice of termination or an indication to serve notice in hedging strategies and shareholder engagement programmes.
respect of these assets and anticipates that they will be withdrawn These are long-standing relationships, which originally provided us by the end of the year.
with exclusivity to manage the assets of these partners for a minimum period of time.
However, the maturity of the original Consumer and Institutional contracts has resulted in a number of changes to the AUM, revenues and the nature of the relationships with these key F&C is a leading provider of services to third-party investors, which clients.
The AUM for Strategic Partners were 42.3 billion at we broadly categorise as either Third-Party Institutional business, or 31 December 2013 2012: 58.5 billion, or approximately 52 per Consumer business, and which comprise open-end Retail funds cent 2012: 61 per cent of total AUM.
However, as a result of the and Investment Trusts.
As set out above, the Consumer and lower fee margin on these mandates, Strategic Partners generated Institutional business is the Groups key driver for growth and it is approximately 29 per cent of 2013 revenues 2012: 33 per cent.
therefore pleasing to note that Consumer and Institutional AUM have grown from 36.7 billion in 2012 to 39.8 billion in 2013 and that The exclusivity period with Millennium BCP ended in 2012.
At the Consumer and Institutional business generated net inflows of 31 December 2013, we continued to manage approximately 11.2 1.3 billion during 2013. billion on behalf of Millennium BCP 2012: 11.4 billion, which principally represents the funds associated with the BCP Ageas The Third-Party Institutional business includes a range of solutionsinsurance joint venture.
Net outflows during the year were led products, principally aimed at assisting clients to immunise their approximately 1.3 billion, with the majority of these outflows liabilities, together with a range of return-seeking products across ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 15 asset classes: equity, property, fixed income and multi-asset.
Our companies Investment Trusts and both UK and offshore-domiciled largest Institutional client base is defined benefit pension schemes open-ended mutual funds.
We classify these products and channels and our largest markets for Third-Party Institutional business are The as consumer business.
Some of these vehicles are managed by Netherlands, the UK and Germany.
Institutional AUM were 26.1 F&C staff and others by teams operating through the Thames River billion at 31 December 2013 2012: 24.4 billion representing 32 LLPs.
It is important to distinguish between these, as the allocation per cent 2012: 26 per cent of our total AUM and some 30 per cent of revenues and profits differs significantly.
Where a fund is managed of 2013 net revenues.
Mandates in the institutional asset by a Thames River team, the revenues earned from that fund, net of management industry are predominantly intermediated through firms the direct costs of managing the fund, and certain allocated costs, of investment consultants who advise pension schemes on manager are shared between the senior investment professionals in the selection and asset allocation.
In recent years F&C has achieved a investment team and the Group under a predetermined profit-share much improved position with investment consultants, and this formula.
This typically results in the senior investment professionals resulted in gross institutional inflows of 5.1 billion in 2013 2012: receiving around 50 per cent of the relevant profits.
Gross institutional outflows of 4.0 billion were slightly managed by F&C staff, the relevant investment managers are greater than the prior year 2012: 3.7 billion.
However, primarily as generally remunerated by a combination of salary plus a a result of the growth in inflows, net flows improved from an outflow discretionary bonus.
of 0.7 billion in 2012 to a net inflow of 1.2 billion in 2013.
During 2013, the total assets managed in fund products and Additionally, at 31 December 2013 the Group had a further pipeline Investment Trusts increased by 1.4 billion to 13.7 billion at of institutional new business that had been won, but had not yet 31 December 2013.
However, within this net growth, AUM funded, net of notified withdrawals, of some 0.7 billion.
We believe attributable to Thames River Wholesale funds fell by some our institutional business is well positioned for growth, with strong 0.4 billion whilst AUM attributable to funds managed by F&C teams investment track records, significant scale and consultant support in grew by some 1.8 billion.
Net inflows came from products such as a number of core capabilities.
As we look forward, we see significant Global Convertibles, Emerging Market Debt and Multi-Manager, opportunities to grow our institutional AUM and revenues, whilst outflows were biased towards products such as Global Bond particularly from further growth in our liability-matching products and Global Credit.
and, in the medium term, multi-asset products.
We anticipate that our Retail sales will be biased towards MultiThe Group also offers a wide range of collective investment vehicles Manager products in 2014, whilst we believe that our strong which are distributed into the Retail and Wholesale markets, European equities performance positions us well for flows in both principally through Independent Financial Advisers, discretionary the Retail and Wholesale channels.
wealth managers and other Wholesale channels such as banks and platforms.
These products comprise closed-end listed investment
