22 | GOVERNANCE | Company Directors 12 3 4 5 67 9 8 Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors Executive Directors 1 Kieran Poynter British Insurers.
He currently holds non- 8 Richard Wilson executive positions at Just Retirement Holdings Chairman Chief Executive Ltd, Espirito Santo Investment Bank and Aon Mr Poynter joined the Board in June 2009 and Mr Wilson joined the Board in December 2012 Hewitt, and advisory positions at Lloyds Bank was appointed Chairman in August 2013.
Prior and became Chief Executive on 1 January and Permira LLP.
to his appointment, Mr Poynter was chairman 2013.
He joined F&C in 2004 and held a and senior partner of  number of senior positions within F&C prior to 5 Ruth Sack LLP having spent 37 years with the firm.
Mr Wilson has 24 years Independent Director director of Nomura International plc, experience in the fund management industry.
Ms Sack joined the Board in October 2013.
She International Consolidated Airlines Group SA Prior to F&C he was head of international has been Executive Coach with The Alliance, and British American Tobacco plc.
equities at Gartmore and managing director, which she founded, for 10 years.
Before that, global equities at Deutsche Asset Management.
O 2 Keith Bedell-Pearce CBE Ms Sack spent 20 years in financial services, He started his fund management career at creating successful businesses in New York and Senior Independent Director HSBC as a fund manager.
Her last investment banking role was Mr Bedell-Pearce, a solicitor, joined the Board helping Schroders rebuild their equity business.
Until December 2001, Chief Financial Officer Mr Bedell-Pearce was an executive director of 6 Derham ONeill Prudential plc with over 30 years experience in Mr Logan joined the Board on 31 July 2006.
Independent Director the financial services industry.
He is currently Prior to his appointment, Mr Logan spent Mr ONeill joined the Board in February 2011. chairman of 4D Data Centres Ltd and a member 17 years in the accounting profession, including Prior to his appointment, Mr ONeill was a senior of the Council of the University of Warwick.
4 years as a partner at Deloitte & Touche LLP partner of Clifford Chance LLP.
He was formerly and 3 years as a partner at Andersen.
3 Charlie Porter the chairman of Scotty Group plc and Schroder Asian Property Managers Limited Bermuda Mr Porter joined the Board in October 2013. and a non-executive director of Cedar plc, Prior to his appointment, Mr Porter was Georgica plc and Schroder Venture Managers responsible for the F&C Groups Retail and Limited Bermuda.
Wholesale business, including Investment Trusts.
Mr Porter founded Thames River Capital O 7 Keith Percy in 1998 after leaving Baring Asset Management Independent Director and successfully developed and managed the Mr Percy joined the Board in November 2011.
Mr company until its acquisition by F&C in Percy was most recently executive chairman and September 2010. chief executive officer of Socit Gnrale Asset O 4 Keith Jones Management UK and was previously chief Independent Director executive of Morgan Grenfell Asset Management.
He is Chairman of Brunner Investment Trust plc Mr Jones joined the Board in November 2011. and a Director of Standard Life Equity Income Mr Jones is a former chief executive officer of Member of the Nomination Committee Trust plc, Henderson Smaller Companies Trust Morley Fund Management, former CEO of NPI Member of the Remuneration Committee plc, JP Morgan Japanese Investment Trust plc Investments and a past chairman of the Member of the Audit & Compliance Committee and formerly a director of The Childrens Mutual.
Investment Committee of the Association of O Member of the Risk Committee
