ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 23 Report of the Directors termination is between twelve and twenty-four months depending Results, business review and dividend on the date notice is served by the relevant entity.
However, the The Groups results for the year ended 31 December 2013 are termination notice period is reduced to twelve months in the event shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 57.
A of a major corporate action occurring that affects F&C.
Strategic Report for the year ended 31 December 2013 and future developments are covered on pages 6 to 21.
This report, together Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust Plc with the Directors Report on Corporate Governance on pages 26 The Investment Management Agreement in place with Foreign & to 32, forms part of the Report of the Directors.
Colonial Investment Trust Plc can be terminated by the trust on a The Group profit for the year, after tax, amounted to 10.2 million.
minimum of six months notice expiring at the end of any calendar month.
In the event that there is a change of control in F&C as On 28 January 2014, the Directors announced a second interim defined in Section 1124 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010, then the dividend for 2013 of 2.0 pence per share, amounting to 11.8 Investment Trust is entitled to terminate the agreement on not million, resulting in a total of 3.0 pence and 17.6 million for the year.
less than three months notice to expire at the end of any The second interim dividend will be paid on 20 May 2014 or earlier calendar month.
if the consideration for the proposed transaction with BMO is F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited dispatched ahead of that date to ordinary shareholders whose The Investment Management Agreement in place with F&C names are on the register on 4 April 2014.
No liability for the Commercial Property Trust Limited can be terminated by the proposed dividend has been recognised as at 31 December 2013, Investment Trust on not less than six months notice.
Early in accordance with IFRS.
termination can be undertaken by the Investment Trust, but only subject to the payment of compensation to F&C based on revenue Principal activity and status stream.
Immediate termination is possible by the Investment Trust in The Groups business is asset management.
Details of the progress the event that there is a change of control in F&C as defined in of the business during the year and of future prospects are Section 1124 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 to which its Board contained in the Chief Executives Report and the Strategic Report has not consented.
F&C REIT Asset Management LLP The Company is registered as a Public Limited Company in terms of The F&C REIT Asset Management LLP the LLP Limited Liability the Companies Act 2006 and is currently a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index.
The Company is registered in Scotland, registered Partnership Agreement, dated 21 July 2008, is between F&C, the two individual members and a separate company controlled by number SC73508, and is domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Details of the principal entities within the Group are contained in note 37 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
There are also Where there is a change of control of F&C, F&C can elect to change three branch offices in the Group outside the UK, in Germany, the arrangements for voting at LLP members meetings such that Luxembourg and Ireland.
F&Cs interests are represented by one vote and the REIT parties aggregate interests are represented by one vote.
If F&C does not so Significant agreements elect, then F&C may be required to offer to sell its interests in the F&C is party to the following significant contracts that take effect, LLP to the other members of the LLP at a price determined by an alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company: independent valuer.
Achmea Group Property, plant and equipment There is one material Investment Management Agreement the Details of changes in property, plant and equipment are disclosed in Agreement in place with a company within the Achmea Group since note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
At 31 December October 2004 in relation to which, in the event of a change of control 2013, there were no significant differences between the net book whereby a third party acquires a controlling interest in F&C, immediate and market values of property, plant and equipment.
The discretionary portfolio management of all assets covered by this Agreement is due to transfer back to the Environmental impact Achmea Group at the latest by the end of the second quarter of 2014.
Details of the Companys carbon emissions from energy usage and The other three material Investment Management Agreements business travel are contained on page 20. previously in place with the Achmea Group, which incorporated the same provision with regard to change of control as the Agreement, Financial instruments have all been terminated and replaced by agreements that contain no Details of financial instruments are disclosed in notes 15 and 18 to provisions at all with regard to change of control.
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group are contained in Millenniumbcp Ageas Group Ageas note 35 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
There are three asset management contracts in place with insurance companies that form part of Ageas for which the notice period for 24 | GOVERNANCE | Report of the Directors Share capital and Directors interests Audited Substantial interests in share capital As at 31 December 2013 the Company had 581,035,337 ordinary The Company has been informed of the following substantial shares in issue with each ordinary share entitled to one vote.
interests, above 3 per cent as at 9 April 2014: Ordinary During 2013 the Company issued 6,671,248 ordinary shares in Shares Percentage respect of vested awards or options under the Companys long-term Elliott Capital Advisors, L. P. 120,930,645 20.6 incentive schemes.
The Company also issued 19,183,301 ordinary shares to satisfy Management Retention Plans.
The Directors who held office at the year end and their Sarasin & Partners LLP 21,159,478 3.6 interests together with those of their connected persons in the share capital of the Company are shown below: Dimensional Fund Advisors 19,701,925 3.4 Ordinary Shares 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 Employees and gender diversity Kieran Poynter Beneficial 30,000 30,000 At 1 March 2014, there were 597 full-time employees and 66 partKeith Bedell-Pearce Beneficial 51,285 51,285 time employees within the Group 1 March 2013: 649 full-time Keith Jones Beneficial Nil Nil employees and 75 part-time employees.
David Logan Beneficial 324,231 98,336 At 1 March 2014 33% of our full time employees were female and Non-Beneficial 64,176 64,176 67% were male.
11% of the Companys Directors were female and Derham ONeill Beneficial Nil Nil 89% were male.
8% of the Group Management team were female Keith Percy Beneficial Nil Nil and 92% were male.
20% of senior managers across the business Charlie Porter Beneficial 100,000 100,000 were female and 80% were male.
Further details of employee Ruth Sack Beneficial Nil Nil diversity, dating back to 2006, are contained in the Companys Richard Wilson Beneficial 588,476 211,792 Corporate Responsibility Reports published on the Companys David Logan is a Director of F&C Group ESOP Trustee Limited, a website.
company incorporated in 1995 to operate a discretionary employee benefit trust to encourage and facilitate the acquisition and holding of shares in the Company by employees.
Disabled employees Or date of appointment as Director if later.
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment Since the year end, the following Directors dealings and those of their from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be connected persons in the Companys shares have taken place: adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person.
Messrs Logan and Wilson subscribe for 125 worth of shares each month under the Companys Share Incentive Plan, details of which are set out on Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy page 35 wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training, career Directors and officers liability development and promotion to disabled employees wherever The Group maintains insurance cover in respect of Directors and possible.
Employee involvement The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity in accordance with During the year, the policy of providing employees with information the Companys Articles of Association at article 166 which is a about the Group has been continued through internal presentations qualifying third-party indemnity provision as defined in the by the Executive Directors and Group Management and the internal Companies Act 2006. publication of relevant information.
Wherever appropriate, employees are consulted to ensure that their views are taken into Charitable and political contributions account before decisions are taken which are likely to affect their During the year, the Group made contributions to charity of interests.
No political donations or contributions were made during the year 2012: nil.
Further details on the criteria Equal opportunities for charitable giving are contained on the Companys website.
The Group aims to provide equal opportunities for all, without discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, marital status, age, Payment policy and practice sex, sexual orientation or disability.
We recruit and promote those It is the Groups policy to ensure settlement of suppliers accounts in best suited for the job.
The Group respects the dignity of individuals accordance with the stated terms.
In certain circumstances, and their beliefs.
The Group does not tolerate any sexual, racial, settlement terms are agreed prior to any business taking place.
It is physical or mental harassment of staff in the workplace.
our policy to abide by those terms.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 25 Accordingly, KPMG have notified the Company that KPMG Audit Plc Share incentive schemes is not seeking reappointment and have provided a statutory During the year, employees participated directly in the business statement of circumstances upon ceasing to hold office pursuant to through a number of Employee Share Schemes, details of which are Section 519 of the Companies Act 2006.
In accordance with section included within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 520 of the 2006 Act, a copy of this statement is enclosed with the 43 or the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages Report and Accounts.
The Board has decided to put KPMG LLP 107 to 115. forward to be appointed as auditor and a resolution concerning its Recommended acquisition of the Group by BMO appointment will be put to the forthcoming AGM of the Company.
Global Asset Management There is no impact on the terms in which the auditor will be retained.
On 28 January 2014, the Company announced that agreement had Details of the auditors remuneration is provided in note 5 c to the been reached on the terms of a recommended cash acquisition by Consolidated Financial Statements and further detail on how the which the entire ordinary share capital of F&C will be acquired by Board ensures the independence of the auditor is detailed on BMO Global Asset Management Europe Limited.
On 25 March page32 within the Directors Report on Corporate Governance.
2014 shareholders approved the resolutions necessary to support the acquisition.
Completion of the acquisition, however, remains Adequacy of the information provided to the auditor subject to a number of regulatory and other conditions.
The Directors who held office at the date of approving this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no Annual General Meeting AGM relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is The Company will hold its AGM in June 2014. unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he is obliged to take as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant Details of all resolutions being put to shareholders will be set out in audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is the Notice of Annual General Meeting that will be sent to aware of that information.
By order of the Board, Board changes On 10 May 2013, Messrs Brindle and Medlock retired from the W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA Board on conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
On 22 August 2013, Edward Bramson resigned from the Board.
On 4 October Secretary 2013, Ruth Sack joined the Board as an independent Non-executive 80 George Street Director.
On 15 October 2013, Charlie Porter joined the Board as a Edinburgh EH2 3BU Non-executive Director.
9 April 2014 Information relating to the Directors is set out on page 22.
Auditor Following their intention to gradually wind down the activity in their registered firm, KPMG Audit Plc, KPMG have proposed that an alternative entity, KPMG LLP, become the Company's auditor.
KPMG have advised that the change is purely administrative and that there will be no adverse impact on investors' interests as a result.
