Board of Directors 1,2, 3 John Owen CMG MBE DL The Hon.
Peter Pleydell-Bouverie 1,2, 3 Chairman date of appointment: DL 4February 2010.
Mr Owen has Chairman of the Investment enjoyed careers in both the Committee date of appointment: diplomatic service and industry.
Mr PleydellHe served in the diplomatic service Bouverie is an investment for 30 years until his retirement in professional with over 30 years of 1999, serving in Indonesia, Vietnam, investment experience, particularly France, El Salvador, Iran, Brazil, in the Far East and emerging China and London.
His current non-executive British Consul General in Boston, USA from 1992 to 1995, and positions include acting as a trustee on investment committees Governor of the Cayman Islands from 1995 to 1999.
He also for family and charitable trusts.
He is also a Deputy Lieutenant of worked in industry for seven years.
Mr Owen is currently the County of Wiltshire.
Previously, Mr Pleydell-Bouverie spent ten chairman of several companies including Iceman Capital years with FIL where he was investment director until 1996, Advisors Limited, an investment advisory company specialising managing Japanese-focused unit trusts, o shore funds, pension in investment in the developing markets of Asia.
He has a funds and the Fidelity Emerging Markets Fund.
Prior to this, he number of directorships including Queensgate Bank Limited and was an associate director at Kleinwort Grieveson Investment Queensgate Trust Company Limited.
Mr Owen is also chairman Management and fund manager at Grieveson, Grant and Co, of the Friends of Cayman in London.
He is an Honorary Fellow of where he also managed Asia-focused investment funds.
the University of Wales and also a Deputy Lieutenant of the 1,2, 3 County of Isle of Wight.
Elisabeth Scott Date of appointment: 1 November 1,2, 3 Nicholas Bull FCA 2011.
Ms Scott worked in the asset Senior Independent Director and management industry in Hong Chairman of the Nomination and Kong from 1992 to 2008, where she Remuneration Committee date of was managing director and country appointment: 4 February 2010. head of Schroder Investment MrBull is chairman of hotel group Management Hong Kong Limited fide Vere and chairman of the and chair of the Hong Kong Advisory Board of City stockbroker Investment Funds Association.
He is also a MsScott is also a non-executive director of Paci c Horizon Member of Council of the University Investment Trust PLC and Dunedin Income Growth Investment of Exeter, a trustee of the Design Museum and deputy chairman Trust PLC.
of the trustees of the Conran Foundation.
Previously MrBull 2,3 worked for 30 years as a corporate finance practitioner with Andrew Wells Morgan Grenfell subsequently Deutsche Bank, Socit Date of appointment: 21 May Gnrale and ABN AMRO in London, Sydney, Singapore and 2012.
Mr Wells is FILs Global Chief Hong Kong.
He is a quali ed chartered accountant.
Investment O cer, Fixed Income, leads FILs Investment Solutions 1,2, 3 David Causer FCA Group ISG and has been a Chairman of the Audit Committee member of FILs Global Operating date of appointment: 4 February Committee since November 2010.
Mr Causer is a non-executive Mr Wells has over 20 years of director and audit committee investment experience, particularly chairman of Schroder Income in Asia, having worked as a portfolio manager in FILs Hong Growth Fund plc, an investment Kong o ce from 2002 becoming FILs Chief Investment O cer for company listed on the London Asian Fixed Income in 2005.
In 2007, Mr Wells became Global Stock Exchange.
He is a quali ed CIO Fixed Income for FIL, responsible for developing the xed chartered accountant and a income investment process, team and structure.
member of the Securities Institute.
Mr Causer has held a number of senior positions within financial services organisations, All the Directors are non-executive directors and all are including as finance director of Mercury Asset Management independent, with the exception of Andrew Wells.
Group plc and as a managing director of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers until 2001.
He was finance director of The 1 Member of the Audit Committee and the Management Engagement Committee British Red Cross Society until December 2007.
He is a trustee of 2 Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee a number of charities and of a pension fund.
3 Member of the Investment Committee Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 15
