Directors Report Europe PLC the Lender for US$150,000,000 and this has been ENVIRONMENTAL, EMPLOYEE, SOCIAL AND fully drawn down.
Additional geared exposure is being achieved COMMUNITY MATTERS through the use of long CFDs.
The Board regularly considers The portfolio is managed by FIL Investment Management gearing and gearing risk.
Further details of the Companys Hong Kong Limited and FIL Investments International.
The gearing policy are provided on page 16.
Company has no employees and all of its Directors are non-executive.
The Companys day-to-day activities are carried Currency risk out by third parties.
There are therefore no disclosures to be The functional currency of the Company in which it reports its made in respect of employees.
Most of its assets and its income are denominated in other currencies, mainly Hong Kong dollars and The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas US dollars.
Consequently, it is subject to currency risk on or diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable exchange rate movements between UK sterling and these other carbon footprint.
The Secretary and Unlisted Investment currencies.
It is the Companys policy not to hedge against Manager, FIL Investments International, is registered with the currency risks.
Borrowings are denominated in US dollars and, Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy E ciency Scheme therefore, the e ect of US dollar exchange rate movements on administered by the UK Environment Agency.
assets denominated in US dollars will be o set by the e ect on these loans.
Further details can be found in Note 18 to the The Companys financial reports are printed by a company which Financial Statements on pages 46 to 5 3. has received accreditations for its environmental awareness and further details of this may be found on the back cover of this Tax and Regulatory risks report.
A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could lead to a loss of investment trust status, resulting in the Company Financial reports and other publicly available documentation are being subject to tax on capital gains.
A breach of other legal also available on the Companys website www.
and regulatory rules may lead to suspension from listing on the Details about Fidelitys own community involvement may be Stock Exchange or a quali ed audit report.
The Board receives found on its website, www.
regular reports from the Managers con rming regulatory compliance during the year.
DIRECTORS REPORT GENERAL There are a number of prospective regulations which could THE BOARD impact the Company.
Of greatest signi cance is the All appointments to the Board, elections, re-elections and Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM Directive.
replacements of Directors take place in accordance with the The implementation date for the Directive is expected to be Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board monitors the changes at each Board Details of the Directors who served during the year ended meeting and is provided with regular brie ngs from the 31 March 2013 are set out on page 1 5.
Association of Investment Companies AIC as well as details of industry and the Managers lobbying activities.
All Board members are subject to re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Information on the process of Operational risks Service Providers appointment, election and replacement of Directors is included The Company has no employees and relies on a number of third in the Corporate Governance Statement.
party service providers, principally the Managers, Registrar and Custodian.
The Company is dependent on the Managers control No Director has a contract of service with the Company and no systems and those of its Custodian and Registrar, both of which contracts existed during or at the end of the financial period in are monitored and managed by the Managers in the context of which any Director was materially interested and which were the Companys assets and interests on behalf of the Board.
signi cant in relation to the Companys business except as disclosed in relation to Mr Wells interests in the Management The security of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, Agreement.
There have been no other related party transactions accounting records and the maintenance of regulatory and legal requiring disclosure under International Accounting Standard 24. requirements, among other things, rely on the e ective operation of such systems.
The interests of FIL Limited and the Directors in the Ordinary Shares of the Company as at 31 March 2013 are shown The Managers, Registrar and Custodian are subject to a onpage2 0. risk-based programme of internal audits by the Managers.
In addition, service providers own internal controls reports are DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE received by the Board and any concerns investigated.
In addition to bene ts enjoyed under the Managers global Directors and O cers liability insurance arrangements, the While it is believed that the likelihood of poor governance, Company maintains insurance cover for its Directors under its own compliance and operational administration by third party service policy as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
Directors are providers is low, the financial consequences could be serious, also covered by the Director Indemnity provisions in accordance including the associated reputational damage to the Company.
with the Articles of Association as approved by the shareholders.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 19 Directors Report ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION SHARE REPURCHASES Any amendments to the Companys Articles of Association must During the year to 31 March 2013, the Company repurchased be made by special resolution.
Since the year end, the Company has repurchased a further 15,250,000 Ordinary SUBSTANTIAL SHARE INTERESTS Shares for cancellation.
The total number of Ordinary Shares in The following noti cations had been received of interests in 3% issue at the date of this report is 637,979,480. or more of the voting rights and or issued ordinary share capital of the Company: At the Annual General Meeting held on 24 July 2012, the Companys shareholders passed a special resolution which Holding at Holding at granted the Directors authority to purchase up to 98,616,100 31 March 17 June Ordinary Shares in the market for cancellation.
The authority 2013 2013 expires on 24 July 2013.
A special resolution to renew the authority, including the ability to buy shares into Treasury, will be FIL Limited 43.06% 43.
29 put to shareholders for approval at the forthcoming Annual Legal & General 3.26% 3.
Direct holding on own account 6.50% and indirect holdings for Fidelitys ISA Pursuant to this authority, during the period from 1 August 2012 to and Share Plan clients 36.56% 31 March 2013, 3,650,000 Ordinary Shares of 1 penny each were Direct holding on own account 6.
48% and indirect holdings for Fidelitys ISA and Share Plan clients 36.06% repurchased for cancellation.
In aggregate the total shares repurchased during the year ended 31 March 2013 was An analysis of ordinary shareholders as at 31 March 2013 is 6,525,000 Ordinary Shares of 1 penny each 2012: 2,900,000 detailed in the table below.
representing 1.00% of the issued share capital as at 31 March 2013 2012: 0.44% and for a total consideration of 5,216,000 % of issued 2012: 2,323,000. share Analysis of ordinary shareholders as at 31 March 2013 capital DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS Institutions and wealth managers 46.56 Shares held at Shares held at 31 March 31 March 1 Private shareholders 41.62 2013 2012 Pension companies 6.03 John Owen 53,433 53,433 Insurance companies 4.36 Nicholas Bull 65,804 65,804 Other 1.43 David Causer 65,804 65,804 1 Includes Fidelity Share Plan and ISA investors Peter Pleydell-Bouverie 59,224 59,224 1 Elisabeth Scott 12,319 12,200 SHARE CAPITAL Andrew Wells nil nil The Companys share capital comprises Ordinary Shares of 1penny each.
As at 31 March 2013, the total number of shares in 1 119 shares acquired through dividend re-investment issue was 653,229,480 2012: 659,754,480.
Each share carries one vote.
Deadlines for the exercise of voting rights and details of arrangements by which someone other than the shareholder can The Directors shareholdings remain unchanged at the date of exercise voting rights are detailed in the Notes to the Notice of this report.
The Companys Ordinary Shares have a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and the POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS Company is a constituent member of the FTSE 250 Index.
The Company has not made any political or charitable donations during the year under review.
SHARE ISSUES No Ordinary Shares were issued during the year to 31 March PAYMENT OF CREDITORS 2013 2012: 6,250,000 and none has been issued since the The Companys principal supplier is the Investment Manager year end.
who is paid in the month following the end of each calendar quarter, in accordance with the terms of the Management The authority to issue shares and disapply pre-emption rights Agreement detailed below.
granted by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, held on 24 July 2012, expires at the conclusion of the next Annual The Companys policy for the year to 31 March 2013 and General Meeting and therefore, resolutions renewing the 31March 2014, for all suppliers, is to x terms of payment authority will be put to shareholders at the Annual General when agreeing the terms of each business transaction to ensure Meeting to be held on 24 July 2013. that the supplier is aware of these terms and to abide by the Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 20 Directors Report agreed terms of payment.
The Company did not have any trade The Management Engagement Committee has reviewed the creditors in the year under review and to date.
Other suppliers performance of the Investment Managers taking into are paid in accordance with the individual payment terms consideration those items in the Corporate Governance agreed with them.
Statement on page 27 o f this Annual Report.
The Committee concluded that it was in the interests of shareholders that the MANAGEMENT COMPANY Management Agreements should continue.
Fidelity also provides During the year ended 31 March 2013, the investments of the certain services, including marketing and administration, in Company, other than in unlisted securities, were managed by connection with the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan and the FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited, which provides Fidelity ISA under an agreement dated 19 February 2010. portfolio management services to the Company pursuant to the Management Agreement dated 25 February 2011.
RESPONSIBILITY AS AN INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of Ownership The investments in unlisted securities are managed by FIL in relation to investments.
These Principles include the pursuit of Investments International, which provides portfolio management an active investment policy through portfolio management services to the Company pursuant to the Discretionary Investment decisions, voting on resolutions at general meetings and Management Agreement dated 5 January 2011. maintaining a continuing dialogue with the management of investee companies.
The Manager, in its Principles of Ownership, For the year to 31 March 2013, the respective Management expressly declares that it supports the FRCs Stewardship Code Agreements provided for an annual management fee of 1.5% of setting out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders and the Net Asset Value of the Company and the fees totalled agents.
Further details of the Managers Principles of Ownership 8,374,000.
This reduced to 1.2% per annum with e ect from and voting may be found at www.
In addition, the Investment Managers are entitled to an annual performance fee of 15% of any change in NAV SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT attributable to performance which is more than 2% above the The Managers primary objective is to produce superior financial returns on the MSCI China Index, subject to a maximum returns for the Companys shareholders.
It believes that high performance fee payable in any year equal to 1.5% of the standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make good arithmetic mean of the value of assets with valuations calculated business sense and have the potential to protect and enhance at the end of each month during the year.
Consequently, its investment process takes above this cap will be carried forward.
If the Company social, environmental and ethical issues into account when, in the under-performs, the under-performance must be made good Managers view, these have a material impact on either before any further performance fee becomes payable.
For the investment risk or return.
year ended 31March 2013, no performance fee was payable.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING In addition, FIL Investments International provides accounting, THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR administrative and secretarial services to the Company pursuant IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
to the Secretarial Services Agreement dated 25 February 2010 under which the Company has agreed to pay a secretarial fee If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you of up to 600,000 per annum, payable quarterly in arrears.
should seek your own personal financial advice from your For the year to 31 March 2013, a secretarial fee of 600,000 stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other financial adviser was payable.
authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
The Board reviews the services provided by the Manager and The Board is recommending to shareholders resolutions which also the terms of the Management Agreement on a regular give the Directors authority to allot securities in the Company.
The Management Agreement will continue unless and The authorities sought by these resolutions are to replace the until terminated by either party giving to the other not less existing powers of the Directors which expire on the date of the than twelve months notice in writing.
The Management Annual General Meeting AGM and will provide the Directors Agreement may, however, be terminated without compensation if with the exibility to issue further Ordinary Shares if they deem it the Company is liquidated pursuant to the procedures laid down appropriate to do so.
By law, directors are not permitted to allot in the Articles of Association of the Company.
The Management new shares or to grant rights over shares unless authorised to Agreement may also be terminated forthwith as a result of a do so by shareholders.
material breach of the Agreement or on the insolvency of the Manager or the Company.
In addition, the Company may Resolution 12 provides the Directors with a general authority to terminate the agreement by not less than two months notice if allot securities in the Company up to an aggregate nominal the Manager ceases to be a subsidiary of FIL Limited or if the value of 637,979.
If passed, this resolution will enable the Board shall resolve at two successive quarterly meetings that Directors to allot a maximum of 63,797,900 Ordinary Shares there has been a material and continuing under-performance in which represents approximately 10% of the issued Ordinary the portfolio of assets.
Share capital of the Company as at 17 June 2013.
The Directors would not intend to use this power unless they considered that it was in the interests of shareholders to do so.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 21 Directors Report Resolution 13 is a special resolution disapplying pre-emption The Companys assets consist mainly of securities which are rights and granting authority to the Directors, without further readily realisable and, where outsourcing arrangements are in speci c shareholder approval, to make allotments of equity place, alternative service providers are readily available.
As a securities for cash by way of a rights issues and b other issues consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is well up to an aggregate nominal value of 637,979 approximately placed to manage its business risks successfully.
10% of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company as at 17 June 2013.
The Board receives regular reports from the Investment Managers and the Directors have a reasonable expectation that Resolution 14 is a special resolution which, if approved, will the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational renew the Companys authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt number of Ordinary Shares in issue on 17 June 2013 for the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual cancellation.
Purchases of Ordinary Shares will be at the financial statements.
discretion of the Board and within guidelines set from time to time by the Board in the light of prevailing market conditions.
By Order of the Board Purchases will only be made in the market at prices below the FIL Investments International prevailing Net Asset Value per share, thereby resulting in an Secretary increased Net Asset Value per share.
17 June 2013 Recommendation: The Board considers that each of the resolutions is likely to promote the success of the Company and is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own bene cial holdings.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Full details are given in the Corporate Governance Statement, which forms part of this Directors Report, on pages 24 to 29.
AUDITORS RIGHT TO INFORMATION As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 the Directors in o ce as at the date of this report each con rm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditor is unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Auditor is aware of that information.
AUDITORS APPOINTMENT A resolution to reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM together with a resolution to authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
GOING CONCERN The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to a ect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 1 7 to 19.
The financial position of the Company, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Statements and Notes thereto on pages 3 2 to 5 4.
The Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, financial risk management objectives, details of financial instruments and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk are also set out on pages 1 7 to 19 and in Note 18 to the Financial Statements on pages 46 to 5 3.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 22
