The Boards Policies INVESTMENT POLICY Unlisted investments The Company invests in a diversi ed portfolio consisting primarily As at 31 March 2013, the Company had invested in two unlisted of securities issued by companies listed in China or Hong Kong investments with fair value of 18,957,000, representing 2.6% of and China related companies listed on other stock exchanges.
The Company may also obtain exposure to other listed companies The Company is permitted to invest up to 5% of Gross Assets in which have signi cant interests in China or Hong Kong.
unlisted securities issued in companies which carry on business, Investment instruments or which have signi cant interests, in China or Hong Kong.
During the year the Company invested in forward currency Foreign exchange hedging policy contracts, equity linked notes, call and put options, long and The Companys financial statements are denominated in UK short contracts for di erence and utilised the QFII licence of the sterling, while investments are made and realised in currencies Investment Manager.
other than UK sterling, including Chinese renminbi, Hong Kong The Company may invest through equities, index linked, equity dollars and US dollars.
It is the policy not to hedge the linked and other debt securities, cash deposits, money market underlying currencies of the holdings in the portfolio but instruments, foreign currency exchange transactions, equity rather to take the currency risk into consideration when making related securities, forward transactions and other interests investment decisions.
Forward transactions and Cash management derivatives, including futures, options and contracts for The Investment Managers are not required to ensure that the di erence, may be used to enhance portfolio performance as Companys cash resources are fully invested at all times.
well as for e cient portfolio management and hedging.
DIVIDEND POLICY In addition, the Company gains exposure to the China A Shares The Board recommends the payment of a final dividend of through the Investment Managers QFII licence and through third 1.00pence per Ordinary Share for the year ended 31 March 2013. parties who have a QFII facility.
As the Companys objective is to achieve long-term capital Borrowing and gearing policy growth, the Board does not expect that dividends will constitute During the year, the Gross Asset Exposure of the Company did a material element of any return to shareholders.
However, in not exceed the limit of 30% of Net Assets.
As at 31 March 2013, order to continue to qualify as an investment company, the Gross Asset Exposure in excess of Net Assets was 22.1%.
Company is required by Section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act The Company may borrow up to 25% of Net Assets and the 2010 to distribute su cient net income so that it retains no more Board has adopted the policy that the Gross Asset Exposure than 15% of its income.
of the Company, whether from borrowing or derivatives, INVESTMENT IN OTHER INVESTMENT COMPANIES: LIMIT should not exceed the Net Assets of the Company by more OF 15% than 30%.
The Portfolio Manager is responsible for operating As at 31 March 2013, the Company held no investments in other within these parameters.
The Board considers that long-term capital growth can be The Board has set a limit of 15% on the proportion of the enhanced through the use of gearing.
Companys Gross Assets t hat can be invested in the securities of The Board is responsible for setting the gearing limits of the other listed investment companies including listed investment Company and reviews the position on a regular basis.
trusts which themselves do not have stated investment policies.
Derivative instruments PREMIUM & DISCOUNT MANAGEMENT As at 31 March 2013, the Companys exposure to short derivative During the year to 31 March 2013, the Company repurchased instruments represented 1.5% of Gross Assets.
6,525,000 Ordinary Shares through its share repurchase authorities approved by shareholders.
The Company may use derivative instruments for e cient portfolio management, gearing and hedging.
They may also be The Board has no rigid premium management or discount used in order to achieve the investment objective i. e. to enhance control policy but will exercise its authority to issue or repurchase portfolio performance.
the Companys shares if deemed to be in the best interests of shareholders at the time.
The Board has adopted a policy that the Gross Asset exposure of short positions held by the Company will not in aggregate The Board has adopted an approach whereby the level of exceed 15% of Gross Assets.
premium discount is actively managed by attempting to ensure the share price of the Company tracks as closely as possible the As at 31 March 2013, the Companys total exposure to any single underlying Net Asset Value of the Portfolio.
counterparty from all derivative activities was 2.2%.
CORPORATE ENGAGEMENT It is the Boards policy that total exposure to any single The Board believes that the Company should, where necessary counterparty from all activities, including, but not limited to, the take an active interest in the a airs of the companies in which it management of cash and the use of derivatives should not invests and that it should exercise its voting rights at their general exceed 15% of Gross Assets.
Derivative exposures are included meetings.
Unless there are any controversial issues which are after the netting of o setting positions and allowing for any then referred to the Board it delegates the responsibility for collateral placed by the counterparty with the Company.
corporate engagement and shareholder voting to the Managers.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 16
