Mar 13 Oct 12 Apr 12 Oct 11 Apr 11 Oct 10 Apr 10 Managers Report Anthony Bolton has more than 30 years of private enterprise in the economy and reducing the role experience of managing equity funds and of the state.
began investing in Chinese equities in 2004.
He previously acted as portfolio 3.
Conc entration, wherever possible, on business models that manager for a number of Fidelity funds, are similar to those I used to invest in when I ran funds including Fidelity Special Situations Fund, which he managed from 1979 until 2007. focused on the UK and Continental Europe.
These are the He also managed the portfolios of two models that I am familiar with and I know work well.
In China listed investment trusts, Fidelity Special they are at an early stage of their development which means Values PLC from 1994 to 2007 and Fidelity that, if successful, they should have a long period of growth European Values PLC from 1991 to 2001. ahead of them.
B uying shares in these companies on reasonable and, if I am pleased to be able to report some better gures for the possible, cheap valuations.
There are still many bargains 2012 13 financial year.
Both the Net Asset Value and share price available today, particularly in smaller Hong Kong and recovered over the last six months or so of the year.
Over the American-listed Chinese businesses.
Some of them sell at year the Net Asset Value and share price rose by 15.7% and discounts to their international peers despite, in many cases, 15.0% respectively while the MSCI China index was up 12.2% The having better growth prospects.
year under review was very much one of two halves: the first six months broadly followed the trend of much of 2011 but since At the end of this report I have described a number of the September 2012 Chinese markets have been recovering.
The companies held in the portfolio which I hope will give readers factors that have hurt the Company in the past being both a better avour of the types of business I invest in.
All but one of geared and exposed to medium and smaller sized companies, these are considered medium and small-sized companies with which tend to be more volatile than the market overall are a market capitalisation under 5bn these account for about now working in investors favour.
Below is a chart showing the 75% of the portfolio.
Many are less well known and poorly share price and NAV against the Benchmark Index as well as the covered by sell-side analysts.
I have picked twelve companies, MSCI China Small Cap and MSCI China Mid Cap Indices.
a di erent selection from last years, even though all but one of the fourteen mentioned then are still held in the portfolio.
130 INVESTMENT REVIEW 120 2011 and the first half of 2012 witnessed a big slowdown in the rate of growth of the Chinese economy nominal growth after 110 1.3% adding back in ation dropped from nearly 20% p. a. to a 100 -0.7% probable actual gure of around 8%.
However, in the third -6.8% 90 quarter of 2012 growth started to pick up again, helped by -11.8% -18.0% easier credit and investment spending.
I had originally expected 80 markets to start recovering ahead of this turn but in the risk-o 70 environment of the time investors needed to see evidence of the improvement before they believed it.
The turn in 60 HongKong-listed shares occurred in September while the domestic A shares market started to recover a few months later.
Although markets have paused and consolidated over NAV Share Price MSCI China the last few months, I remain optimistic for reasons I will mention MSCI China Small Cap MSCI China Mid Cap later, although I monitor the short-term threats relating to the As I did last year, let me first outline the four main elements of situation in North Korea, the state of relations between China my investment strategy: and Japan and the possible spread of bird u.
Exposure to consumption and services, both of which largely Real GDP growth in the first quarter of 2013 was 7.7%.
Much depend on the strength of the domestic economy in China.
focus has been put on this gure being below the 7.9% seen in These are the sectors that I believe have the best growth the last quarter of 2012 and below some expectations.
The leaders of the new administration have too fazed by this number as this was held back by some one-o reinforced the policy of their predecessors shifting Chinese factors, although I do acknowledge that not all economic data economic growth more towards consumption.
coming out of China at the moment is positive.
I believe the slow but steady recovery of the economy continues, although there 2.
A focus on private medium and small sized businesses are fide nite challenges for certain areas such as industrial rather than large state owned enterprises.
These are the exporters who are su ering from the combined e ects of rising entrepreneur-run businesses on which I believe Chinas wage costs and an appreciating currency.
It seems likely that the long-term prospects are based.
An extra attraction is that authorities will ensure that growth in the first year of the new the new administration is committed to increasing the role administration will b e good and above the target gure of 7.5%.
However, as I have argued in previous reports, in the Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 5 Managers Report medium-term China must accept a lower level of growth than in their policies very close to their chests.
As I suggested in the the past due to the shift of the economy towards consumption interim report, the new Standing Committee chosen in November and away from investment.
Many commentators suggest was reduced from nine to seven members.
Although Xi Jinping, consumption-led growth is more sustainable and therefore of the new president, was given more power, five of the seven better quality.
I agree with this view and note that the Politburo members are considered conservative.
Because of their age has talked about focusing on the quality and pro tability of these five will be replaced in 5 years time but, in the meantime, growth.
In some ways I am disappointed that the current they may act as a brake on radical reform.
Early statements from recovery is once again based on credit and investment and the new leaders are promising in terms of reform, especially for there was also a stronger recovery in the residential property private enterprise and financial companies, and tackling market than I had expected.
That said, I do recognise that the corruption is a major focus.
Much of the detail surrounding new shift of the economy towards consumption is something that will policies has still not been announced but we will get this as 2013 take a number of years to complete.
progresses and particularly during the Third Plenum in late October.
There is always a risk that the new leadership Again, investors have been focusing on the financial environment disappoints the optimists.
However, for financial markets the in China.
The recent growth in credit has been led by a pick-up promise of reform can often be as much a stimulus as the in what is termed social finance products.
These include trust measures themselves.
company funds, bonds and wealth management products rather than traditional bank debt.
Some of the wealth management I favour companies with businesses in Hong Kong.
Hong Kong products have been investing in questionable assets.
The remains the key gateway for many financial ows in and out of demand for these products has been high as investors have the PRC.
Last year nearly thirtyfive million mainland tourists sought higher yields than those available on bank deposits, visited Hong Kong, which has a population of only seven million while banks have preferred to sell products with a higher margin.
This backcloth is positive for companies in the retail and For a long time the regulation of these products, often sold hospitality area.
Most of the portfolios exposure to banks and without a parent bank guarantee, has been relatively relaxed property companies is via companies based in Hong Kong.
In but at the end of March the banking regulator brought out a the property area, the Company holds a number of smaller real number of new rules.
Although there are fide nitely risks with estate rms selling at substantial discounts to their net asset some of these products, these new rules should help reduce values.
Several of these have exposure to the middle market risks.
As expected, many of the loans local government finance hotels favoured by PRC tourists.
Despite the property cooling vehicles had taken on after the global financial crisis were measures in Hong Kong, I still think this is an attractive area and extended rather than being repaid.
This process will probably I prefer Hong Kong companies to mainland based ones where be repeated again in the future until the central government the Companys exposure remains low.
In the long run, I expect a nds other ways to help local governments.
One of the big number of Hong Kong-focused businesses to be bought out by debates about the economy in China is the extent that GDP mainland companies.
growth has relied on the growth of credit, which cannot continue inde nitely.
Larger amounts of credit growth appear to be In terms of listings, roughly 55% of the portfolio is in Chinese producing less GDP growth although the lag between credit businesses listed in Hong Kong, 20% in A & B shares listed on growth and GDP growth is often underestimated.
However, it is the mainland, another 20% in US-listed Chinese companies and inevitable that Chinas growth model will change.
5% in businesses listed elsewhere but making the majority of their pro ts in China.
Regarding US-listed companies, in general I believe that the financial challenges that worry many investors, their share prices have lagged the recovery in Hong Kong.
who often look at China through the prism of their Western Sentiment has been adversely a ected by negative short selling experience, are surmountable, particularly with the help of the reports, worries about variable interest entity structures and central government.
In my view the bigger challenges China reports that the US Justice Department is reviewing allegations faces in the longer term are more to do with political and social of accounting irregularities at various rms operating out of reform.
In my view this has presented the opportunity to purchase a number of these companies shares at very attractive In April, I attended the Boao Forum, a high level economic forum valuations, which compensates for the risks associated with which some refer to as Chinas equivalent of Davos.
I believe the accounting dispute will be settled at a place on Hainan Island which is the most southerly part of China Government to Government l evel and some progress has been and a popular holiday destination.
Many of Chinas top leaders announced recently.
as well as senior political gures from the rest of the world attend.
One of the reasons I went was to hear Xi Jinping speak I still see the Hong Kong-listed Chinese companies as the most first hand.
I was impressed by his speech which was fide nitely attractive.
Over time, I expect mainland investors to be allowed di erent from the typical speeches previous leaders had made to invest more freely in Hong Kong-listed shares.
In a similar way it was more down to earth and direct and not couched in the to how mainlanders have transformed the shopping environment traditional political language that leaders have used in the past.
in Hong Kong, I think they could also transform the stock market, where valuations in general are still well below those on the The process of political change in China is fascinating.
Moreover, it is an interesting anomaly that on the A totally opaque to the outside world and the new leaders keep share market smaller companies are generally more popular Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 6 Managers Report than large companies and they get higher valuations, but in COMPANY COMMENTARY all data as at 31 March 2013 Hong Kong the reverse is the case.
As money ows more freely between the two markets I expect this valuation gap to close.
Wing Hang Bank Market Capitalisation: 2, 116m Portfolio Weighting: 3.0% OUTLOOK Wing Hang Bank is one of the smaller Hong Kong Banks.
The In summary, and without wishing to sound like a stuck record, I Fung family and directors own about 22% of the shares and Bank remain very optimistic with regards to the outlook for the shares of New York Mellon 20%.
The majority of its operations are in of Chinese companies aside from the short-term risks mentioned Hong Kong but it has a growing presence in the PRC and earlier.
In general, I expect 2013 to be a good year for equities Macau.
Its conservative and prudent management has guided globally and so far the US and, more recently, Japan have been the bank well through various cycles.
In the long run I expect a the leading stock markets.
A number of ASEAN markets have number of the smaller Hong Kong Banks to be acquired.
It sells performed we ll and I expect China to catch up.
Despite the on only one point three times book value whilst having a market rise since September, China valuations are still about normalised return on equity of 10%.
The outlook for earnings growth, even with a lower level of GDP growth, is good and well SAIC 17, 300m 2.1% above what is generally available in developed markets, while Shanghai Auto owns its own automobile brands in China but also wage increases running near double gures continue to has signi cant interests in two key Chinese joint ventures one underwrite a favourable consumer environment.
Sentiment is with General Motors and one with VW although VW also has cautious, both among local and international investors, but this is a second joint venture in China with another local company.
I expect investment ows into Many consider these two joint ventures to be leaders in one equities to rise.
The A share market, where over the past few mass market.
The shares, which are A shares listed in years investors have typically been redeeming their equity Shanghai, sell at about seven times our estimate of 2013 holdings, is ripe for a change of sentiment.
I am very hopeful that earnings.
In many cases, A shares sell at premium valuations to my strategy will see both the share price and Net Asset Value the H shares of companies in the same industry, but with SAIC return permanently to positive territory.
the reverse has been the case.
At the Companys inception I gave a commitment to run the Ports Design 305m 2.0% portfolio for at least two years and I subsequently extended this Ports, a company I first met in 2005, is a unique business that has on two occasions, each time for a further period of one year.
It developed one of the few Chinese-originated luxury fashion has always been my intention to step down as Portfolio Manager brands.
It has about three hundred and fty stores in China and at some stage having been closely involved in the process of also owns fty stores selling BMW-labelled apparel and identifying my successor.
I have now decided to retire on accessories.
For many years it grew very quickly, but recently the 31March 2014 at the end of the Companys current financial growth has slowed down.
There have also been some year.
I am delighted that my colleague Dale Nicholls will take governance-related issues within the group which now appear to over from me then.
He has a similar investment approach to my have been resolved.
However, selling at only about eight times own with a focus on medium and smaller sized companies and this years earnings, I believe the shares to be a bargain.
has been investing most successfully in Chinese companies for the last ten years.
I believe he has the right combination of 21Vianet Group 35 8m 1.
6% talents to see the portfolio through the next chapter of its life.
21Vianet is the leading independent data centre owner in China.
Wewill work closely together until I hand over the portfolio to The growth of internet businesses in China and the demand for him on 1April 2014 but I will still make the final decision on all hosting by cloud services is rapidly increasing demand for data investments until then.
Although I will be sorry to end my storage.
It is a similar business to Telecity in the UK or Equinix in involvement with the Company that was set up at my instigation the US which have both been very good stock market performers Iknow it will be in good hands and I will be retaining my over the last few years.
21Vianet sells on a lower valuation of personal investment in the Companys shares.
enterprise value relative to earnings before interest, amortisation, depreciation and tax the most common valuation yardstick used Anthony Bolton in this industry than these two companies despite the fact that its Portfolio Manager growth is signi cantly higher.
4% Lees Pharmaceutical is a Chinese pharmaceutical company that licenses products from medium-sized global pharmaceutical companies that do not have a presence in China.
It also develops its own drugs.
Lees Pharmaceutical focuses on cardiovascular, oncology, ophthalmology, dermatological and gynaecological diseases.
When I first met the company the shares were exceptionally cheap.
Although they have performed well today they sell at about seventeen times 2013 earnings Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 7 Managers Report while growth is about 30% p. a. Morgan Stanley has recently Global Logistic Properties 6,621m 1.
0% valued the companys drug pipeline alone over thirty dr ugs at Global Logistics Properties owns one of the largest estates of di erent stages of development at over three-quarters of the logistics warehouses in China.
Its network covers twenty nine companys market valuation.
cities and it has operations in seven cities in Japan as well as a small business in Brazil.
China accounts for just over half of its Bitauto 27 1m 1.1% assets.
With the expansion of the domestic economy in China, Bitauto operates one of the leading new car listing websites in the demand for modern, high-standard distribution facilities is China and the leading used car listing website.
It also provides growing strongly and there are few national chains.
Although the car dealers with marketing software and services.
The dealer shares only sell at a small discount to their estimated net asset network in China is expanding rapidly as more car brands value, the outlook for growth in capital values is very good.
compete in the worlds largest car market.
com, the US company with a similar line of business, Alibaba unlisted 2.1% bought a 22% stake in the company.
Revenue is growing at about Alibaba, the largest unlisted holding in the portfolio, is the 30% p. a. and the shares sell at about thirteen times 2013 earnings.
leading e-commerce company in China.
Over 75% of e-commerce transactions in China go through one of its two main China International Travel Services 3,077m 1.2% portals, which handled over US$170bn of sales last year more This A share listed company owns a major travel agency than eBay and Amazon combined.
Alibaba has a clever business business and is one of the two main duty-free shop operators in model: it is a platform for other retailers rather than handling China.
The majority of pro ts come from its duty-free business.
This means it is much less capital-intensive than duty-free it has a dominant position on the holiday island of other e-commerce companies and much more pro table.
The Hainan where visitor numbers are increasing rapidly and where it Company holds a convertible which was issued on a valuation of is building a new mega-store.
Chinese travellers are spending an the company around US$48bn.
The listing which could take place increasing amount of money overseas but the government has a in Hong Kong later this year is likely to be at a signi cant strong incentive to keep more consumption in the country, which premium to this.
If it is, it will be one of the biggest IPOs in means potentially more favourable policies for the duty-free HongK ong.
The shares sell at about nineteen times 2013 earnings, not a giveaway valuation, but considerably cheaper than many A shares that have much less attractive prospects.
SPT Energy 47 2m 1.2% SPT is one of the largest non-state-owned oil service companies in China.
It o ers a wide range of integrated and specialised drilling services including turnkey drilling, vertical drilling, directional drilling, uids and fracking.
China is very keen to build up more onshore oil and gas resources.
Indeed it has ambitious production targets for shale gas which involve a considerable increase in the number of onshore wells being drilled in China, which should bene t companies like SPT.
The shares sell at about fourteen times 2013 estimated earnings, a discount to its listed competitors despite similar growth prospects.
com 1, 008m 1.0% Changyou is one of the leading P. C. games developers in China.
Its core product is a martial arts game called Tian Long Ba Bu.
It is also a leader in the web games sector via its subsidiary 7Road and it owns a games portal, 17173. com.
Changyou is one of the cheapest companies in China, selling at under five times 2013 estimated earnings and with half its market capitali sation in net cash.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 8
