GOVERNANCE Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report together The Management Agreement may also be terminated forthwith with the audited financial statements of the Company for the as a result of a material breach of the Agreement or on the year ended 31 December 2013.
The Company was incorporated insolvency of the Manager or the Company.
In addition, the in England and Wales as a public limited company on 16 August Company may terminate the agreement by six months notice 1991 under the name of Legistshelfco No.
112 PLC with the ifthe Manager ceases to be a subsidiary of FIL Limited or if the registered number 2638812.
The name was changed to Fidelity Board shall resolve at two successive quarterly meetings that European Values PLC in September 1991.
Details of the status of there has been a material and continuing underperformance the Company can be found in the Strategic Report on page 8. in the portfolio of assets.
MANAGEMENT COMPANY AND FEES The Management Engagement Committee met on 15 January During the year to 31 December 2013, the Manager, FIL 2014 and reviewed the performance of the Manager for the year Investments International, a subsidiary of FIL Limited, provided to 31 December 2013.
Further details of this review are included management, accounting, administrative and secretarial services in the Companys Corporate Governance Statement on pages 26 to the Company pursuant to the Management Agreement dated and 27.
The Committee concluded that it was in the interests of 18 October 2012. shareholders that the appointment of the Manager should continue.
For the year ended 31 December 2013, the Management Agreement provided for a quarterly base fee of 0.2125% of The Manager also provides certain services, including marketing netassets 2012: same.
The Management Agreement excludes and administration, in connection with the Fidelity Investment the value of any investment in any other fund which is managed Trust Share Plan and the Fidelity Individual Savings Account.
by the Manager or an Associate of the Manager in the Theamount payable for these services for the year to 31 December calculation of fees.
There was no additional company secretarial 2013 was 155,000 2012: 60,000. fee 2012: same.
At 31 December 2013, 1,579,000 2012: 3,616,000 was due to In addition the Management Agreement provides for anannual the Manager under the above agreements and is disclosed in performance related fee of 15% 2012: same of anychange in Note 12 to the financial statements on page 49. net asset value in excess of the returns on the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index plus 0.5%.
Fidelity operates a broker segmentation policy which allows it to concentrate on those brokers who, in its opinion, offer the best Both the net asset value and the Benchmark Index are calculated service in terms of overall execution.
These brokers are Fidelitys on a total return basis, and the fee is based on the weighted core brokers.
At the same time, the Manager evaluates the average number of shares in issue.
research provided by other brokers and uses some of them for their research.
These brokers are called Secondary State In the event of underperformance of the NAV relative to the Research firms SSRs.
As a consequence of the policy, the Benchmark Index in any year, no performance fee is payable core brokers earn a larger percentage of the commission paid.
fora subsequent accounting year unless and until such and These core brokers pay away some of the increased allcumulative underperformance has been made good.
commission earned tothe SSRs to compensate them for the Theperformance related fee is subject to an upper limit of research provided to Fidelity.
Under the Financial Conduct 1.0%ofnet assets 2012: same.
If performance is such that the Authority FCA regulations this type of payment from one performance related fee would exceed this cap, any excess broker to another is currently treated as softing.
The Managers outperformance would be carried forward and offset against any soft commission policy complies with the UK regulations.
Fidelity future underperformance deficit but will not be counted towards adopts a best execution policy that applies to all transactions in future performance related fees.
For the year ended 31 December all instruments, regardless of the fund or account or location of 2013 no performance fee was payable 2012: 2,243,000. the trading desk.
The Board reviews the services provided by the Manager and The Manager has an arrangement with certain brokers whereby also the terms of the Management Agreement on a regular a portion of commissions from security transactions may be paid basis.
The Management Agreement will continue unless and to the Company to reduce transaction costs.
Amounts received untilterminated by either party giving to the other not less than by the Company under this arrangement are credited to capital.
The Management Agreement may, In the year to 31 December 2013 47,000 was received however, be terminated without compensation if the Company is 2012:19,000. liquidated in 2014, or in any subsequent year thereafter, pursuant to the procedures laid down in the Articles of Association of the There is a regulatory requirement on the Manager to obtain best Company.
execution and no individual deal is entered into which prevents compliance with this requirement.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 19 GOVERNANCE Directors Report Mr Fraser, a non-executive Director of the Company, was SHARE ISSUES employed by the FIL Limited group until the end ofDecember No shares were issued during the year 2012: nil and none have 2008. been issued since the year end.
The authority to issue shares and dis-apply pre-emption rights, granted by shareholders at FIL Limited has no beneficial interest in shares of the Company theAnnual General Meeting held on 16 May 2013, expires at 2012: same.
theconclusion of this years Annual General Meeting and therefore resolutions to renew the authority will be put to DIRECTORS shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting to Details of the Directors who served during the year to beheld on 15May2014.
31December 2013 are set out on page 18 with a brief description of their careers, each of which indicates their SHARE REPURCHASES qualifications for Board membership.
All of the Directors served At the Annual General Meeting held on 16 May 2013 the throughout the year to 31December 2013 with the exception of Companys shareholders passed a special resolution which Marion Sears who was appointed as a non-executive Director of granted the Directors authority to purchase up to 6,443,306 the Companyon 17January 2013.
Ms Sears was recruited with ordinary shares in the market for cancellation.
939,380 ordinary the aid of an external agency which has no other connection to 25 pence shares were repurchased for cancellation during the the Company.
Mr Duckworth resigned as a Director of the year 2012: 1,167,873 representing 2.2% of the issued share Company on 16 May 2013. capital as at 31 December 2013 2012: 2.7% for a total consideration of 13,239,000 2012: 12,457,000.
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE In addition to benefits enjoyed under the Managers global The authority to repurchase shares expires on 15 May 2014 and Directors and Officers insurance arrangements, the Company a special resolution to renew the authority in respect of up to maintained insurance cover for its Directors and Officers under 14.99% of the issued share capital as at 6March 2014 will be put its own policy as permitted by the Companies Act 2006. to shareholders for approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
REGISTRAR AND CUSTODIAN ARRANGEMENTS The Company employs Capita Asset Services to manage the Since the year end, a further 24,859 ordinary shares of 25 pence Companys share register.
Fees for their custodial services for the each were repurchased for cancellation at a price of year under review amounted to 68,000 2012: 76,000.
The issued share capital as at 6March2014 was 42,162,834 ordinary shares.
The Company employs JPMorgan Chase Bank as its custodians who are primarily responsible for safeguarding the Companys SUBSTANTIAL SHARE INTERESTS assets.
Fees for their custodial services for the year under review As at 6 March 2014 notification had been received of amounted to 132,000 2012: 118,000. thefollowing interests in 3% or more of the voting rights of theCompany: SHARE CAPITAL The Companys issued share capital comprises ordinary shares Shareholders % of 25 pence each.
As at 31 December 2013, the total number of Fidelity ISA and Share Plan 22.98 ordinary shares in issue was 42,187,693 2012: 43,127,073.
Each share in issue carries one vote.
Deadlines for the exercise of 1607 Capital Partners 7.80 voting rights and details of arrangements by which someone 1 other than the shareholder can exercise voting rights are Rathbone Brothers PLC 5.35 detailed in the Notes to the Notice of Meeting on pages 61 and Brewin Dolphin 4.76 62.
The Companys ordinary shares have a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 3.00 1 PREMIUM DISCOUNT MANAGEMENT: ENHANCING Indirect holding for Rathbone Group companies SHAREHOLDER VALUE The Board seeks authority from shareholders each year to issue new shares at a premium or repurchase shares for cancellation at a discount to the NAV.
It will only use these authorities to enhance the net asset value and to protect or improve the premium discount rating of the shares.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 20 GOVERNANCE Directors Report At the 2014 Annual General Meeting resolutions will be proposed % to renew the Directors authority to allot securities in the of issued Analysis of Ordinary Shareholders Company.
The authorities sought by these resolutions are to as at 31 December 2013 share capital replace the existing powers of the Directors which expire on Retail 55.12 thedate of the Annual General Meeting and will provide the Directors with the flexibility to issue further ordinary shares if they Mutual funds 35.83 deem it appropriate to do so.
By law, directors are not permitted Pension funds 4.18 to allot new shares or to grant rights over shares unless authorised to do so by shareholders.
Resolution 13 is an ordinary Insurance companies 4.11 resolution and provides theDirectors with a general authority to Trading 0.47 allot securities in the Company up to an aggregate nominal value of 527,035.
If passed, thisresolution will enable the Hedge funds 0.29 Directors to allot a maximum of 2,108,141 ordinary shares of 25pence each or 21,081,410 ordinary shares of 2.5 pence each Total 100.00 following the proposed share sub-division of shares see below.
This represents approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT capital of the Company as at 6March2014.
The Managers primary objective is to produce superior financial returns for investors.
It believes that high standards of corporate This authority provides the Directors with a degree of flexibility to social responsibility CSR make good business sense and increase the assets of the Company by the issue of new shares have the potential to protect and enhance investment returns.
should any favourable opportunities arise to the advantage of Consequently, its investment process takes social, environmental shareholders.
If new ordinary shares are allotted for cash, the and ethical issues into account when, in its view, these have a Companies Act 2006 requires such new shares to be offered to material impact on either investment risk or return.
existing holders of ordinary shares pre-emption rights.
In certain circumstances it is beneficial for the Directors to allot The Manager recognises and supports the view that social, shares for cash otherwise than pro rata to existing shareholders environmental and ethical best practice should be encouraged.
and the Companies Act 2006 provides for shareholders to give It favours companies committed to high standards of CSR and to such power to the Directors by waiving their pre-emption rights.
the principles of sustainable development.
Resolution 14 is a special resolution disapplying pre-emption The Manager does not set out to manage an ethical investment rights and granting authority to the Directors, without the need fund and does not screen out companies from its investment for further specific shareholder approval, to make allotments universe purely on the grounds of poor social, environmental or ofequity securities for cash by way of a rights issues where subjective ethical records.
Instead it adopts a positive practical considerations, such as fractions and foreign securities engagement approach whereby social, environmental and laws, make this desirable, and b other issues up to an ethical matters are discussed with management with the aim of aggregate nominal value of 527,035 approximately 5% of the improving procedures and attitudes.
The Manager believes that issued share capital of the Company as at 6March2014 and this is the most effective way to improve the attitude of business equivalent to 2,108,141 ordinary shares of 25 pence each or towards CSR and the Board endorses this approach.
21,081,410 ordinary shares of 2.5 pence each following the proposed sub-division of shares see page 22.
The authority to GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS issue ordinary shares for cash under Resolution 13 will, inter alia, The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas or enable the Directors to issue additional new ordinary shares to diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable participants in the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan and the carbon footprint.
FIL Investments International is registered with Fidelity ISA in the event that the ordinary shares are trading at a the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme premium to their net asset value.
The Directors would only intend administered by the Environment Agency.
to use this power if they considered that it was in the interests ofshareholders to do so.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR Resolution 15 is a special resolution which renews the Directors IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation.
It is proposed that the Board be authorised to make arrangements If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you to purchase through the London Stock Exchange up to 6,320,208 should seek your own personal financial advice from your ordinary shares of 25 pence each or 63,202,080 ordinary shares stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other financial adviser of 2.5 pence each following the proposed sub-division of shares authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. see page 22 equivalent to 14.99% of the shares in issue at 6March2014.
By utilising this power to repurchase shares when they are trading at a discount to net asset value, the Company Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 21 GOVERNANCE Directors Report will increase the resulting net asset value per share for remaining and becomes effective, the number of shares in issue following shareholders.
Purchases of shares will be made at the discretion the Sub-Division will be 421,628,340 New Ordinary Shares.
of the Board and within guidelines set from time to time by the Board in the light of prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will The Companys final dividend is due to be paid on 23 May 2014 only be made in the market at prices below the prevailing net to existing shareholders who appear on the Companys register asset value.
The Sub-Division will not affect the payment of the Companys final dividend.
Sub-Division of Ordinary Shares Resolution 12 is being proposed as an ordinary resolution and If the Sub-Division is approved and based on the timetable set concerns the sub-division of the Companys Ordinary shares on a out above, applications will be made for admission of the New 10 for 1 basis the Sub-Division.
Ordinary Shares to the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges market for listed securities.
If the applications The Companys Ordinary shares the Existing Ordinary Shares are accepted, it is proposed that the last day of trading on the currently have a nominal value of 25 pence each.
London Stock Exchange of the Existing Ordinary Shares will be 30 May 2014 and the New Ordinary Shares will commence The closing price of the Existing Ordinary Shares as at 6 March trading on 2 June 2014, with the following identifiers: 2014 being the last practical date prior to the publication of this Annual Report was 15.20.
ISIN: GB00BK1PKQ95 Sedol: BK1PKQ9 As announced by the Company on 17 January 2014, the Board Ticker: FEV LON.
are aware that smaller investors, or investors who participate in monthly saving plans or dividend reinvestment schemes have No fractional entitlements will arise as a result of the Sub-Division, experienced difficulty fulfilling their order because of the high as each shareholders holding of Existing Ordinary Shares will price at which the Existing Ordinary Shares trade, resulting in a be capable of division into New Ordinary Shares on a whole cash surplus that cannot be invested until sufficient funds have number basis.
built up in their accounts.
By way of an example, a shareholder who held 1,000 Existing If the Existing Ordinary Shares were to have been sub-divided on Ordinary Shares prior to the Sub-Division, would, immediately 6March 2014, the shares would have been valued at 1.52 per following the Sub-Division, hold 10,000 New Ordinary Shares.
share reflecting the fact that Ordinary shareholders would have Based on this example, the net asset value of the Existing then held ten times as many new Ordinary shares.
Shareholders Ordinary Shares as at 6March 2014 being the latest practical should note therefore that, subject to market movements, the date prior to the publication of this Annual Report of 15.20 per aggregate value of their shareholdings should remain the same.
share would, following the Sub-Division, become 1.52 per share.
The Board are of the opinion that the lower share price will If resolution 12 becomes effective, new share certificates enhance the appeal of the Existing Ordinary Shares to smaller representing the New Ordinary Shares will be sent to investors.
shareholders who currently hold shares in certificated form, on orabout 16 June 2014.
Once received, all old share certificates It is therefore proposed that, on 2 June 2014 or such other time which relate to the Existing Ordinary Shares must be destroyed and date as the Directors may determine, each of the Existing as they will no longer be valid.
If you do not receive a new Ordinary Shares that appear on the share register at the sharecertificate but believe you are entitled to one please call Record Date of 6.00 pm on 30 May 2014 will be sub-divided into 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network 10 Ordinary shares of 2.5 pence each the New Ordinary extras.
Lines are open 8.30 am 5.30 pm Monday to Friday or Shares.
The resolution is conditional upon, and takes effect on, email: shareholderenquiries@capita.
No temporary the admission of the NewOrdinary Shares to the Official List of documents to title will be issued.
Transfers between 2 June the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock 2014and 16 June 2014 will be certified against the register of Exchanges market for listed securities.
CREST accounts are expected to becredited on 2June 2014.
The New Ordinary Shares will carry the same rights in all respects as the Existing Ordinary Shares, including voting rights.
Based on current UK tax legislation and the practice of HMRC, The only change will be the aggregate number of shares held for those shareholders who i are beneficial owners of their and the nominal value per share.
The Companys net assets will Existing Ordinary Shares, ii hold their Existing Ordinary Shares remain unchanged following the Sub-Division and the Companys as an investment and not via an individual savings account daily released net asset value per share will equate to one tenth ISA and iii are ordinarily resident in the UK for taxation of its original net asset value per share.
purposes, the Sub-Division will not be treated as a disposal for the purposes of UK capital gains tax, nor as a distribution of The number of shares in issue on 6 March 2014 being the last income for the purposes of UK income tax.
If you are in any practical date prior to the publication of this Annual Report was doubt as to your taxation position or if you are subject to tax in 42,162,834 Existing Ordinary Shares.
If resolution 12 is passed any jurisdiction other than the UK then you should consult your Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 22 GOVERNANCE Directors Report own professional adviser.
No UK stamp duty or stamp duty CORPORATE GOVERNANCE reserve tax will be payable by shareholders as a result of the Full details are given in the Corporate Governance Statement Sub-Division.
which forms part of this Directors Report and can be found on pages 24 to 28.
Adoption of New Articles of Association Resolution 16 is being proposed as a special resolution and AUDITORS RIGHT TO INFORMATION relates to the adoption of new Articles of Association the New As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 the Articles which update the Companys existing Articles of Directors in office as at the date of this report each confirm that, Association.
so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information ofwhich the Auditor is unaware and each Director has taken There have been a number of recent changes to tax, regulation allthe steps that ought to have been taken as a Director to and company law which affect investment trusts and the makethemselves aware of any relevant audit information, and Company.
The Board is therefore seeking approval to adopt the toestablish that the Auditor is aware of that information.
New Articles, substantially in the form of the existing Articles, but updated to reflect these changes.
AUDITORS APPOINTMENT A resolution to reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor to the In particular: Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting together with a resolution to authorise the Directors to 1.
As a result of changes in tax law, the Companies Act 2006 determine the Auditors remuneration.
has been amended to remove the requirement that an investment companys articles of association must prohibit a GOING CONCERN distribution of realised capital profits and so it is now possible The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely for such companies to pay dividends out of capital profits.
It is to affect its future development, performance and position are therefore proposed that the Companys Articles should be set out in the Strategic Report on pages 8 to 11.
The financial updated to give the Company this greater flexibility in line position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and with tax and company laws.
The Board has no current borrowing facilities are described in the financial statements and intention to pay dividends out of capital profits but believes notes thereto on pages 39 to 56.
The Companys objectives, that it is in shareholders best interests for the Board to have policies and processes for managing its capital, financial risk this power should circumstances warrant its use in the future.
objectives, details of financial instruments and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk are also set out in the Strategic Report on 2.
The Company is an alternative investment fund for the pages 8 to 11 and in the notes to the financial statements on purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers pages 43 to 56.
The proposed New Articles have therefore also been updated in order to incorporate the The Companys assets consist mainly of securities which are powers that may be granted to the Board as a result of the readily realisable.
Where outsourcing arrangements are in place, implementation of AIFMD.
In particular, it is proposed to including registrar and custodian services, alternative providers include a new Article 131, expressly granting the Board the are readily available.
As a consequence, the Directors believe authority to allow a depositary to discharge liability for loss of that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks financial instruments held in custody in accordance with the successfully.
limited circumstances permitted by Article 21 of AIFMD.
The Board receives regular reports from the Manager and the A copy of the existing Articles of Association and the proposed Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has New Articles showing all changes to the existing Articles, are adequate resources to continue in operational existence for available for inspection at the registered office of the Company theforeseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going and at 25 Cannon Street, London EC4M 5TA and will be made concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial available for inspection at the Companys forthcoming Annual statements.
General Meeting at least 15 minutes prior to the start of the meeting and up until the close of the meeting.
CONTINUATION VOTE In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, The full text of the resolutions are set out in the Notice of Meeting acontinuation vote is required every two years.
The next contained on pages 59 to 60. continuation vote will take place at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2015.
Recommendation: The Board considers that each of the resolutions is likely to promote the success of the Company and is in the best interests of the Company and its By Order of the Board shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously FIL Investments International recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they Secretary intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
10 March 2014 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 23
