STRATEGY Strategic Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Strategic Report of The gearing range is considered by the Board and Portfolio the Company which replaces and enhances reporting previously Manager at their quarterly board meetings.
included in the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
It provides a review of the Companys business and describes INVESTMENT POLICY the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
An analysis of the The Company invests principally in continental European performance of the Company during the financial year and the securities with a view to achieving long term capital growth for position at the year end is included taking into account its shareholders.
The portfolio is selected by the Manager on the objective, strategy and risks and how these are measured basis of its assessment of the fundamental value available in usingKey Performance Indicators.
The Chairmans Statement individual situations.
Whilst the Companys overall exposure andManagers Review form part of the Strategic Report.
toindividual countries and industry sectors is monitored, the portfolio is not structured primarily on a country or industrial BUSINESS AND STATUS weightings basis, although certain investment restrictions apply The Company carries on business as an investment trust and has in order to diversify risk.
been accepted as an approved investment trust by HM Revenue & Customs under Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation No material change will be made to the investment policy TaxAct 2010, subject to the Company continuing to meet without shareholder approval.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has conducted its affairs in a manner which will satisfy INVESTMENT RESTRICTIONS the conditions for continued approval.
A minimum of 80% of gross assets will be invested in companies from countries which are included in the The Company is registered as an investment company under Benchmark Index.
Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as such.
It is not a close company and has no employees.
A maximum of 5% of gross assets may be invested in companies of non-European countries which have some OBJECTIVE European exposure or connection.
The Companys objective is to achieve long term capital growthfrom the stockmarkets of continental Europe.
The A maximum of 10% of the Companys gross assets may Benchmark Index for performance measurement purposes is be invested in the aggregate of: theFTSE World Europe ex UK Index.
a securities not listed on a recognised stock exchange: and STRATEGY In order to achieve this objective, the Company has an actively b holdings in which the interest of the Company amounts to managed portfolio of investments, consisting primarily of 20% or more of the equity capital of any listed company.
The principal activity is to pursue the objective through operating as an investment trust company.
The Company will not invest more than 10% of gross assets in As part of the strategy, the Board has delegated the management any one quoted company at the time of acquisition.
of the portfolio and other services.
The objective, strategy and principal activity have remained unchanged throughout the year A maximum of 5% of the Companys gross assets may be held ended 31 December 2013. in unquoted securities in aggregate at any one time.
The Board has reviewed the summary of the years activities and The Companys normal policy is to be geared in the belief is in agreement with the indications of likely future developments that long term investment returns will exceed the costs and the factors likely to affect these which are given in the ofgearing.
This gearing is obtained through the use of Chairmans Statement on pages 3 to 5 and in the Managers borrowing and or through the use of Contracts for Difference Review on pages 6 and 7.
CFDs to obtain exposure to securities selected by the Manager.
The effect of gearing is to magnify the consequence The stock selection approach adopted by the Portfolio Manager of market movements on the portfolio.
If the portfolio value is considered to be well suited to achieving the objective.
rises the NAV will be positively impacted, but if it falls the NAV Although income is being received by way of dividend payments will be adversely impacted.
The Board is responsible for the the emphasis is placed on capital growth.
The Board takes the level of gearing in the Company and reviews the position on view that investing in equities is a long term process, and that a regular basis.
the Companys returns to shareholders will vary from year to year.
Unlike equivalent open-ended investment vehicles, the The aggregate exposure of the Company to equities, as a investment trust structure offers investors a portfolio which may result of borrowing or under CFDs, will not exceed 130% of be geared.
The Board takes the view that long term returns can the total net assets a gearing level of 30% at the time at be enhanced by the use of gearing, in a carefully considered which any CFD is entered into ora security acquired.
It should and monitored way.
be stressed that the majority of the Companys exposure to equities will be through direct investment, not CFDs.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 8 STRATEGY Strategic Report In addition, the limits on exposure to individual companies PERFORMANCE and groups will be calculated on the basis that the Company In the year ended 31 December 2013, the Companys net asset has acquired the securities to which any CFD is providing value total return was 20.0%, underperforming the FTSE World exposure.
Europe ex UK Index total return of 25.2%.
Details on trends and factors that may impact the future performance of the Company The maximum amount of cash or cash equivalents held by the are included in the Chairmans Statement on pages 3 to 5 and Company will be 25% of the Companys total net assets, but Managers Review on pages 6 and 7.
The ten year Summary of this limit will not include any cash or cash equivalent paid as Performance is on page 15.
The Ten Largest Investments are collateral for unrealised losses on CFDs.
In practice the cash listed on page 12, theDistribution of the Portfolio is on pages position will normally be much lower.
13 and 14 and the FullPortfolio Listing is set out on pages 57 and 58.
The Board reserves the right to lend stock and or assets of upto 10% of the Companys total net assets.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The Companys results are set out in the Income Statement The Board reserves the right to hedge the portfolio by way onpage 39.
The total return after taxation for the year ended ofcurrency.
31December 2013 was 120.06 million, of which the revenue return amounted to 12.66 million.
A maximum of 10% of the Companys gross assets may be invested in the securities of other investment companies The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 29.75 pence including listed investment trusts.
2012: 27.75 pence per share be paid on 23 May 2014 to shareholders who appear on the register as at the close of INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY, STYLE AND business on 21 March 2014 ex-dividend date 19 March 2014.
PROCESS The Portfolio Managers key focus is on identifying attractively ATTRIBUTION ANALYSIS valued companies which exhibit good long term structural The attribution analysis table below shows how the increase in growth prospects.
The Portfolio Manager prefers companies that NAV has been achieved.
he believes can grow their dividend over the next three to five years, as evidence suggests that such companies outperform Analysis of change in NAV during the year pence per share over the long term.
Starting NAV 1 January 2013 1,428.97 In order to identify these companies, the Portfolio Manager looks Impact of: for the following main characteristics: Index 314.97 positive fundamentals structural growth prospects, a proven Exchange Rate 44.94 business model : Gearing 24.72 the ability to generate cash: Stock Selection -87.40 a strong balance sheet: and Share Repurchases 4.86 an attractive valuation.
Charges -14.83 Cash Residual -2.70 The Portfolio Manager draws upon the substantial intelligence uncovered by Fidelitys team of pan-European analysts when NAV excluding the dividend paid 1,713.53 researching stocks.
A great deal of importance is placed on Dividend paid -27.75 attending company meetings.
Closing NAV 31 December 2013 1,685.78 Being a bottom-up stock picker, the Portfolio Manager aims to generate outperformance through company selection, on a three Sources: Fidelity and Datastream Past performance is not a guide to future returns to five year investment horizon, rather than through sector or country positions.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The key performance indicators KPIs used to determine the progress and performance of the Company over time and which are comparable to those reported by other investment trusts are set out on page 10.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 9 STRATEGY Strategic Report The Board also determines the nature and extent of any risks it Year ended Three years is willing to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
31 December ended 31 December Market Risk 2013 2012 2013 The Companys assets consist of listed securities and % % % the principal risks are therefore market related such as 1,2 NAV per share 20.0 24.7 32.5 market downturn, interest rate movements, and exchange rate movements.
The Portfolio Managers success or failure to protect 2 Share Price 20.8 31.3 45.0 and increase the Companys assets against this background is core to the Companys continued success.
FTSE World Europe 2 ex UK Index 25.2 17.8 25.8 Risks to which the Company is exposed and which form part of Discount to NAV the market risks category are included in Note 18 to the financial based on statements on pages 51 to 56 together with summaries of the exincome NAV 7.9 8.1 n a policies for managing these risks.
These comprise: market price risk which comprises interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and Discount to NAV other price risk : derivative instruments risk: liquidity risk: based on counterparty risk: and credit risk.
cumincome NAV 9.5 9.9 n a 1 Ongoing Charges 0.96 0.98 n a Performance Risk The achievement of the Companys performance objective relative 1 Calculated in accordance with AIC guidelines to the market requires the application of risk.
Strategy, asset 2 Calculated on a total return basis allocation and stock selection might lead to underperformance of Sources: Fidelity and Datastream the Benchmark Index.
The Board reviews risk at each Board Past performance is not a guide to future returns meeting, considers the asset allocation of the portfolio and the risk associated with particular countries and industry sectors within the The Summary of Performance graphs on pages 16 and 17 parameters of the investment objective.
The Portfolio Manager indicate the relative historical performance of the Company isresponsible for actively monitoring the portfolio selected in against its Benchmark Index since launch and the discount or accordance with the asset allocation parameters and seeks to premium to NAV over that period.
Some of the Companys KPIs ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk reward profile.
are considered to be beyond the Boards control.
However, they are measures of the Companys absolute and relative Income Dividend Risk performance and the Board monitors them regularly.
Indices and The Companys revenue may decline which would impact on ratios which assist in managing performance and compliance theCompanys ability to maintain its dividend.
The Companys are also reviewed, including the ongoing charges.
Expenses are objective is capital growth and, as explained in the Chairmans considered regularly at Board meetings and this enables the Statement on page 3, the Portfolio Manager is not constrained Board to review costs and consider any expenditure outside that inany way to determine the level of income.
TheBoard monitors of its normal operations.
this risk through the receipt of detailed income reports and forecasts which are considered at each meeting.
In addition to the KPIs set out above, the Board regularly reviews the Companys performance against its peer group of investment Discount Control Risk trusts.
The principal risks and uncertainties stated below and on The price of the Companys shares as well as its discount to NAV, page 11 includes descriptions of other performance indicators, are factors which are not within the Companys total control.
their monitoring and management which are important to the Some short term influence over the discount may be exercised business of the Company.
Long term performance is also by the use of share repurchases at acceptable prices.
Details monitored and the Summary of Performance graphs on pages 16 of repurchases during the year are given on page 20.
The and 17 show this information.
Companys share price, NAV and discount volatility are monitored daily by the Manager and considered by the Board PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES at each of its meetings.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by Gearing Risk the Company.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board in The Company has the option to invest up to the total of any loan accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Internal facilities or to use Contracts for Difference CFDs to invest in Control: Revised Guidance for Directors.
The principal risk is that gearing magnifies investment returns.
Therefore, if the Company is geared in strongly performing The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal stocks, it will benefit from gearing.
If the Company isgeared in control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
An internal controls poorly performing stocks, the impact would be detrimental.
report providing an assessment of risks, together with controls to Other risks are that the cost of gearing may be too high or that mitigate these risks, is prepared by the Manager and considered the term of the gearing is inappropriate in relation tomarket by the Audit Committee.
The Company currently has no bank loans and Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 10 STRATEGY Strategic Report geared exposure is being achieved solely through theuse of While it is believed that the likelihood of poor governance, long CFDs.
This has reduced the cost of gearing as outlined in compliance and operational administration by third party service the Chairmans Statement on page 4 and provides greater providers is low, the financial consequences, for example, of flexibility.
The Board regularly considers gearing and gearing cyber crime, could be serious, including the associated risk and sets limits accordingly.
reputational damage to the Company.
Tax and Regulatory Risks Other Risks A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could A continuation vote takes place every two years.
This takes the lead to a loss of investment trust status, resulting in the Company form of an ordinary resolution to shareholders and requires being subject to tax on capital gains.
A breach of other legal a simple majority of votes cast in favour to ensure that the and regulatory rules may lead to suspension from listing on the Company continues in existence for a further two years until the London Stock Exchange or a qualified audit report.
The Board next continuation vote is put to shareholders.
There is a risk that receives regular reports from the Manager confirming regulatory shareholders do not vote in favour of the continuation vote during compliance during the year.
periods when performance is poor.
Further details are provided in the Chairmans Statement on page 5, in relation to the next There are a number of prospective regulations which could impact continuation vote and a review of the Companys performance.
Of greatest significance is the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD.
The implementation date for BOARD DIVERSITY the Directive was July 2013 but witha transitional period whereby The Board carries out any candidate search against a set of investment trusts will not berequired to apply for AIFMD objective criteria on the basis of merit, with due regard for the authorisation until July 2014.
TheBoard has reviewed the impact of benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
As at the directive on the Companys operations and decided in 31December 2013, there were four male Directors and one principle to appoint FILInvestment Services UK Limited for no female Director on the Board.
additional fee as itsAuthorised Investment Fund Manager AIFM before the end of the transitional period on 22July 2014.
EMPLOYEE, SOCIAL, COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS FIL Investment Services UK Limited is in the process of seeking to ISSUES become a registered AIFM during the transitional period so that The Company has no employees and all of its Directors are your Company will become fully compliant by July 2014. non-executive, theCompanys day-to-day activities being carried out by third parties.
The Company has not adopted a policy on An additional requirement of the AIFMD is to appoint a human rights as it has no employees and its operational depositary on behalf of the Company which will oversee custody processes are delegated.
and cash arrangements of the Company.
To this end the Board have agreed in principle to appoint J. P. Morgan Europe Limited The Companys financial reports are printed by a company which to act as the Companys depositary.
JPMorgan Chase Bank will has won awards for its environmental awareness and further continue to act as bankers and custodians to the Company.
details of this may be found on the back cover of this report.
There will be an additional operating cost associated with this Financial reports and other publicly available documentation are new role but it is not possible at this stage to be precise about also available on the Companys website www.
the level of additional cost.
Details about Fidelitys own community involvement may be found on its website www.
Operational Risks The Company has no employees and relies on a number of third CORPORATE ENGAGEMENT party service providers, principally the Manager, Registrar and The Board believes that the Company should, where appropriate, Custodian.
The Company is dependent on the Managers control take an active interest in the affairs of the companies in which it systems and those of its Custodian and Registrar, both of which invests and that it should exercise its voting rights at their general are monitored and managed by the Manager in the context of meetings.
Unless there are any particularly controversial issues the Companys assets and interests on behalf of the Board.
which are then referred to the Board it delegates the responsibility for corporate engagement and shareholder voting The security of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, to Fidelity.
These activities are reviewed annually.
accounting records and the maintenance of regulatory and legal requirements, among other things, rely on the effective operation FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS of such systems.
The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans Statement on pages 3 to 5 and the The Manager, Registrar and Custodian are subject to a risk-based programme of internal audits by the Manager.
In addition, Managers Review on pages 6 and 7. service providers own internal controls reports are received by the Board and any concerns investigated.
By Order of the Board FIL Investments International Certain of the Companys relationships with its service providers Secretary will change as the Company implements AIFMD and in particular 10 March 2014 the Company is required to appoint a depositary.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 11
