STRATEGY Managers Review FIL Investments International Sam Morse Portfolio Manager from 1 January 2011 The Company is managed by FIL Investments International Sam is a portfolio manager with FIL Investments International based which isauthorised and regulated by the Financial Services in London.
Sam has more than 25 years investment experience.
FILInvestments International is part of the FIL Limited He also manages the Fidelity European Fund.
group which, as at 31December 2013, had total assets under management exceeding 165.3billion.
PERFORMANCE REVIEW emerging market growth for many years.
There was some As shown in the Financial Summary on page 2, the NAV concern that weakness in emerging markets might impact the pershare of the Company returned 20.0% in the year to recovery in developed markets more forcefully but a delay in 31December 2013, underperforming the FTSE World Europe tapering, which had been expected in the autumn, allayed ex UK Index, which returned 25.2%.
All performance figures investors worries in the short term.
arequoted on a total return basis and in UK sterling.
The year ended on a quiet note despite the positive MARKET BACKGROUND announcement, following the German election, of a grand 2013 turned out to be a surprisingly strong year for continental coalition between Merkels winning Christian Democratic Union European equities.
The market was held in check by renewed fears of tapering, after stronger economic data in the In a rewarding first quarter, Italian elections, which resulted in US, and by some nervousness ahead of the ECBs review of the dead-lock, and the banking system woes in Cyprus created short asset quality of Eurozone banks and subsequent stress tests.
term volatility but did little to halt a rise in share values.
The market did, however, suffer a brief mid-year correction when US Against a backdrop of improving domestic economies, cyclical bond yields started to climb in anticipation of the June tapering sectors such as financials and consumer discretionary were announcement from the Federal Reserve.
Shares resumed their re-rated strongly.
Conversely, more defensive sectors, especially long march upwards, in the second half of the year, as optimism those with emerging market or commodity exposure, such as grew that European economies were on the mend and that energy and consumer staples, delivered more modest returns.
earnings and dividend growth would follow.
Disappointingly, although share prices rose handsomely in 2013, the earnings and dividends of continental European companies Economic news improved as the year progressed with someof did not, in aggregate, grow.
This makes the scale of the returns the more indebted European countries, such as Spain and Italy, enjoyed in the year quite surprising.
finally emerging from recession in the third quarter.
Asa consequence of improved growth prospects, the cost of PORTFOLIO REVIEW government debt in these countries also started to fall rapidly.
The Companys investment strategy has not changed: your Existential threats to the Eurozone receded further as these Manager continues to focus on identifying, and investing in, countries appeared to have fiscal deficits more firmly under attractively valued companies, with sound balance sheets, which control: Greece, for instance, forecast a primary surplus.
This can deliver consistent dividend growth.
This investment strategy positive economic momentum was given a further boost, in has worked well, in terms of superior returns to the Benchmark, November, when the European Central Bank ECB, reduced its over the long term but it does not work every year.
Although your core interest rate by a quarter of a percent, to protect the Company enjoyed satisfactory absolute returns in 2013, the nascent recovery and to ward off the possibility that very low Companys NAV underperformed the Benchmark, despite the rates of inflation might turn into outright deflation.
benefits of gearing in a rising market.
Responding to better news in Europe, markets rose steadily This underperformance is largely attributable to poor stock through the second half of the year, shrugging off growing selection.
Some of the underperformance is, however, also evidence that emerging markets, such as China, Brazil and attributable to a more risk-on environment, particularly in the Turkey, were, by contrast, beginning to experience less robust second half of the year.
Companies which performed best in this prospects for growth and, in some cases, weakening currencies.
environment were often the laggards of previous years, such as This is partly on the premise that rising bond yields in the US highly-leveraged companies or companies exposed to the would result in the repatriation of liquidity that had supported domestic economies of Spain and Italy.
In many cases, these Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 6 STRATEGY Managers Review companies did not meet your Managers required criteria of The improvement in the economies of Europe is encouraging growing dividends, cash generation and a strong balance sheet.
and, going forward, fiscal austerity will be less of a drag on By contrast, companies whose earnings and dividends had growth as deficits shrink.
This recovery is, however, likely to be proved more robust in more difficult economic times started the slow and fragile, because there is little credit growth, given high year at more elevated valuation levels and, therefore, did not debt levels and a requirement, particularly in the case of banks, enjoy the same quantum of re-rating although, in many cases, to delever.
Slowing growth, currency weakness and political they delivered continued earnings and dividend growth.
instability in emerging markets may also restrain the pace of economic growth in developed economies.
The recent events in In terms of stock selection, which remains the primary the Ukraine are a case in point.
It is important to remember that determinant of your Companys performance, there were a almost athird of continental European companies revenues and number of detractors spread across different sectors.
In the profits are sourced from these emerging economies.
energy and materials sectors, in addition to Saipem and Umicore, whose travails were covered in the half-yearly report, The outlook remains balanced.
Caution is warranted, especially RoyalDutch Shell performed poorly, particularly in the second given the more positive sentiment towards European equities, half of the year, with the resignation of the Chief Executive and a pull-back is quite probable, hence the reduction in your preceding very disappointing quarterly results.
Turkiye Garanti Companys level of gearing, but many of the major risks that Bankasi, also mentioned in the half-yearly report, declined have plagued markets in recent years have, for the time being, further, particularly towards the end of the year, as the Turkish receded.
Lira weakened and as political tensions resurfaced due to a corruption probe involving some cabinet ministers relations.
FIL Investments International Thetechnology business, SAP, also performed poorly as 10 March 2014 it became apparent that the company would not meet medium-term guidance on margins due to the requirement to invest moreto address the challenge from cloud competitors.
Swedish Match, already facing increasing competition inSwedish snus, also saw a sharp slowdown in growth in its other major business, US mass-market cigars, as the competitive environment worsened.
Most of these businesses are sound businesses, whichmeet the investment criteria of your Managers strategy, so holdings have been retained, although often in reduced amounts.
Saipem was a mistake and it was sold entirelyearly onin the year.
There were some stock-picking successes, most notably in the financial sectors, with 3i Group, KBC, the Belgian bank, and Sampo, the Finnish insurance company, all delivering strong relative performances but, in general, the detractors more than off-set these more encouraging performers.
To summarise, it was a poor year for stock selection.
Mistakes have been made and lessons learned.
As the great investor, Sir John Templeton, famously remarked: The only way to avoid mistakes is not to invest which is the biggest mistake of all which was certainly true in 2013.
OUTLOOK The market has had two strong years in a row.
The Benchmark has, over that time, climbed by almost 50%.
Valuations of continental European companies have risen from a low base but are now, in aggregate, beginning to look less attractive, relative to history and relative to bonds.
Some argue that equities will remain well supported by global liquidity and a possible rotation out of bonds and cash into equities.
In your Managers opinion, the market will struggle to make much progress from here, unless the improvement in the economic environment feeds through into  earnings and dividend growth: expectations are high that this will happen, and that is, in itself, a risk.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 7
