GOVERNANCE Board of Directors 1,2 2 HUMPHREY VAN DER KLUGT ROBIN NIBLETT date of appointment as Director: 1 June 2007: date of appointment: 14 January 2010 has date of appointment as Chairman: 19 May been Director and Chief Executive of Chatham 2010 is a Chartered Accountant and was House the Royal Institute of International previously a Director of Schroder Investment Affairs since 2007.
Prior to this he worked for Management Limited.
In a 22 year career at the Center for Strategic and International Schroders, he was a member of the Group Studies in Washington, DC, becoming Investment and Asset Allocation Committees.
Executive Vice President in 2001 and also He is a Director of BlackRock Commodities Income Investment Trust plc serving as Director of its Europe Programme from 2004 to 2006.
He is and JPMorgan Claverhouse Investment Trust plc and a past Director of currently a member of the World Economic Forums Global Agenda Murray Income Trust plc.
2,3 2 JAMES ROBINSON MARION SEARS date of appointment: 1 June 2007 was date of appointment: 17 January 2013 is a Chief Investment Officer, Investment Trusts Senior Independent non-executive Director of and Director of Hedge Funds at Henderson Dunelm Group plc and is also a non-executive Global Investors prior to his retirement in 2005.
Director of Octopus AIM VCT plc and A Chartered Accountant, he has 34 years Persimmon plc.
Previously she was a investment experience and is currently Managing Director of Investment Banking at Chairman of Polar Capital Global Healthcare JPMorgan and she has served on the boards Growth and Income Trust plc, a director of Aberdeen New Thai of Boehringer Ingleheim Ltd, LGC Holdings Ltd and Prelude Trust PLC.
Investment Trust PLC, Invesco Asia Trust plc, Montanaro UK Smaller She has also held executive positions at Glaxo, UBS and Baring Brothers.
Companies Investment Trust PLC and J P Morgan Elect plc.
He is also a Council Member and Chairman of the Investment Committee of the British Heart Foundation.
SIMON FRASER date of appointment: 26 July 2002 spent 27 years at Fidelity but retired from his executive responsibilities at the end of 2008.
He started his career at Fidelity as an analyst and spent a number of years in Japan, most recently as Chief Investment Officer for the Asia Pacific region.
He returned to the UK in 1999 to take up the position of Chief Investment Officer for Fidelity International, a position he held until 2005.
He is Chairman of Foreign and Colonial Investment Trust plc and Merchants Trust plc.
He is also a director of Fidelity Japanese Values PLC, Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and Ashmore Group plc.
He was recently appointed an Honorary Vice President of the National Trust of Scotland.
1 Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee 2 Member of the Audit and Management Engagement Committees 3 Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 18
