a Board of directors As at 6 March 2014 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 Key to portraits 1 Carl-Henric Svanberg 2 Bob Dudley 3 Paul Anderson 4 Admiral Frank Bowman 5 Antony Burgmans 6 Cynthia Carroll 7 Iain Conn 8 George David 9 Ian Davis 10 Professor Dame Ann Dowling 11 Dr Brian Gilvary 12 Brendan Nelson 13 Phuthuma Nhleko 14 Andrew Shilston a The ages of the board are correct as at 31 December 2013.
60 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Corporate governance Carl-Henric Svanberg Bob Dudley Chairman Group chief executive Tenure Tenure Appointed to the board 1 September 2009 4 years Appointed to the board 6 April 2009 4 years Board and committee activities Outside interests Chairman Non-executive director of Rosneft Chairman of the chairmans committee Member of Tsinghua Management University Advisory Board, Beijing, China Chairman of the nomination committee Member of BritishAmerican Business International Advisory Board Attends the safety, ethics and environment assurance committee SEEAC Member of UAE UK CEO Forum Attends the Gulf of Mexico committee Member of Turkish British CEO Forum Attends the remuneration committee Member of Russian Geographical Society Outside interests Age Chairman of AB Volvo 58 Age Nationality 61 American Nationality Career Swedish Bob Dudley became group chief executive on 1 October 2010.
Career Bob joined Amoco Corporation in 1979, working in a variety of engineering Carl-Henric Svanberg became chairman of the BP board on 1 January and commercial posts.
Between 1994 and 1997, he worked on corporate 2010. development in Russia.
He spent his early career at Asea Brown Boveri and the Securitas Group, In 1997, he became general manager for strategy for Amoco and in 1999, before moving to the Assa Abloy Group as president and chief executive following the merger between BP and Amoco, was appointed to a similar officer.
From 2003 until 31 December 2009, when he left to join BP, he was Between 1999 and 2000, he was executive assistant to the group chief president and chief executive officer of Ericsson, also serving as the executive, subsequently becoming group vice president for BPs chairman of Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB.
He was a renewables and alternative energy activities.
In 2002, he became group non-executive director of Ericsson between 2009 and 2012. vice president responsible for BPs upstream businesses in Russia, the Caspian region, Angola, Algeria and Egypt.
He was appointed chairman and a member of the board of AB Volvo on 4 April 2012.
From 2003 to 2008, he was president and chief executive officer of TNK-BP in Moscow.
On his return to BP in 2009 he was appointed to the He is a member of the External Advisory Board of the Earth Institute at BP board and oversaw the groups activities in the Americas and Asia.
Columbia University, a member of the Advisory Board of Harvard Kennedy Between 23 June and 30 September 2010, he served as the president and School and on the Leadership Council of the United Nations Sustainable chief executive officer of BPs Gulf Coast Restoration Organization in the Development Solutions Network.
He is also the recipient of the King of US.
He was appointed a director of Rosneft in March 2013 following BPs Swedens medal for his contribution to Swedish industry.
acquisition of a stake in Rosneft.
Relevant experience and skills Relevant experience and skills Carl-Henric Svanbergs career in global business, latterly as chief executive Bob Dudley has spent his entire career in the oil and gas industry.
His officer of Ericsson, is particularly relevant to BP as has been demonstrated broad range of roles with Amoco and BP has given him substantial global during his tenure as chairman.
In leading the board, he has focused on the experience.
development of the groups strategy and its communication to shareholders.
He has also concentrated on the work of the nomination Since his appointment as group chief executive in 2010, Bob has committee in endeavouring to ensure that the board has a strong list of re-organized the operations of the group and has moved its focus to value candidates to secure its stewardship of the company.
not volume: all without any compromise on safety.
During the year he has successfully completed the disposal of the groups interest in TNK-BP and Carl-Henric Svanbergs performance during the year has been evaluated by the acquisition of a significant stake in Rosneft.
the chairmans committee, led by Antony Burgmans.
Bob Dudleys performance has been considered and evaluated by the chairmans committee.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 61 After his retirement as an Admiral in 2004, he was president and chief Paul Anderson executive officer of the Nuclear Energy Institute until 2008.
He served on the BP Independent Safety Review Panel and was a member of the BP Independent non-executive director America external advisory council.
He was appointed Honorary Knight Tenure Commander of the British Empire in 2005 by Queen Elizabeth II.
He was Appointed 1 February 2010 4 years elected to the US National Academy of Engineering in 2009.
Board and committee activities Relevant experience and skills Chairman of the SEEAC Frank Bowman has a deep knowledge of engineering coupled with Member of the chairmans committee exceptional experience in process safety arising from his time with the US Member of the nomination committee Navy and, later, the Nuclear Energy Institute.
His service on the BP Member of the Gulf of Mexico committee Independent Safety Review Panel gave him direct experience of BPs safety aims and requirements, which has been important for his work on Outside interests the SEEAC.
He has made a significant contribution to the work of the Gulf Non-executive director of BAE Systems PLC.
Age 68 Nationality Antony Burgmans American Independent non-executive director Career Tenure Paul Anderson was formerly chief executive at BHP Billiton and Duke Appointed 5 February 2004 10 years Energy, where he also served as chairman of the board.
Having previously been chief executive officer and managing director of BHP Limited and Board and committee activities then BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc, he rejoined these latter two Chairman of the remuneration committee boards in 2006 as a non-executive director, retiring on 31 January 2010.
Member of the SEEAC He also served as a non-executive director on a number of boards in the Member of the chairmans committee US and Australia and as chief executive officer of Pan Energy Corp.
Member of nomination committee Relevant experience and skills Outside interests Paul Anderson became a board member in early 2010, joining the SEEAC.
Member of the supervisory boards of Akzo Nobel N. V. AEGON N. V. and He was a member of the Gulf of Mexico committee from its formation in SHV Holdings N. V. August 2010.
He took the chair of the SEEAC in December 2012.
As chair Chairman of the supervisory board of TNT Express he has continued the committees focus on safety matters.
His broad Age experience of the global oil and gas industry and of the US business 66 environment has benefited the board, the SEEAC and the Gulf of Mexico committee.
He has actively supported the work of the BP Massachusetts Nationality Institute of Technology MIT academy.
Dutch He has led the SEEAC on several visits to the companys operations and Career has commenced a dialogue with the companys socially responsible Antony Burgmans joined Unilever in 1972, holding a succession of investors.
marketing and sales posts, including the chairmanship of PT Unilever Indonesia from 1988 until 1991.
In 1991, he was appointed to the board of Unilever, becoming business Admiral Frank Bowman group president, ice cream and frozen foods, Europe in 1994, and chairman of Unilevers Europe committee, co-ordinating its European activities.
In Independent non-executive director 1998, he became vice chairman of Unilever NV and in 1999, chairman of Tenure Unilever NV and vice chairman of Unilever PLC.
In 2005, he became Appointed 8 November 2010 3 years non-executive chairman of Unilever NV and Unilever PLC until his retirement in 2007.
During his career he has lived and worked in London, Board and committee activities Hamburg, Jakarta, Stockholm and Rotterdam.
Member of the SEEAC Member of the chairmans committee Antony Burgmans has been nominated chairman of Akzo Nobels Member of the Gulf of Mexico committee supervisory board from April 2014.
Outside interests Relevant experience and skills President of Strategic Decisions, LLC.
Antony Burgmans executive career has been in the elds of international Director of Morgan Stanley Mutual Funds production, distribution and marketing.
Over the years he has made a Director of the American Shipbuilding Suppliers Association significant contribution to the work of the board, adding insight to the areas Director of Naval and Nuclear Technologies, LLP.
of reputation, brand and culture.
His global perspective has particular value as chairman of the remuneration committee and also to his work on the Age SEEAC, on whose behalf he has made several visits to operations of the 69 group.
Nationality He led the remuneration committee in its task of preparing a formal American remuneration policy for adoption by shareholders.
In this role he has had extensive dialogue with shareholders.
He continues to provide wise Career counsel to the board and leads the evaluation of the chairman.
Frank Bowman joined the United States Navy in 1966.
During his naval service, he commanded the nuclear submarine USS City of Corpus Christi and the USS Holland.
He served as a ag officer: as the Navys chief of personnel: on the joint staff as director of Political-Military Affairs: and as a director of the naval nuclear propulsion programme in the Department of the Navy and the Department of Energy for over eight years.
He also completed two masters degrees in engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1973.
62 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Corporate governance At the end of 2000, he returned to London as group vice president and a Cynthia Carroll member of the Rening and Marketing segments executive committee, taking over responsibility in 2001 for BPs marketing operations in Europe.
Independent non-executive director In 2002 he was appointed chief executive of BP Petrochemicals.
Following Tenure his appointment to the board in 2004, he served for three years as group Appointed 6 June 2007 6 years executive officer, strategic resources, with responsibility for a number of group functions and regions.
Board and committee activities Member of the SEEAC Relevant experience and skills Member of the chairmans committee Iain Conns career has given him extensive knowledge of a broad range of Member of nomination committee BPs businesses, particularly in the Downstream, which he has led since 2007.
In this last period he has successfully remodelled BPs downstream Outside interests business.
He has deep knowledge of safety, manufacturing, energy Non-executive director of Hitachi Ltd. markets and technology.
He has continued to refocus the groups Age downstream operations whilst growing the contribution of that segment.
57 Iain Conns performance has been evaluated by the group chief executive Nationality and considered by the chairmans committee.
American Career George David Early in her career in 1989, Cynthia Carroll joined Alcan Aluminum Company of Canada and ran a packaging company, led a global bauxite, Independent non-executive director alumina and speciality chemicals business and later was president and chief executive officer of the Primary Metal Group, responsible for Tenure operations in more than 20 countries.
In 2007 she became the chief Appointed 11 February 2008 6 years executive of Anglo American plc, the global mining group, operating in Board and committee activities 45 countries with 150,000 employees, and was chairman of Anglo Member of the audit committee Platinum Limited and of fide Beers s. a.
She stepped down from these Member of the remuneration committee roles in April 2013.
Member of the Gulf of Mexico committee Relevant experience and skills Member of the chairmans committee Cynthia Carrolls leadership of global businesses, particularly in the Outside interests extractive industry sector has enabled her to make a strong contribution to Vice-Chairman of the Peterson Institute for International Economics the work of the BP board and the SEEAC.
She has been a leader in working to enhance safety performance in the mining industry, and her Age geo-political experience has been valuable during the course of the year, 71 as has her work on the nomination committee.
Nationality She recently visited BPs operations in Alaska on behalf of the SEEAC.
American Career George David began his career in The Boston Consulting Group before Iain Conn joining the Otis Elevator Company in 1975.
He held various roles in Otis and later in United Technologies Corporation UTC, following Otiss merger Chief executive, Downstream with UTC in 1976.
In 1992, he became UTCs chief operating officer.
He Tenure served as UTCs chief executive officer from 1994 until 2008 and as Appointed to the board 1 July 2004 9 years chairman from 1997 until his retirement in 2009.
Group responsibilities Relevant experience and skills Manufacturing, logistics, marketing operations of BPs fuels, George David has substantial global business and financial experience petrochemicals and lubricants businesses through his long career with UTC, a business with significant reliance on Group regional responsibility for Europe, southern Africa and Asia safety and technology.
He previously chaired BPs technology advisory BP brand and related matters council and has brought insights from that task to the board.
Outside interests He is an active member of the audit, remuneration and Gulf of Mexico Non-executive director and senior independent director of Rolls-Royce committees, bringing a strong US and global view to their deliberations.
Chairman of the advisory board of Imperial College Business School Member of the council of Imperial College Age 51 Nationality British Career Iain Conn was appointed chief executive, Downstream on 1 June 2007.
He joined BP Oil International in 1986, working in a variety of roles in oil trading, commercial rening and exploration before becoming, on the merger between BP and Amoco in 1999, vice president of BP Amoco Explorations mid-continent business unit.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 63 Jerome C Hunsaker Visiting Professor at MIT, subsequently becoming a Ian Davis Moore distinguished scholar at Caltech in 2001.
When she returned to the University of Cambridge, she became Head of the Division of Energy, Fluid Independent non-executive director Mechanics and Turbomachinery in the Department of Engineering, Tenure becoming UK lead of the Silent Aircraft Initiative in 2003 a collaboration Appointed 2 April 2010 3 years between researchers at Cambridge and MIT.
She became head of the Board and committee activities Department of Engineering at the University of Cambridge in 2009.
She was appointed director of the University Gas Turbine Partnership with Chairman of the Gulf of Mexico committee Member of the remuneration committee Rolls-Royce in 2001 and chairman in 2009.
Member of the chairmans committee Between 2003 and 2008 she chaired the Rolls-Royce Propulsion and Member of the nomination committee Power Advisory Board.
She chaired the Royal Society Royal Academy of Outside interests Engineering study on nanotechnology.
She is a Fellow of the Royal Society Chairman of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc.
and the Royal Academy of Engineering and is a foreign associate of the US Non-executive member of the UK Cabinet Ofce National Academy of Engineering and of the French Academy of Sciences.
Non-executive director of Johnson & Johnson, Inc. She has been nominated President of the Royal Academy of Engineering Senior adviser to Apax Partners LLP.
Age Relevant experience and skills 62 Dame Ann Dowling has a strong academic and engineering background.
Nationality Having initially been a member of the SEEAC, she joined the remuneration British committee in 2012.
Her contributions on both of these committees are valued, as is her work with the BP technology advisory council, which she Career also joined during 2012 and which she now chairs.
Ian Davis spent his early career at Bowater, moving to McKinsey & Company in 1979.
He was managing partner of McKinseys practice in the UK and Ireland from 1996 to 2003.
In 2003, he was appointed as chairman Dr Brian Gilvary and worldwide managing director of McKinsey, serving in this capacity until 2009.
During his career with McKinsey, he served as a consultant to a Group chief financial officer range of global organizations across the private, public and not-for-profit sectors.
He retired as senior partner on 30 July 2010.
Tenure Appointed to the board 1 January 2012 2 years Relevant experience and skills Ian Davis brings significant financial and strategic experience to the board.
Group responsibilities He has had a lengthy career working with and advising global organizations Finance, tax, planning, treasury, mergers and acquisitions, investor and companies in the oil and gas industry.
This experience has been relations, audit, procurement and information technology activities recognized by the board in his membership of the remuneration committee Chairs the group financial risk committee and chairmanship of the Gulf of Mexico committee.
Outside interests As chairman of the Gulf of Mexico committee he has led the boards Visiting professor at Manchester University oversight of the response in the Gulf and guided their consideration of the Age various legal issues which continue to arise following the Deepwater Horizon 51 accident.
Nationality British Professor Dame Ann Dowling Career Dr Brian Gilvary was appointed chief financial officer on 1 January 2012.
Independent non-executive director He joined BP in 1986 after obtaining a PhD in mathematics from the Tenure University of Manchester.
Following a variety of roles in the upstream, Appointed 3 February 2012 2 years downstream and trading in Europe and the United States, he became the Board and committee activities downstreams chief financial officer and commercial director from 2002 Member of the SEEAC to 2005.
Member of the remuneration committee He was a director of TNK-BP over two periods, from 2003 to 2005 and Member of the chairmans committee from 2010 until the sale of the business and acquisition of Rosneft equity Outside interests in 2013.
From 2005 until 2009 he was chief executive of the integrated Professor of Mechanical Engineering, head of the Department of supply and trading function, BPs commodity trading arm.
In 2010 he was Engineering and Deputy Vice-Chancellor at the University of Cambridge appointed deputy group chief financial officer with responsibility for the Chair of the Physical Sciences, Engineering and Mathematics Panel in the finance function.
Research Excellence Framework the UK Governments review of Relevant experience and skills research in universities Dr Brian Gilvary has 27 years of experience within BP, gaining a strong Non-executive director of the Department for Business, Innovation knowledge of finance and trading, and a deep understanding of BPs & Skills BIS assets and businesses, including its interests in Russia through his time on Age the board of TNK-BP.
61 Brian has consistently worked to further strengthen the finance function.
Nationality He has also developed the companys engagement with shareholders and British continues to focus on financial efficiency.
Brian Gilvarys performance has been evaluated by the group chief Career executive and considered by the chairmans committee.
Dame Ann Dowling was appointed a Professor of Mechanical Engineering in the Department of Engineering at the University of Cambridge in 1993 the Department of Engineering is one of the leading centres for engineering research worldwide.
Between 1999 and 2000 she was the 64 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Corporate governance He stepped down as group chief executive of MTN Group at the end of Brendan Nelson March 2011.
He was formerly a director of a number of listed South African companies, including Johnnic Holdings formerly a subsidiary of the Anglo Independent non-executive director American group of companies, Nedbank Group, Bidvest Group and Tenure Alexander Forbes.
Appointed 8 November 2010 3 years Relevant experience and skills Board and committee activities Phuthuma Nhlekos background in engineering and his broad experience as Chairman of the audit committee a chief executive of a multi-national company enables him to contribute to Member of the nomination committee the board, particularly in the areas of emerging market economies and the Member of the chairmans committee evolution of the groups strategy.
His financial and commercial experience is particularly relevant to his work on the audit committee.
Outside interests Non-executive director and chairman of the group audit committee of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc.
President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland Andrew Shilston Member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel Independent non-executive director Age 64 Tenure Appointed 1 January 2012 2 years Nationality British Board and committee activities Senior independent director Career Member of the audit committee Brendan Nelson is a chartered accountant.
He was made a partner of Member of the chairmans committee KPMG in 1984.
He served as a member of the UK board of KPMG from Attends the nomination committee 2000 to 2006, subsequently being appointed vice chairman until his Outside interests retirement in 2010.
At KPMG International he held a number of senior Non-executive director of Circle Holdings plc.
positions including global chairman, banking and global chairman, financial Chairman of Morgan Advanced Materials plc.
Age He served six years as a member of the Financial Services Practitioner 58 Panel.
Nationality Relevant experience and skills British Brendan Nelson has had a long career in finance and auditing, particularly in the areas of financial services and trading which qualies him to chair Career the audit committee and to act as its financial expert.
Andrew Shilston trained as a chartered accountant before joining BP as a This is complemented by his broader business experience and his role as management accountant.
He subsequently joined Abbott Laboratories the chair of the audit committee of a major bank.
During the year he has before moving to Enterprise Oil plc in 1984 at the time of otation.
In 1989 led the audit committee in meeting the many challenges from increased he became treasurer of Enterprise Oil and was appointed finance director changes to regulation.
After the sale of Enterprise Oil to Shell in 2002, in 2003 he became finance director of Rolls-Royce plc until his retirement on 31 December 2011.
Phuthuma Nhleko He has served as a non-executive director on the board of Cairn Energy plc where he chaired the audit committee.
Independent non-executive director Relevant experience and skills Tenure Andrew Shilston has had a long career in finance within the oil and gas Appointed 1 February 2011 3 years industry.
His knowledge and experience as a chief financial officer, rstly in Enterprise Oil and then Rolls-Royce, and as audit committee chairman at Board and committee activities Cairn Energy makes him well suited as a member of BPs audit committee.
Member of the audit committee Member of the chairmans committee His experience of the oil and gas industry has been important in assisting the board in their evaluation of projects and capital expenditure.
As senior Outside interests independent director he has attended meetings of the nomination Non-executive director of Anglo American plc committee.
Non-executive director and chairman of MTN Group Ltd. Age 53 Nationality South African Career Phuthuma Nhleko began his career as a civil engineer in the US and as a project manager for infrastructure developments in southern Africa.
Following this he became a senior executive of the Standard Corporate and Merchant Bank in South Africa.
He later held a succession of directorships before joining MTN Group, a pan-African and Middle Eastern telephony group represented in 21 countries, as group president and chief executive officer in 2002.
During his tenure at the MTN Group he led a number of substantial mergers and acquisitions transactions.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 65
