Strategic report Our strategy Our goal is to be a focused oil and gas company that delivers value over volume.
We are pursuing our strategy by setting clear Our portfolio of projects and operations is Financial discipline priorities, actively managing a quality portfolio focused where we can generate the most value, and employing our distinctive capabilities.
Our and not necessarily the most volume, through $ financial objective is to create shareholder value our production.
by generating sustainable free cash ow Distinctive capabilities operating cash ow less net investment.
This Our ability to deliver against our priorities and disciplined approach enables us to invest for the build the right portfolio depends on our future while aiming to increase distributions to distinctive capabilities.
We apply advanced our investors.
technology across the hydrocarbon value chain, Clear priorities from nding resources to developing energyFirst, we aim to run safe, reliable and compliant efficient and high-performance products for operations leading to better operational customers.
We rely on our strong relationships efficiency and safety performance.
We also aim with governments, partners, civil society and Free cash ow to achieve competitive project execution, which others to enable our operations in around 80 is about delivering projects efficiently so they are countries across the globe.
And, the proven Not to scale Time on time and on budget.
And we aim to make expertise of our employees comes to the fore This chart illustrates the expected relationship disciplined financial choices, so we can achieve in a wide range of disciplines.
a b continued growth in operating cash from our between operating cash ow, net investment includes capital expenditure offset by any underlying businesses and disciplined allocation c of capital.
divestments and free cash ow.
It is not a projection of future performance.
Quality portfolio t Operating cash ow we aim to continue We undertake active portfolio management to growing our operating cash ow, with an concentrate on areas where we can play to our expected delivery of $30 billion to $31 strengths.
This means we continue to grow our d billion in 2014. exploration position, reloading our upstream t Capital expenditure we expect our pipeline.
We focus on high-value upstream e annual capital expenditure to remain assets in deepwater, giant elds and selected between $24 billion and $25 billion in 2014 Our strategy in action gas value chains.
And, with our downstream and to be in the range of $24 billion to businesses, we plan to leverage our newly See page 14 for more information $26 billion in the years 2015 to 2018. on how we are going to measure our upgraded assets, customer relationships and technology to grow free cash ow.
t Divestments we intend to divest $10 billion of assets before the end of 2015. t Free cash ow delivering sustainable free cash ow underpins our ability to deliver 10-point plan 2011-2014 increasing shareholder returns.
In 2011 we laid out a 10-point plan designed to stabilize the company and restore trust and value in response to the tragic Deepwater Horizon accident.
Our priority was to make BP a safer, more risk-aware business.
The plan included a series of milestones by which our progress could be tracked, from 2012 through to 2014.
Information on our progress during 2013 can be found in Group performance on page 22.
1 A relentless focus on safety and managing 6 Active portfolio management to continue risk through the systematic application of by completing $38 billion of disposals over global standards.
the four years to the end of 2013, in order to focus on our strengths.
2 We will play to our strengths in exploration, deep water, giant elds and gas value chains.
7 We expect to bring new upstream projects f 3 Stronger and more focused with an asset onstream with unit operating cash margins g base that is high graded and higher around double the 2011 average by 2014. performing.
8 We are aiming to generate an increase a See footnote a on page 56.
4 Simpler and more standardized with fewer of around 50% in net cash provided by b Equivalent to net cash used in investing activities.
assets and operations in fewer countries: operating activities by 2014 compared c See footnote c on page 56. h more streamlined internal reward and with 2011. d See footnote h on page 24. e performance management processes.
Excludes acquisitions and asset exchanges.
9 We intend to use half our incremental f Unit cash margin is net cash provided by operating activities by 5 Improved transparency through reporting operating cash for reinvestment, half for the relevant projects in our Upstream segment, divided by the total number of barrels of oil equivalent produced for the relevant TNK-BP as a separate segment and breaking other purposes.
out the numbers for the three downstream g 10 Strong balance sheet with intention to Assuming a constant oil price of $100 per barrel.
i h See footnote b on page 56. target our level of gearing in the lower i See footnote d on page 56. half of the 10-20% range over time.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 13 Net investment Operating cash ow
