approximately $698 million, including 10 projects that are already in place or under way.
Gulf of Mexico oil spill Projects announced in 2013 include ecological projects that will restore habitat and resources, as well as projects that enhance recreational use of natural resources.
These projects will proceed through a further We remain committed to meeting our regulatory review and public comment process.
Once that process is complete, BP and the trustees will seek to proceed with approved projects.
responsibilities to the US federal, state and local BP will provide project funding in exchange for restoration credit to be governments and communities of the Gulf Coast applied to the final assessment of natural resource damages.
following the Deepwater Horizon accident.
Gulf of Mexico Research Initiative In May 2010 BP committed $500 million over 10 years to fund independent scientific research through the Gulf of Mexico Research Analysis of cumulative charges to the income statement Initiative.
The goal of the research initiative is to improve societys ability to $ billion understand, respond to and mitigate the potential impacts of oil spills to a Spill response Environmental Litigation and claims Clean Water Act marine and coastal ecosystems.
As at 31 December 2013, the aggregate penalties Other fines Functional costs Headroom remaining contribution by BP was $169 million.
The continued fullment of this commitment is one of the conditions of the US government criminal plea agreement see below.
Economic recovery BP continued to support economic recovery efforts in local communities through a variety of actions and programmes in 2013.
By 31 December 2013, BP had spent $12.8 billion on economic recovery, including claims, advances, settlements and other payments, such as state tourism grants and funding for state-led seafood testing and marketing.
BP has 0152 0 150 25 30 35 40 45 committed $2.3 billion to help resolve economic loss claims related to the a The litigation and claims cost is net of recoveries of $5.7 billion.
Gulf of Mexico seafood industry, of which $1.2 billion has been paid in to the seafood compensation fund but has not yet been distributed to final claimants.
We have made significant progress in completing the response to the accident and supporting economic and environmental recovery efforts in Plaintiffs Steering Committee settlements affected areas.
BP reached settlements in 2012 with the Plaintiffs Steering Committee PSC to resolve the substantial majority of legitimate individual and Completing the response business claims and medical claims stemming from the accident and oil BP, working under the direction of the US Coast Guards Federal On-Scene spill.
The PSC acts on behalf of individual and business plaintiffs in the Coordinator, continued to complete the Deepwater Horizon operational multi-district litigation proceedings in New Orleans see Legal update response activities.
By the end of 2013, operational activity continued on below.
During 2013, amounts paid out under the PSC settlements totalled just 37 of the approximately 4,400 shoreline miles in the area of response.
These 37 shoreline miles were all in Louisiana and were subject to As part of its monitoring of payments made by the court-supervised patrolling and maintenance, final monitoring or inspection, or were pending settlement programme for the economic and property damages final Coast Guard approval at the end of 2013.
The US Coast Guard ended settlement, BP identied and disputed multiple business economic loss active clean-up in Mississippi, Alabama and Florida in June 2013. claim determinations that appeared to result from an incorrect The US Coast Guard has indicated that if oil is later discovered in a interpretation of the economic and property damages settlement shoreline segment where removal actions have been deemed complete, agreement by the claims administrator.
See further details under Legal they will follow long-standing response protocols established under the update below.
BP has also raised issues about misconduct and inefficiency law and contact whoever it believes is the responsible party or parties.
in the facility administering the settlement.
Environmental restoration The medical benets class action settlement provides for claims to be paid to qualifying class members from the agreements effective date.
BP is responsible for the reasonable and necessary costs of assessing Following the resolution of all appeals relating to this settlement, the potential injury to natural resources resulting from the oil spill as well as the agreements effective date was 12 February 2014.
The deadline for reasonable and necessary costs of restoration as dened under the Oil submitting claims under the settlement is one year from the effective date.
In 2013 activity was focused on natural resource damage assessment but some early restoration work has also begun.
OPA claims programme There is a separate BP claims programme which handles claims under the Natural resource damage assessment Oil Pollution Act of 1990 OPA by individuals and businesses who are not Scientists from BP, government agencies, academia and other covered by the PSC economic and property damages settlement, who organizations are studying a range of species and habitats to understand have opted out of the settlement or who are pursuing claims separately, as how wildlife populations and the environment may have been affected by permitted by the terms of the settlement.
During 2013, amounts paid out the accident and oil spill.
Since May 2010, more than 240 initial and in relation to the OPA claims programme totalled $31 million.
amended work plans have been developed by state and federal trustees and BP to study resources and habitat.
The study data will inform an State and local claims assessment of injury to natural resources in the Gulf of Mexico and the Several states and local government entities have presented claims for development of a restoration plan to address the identied injuries.
By the alleged losses, including economic and property damage, under OPA.
end of 2013, BP had paid approximately $1 billion to support the BP has provided for the current best estimate of the amount required to assessment process.
BP considers most of these claims to be unsubstantiated and the methodologies used to calculate them to be Early restoration projects seriously awed, not supported by OPA, not supported by documentation While the injury assessment is still ongoing, restoration work has begun.
In and to be substantially overstated.
A total of $89 million was paid in relation April 2011 BP committed to provide up to $1 billion in early restoration to state and local claims in 2013. funding to expedite recovery of natural resources injured as a result of the Deepwater Horizon accident and oil spill.
BP and the trustees, as at For further information on the PSC settlements and state and local claims, December 2013, had reached agreement or agreement in principle on a see Legal proceedings on page 257, Financial Statements Note 2 and total of 54 early restoration projects that are expected to cost bp.
38 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Strategic report In a subsequent trial phase, for which no trial date has yet been set, the Legal update district court will consider the statutory per-barrel penalty rate to be applied BP is subject to a number of different legal proceedings in connection with in determining penalties under the Clean Water Act.
There is significant the Deepwater Horizon incident.
These include the legal proceedings uncertainty about the amount of Clean Water Act penalties to be paid, and relating to the PSC settlements: the multi-district litigation proceedings in the timing of payment, as these will depend on the nding as to negligence New Orleans: a range of civil lawsuits, including claims brought by states or gross negligence, the volume of oil spilled and the application of and local government entities: other civil claims by individuals and statutory penalty factors.
The district court has wide discretion in its businesses: and the multi-district litigation proceedings in Houston in determination as to whether a defendants conduct involved negligence or relation to alleged violations of securities legislation.
In 2012, BP reached a gross negligence as well as in its determinations on the volume of oil settlement with the US Department of Justice relating to all federal spilled and the application of statutory penalty factors.
criminal charges and a settlement with the SEC resolving certain civil claims.
Certain BP entities have been subject to suspension and Civil claims debarment by the US Environmental Protection Agency EPA.
BP p. l. c. BP Exploration & Production Inc. BPXP the BP group company that conducts exploration and production operations in the Gulf of Mexico PSC settlements and various other BP entities have been among the companies named as There have been various rulings from the district court and the US Court of defendants in approximately 2,950 civil lawsuits resulting from the accident Appeals for the Fifth Circuit Fifth Circuit on matters relating to interpretation and oil spill, including the claims by several states and local government of the PSC economic and property damages settlement agreement, entities referred to above.
The majority of these lawsuits assert claims including the meaning of the causation requirements of the agreement.
under OPA, as well as various other claims, including for economic loss In 2013 a panel of the Fifth Circuit the business economic loss panel set and real property damage, and claims under maritime law and state law.
aside the claims administrators interpretation of the business economic These lawsuits seek various remedies including economic and loss framework of the settlement agreement and instructed the district compensatory damages, punitive damages, removal costs and natural court in New Orleans to undertake additional proceedings to determine the resource damages.
Many of the lawsuits assert claims excluded from the correct interpretation of the agreement.
In December 2013, the district PSC settlements, such as claims for recovery for losses allegedly resulting court ruled that, for the purposes of determining business economic loss from the 2010 federal deepwater drilling moratoria and the related claims, revenues must be matched with expenses incurred by claimants in permitting process.
Many of these lawsuits have been consolidated with conducting their business even where the revenues and expenses were the multi-district litigation proceedings in New Orleans.
The district court assigned the development of Multi-district litigation proceedings in Houston more detailed matching requirements to the claims administrator.
The The MDL 2185 proceedings pending in federal court in Houston, including claims administrator has issued a draft policy addressing the matching of a purported class action on behalf of purchasers of American Depository revenue and expenses for business economic loss claims.
The parties Shares under US federal securities law, are continuing.
A jury trial is have made written submissions on the draft policy and the claims scheduled to begin in October 2014. administrator will issue a final policy to which BP and the PSC have the right to object and seek review by the district court.
SEC settlement In connection with the 2012 settlement with the SEC resolving the SECs The district court also ruled that the settlement agreement did not contain Deepwater Horizon-related civil claims, as of 31 December 2013, BP had a causation requirement beyond the revenue and related tests set out in an completed its first two payments totalling $350 million.
A final $175 million exhibit to that agreement.
BP appealed the district courts ruling on payment, plus accrued interest, is scheduled for 2014. causation to the business economic loss panel, but the panel afrmed the district courts ruling on 3 March 2014.
BP is considering its appeal options, US government criminal plea agreement including a potential petition that all the active judges of the Fifth Circuit Under the terms of the criminal plea agreement reached with the US review the 3 March decision.
The temporary injunction on business government in 2012 to resolve all federal criminal claims arising out of the economic loss claims offers and payments will be lifted when the case is Deepwater Horizon incident, BP is taking additional actions, enforceable by transferred back to the district court: the timing of this would be affected the court, to further enhance the safety of drilling operations in the Gulf of by the status of any such petition by BP.
The first annual update on BPs compliance with the plea agreement is expected to be available by 31 March 2014 and to be A separate but related appeal was brought by objectors to the economic published at .
and property damages settlement challenging the overall fairness and lawfulness of the agreement.
This appeal was heard by a different panel of The plea agreement also provides for the US government to appoint two the Fifth Circuit, which, in January 2014, upheld the district courts independent monitors a process safety monitor and an ethics monitor approval of the settlement agreement and left to the business economic as well as an independent third-party auditor.
The process safety monitor loss panel the question of how to interpret the agreement, including the has been retained, for a period of up to four years from February 2014, and meaning of the agreements causation requirements.
BP and several of the will review and provide recommendations concerning BPXPs process objectors have led petitions requesting that all the active judges of the safety and risk management procedures for deepwater drilling in the Gulf Fifth Circuit review the decision to uphold the approval of the settlement.
The ethics monitor has been retained, for a term of up to four years from 2013, and will review and provide recommendations concerning BP has led a lawsuit alleging that it relied on fraudulent representations by BPs ethics and compliance programme.
The third-party auditor has also a former PSC lawyer when negotiating aspects of the PSC settlement been retained and will review and report to the probation officer, the US relating to the $2.3-billion seafood compensation fund.
The district court government and BP on BPXPs compliance with the plea agreements granted the lawyers motion to stay this lawsuit, pending developments in implementation plan.
the governments criminal investigation and possible indictment.
The district court also denied BPs motion requesting that further payments US Environmental Protection Agency EPA suspension and from the seafood compensation fund be suspended on the basis that no debarment further payment from the fund is imminent.
The district court deferred In November 2012, the EPA suspended BP p. l. c. BPXP and other BP ruling on a motion by BP seeking to determine the extent of the fraud and companies from receiving new federal contracts or renewing existing what portion, if any, of the seafood fund should be returned as a result.
In 2013, the EPA debarred the Houston headquarters of BPXP, thus effectively preventing it from entering into new contracts or leases with the Multi-district litigation proceedings in New Orleans US government.
In November 2013, the EPA continued the suspensions of The multi-district litigation trial relating to liability, limitation, exoneration the previously suspended companies, suspended two new BP entities and and fault allocation MDL 2179 began in the federal district court in New proposed discretionary debarment of all suspended BP entities.
BP is Orleans in February 2013.
The first phase of the trial focused on the causes challenging the EPAs suspension and debarment decisions.
Neither the of the accident and the allocation of fault among the defendants.
The suspensions nor the proposed debarments affect existing contracts BP second phase focused on efforts to stop the ow of oil and the volume of has with the US government, including those relating to current and oil spilled.
BP is not aware of the timing of the district courts rulings in ongoing drilling and production operations in the Gulf of Mexico.
BP respect of these first two phases of the trial and the court could issue its decision at any time.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 39 continues to work with the EPA in preparing an administrative agreement As at 31 December 2013, the cumulative charges to the Trust amounted to to resolve these suspension and debarment issues.
Thus, a further $0.7 billion could be charged in subsequent periods for items covered by the Trust with no net impact on the income For further information on these matters, see Risk factors on page 51 and statement.
Additional liabilities in excess of this amount would be Legal proceedings on page 257. expensed to the income statement.
See Legal proceedings on page 257 Financial update and Financial statements Note 2 for more information.
The group income statement for 2013 includes a pre-tax charge of $469 Amounts payable from the Trust fund $ billion million in relation to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
The charge for the year reects adjustments to provisions and the ongoing costs of the Gulf Coast 3 1 Restoration Organization.
As at 31 December 2013, the total cumulative 1.
Litigation and claims 2 and certain related costs 16.9 charges recognized to date amount to $42.7 billion.
Environmental 2.4 spill response costs, environmental expenditure, litigation and claims and 3.
Headroom 0.7 Clean Water Act penalties that can be measured reliably.
At 31 December 2013, provisions related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill amounted to $9.3 billion 2012 $15.2 billion.
The cumulative income statement charge does not include amounts for obligations that BP considers are not possible, at this time, to measure reliably.
Nothing is currently provided for natural resource damages, except for $1 billion for early restoration projects and no provision has Clean Water Act penalties been made for amounts arising from MDL 2185 securities class action.
BP has recognized a provision of $3.5 billion for the estimated civil In addition, management believes that no reliable estimate can be made penalties for strict liability under the Clean Water Act, which are based on a of any business economic loss claims not yet received, processed and specified range per barrel of oil released.
The penalty rate per barrel used paid.
This is because of the significant uncertainties which exist currently, to calculate this provision is based upon BPs conclusion, among other as noted in the Plaintiffs Steering Committee section above see also things, that it did not act with gross negligence or engage in wilful Financial statements Note 2.
The additional amounts payable for these misconduct.
and other items such as state and local claims could be considerable.
If BP is found to have been grossly negligent, the penalty is likely to be The total amounts that will ultimately be paid by BP in relation to all the signicantly higher than the amount currently provided.
See further details obligations relating to the accident and oil spill are subject to significant under Multi-district litigation proceedings in New Orleans above and in uncertainty.
The ultimate exposure and cost to BP will be dependent on Financial statements Note 2. many factors, including any new information or future developments.
These could have a material impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash ows.
The risks associated with the accident and oil spill could also heighten the impact of the other risks to which the group is exposed.
For details regarding the impacts and uncertainties relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, see Risk factors on page 51 and Financial statements Note 2.
Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust update BP, in agreement with the US government, set up the $20-billion Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust the Trust to provide confidence that funds would be available to satisfy individual and business claims, final judgments in litigation and litigation settlements, state and local response costs and claims, and natural resource damages and related costs.
The Trust was fully funded by the end of 2012.
Payments made out of the Trust during 2013 totalled $3.1 billion for individual and business claims, medical settlement programme payments, natural resource damage assessment and early restoration, state and local government claims, costs of the court supervised settlement progamme and other resolved items.
As at 31 December 2013, the aggregate cash balances in the Trust and the associated qualied settlement funds amounted to $6.7 billion, including $1.2 billion remaining in the seafood compensation fund, which is yet to be distributed, and $0.9 billion held for natural resource damage early restoration projects.
40 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
