Our business model We aim to create shareholder value across the hydrocarbon value chain.
A rising global population and increasing levels of Our approach spans everything from exploration Toledo renery in Ohio has been in constant prosperity are set to create growing demand for to marketing.
Integration across the group allows operation since 1919.
The facility has the capacity energy for years to come.
We can help to meet us to share functional excellence more efficiently to process up to 160,000 barrels of crude per day.
that demand by producing oil and gas safely and across areas such as safety and operational risk, reliably.
environmental and social practices, procurement, The redevelopment project at Valhall was technology and treasury management.
We believe that the best way to achieve one of BPs most complex eld expansion sustainable success as a group is to act in the A relentless focus on safety remains the top developments and gives the eld a further long-term interests of our shareholders, our priority for everyone at BP.
We aim to create value for management of risk helps to protect the people our investors and benets for the communities at the front line, the places in which we operate and societies in which we operate, with the and the value we create.
We understand that responsible supply of energy playing a vital role operating in politically complex regions and in economic development.
technically demanding geographies requires particular sensitivity to local environments.
Every stage of the hydrocarbon value chain offers opportunities for us to create value both through the successful execution of activities that are core to our industry, and through the application of our own distinctive strengths and Our businesses capabilities in performing those activities.
In For more information on our upstream, renewable energy our focus is on integrating downstream and alternative energy biofuels into the hydrocarbon value chain, and businesses, see pages 25, 31 and 37 on wind operations in the US.
Our business model Finding oil Developing and Transporting Manufacturing and and gas extracting and trading marketing First, we acquire the rights to When we nd hydrocarbon resources, We move oil and gas through Using our technology and expertise, explore for oil and gas.
Through we create value by seeking to pipelines and by ship, truck and train.
we manufacture fuels and products, our exploration activities we are progress them into proved reserves Using our trading and supply skills creating value by seeking to operate able to renew our portfolio, or by divesting if they do not t with and knowledge, we buy and sell at a high-quality portfolio of welldiscover new resources and our strategy.
If we believe developing each stage in the value chain.
Our located assets safely, reliably and replenish our development and producing the reserves will be presence across major trading hubs efficiently.
We market our products options.
advantageous for BP, we produce gives us a good understanding of to consumers and other end-users the oil and gas, then sell it to the regional and international markets and add value through the strength market or distribute it to our and allows us to create value of our brands.
Our illustrated business model see page 2.
12 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
