Our distinctive capabilities Advanced technology We use technology to nd and produce more We focus our downstream technology hydrocarbons, improve our processes for programmes on the safety, integrity and converting raw materials and develop lowerperformance of our reneries and petrochemical 3 carbon products.
plants and on creating high quality, energy efficient, 1 cleaner fuels, lubricants and petrochemicals.
The development of technology from research and development through to wide-scale BP employs more than 2,000 scientists and deployment can take several years.
to reach the next generation of deepwater oil Our long-term research programmes with reserves, where rock pressures can reach 20,000 universities and research institutions around the pounds per square inch, we are developing new world are exploring areas from reservoir uid subsea technologies through our Project 20K.
We have a strategic Technology programmes in our upstream approach to university relationships across our business include advanced seismic imaging to portfolio for the purposes of research, help us nd more oil and gas and enhanced oil recruitment, policy insights and education.
recovery to get more from existing elds.
New In 2013 we invested $707 million in research and techniques are making recovery of 2 development 2012 $674 million.
See Financial unconventional oil and gas, like shale, statements Note 8.
1 4 2 Enhanced oil recovery EOR Seismic imaging We use our imaging expertise to increase the Our LoSal EOR technology can help develop productivity and quality of the data we capture previously unexploited resources from existing on land and offshore.
LoSal uses water with a low salt offshore oil and gas reserves thought to be content to release more molecules of oil from under salt canopies up to 7 kilometres high, our the sandstone rock where they are held.
new supercomputer in Houston helps to reduce the completion times for imaging jobs from several months to a matter of days.
3 5 Production optimization Shipping efficiency Our Field of the Future technologies provide Our virtual arrival system can reduce fuel real-time information to help manage operational consumption and emissions by allowing vessels, risk, improve plant equipment reliability and ports and other parties to work together and The Pangbourne technology centre is home to optimize production.
We use these technologies agree an optimum arrival time for each vessel.
chemists and liquid engineers dedicated to to monitor more than 600 wells.
providing products and services for Castrols customers.
Proven expertise Internal promotion Group leaders Graduate intake Our employees enable BP to deliver our strategy We promoted 4,979 We have more than 500 We hired 814 graduates, and meet our commitments to investors, partners employees including group leaders with an including 44% recruited and the wider world.
645 group and senior average of 20 years from outside the UK level leaders.
Our people are talented in a wide range of disciplines, from geoscience, mechanical engineering and research technology to government affairs, trading, marketing, legal and others.
And our approach to professional development programmes and training Developing the talent pipeline helps build individual capabilities, reducing a potential skills gap.
This is vital in a world where oil and gas companies face an increasing challenge to nd and retain skilled and experienced people.
External hires LinkedIn ranked BP thirteenth We hired 8,854 people most sought after company We aim to achieve a balance between building including 211 group and to work for in the world see internal expertise and recruiting external senior level leaders.
We have a strong, experienced leadership team and a pipeline of talent for the future.
16 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Strategic report s p i h s n o i t a 56 7 8 9 10 6 8 10 Improved conversion Fuels and lubricants Biofuels Our Veba Combi-Cracking technology converts We focus on providing energy-efficient and Conversion technology allows us to a wide variety of raw materials, ranging from high-performance products to customers.
produce cellulosic ethanol using alternative crude oil residue to mixtures of coal and oil, into Castrol EDGE, which is underpinned by our raw materials such as agricultural waste fuels.
Using this technology we can convert proprietary Fluid Strength Technology, reduces and fast-growing energy grasses.
At our 95% or more of our hydrocarbon resources to contact between engine surfaces to improve biofuels technology centre in San Diego marketable products.
performance and reduce wear from friction.
around 120 scientists are researching and advancing new biofuels technologies.
7 9 Corrosion prevention Petrochemicals Wireless Permasense systems, developed in Our SaaBre technology converts synthesis gas collaboration with Imperial College, London, are carbon monoxide and hydrogen derived from used across all our reneries to monitor the hydrocarbons into acetic acid.
The process integrity of critical oil and gas assets.
avoids the need to purify carbon monoxide or purchase methanol, reducing manufacturing costs and environmental impacts.
Strong relationships Our relationships are crucial to the success contractors.
Our activity creates value that National of our business.
We work closely with benets governments, customers, local Universities and research and international governments, national oil companies and other communities and other partners.
oil companies institutions resource holders.
By acting responsibly and Internally we put together collaborative teams meeting our obligations we build long-lasting of people with the skills and experience relationships.
Governments Banks and needed to address complex issues, work and providers of From experience we know that trust can be lost, effectively with our partners and help regulators finance so we place enormous importance on meeting create shared value.
We work in partnership BP on big and complex projects with everyone from other oil companies through to suppliers and Industry Customers bodies Suppliers, partners and Communities contractors BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 17 l e r l a n r e t n I
