Our strategy in action Safe, reliable and compliant operations Safe, reliable and compliant operations Disciplined financial choices Clear priorities Competitive Disciplined Competitive project project financial execution execution choices fide Del li iv five er rin ing e g en ner erg gy y t to o the w the wo or rld ld Grow our exploration position Grow our Focus on exploration high-value position upstream assets Focus on high-value upstream assets Quality portfolio Build high-quality downstream Build high-quality businesses downstream businesses Advanced technology Our ability to deliver Distinctive capabilities against our priorities and build the right a See footnote d on page 56. portfolio depends on our b On a combined basis of subsidiaries and equityProven Strong accounted entities, excluding the impact of acquisitions distinctive capabilities.
Includes BPs share of TNK-BPs production and reserves additions from 1 January 2013 to 20 March 2013, and BPs share of Rosneft production See page 16. and reserves additions from 21 March 2013 to 31 December 2013. c Combined production of subsidiaries and equityaccounted entities.
14 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Strategic report How we deliver Our KPIs Strategy in action in 2013 We prioritize the safety and reliability of our Recordable injury A commitment to operations to protect the welfare of our frequency, loss of primary safe operations 31 workforce and the environment.
This also helps containment, greenhouse Toledo renery sets fewer reported losses preserve value and secure our right to operate gas emissions, tier 1 a safety record.
of primary containment around the world.
We rigorously screen our investments and we work Operating cash ow, Maximizing value a to keep our annual capital expenditure within a set gearing, total shareholder at Mad Dog $21.1bn range.
Ongoing management of our portfolio helps return, replacement Changing plans to make operating cash ow.
ensure focus on more value-driven propositions.
cost profit loss per the best financial choices.
We balance funds between shareholder ordinary share.
See page 29. distributions and investment for the future.
We seek efficient ways to deliver projects on Major project delivery.
Increasing oil production time and on budget, from planning through to in Azerbaijan 4 day-to-day operations.
Our wide-ranging project Local construction of BPs major project start-ups experience makes us a valued partner and heaviest platform in the in Upstream and enhances our ability to compete.
We target basins and prospects with the Reserves Discovering gas in India % b greatest potential to create value, using our replacement ratio.
Two significant discoveries 129 leading subsurface capabilities.
This allows with Reliance Industries.
reserves us to build a strong pipeline of future See page 30. replacement ratio.
c Preparing for Shah Deniz We are strengthening our portfolio of high Production.
Stage 2 return and longer life assets across deep 3.2 Largest gas sales contracts water, giant elds and gas value chains to million barrels of oil in Azerbaijans history.
provide BP with momentum for decades equivalent per day.
We benefit from our high-performing fuels, Rening availability.
Creating our North American % lubricants, petrochemicals and biofuels advantaged refinery 95.3 businesses.
Through premium products, Modernization project rening availability.
powerful brands and supply and trading, improves utilization and Downstream provides strong cash margin capture at Whiting.
Cr Creating shar eating shareh eholder v older va alu lue b e by y ge gen ne er ra at ting ing s sustainabl ustainable f e fr re ee e c cash ash o ow w Advanced technology Strong relationships Proven expertise We develop and deploy technologies We form enduring partnerships in the We attract and develop the talented people we expect to make the greatest impact on countries in which we operate, building strong required to drive our business forward.
our businesses from enhancing the safety relationships with governments, customers, They apply their diverse skills and expertise and reliability of our operations to creating partners such as Rosneft, suppliers and to deliver complex projects across all areas competitive advantage in energy discovery, communities to create mutual advantage.
Co-operation helps unlock resources found in challenging locations and transforms them into products for our customers.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 15
