Under the policy, pre-approval is given for specic services within the Objects and purposes following categories: advice on accounting, auditing and financial reporting BP is incorporated under the name BP p. l. c. and is registered in England matters: internal accounting and risk management control reviews and Wales with the registered number 102498.
The provisions regulating excluding any services relating to information systems design and the operations of the company, known as its objects, were historically implementation : non-statutory audit: project assurance and advice on stated in a companys memorandum.
The Act abolished the need to have business and accounting process improvement excluding any services object provisions and so at the AGM held on 15 April 2010 shareholders relating to information systems design and implementation relating to BPs approved the removal of its objects clause together with all other financial statements or accounting records : due diligence in connection provisions of its Memorandum that, by virtue of the Act, are treated as with acquisitions, disposals and joint arrangements excluding valuation or forming part of the companys Articles of Association.
involvement in prospective financial information : income tax and indirect tax compliance and advisory services: employee tax services excluding Directors tax services that could impair independence : provision of, or access to, Ernst & Young publications, workshops, seminars and other training The business and affairs of BP shall be managed by the directors.
The materials: provision of reports from data gathered on non-financial policies companys Articles of Association provide that directors may be appointed and information: and assistance with understanding non-financial by the existing directors or by the shareholders in a general meeting.
BP operates a two-tier system for audit and person appointed by the directors will hold ofce only until the next general non-audit services.
For audit related services, the audit committee has a meeting and will then be eligible for re-election by the shareholders.
pre-approved aggregate level, within which specic work may be approved A director may be removed by BP as provided for by applicable law and by management.
Non-audit services, including tax services, are preshall vacate ofce in certain circumstances as set out in the Articles of approved for management to authorize per individual engagement, but Association.
There is no requirement for a director to retire on reaching above a dened level must be approved by the chairman of the audit any age.
committee or the full committee.
The audit committee has delegated to The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a director voting the chairman of the audit committee authority to approve permitted in respect of any contract or arrangement in which the director has a services provided that the chairman reports any decisions to the material interest other than by virtue of such directors interest in shares in committee at its next scheduled meeting.
Any proposed service not the company.
However, in the absence of some other material interest not included in the approved service list must be approved in advance by the indicated below, a director is entitled to vote and to be counted in a quorum audit committee chairman and reported to the committee, or approved by for the purpose of any vote relating to a resolution concerning the following the full audit committee in advance of commencement of the matters: engagement.
t The giving of security or indemnity with respect to any money lent or The audit committee evaluates the performance of the auditors each year.
obligation taken by the director at the request or benefit of the company The audit fees payable to Ernst & Young are reviewed by the committee in or any of its subsidiaries.
the context of other global companies for cost effectiveness.
The committee keeps under review the scope and results of audit work and the t Any proposal in which the director is interested, concerning the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
External regulation and BP underwriting of company securities or debentures or the giving of any policy requires the auditors to rotate their lead audit partner every five security to a third party for a debt or obligation of the company or any of years.
See Financial statements Note 37 and Audit committee report on its subsidiaries.
page 76 for details of audit fees.
t Any proposal concerning any other company in which the director is interested, directly or indirectly whether as an officer or shareholder or Memorandum and Articles of Association otherwise provided that the director and persons connected with such The following summarizes certain provisions of the companys director are not the holder or holders of 1% or more of the voting interest in the shares of such company.
Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable English law.
This summary is qualied in its entirety by reference to the UK Companies Act t Any proposal concerning the purchase or maintenance of any insurance 2006 Act and the companys Memorandum and Articles of Association.
policy under which the director may benefit.
For information on where investors can obtain copies of the Memorandum and Articles of Association see Documents on display on page 279.
The Act requires a director of a company who is in any way interested in a contract or proposed contract with the company to declare the nature of At the AGM held on 17 April 2008 shareholders voted to adopt new the directors interest at a meeting of the directors of the company.
The Articles of Association, largely to take account of changes in UK company denition of interest includes the interests of spouses, children, law brought about by the Act.
Further amendments to the Articles of companies and trusts.
The Act also requires that a director must avoid a Association were approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 15 April situation where a director has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest 2010.
There have been no further amendments to the Articles of that conicts, or possibly may conict, with the companys interests.
Act allows directors of public companies to authorize such conicts where appropriate, if a companys Articles of Association so permit.
BPs Articles The Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution.
of Association permit the authorization of such conicts.
The directors may exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, except that the amount remaining undischarged of all moneys borrowed by the company shall not, without approval of the shareholders, exceed the amount paid up on the share capital plus the aggregate of the amount of the capital and revenue reserves of the company.
Variation of the borrowing power of the board may only be affected by amending the Articles of Association.
112 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Corporate governance Remuneration of non-executive directors shall be determined in the Voting rights aggregate by resolution of the shareholders.
Remuneration of executive The Articles of Association of the company provide that voting on directors is determined by the remuneration committee.
This committee is resolutions at a shareholders meeting will be decided on a poll other than made up of non-executive directors only.
There is no requirement of share resolutions of a procedural nature, which may be decided on a show of ownership for a directors qualication.
If voting is on a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held and two votes for Dividend rights: other rights to share in company profits: capital calls every 5 in nominal amount of BP preference shares held.
If voting is on a If recommended by the directors of BP, BP shareholders may, by show of hands, each shareholder who is present at the meeting in person resolution, declare dividends but no such dividend may be declared in or whose duly appointed proxy is present in person will have one vote, excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
The directors may regardless of the number of shares held, unless a poll is requested.
also pay interim dividends without obtaining shareholder approval.
No dividend may be paid other than out of profits available for distribution, as Shareholders do not have cumulative voting rights.
determined under IFRS and the Act.
Dividends on ordinary shares are Holders of record of ordinary shares may appoint a proxy, including a payable only after payment of dividends on BP preference shares.
Any beneficial owner of those shares, to attend, speak and vote on their behalf dividend unclaimed after a period of 12 years from the date of declaration at any shareholders meeting.
of such dividend shall be forfeited and reverts to BP.
Record holders of BP ADSs are also entitled to attend, speak and vote at The directors have the power to declare and pay dividends in any currency any shareholders meeting of BP by the appointment by the approved provided that a sterling equivalent is announced.
It is not the companys depositary, JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. of them as proxies in respect of intention to change its current policy of paying dividends in US dollars.
At the ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
Each such proxy may also the companys AGM held on 15 April 2010, shareholders approved the appoint a proxy.
Alternatively, holders of BP ADSs are entitled to vote by introduction of a Scrip Dividend Programme Programme and to include supplying their voting instructions to the depositary, who will vote the provisions in the Articles of Association to enable the company to operate ordinary shares represented by their ADSs in accordance with their the Programme.
The Programme enables ordinary shareholders and BP instructions.
ADS holders to elect to receive new fully paid ordinary shares or BP ADSs in the case of BP ADS holders instead of cash.
The operation of the Proxies may be delivered electronically.
Programme is always subject to the directors decision to make the scrip Matters are transacted at shareholders meetings by the proposing and offer available in respect of any particular dividend.
Should the directors decide not to offer the scrip in respect of any particular dividend, cash will passing of resolutions, of which there are two types: ordinary or special.
An annual general meeting must be held once in every year.
An ordinary resolution requires the afrmative vote of a majority of the Apart from shareholders rights to share in BPs profits by dividend if any is declared or announced, the Articles of Association provide that the votes of those persons voting at a meeting at which there is a quorum.
A special resolution requires the afrmative vote of not less than threedirectors may set aside: fourths of the persons voting at a meeting at which there is a quorum.
Any t A special reserve fund out of the balance of profits each year to make up AGM requires 21 days notice.
The notice period for a general meeting is any deficit of cumulative dividend on the BP preference shares.
14 days subject to the company obtaining annual shareholder approval, failing which, a 21-day notice period will apply.
t A general reserve out of the balance of profits each year, which shall be applicable for any purpose to which the profits of the company may properly be applied.
This may include capitalization of such sum, Liquidation rights: redemption provisions pursuant to an ordinary shareholders resolution, and distribution to In the event of a liquidation of BP, after payment of all liabilities and shareholders as if it were distributed by way of a dividend on the applicable deductions under UK laws and subject to the payment of ordinary shares or in paying up in full unissued ordinary shares for secured creditors, the holders of BP preference shares would be entitled to allotment and distribution as bonus shares.
the sum of i the capital paid up on such shares plus, ii accrued and unpaid dividends and iii a premium equal to the higher of a 10% of the Any such sums so deposited may be distributed in accordance with the capital paid up on the BP preference shares and b the excess of the manner of distribution of dividends as described above.
average market price over par value of such shares on the LSE during the Holders of shares are not subject to calls on capital by the company, previous six months.
The remaining assets if any would be divided pro provided that the amounts required to be paid on issue have been paid off.
rata among the holders of ordinary shares.
All shares are fully paid.
Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on the holders of any class of shares, BP may issue any share with such preferred, deferred or other special rights, or subject to such restrictions as the shareholders by resolution determine or, in the absence of any such resolutions, by determination of the directors, and may issue shares that are to be or may be redeemed.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 113 Variation of rights The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the consent in writing of holders of 75% of the shares of that class or on the adoption of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of the Articles of Association relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that the quorum with respect to a meeting to change the rights attached to the preference shares is 10% or more of the shares of that class, and the quorum to change the rights attached to the ordinary shares is one-third or more of the shares of that class.
Shareholders meetings and notices Shareholders must provide BP with a postal or electronic address in the UK to be entitled to receive notice of shareholders meetings.
Holders of BP ADSs are entitled to receive notices under the terms of the deposit agreement relating to BP ADSs.
The substance and timing of notices are described on page 113 under the heading Voting rights.
Under the Act, the AGM of shareholders must be held within the six-month period once every year.
All general meetings shall be held at a time and place determined by the directors within the UK.
If any shareholders meeting is adjourned for lack of quorum, notice of the time and place of the meeting may be given in any lawful manner, including electronically.
Powers exist for action to be taken either before or at the meeting by authorized ofcers to ensure its orderly conduct and safety of those attending.
Limitations on voting and shareholding There are no limitations imposed by English law or the companys Memorandum or Articles of Association on the right of non-residents or foreign persons to hold or vote the companys ordinary shares or BP ADSs, other than limitations that would generally apply to all of the shareholders and limitations applicable to certain countries and persons subject to EU economic sanctions.
Disclosure of interests in shares The Act permits a public company to give notice to any person whom the company believes to be or, at any time during the three years prior to the issue of the notice, to have been interested in its voting shares requiring them to disclose certain information with respect to those interests.
Failure to supply the information required may lead to disenfranchisement of the relevant shares and a prohibition on their transfer and receipt of dividends and other payments in respect of those shares.
In this context the term interest is widely dened and will generally include an interest of any kind whatsoever in voting shares, including any interest of a holder of BP ADSs.
114 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
