Strategic report In conjunction with its partner DuPont, BP is undertaking leading-edge research into the production of biobutanol under the company name Other businesses Butamax.
d Across our biofuels business, BPs share of ethanol-equivalent production and corporate for 2013 was 521 million litres 552 million litres gross compared with 404 million litres a year ago.
The majority of this production is from BPs sugar cane mills in Brazil.
In the US, BP has made the strategic decision to focus Other businesses and corporate comprises the Alternative Energy its biofuels business on the research, development, and commercialization business, Shipping, Treasury which includes interest income on the of cellulosic ethanol technology at its facilities in San Diego, California, and groups cash and cash equivalents, and corporate activities including Jennings, Louisiana.
d Ethanol-equivalent production includes ethanol and sugar.
Financial performance Wind In wind power, our business is focused onshore in the US.
In 2013 we $ million marketed our wind business for sale.
Despite receiving a number of bids, 2013 2012 2011 a we determined it was not the right time to sell and instead are focusing on Sales and other operating revenues 1,805 1,985 2,957 optimizing performance at our 16 wholly owned and joint-venture wind Replacement cost profit loss before farms.
interest and tax 2,319 2,794 2,468 e BP maintained its net wind generation capacity in the US at 1,558MW Net favourable unfavourable impact during 2013.
BPs net share of wind generation for 2013 was 4,203GWh of non-operating items 421 798 822 7,363GWh gross, compared with 3,587GWh 5,739GWh gross a year Underlying replacement cost profit b ago.
loss before interest and tax 1,898 1,996 1,646 e BP also has 32MW of wind capacity in the Netherlands, operated by our Downstream segment.
Capital expenditure and acquisitions 1,050 1,435 1,853 Emerging business and ventures a Includes sales to other segments.
Our emerging business and ventures unit invests in technology b Underlying replacement cost profit loss is not a recognized GAAP measure.
See footnote c on entrepreneurs working at the frontiers of their elds across the entire page 23 for information on underlying replacement cost profit loss.
Investments focus on emerging, strategic technologies, The replacement cost loss before interest and tax for the year ended oil and gas, downstream technologies including fuels and chemicals, and 31 December 2013 was $2.3 billion 2012 $2.8 billion, 2011 $2.5 billion.
The unit has made 37 separate investments, with The 2013 result included a net charge for non-operating items of $210 million of committed capital.
Shipping After adjusting for non-operating items, the underlying replacement cost We transport our products across oceans, around coastlines and along loss before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2013 was waterways using a combination of BP-operated, time-chartered and $1.9 billion 2012 $2.0 billion, 2011 $1.6 billion.
This result reected higher spot-chartered vessels.
All vessels conducting BP activities are subject to income on cash balances and lower corporate costs.
The 2012 result was our health, safety, security and environmental requirements.
The primary impacted by the loss of income from the sale of the aluminium business in purpose of our shipping and chartering activities is the transportation of 2011, adverse foreign exchange effects and higher corporate costs.
In addition, we may use surplus capacity to Alternative Energy transport third-party products.
In December 2013, BP announced it had signed a contract with Hyundai Mipo Dockyard Co. Ltd to build 14 new BP is committed to alternative energy and our strategy is focused on product tankers in Korea.
The first of these will be delivered in 2016. operating large scale businesses and commercializing our innovative technologies.
BP continues to invest in expanding the scale of our biofuels Treasury business and in leveraging our unique capabilities and experience in Treasury manages the nancing of the group centrally, ensuring liquidity is agri-business, bio-technology and bio-rening.
We also have an operating sufficient to meet group requirements, and manages key financial risks wind business.
As at 31 December 2013, we have invested approximately c including interest rate, foreign exchange, pension and financial institution $8.3 billion, exceeding our 2005 commitment of $8 billion over 10 years.
From locations in the UK, the US and Singapore, Treasury c The majority of costs were initially capitalized, although some were expensed under IFRS.
provides the interface between BP and the international financial markets Biofuels and supports the nancing of BPs projects around the world.
Treasury BP believes that it has a key role to play in enabling the transport sector to trades foreign exchange and interest rate products in the financial markets, respond to the dual challenges of energy security and climate change.
We hedging group exposures and generating incremental value through have a focused programme of biofuels development based on the most optimizing and managing cash ows and the short-term investment of efficient transformation of sustainable and low-cost sugars into a range of operational cash balances.
Trading activities are underpinned by the fuel molecules.
Our strategy is to focus on the conversion of costcompliance, control and risk management infrastructure common to all advantaged feedstocks that are materially scalable and that can be BP trading activities.
For further information, see Financial statements competitive in an $80 bbl crude oil environment without subsidies.
We operate three sugar cane mills in Brazil producing bioethanol and sugar, Insurance and exporting power to the grid.
We continue to evaluate options to The group generally restricts its purchase of insurance to situations where increase production at these facilities and have already started work on this is required for legal or contractual reasons.
Losses are borne as they expanding ethanol production capacity at one mill and this work is arise, rather than being spread over time through insurance premiums with expected to be completed in 2014.
Likewise, we are ramping up attendant transaction costs.
This approach is reviewed on a regular basis production at our Vivergo joint venture plant, which is the largest and if specic circumstances require such a review.
bioethanol facility in the UK and one of the largest in Europe.
Once up to Outlook full production capacity of 420 million litres per year, the Vivergo facility will represent around 20% of the UKs total 2012-13 requirements under the In 2014 Other businesses and corporate annual charges, excluding Renewable Transport Fuels Obligation RTFO.
non-operating items, are expected to be in the range of $1.6-$2.0 billion.
BP continues to invest throughout the entire biofuels value chain, from growing sustainable higher-yielding and lower-carbon feedstocks through to the development, production and marketing of the advantaged fuel molecule biobutanol, which has higher energy content than ethanol and delivers improved fuel economy.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 37
