BP around the world B P has operations in around Lubricants Fuels 80 countries.
We manufacture and market lubricants Our fuels business is made up of regionally and related products and services directly based integrated fuels value chains, which in about 45 countries and use approved include reneries and fuels marketing local distributors for other geographies.
businesses together with global oil supply We leverage brand, technology and and trading activities.
We supply fuel and The shaded areas indicate countries relationships, focusing our resources on related convenience services to consumers where we have operations or interests.
core and growing markets such as Brazil, at approximately 17,800 BP-branded a Russia, India and China.
retail sites and have operations in almost Upstream 50 countries.
a Locations are categorized as liquids or natural gas based on 2013 production.
Where production is yet to commence, categorization is based on proved reserves.
Exploration sites have no significant proved reserves or production as at 31 December 2013.
Petrochemicals site s. Downstream see page 31.
BP group headcount by region including 14,100 service station staff 7 1.
Russia 300 Total 83,900 Gulf of Mexico Alternative Energy We have been exploring in the deepwater Gulf We operate three ethanol production of Mexico for more than 25 years and have facilities in Brazil, have a joint venture around 620 lease blocks, more than any other ethanol production facility in the UK and company.
We produce from more than 10 elds operate a biofuels technology centre in including Thunder Horse and Atlantis two of the US.
We also have interests in 16 wind the Gulfs largest and deepest elds.
4 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Strategic report Strategic report North Sea Azerbaijan Our activity in the North Sea region We invest more in Azerbaijan than any other encompasses the entire industry life cycle, foreign company, operating two productionfrom access and exploration to production and sharing agreements as well as holding other decommissioning.
We operate more than 20 exploration leases.
The Caspian Sea is one oil and gas elds, two major terminals and an of the worlds major hydrocarbon provinces, extensive network of pipelines.
and the development of the regions offshore oil and gas elds and onshore pipelines has made Azerbaijan a focal point of the global energy market.
Rosneft Rosneft is Russias largest oil company and the worlds largest publicly traded oil company in terms of hydrocarbon production.
BPs 19.75% share of Rosnefts proved reserves on an SEC basis is 5 billion barrels of oil and 9 trillion cubic feet of gas.
Rosnefts downstream operations include interests in 23 reneries see page 35.
Angola Petrochemicals We have interests in nine offshore deep We produce petrochemicals products and ultra deepwater blocks in Angola with a across our 15 manufacturing sites, and sell 2 total acreage of more than 32,600km.
Our our products to customers in more than Pluto, Saturno, Vnus and Marte PSVM 40 countries.
Approximately 45% of our offshore development began producing oil capacity is in Asia, 30% in the US and 25% in December 2012 and is one of the largest in Europe.
subsea developments in the world.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 5
