a The executive team represents the principal executive leadership of the Executive team BP group.
Its membership includes BPs executive directors Bob Dudley, Iain Conn and Dr Brian Gilvary whose biographies appear on pages 61-64 As at 6 March 2014 and the senior management listed below.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Key to portraits 1 Rupert Bondy 2 Bob Fryar 3 Andy Hopwood 4 Katrina Landis 5 Bernard Looney 6 Lamar McKay 7 Dev Sanyal 8 Helmut Schuster Rupert Bondy Bob Fryar Current position Current position Group general counsel Executive vice president, safety and operational risk Executive team tenure Executive team tenure Appointed 1 May 2008 5 years Appointed 1 October 2010 3 years Outside interests Outside interests No external appointments No external appointments Age Age 52 50 Nationality Nationality British American Career Career Rupert Bondy is responsible for legal and compliance matters across the Bob Fryar is responsible for strengthening safety, operational risk BP group.
management, and the systematic management of operations across the BP corporate group.
He is group head of safety and operational risk, with Rupert began his career as a lawyer in private practice.
In 1989 he joined accountability for group-level disciplines including engineering, health, US law rm Morrison & Foerster, working in San Francisco and London, safety, security, and environment.
In this capacity, he looks after the and from 1994 he worked for UK law rm Lovells in London.
In 1995 he group-wide operating management system implementation and capability joined SmithKline Beecham as senior counsel for mergers and acquisitions programmes.
He subsequently held positions of increasing responsibility and, following the merger of SmithKline Beecham and Bob has 28 years experience in the oil and gas industry having joined GlaxoWellcome to form GlaxoSmithKline, he was appointed senior vice Amoco Production Company in 1985.
From October 2010 to February president and general counsel of GlaxoSmithKline in 2001.
2013 Bob was executive vice president of the production division and was accountable for safe and compliant exploration and production operations In April 2008 he joined the BP group, and he became the group general and stewardship of resources across all regions.
In addition, he was also counsel on 1 May 2008. responsible for local government and stakeholder management and regional integration of all exploration and production activities.
Prior to February 2013, Bob held several management positions in Trinidad, including chief operating officer for Atlantic LNG, and vice president of operations.
Prior to that, Bob served in a variety of engineering and management positions in onshore US and deepwater Gulf of Mexico including petroleum engineer, eld manager, operations manager, resource manager, and asset a manager.
In addition, he worked on the Vastar integration team.
The ages of the executive team are correct as at 31 December 2013.
66 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Corporate governance Andy Hopwood Katrina Landis Current position Current position Chief operating officer, strategy and regions, Upstream Executive vice president, corporate business activities Executive team tenure Executive team tenure Appointed 1 November 2010 3 years Appointed 1 May 2013 Outside interests Outside interests Chair of the BP Foundation Independent director of Alstom SA Founding member of Alstoms Ethics, Compliance and Sustainability Age Committee 55 Member of Earth Day Networks Global Advisory Committee Nationality Ambassador to the U. S. Department of Energys U. S. Clean Energy British Education & Empowerment program Age Career 54 Andy Hopwood is responsible for BPs upstream strategy, including changes to its portfolio and investment planning.
He is also responsible for Nationality the upstream regional footprint through leadership of its regional American presidents, who are the upstreams senior leaders in the regions where the upstream operates.
Career Katrina Landis is responsible for BPs integrated supply and trading After joining BP in 1980 as a petroleum engineer, Andy gained ten years of activities, Alternative Energy, shipping, technology and remediation operating experience in the North Sea, Wytch Farm, and Indonesia, and management.
developing expertise in reservoir engineering in BPs London headquarters.
Katrina began her career with BP in 1992 in Anchorage, Alaska and held a In 1989 Andy joined the corporate planning team supporting the variety of senior roles.
She was chief executive officer of BPs integrated formulation of BPs exploration strategy, and the subsequent rationalization supply and trading Oil Americas from 2003 to 2006, group vice of BPs portfolio.
Following this corporate work, his international president of BPs integrated supply and trading from 2007 to 2008 and endeavours led to positions in South America, first in Mexico and then as chief operating officer of BP Alternative Energy from 2008 to 2009.
She commercial manager for BPs Venezuela business, prior to a return to was then appointed chief executive officer of BP Alternative Energy in London as the exploration and production planning manager.
On 1 May 2013, she became executive vice president, corporate In 1999, following the BP-Amoco merger, he was appointed business unit business activities.
leader in Azerbaijan, before returning to London in 2001 as the Upstream chief of staff.
He was then appointed business unit leader for BPs interests in Trinidad & Tobago until 2005, when he moved to Houston to Bernard Looney become strategic performance unit leader for the North American gas business.
Current position Chief operating officer, production In 2009, he joined the Upstream executive as head of portfolio and technology and in October 2010 was appointed executive vice president, Executive team tenure exploration and production.
Appointed 1 November 2010 3 years Outside interests Member of the Stanford University Graduate School of Business Advisory Council Fellow of the Energy Institute Age 43 Nationality Irish Career Bernard Looney is responsible for production operations, drilling, engineering, procurement and supply-chain management, as well as health, safety and environment in the upstream.
Bernard joined BP in 1991 as a drilling engineer, working in the North Sea, Vietnam and the Gulf of Mexico.
In 2001 Bernard took on responsibility for drilling operations on Thunder Horse in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
In 2005 Bernard became senior vice president within BP Alaska, before moving in 2007 to be head of the group chief executives ofce.
In 2009 he became the managing director of BPs North Sea business in the UK and Norway.
Bernard became executive vice president, developments, in October 2010.
He took up his current role in February 2013.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 67 Lamar McKay Dev Sanyal Current position Current position Chief executive, Upstream Executive vice president, and group chief of staff Executive team tenure Executive team tenure Appointed 16 June 2008 5 years Appointed 1 January 2012 2 years Outside interests Outside interests Member of Mississippi State University Deans Advisory Council Non-executive director of Man Group plc Member of the Accenture Global Energy Board Age Member of the International Business Leaders Group of The Duke of 55 Edinburghs International Award Foundation Nationality Trustee of the Career Academy Foundation American Age 48 Career Lamar McKay is responsible for the combined Upstream business which Nationality consists of exploration, development and production.
British and Indian Lamar started his career in 1980 with Amoco and has held a broad range Career of positions.
In 1993, he became general manager for the Arkoma Basin, Dev Sanyal is the accountable executive for all of BPs corporate activities and in 1997 moved into the role of business unit leader for the Gulf of in strategy and long-term planning, risk, economics, competitor Mexico Shelf.
intelligence, government and political affairs, policy and group integration During 1998-2000, he worked on the BP-Amoco merger and served as and governance.
head of strategy and planning for the worldwide exploration and production Dev joined BP in 1989 and has held a variety of international roles in business in London.
In 2000, he became business unit leader for the London, Athens, Istanbul, Vienna and Dubai.
He was appointed chief Central North Sea in Aberdeen, Scotland.
In 2001, Lamar became chief of executive, BP Eastern Mediterranean Fuels in 1999.
In 2002, he moved to staff for the worldwide exploration and production business, and London as chief of staff of BPs worldwide downstream businesses.
In subsequently served as chief of staff to BPs deputy group chief executive.
November 2003, he was appointed chief executive officer of Air BP.
In Lamar became group vice president, Russia and Kazakhstan in 2003 June 2006, he was appointed head of the group chief executives ofce.
where he was responsible for BPs Upstream businesses, including BPs He was appointed group vice president and group treasurer in 2007.
During interest in the TNK-BP joint venture.
He served as a member of the board this period, he was also chairman of BP Investment Management Ltd and of directors of TNK-BP from February 2004 to May 2007. accountable for the groups aluminium interests.
In January 2012, he became executive vice president, and group chief of staff.
In May 2007, Lamar moved to Houston to assume the role of senior group vice president, BP p. l. c. and executive vice president, BP America where he led BPs efforts to resolve various issues involving the Texas City renery, Prudhoe Bay eld and US trading function.
In June 2008, he Helmut Schuster became executive vice president, special projects focusing on Russia Current position where he led BPs efforts to restructure the governance framework for Executive vice president, group human resources director TNK-BP.
In February 2009, Lamar was appointed chairman and president of BP Executive team tenure Appointed 1 March 2011 3 years America Inc, serving as BPs chief representative in the US.
In October 2010, he additionally assumed the role of chief executive officer and Outside interests president for the Gulf Coast Restoration Organization.
No external appointments On 1 January 2013, he became chief executive, Upstream.
Age 52 Nationality Austrian Career Helmut Schuster became group human resources director on 1 March 2011.
In this role he holds accountabilities for the BP human resources function.
Helmut began his career working for Henkel in a marketing capacity.
Since joining BP in 1989 Helmut has held a number of major leadership roles.
He has worked in BP in the US, UK and continental Europe and within most parts of rening, marketing, trading and gas and power.
Before taking on his current role his portfolio of responsibilities as a vice president, human resources included the rening and marketing segment of BP, and corporate and functions.
This role saw him leading the people agenda for roughly 60,000 people across the globe and includes businesses such as petrochemicals, fuels value chains, lubricants and functional experts across the corporation.
68 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
