Our market outlook We believe that a diverse mix of fuels and technologies will be essential to meet the growing demand for energy and the challenges facing our industry.
Population and economic growth are the main A diverse mix Our third PTA plant in Zhuhai, China, is planned to drivers of global energy demand.
The worlds We believe a diverse mix of fuels and begin production in late 2014.
It is expected to population is projected to increase by 1.7 billion technologies can enhance national and global bring total capacity at the site to more than 2.7 from 2012 to 2035, with real income likely to energy security while supporting the transition million tonnes per year.
more than double over the same period.
These are reasons Therefore, the overall trend is likely to be one why BPs portfolio includes oil sands, shale gas, Thunder Horse in the Gulf of Mexico is one of the of increased energy demand, even with energy deepwater oil and gas, and biofuels.
largest integrated offshore drilling and production and climate policies and a shift towards less platforms in the world.
Oil and natural gas energy-intense activities in fast-growing Oil and natural gas are likely to play a significant economies.
We expect demand for energy part in meeting demand for several decades.
to increase by as much as 41% between We believe these energy sources will represent 2012 and 2035. about 54% of total energy consumption in 2035.
Even under the International Energy Agencys Challenges and opportunities most ambitious climate policy scenario the 450 We seek energy sources that have the following scenario, oil and gas would still make up 47% attributes: a of the energy mix in 2035.
The 450 scenario Affordability meeting growing demand assumes governments adopt commitments to limit the long-term concentration of greenhouse for secure and sustainable energy presents an affordability challenge.
Fossil fuels will gases in the atmosphere to 450 parts-per-million of CO equivalent.
become increasingly difficult to access and 2 many lower-carbon resources will remain costly We expect oil to remain the dominant source for to produce at scale.
transport fuels, accounting for as much as 87% Security each country knowing where its of demand in 2035. supplies will come from.
More than 60% of the Natural gas, in particular, is likely to play an worlds known reserves of natural gas are in just increasingly strategic role.
Shale gas is expected five countries and at least 80% of global oil to contribute 47% of the growth in global natural reserves are located in nine countries, most of gas supplies between 2012 and 2035.
The shale which are distant from the hubs of energy gas revolution has already had a significant consumption.
This represents a security impact on gas prices and demand in the US and challenge in its own right.
may encourage similar developments elsewhere although the scale and speed of the roll out of Sustainability avoiding an unacceptable environmental and social impact that ultimately shale gas technology will vary between countries.
When used in place of coal for power, negates the economic benets.
While energy is available to meet growing demand, action natural gas can reduce CO emissions by half.
2 is needed to limit carbon dioxide CO and a 2 From World Energy Outlook 2013.
OECD International other greenhouse gases emitted through fossil Energy Agency 2013, page 573. fuel use.
2013 pricing See Upstream on page 26 and Downstream on page 32.
10 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Strategic report OECD New sources of hydrocarbons are more of energy resources, mutual benets for difficult to reach, extract and process.
BP and resource owners and development partners, and others in our industry are working to improve an appropriate legal and regulatory environment.
techniques for maximizing recovery from We believe open and competitive markets are existing and currently inaccessible or the most effective way to encourage companies undeveloped elds.
In many cases, the to nd, produce and distribute diverse forms of extraction of these resources might be more energy sustainably.
The US experience with energy intensive, which means operating costs shale gas shows how an open and competitive and greenhouse gas emissions from operations environment can drive technological innovation may also increase.
Renewable energy We also believe that putting a price on carbon Renewables will play an increasingly important one that treats all carbon equally, whether it role in addressing the challenges of energy comes out of a smokestack or a car exhaust security and climate change over the long term.
will make energy efficiency and conservation BP Energy Outlook contains our projections of Renewables are already the fastest-growing more attractive to businesses and individuals future energy trends and factors that could affect energy source, but they are starting from a and lower-carbon energy sources more cost them, based on our views of likely economic and low base.
A global carbon price should population growth and developments in policy By 2035, we estimate renewable energy, be the long-term goal, but regional and national and technology.
Available in PDF, Excel and video excluding large-scale hydro electricity, is likely to approaches are a good first step, provided format.
meet around 7% of total global energy demand.
temporary financial relief is given to sectors that are exposed to international competition.
Energy efficiency and innovation Beyond 2035 Greater efficiency addresses several aspects of the energy challenge.
It helps with affordability We expect that growing population and per because less energy is needed.
It helps with capita incomes will continue to drive growing security because it reduces dependence on demand for energy.
These dynamics will be imports.
And it helps with sustainability shaped by future technology developments, because it reduces emissions.
changes in tastes, and future policy choices all of which are inherently uncertain.
Concerns Innovation can play a key role in improving about energy security, affordability and technology design, process and use of materials, environmental impacts are all likely to be bringing down cost and increasing efficiency.
These factors may transport, for example, we believe that efficient accelerate the trend towards more diverse technologies and combustion engines that use sources of energy supply, a lower average biofuels could offer the most cost-effective carbon footprint, increased efficiency and Energy consumption by region pathway to a secure, lower-carbon future.
billion tonnes of oil equivalent demand management.
Policy, prices and access Other India China 18 If the worlds growing demand for energy is to 16 be met in a sustainable way, we believe that 14 governments must set a stable and enduring 12 framework for the private sector to invest and Strategy 10 for consumers to choose wisely.
This includes Find out how BP can help meet energy 8 secure access for exploration and development demand for years to come on page 13.
Energy consumption by fuel billion tonnes of oil equivalent Renewables Nuclear Gas Hydro Coal Oil 18 16 14 12 10 8 6 4 Air BP is one of the worlds largest aviation fuels 2 suppliers, marketing aviation fuels and specialist 1990 2000 2010 2020 2035 products in more than 45 countries.
It sells over Includes biofuels.
seven billion gallons of fuel per year.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 11
