Strategic report Our lubricants business continued to increase the proportion of total sales resulting from premium product sales: in 2013 the percentage of premium Rosneft sales was 40% compared with 39% in 2012 and 37% in 2011.
In January 2014, BP announced that it had agreed to sell its specialist global aviation turbine oils business.
The transaction, which is subject to In March 2013 BP completed sale and purchase regulatory and other approvals, is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2014. agreements with Rosneft and Rosneftegaz.
Our petrochemicals business Our strategy is to own and develop petrochemical value chain businesses which are built around proprietary technology.
We apply this technology to existing businesses and to access new growth markets where we wish to build material shares.
Overall, the business targets attractive absolute returns and material, increasing cash ows by satisfying demand growth, particularly in Asia.
We manufacture and market four main product lines: t Puried terephthalic acid PTA.
We also produce a number of other speciality petrochemicals products.
Our portfolio is underpinned with proprietary technology and leading cost positions allowing BP assets to remain competitive against the newest Central processing and pumping facility at the Yuganskneftegaz eld, world-scale units being built in China.
These capacity additions and onshore Russia.
technology advances have resulted in a sharp fall in margins leading to losses for the older, less efficient producers.
New capacity additions are targeted principally in the higher-growth Asian markets.
BP and Rosneft We both own and operate assets, and have also invested in a number of t BP sold its investment in TNK-BP in exchange for $11.8 billion in cash joint arrangements in Asia, where our partners are leading companies and an 18.5% stake in Rosneft.
Together with its existing 1.25% within their domestic market.
For example, the construction of our new, shareholding, BP now holds a 19.75% stake in the company.
third PTA plant with our partner, Zhuhai Port Co. in Guangdong, China is t BPs shareholding in Rosneft allows us to benefit from a diversied set progressing well and is planned to begin production in late 2014.
The of existing and potential projects in the Russian oil and gas sector.
BP retro-t of key elements of our PTA technology to existing plants is under considers Rosneft share price appreciation and dividend growth as way.
We expect these investments to have a material impact on efficiency primary sources of value for its shareholders.
and reduce annual operating costs.
t Rosnefts strategy is to pursue sustainable growth of crude oil Our technology team develops, deploys and optimizes chemicals technology production, develop its gas business and complete its renery to advance the competitiveness of the installed asset base and deliver modernization programme.
competitively advantaged projects to access growth.
We plan to continue t deploying our technology in new asset platforms to access Asian demand BP is positioned to contribute to Rosnefts strategy through the sharing and advantaged feedstock sources.
of technology, people, processes and best practice.
We also have the potential to undertake standalone projects with Rosneft, both in Russia In 2013 we announced two new proprietary petrochemicals technologies, and internationally.
SaaBre signicantly reduces the cost of production of acetic acid from syngas and avoids the need to purify carbon t Bob Dudley was elected to the Rosneft board of directors in June monoxide or purchase methanol.
SaaBre technology could also be used to 2013, and became a member of the Rosneft boards strategic planning produce methanol and ethanol.
Hummingbird simplies the process of committee.
converting ethanol to ethylene, a key component for the manufacture of Rosneft 2013 summary plastics.
Hummingbird could open the way for the production of biopolymers from bioethanol.
Both technologies are expected to deliver t Rosneft announced in June 2013 that it had completed the process of significant reductions in variable manufacturing costs and simplify the integrating TNK-BP and subsequently the Rosneft board approved a manufacturing process.
modied business plan for 2013 incorporating the acquisition of TNK-BP.
In December 2013, we agreed to purchase all interests held by our partners, Mitsui Chemicals, Inc. MCI and Mitsui & Co. Ltd. MBK in PT t Rosneft concluded long-term crude oil supply agreements with China Amoco Mitsui PTA Indonesia AMI which produces and markets PTA in National Petroleum Corporation CNPC and Sinopec, signalling China the Republic of Indonesia.
This transaction completed on 28 February 2014 as an additional market for Russian crude.
and is consistent with our strategy of growing our PTA business in our t Rosneft completed the acquisition of the remaining 49% in the Itera chosen markets.
joint venture, 51% of Sibneftegaz and agreed to buy gas assets from In September 2013, we signed a non-binding memorandum of ALROSA.
understanding with Oman Oil Corporation to assess jointly a facility in t Rosneft made a voluntary offer in October 2013 to buy out the Oman for the manufacture of acetic acid, deploying our SaaBre technology.
non-controlling shareholders of RN Holding formerly TNK-BP Holding.
The economic environment for some of our products is likely to remain By the closing date of the offer in January 2014, Rosneft had received under pressure in 2014.
The impact of capacity additions in Asia continues acceptances of its offer from over 98% of such shareholders.
to depress margins for PTA.
The environments for our acetic acid and olens and derivative value chains are expected to improve in the latter part of 2014 as the high growth markets absorb excess capacity.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 35 BPs share of the components of Rosnefts net income are shown in the Upstream table below.
Rosneft is the largest oil company in Russia and the largest publicly traded oil company in the world based on hydrocarbon production volume.
$ million a Rosneft also has significant hydrocarbon reserves.
2013 Income statement BP share Rosneft has assets in all key hydrocarbon regions of Russia: Western Siberia, profit before interest and tax 2,786 Eastern Siberia, Timan-Pechora, Volga-Urals, North Caucasus and Far East.
Internationally, Rosneft participates in exploration projects or has operations Finance costs 264 in countries including the US, Canada, Vietnam, Venezuela, Brazil, Algeria, Taxation 422 UAE, Kazakhstan and Norway.
Rosneft and Gazprom, the majority of whose Non-controlling interests 42 shares are owned by the Russian state, have exclusive rights to explore and Net income 2,058 develop significant hydrocarbon resources in the Russian Arctic offshore Inventory holding gains losses, net of tax 100 including the Sea of Okhotsk.
To progress Arctic exploration, Rosneft has Net income on a replacement cost basis 2,158 concluded partnerships with ExxonMobil, ENI, Statoil, CNPC and Inpex.
Net charge credit for non-operating items, net of tax 45 In 2013 Rosneft signed new gas sales contracts with Enel, Fortum and Net income on an underlying replacement cost basis 2,203 others to monetize produced gas.
Also Russian legislation introduced in December 2013 allows Rosneft and Novatek to export LNG for the Balance sheet first time.
$ million 31 December Downstream 2013 Rosneft has interests in 23 reneries including four in Germany through its Investments in associates 13,681 Ruhr Oel GmbH partnership with BP.
In 2013 Rosneft acquired a 21% share in the Saras S. p. A. renery in Italy.
Production and reserves 2013 Rosneft renery throughput in 2013 amounted to 1,818mb d. Rosneft e f continues to implement its renery modernization programme which is Production net of royalties BP share g intended to signicantly upgrade and expand its rening capacity.
As at Liquids mb d 650 31 December 2013, Rosneft owned and operated more than 2,400 retail Natural gas mmcf d 617 service stations, representing the largest network in Russia.
This included h Total hydrocarbons mboe d 756 BP-branded sites acquired as part of Rosnefts acquisition of TNK-BP which Estimated net proved reserves net of royalties will continue to operate under the BP brand.
Rosnefts downstream BP share operations also include jet fuel, bunkering, bitumen and lubricants.
g Liquids million barrels 4,975 Rosneft segment performance Natural gas billion cubic feet 9,271 BPs investment in Rosneft is managed and reported as a separate Total hydrocarbons mmboe 6,574 segment under IFRS.
The Rosneft segment result includes equityAverage oil marker prices $ per barrel accounted earnings from Rosneft, representing BPs share in Rosneft and Urals Northwest Europe CIF 107.38 foreign currency effects on the dividends received in 2013.
For more Russian domestic oil 54.97 information on the sale and purchase agreements, see Financial statements Note 6. e Reects production for the period 21 March to 31 December, averaged over the full year.
f Information on BPs share of TNK-BPs production for comparative periods is provided $ million on pages 248 and 250. a g Liquids comprise crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
2013 h b c Natural gas is converted to oil equivalent at 5.8 billion cubic feet 1 million barrels.
profit before interest and tax 2,053 Inventory holding gains losses 100 c Replacement cost profit before interest and tax 2,153 Net charge credit for non-operating items 45 c d Underlying replacement cost profit before interest and tax 2,198 a From 21 March 2013. b BPs share of Rosnefts earnings after finance costs, taxation and non-controlling interests is included in the BP group income statement within profit before interest and taxation.
c Includes $5 million of foreign exchange losses arising on the dividend received.
This amount is not reected in the following table.
d Underlying replacement cost profit is not a recognized GAAP measure.
See footnote c on page 23 for information on underlying replacement cost profit.
Replacement cost profit before interest and tax for the Rosneft segment was $2.2 billion in 2013.
The result included a net non-operating charge of $45 million, primarily relating to impairment charges.
After adjusting for non-operating items, underlying replacement cost profit before interest and tax in 2013 was $2.2 billion.
BP received a dividend from Rosneft in 2013 of $456 million, after the deduction of withholding tax.
BP completed the exercise to determine the fair value of its share of Rosnefts assets and liabilities as at 21 March 2013, as required under IFRS, and the results of this exercise are reected in the 2013 reported amounts.
36 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
