Y Your Company in T our Company in Today odays W s World orld Objective Cost effective To secure long-term growth in capital and income With an Ongoing Charge ratio of 0.86% Foreign through a policy of investing primarily in an & Colonial compares favourably with openinternationally diversified portfolio of publicly listed ended investment companies and many other equities, as well as unlisted securities and private investment trusts.
The cumulative benefits of low equity, with the use of gearing.
costs are very significant for long-term investors.
Heritage Stability and liquidity Founded in 1868 as the first ever investment The Board seeks to manage liquidity in the trust and continually evolves: keeping pace with Companys shares by operating a discount new investment opportunities and maintaining its control mechanism.
This mechanism is designed relevance in todays world.
to minimise the volatility of the Companys share price relative to its Net Asset Value.
Core investment Conservatively managed and offering investors Suitable for retail distribution a globally diversified portfolio.
Foreign & Colonial Foreign & Colonial is suitable for retail investors in aims to be at the centre of an investors portfolio the UK, professionally advised private clients and alongside other assets creating a wider institutional investors who seek growth in capital investment solution.
and income from investment in global markets and who understand and are willing to accept the Long-term outperformance risks, and rewards, of exposure to equities.
In the last ten years Foreign & Colonial has turned a 1,000 investment, with dividends reinvested, into 2,527 compared with 2,323 from the market benchmark and a 1,000 investment over Visit our website at 20 years would have grown to 3,783. www.
com Income Well-positioned for future dividend growth with significant income reserves.
The dividend has increased every year for the past 43 years and over the last ten years is up 143.2% or 9.3% compound compared with inflation of 38.1% or 3.3% compound.
Potential investors are reminded that the value of investments and the income from them may go down as well as up and investors may not receive back the full amount invested.
Tax benefits may vary as a result of statutory changes and their value will depend on individual circumstances.
2 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
