Business Model Business Model Key relationships and responsibilities Remuneration information is set out on pages 29 The Companys Board of Directors has appointed to 31.
Information on the fees payable under the F&C as Manager the Manager to deliver management agreement can be found on page 20 investment performance.
F&C has overall and in note 4 on the accounts.
responsibility for the management of the Companys assets and for asset allocation, gearing, stock Investment strategy and sector selection and risk, within limits set and The Company typically remains fully invested in regularly monitored by the Board.
Its current strategic emphasis is towards the flexibility to use internal and external managers a global equity focus and therefore a much lower to create a truly diversified global portfolio.
The fee weighting in the UK than in the past.
It does not payable to the Manager is based on the market restrict itself to specific geographic or industry sector capitalisation of the Company, thus aligning the exposure limits for its publicly listed equities and Managers interests with shareholders through share maintains the flexibility to invest in other types of price performance.
The high level of diversification Jeremy Tigue acts as Fund Manager the Fund across the entire portfolio has in recent years resulted Manager to the Company, on behalf of F&C.
in the tendency for the Companys share price to He is responsible and accountable for the entire have lower volatility than its index benchmark.
portfolio including the North America and private Industrial Classification of Investment Portfolio equity portfolios, which are managed externally.
He as at 31 December 2013 will be succeeded by Paul Niven on 1 July 2014.
The ancillary functions of administration, secretarial, 23.8% Financial accounting and marketing services are also carried 14.9% Private Equity out by F&C.
12.4% Industrials The Company has no employees.
Its wholly non- 10.3% Consumer Services executive Board comprise six male and two female 8.7% Health Care Directors and retains responsibility for corporate 7.1% strategy: corporate governance: risk and control Consumer Goods assessment: the overall investment and dividend 7.0% Technology policies: setting limits on gearing and asset 6.5% Oil & Gas allocation: monitoring investment performance and 4.3% Basic Materials for approving marketing policy budgets.
Telecommunications 2.9% Further information in relation to the Board Utilities 1.5% can be found on page 25.
Information on the Fixed Income 0.6% individual Directors, all of whom are resident in 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% the UK, can be found on pages 14 and 15.
Source: F&C Distribution of our portfolio as at 31 December 2013 In the case of the regional equity portfolios, the Fund Manager has the flexibility to recommend to Emerging Markets 8.4% the Board their delegation to external third party subNorth America 29.1% managers when this seems likely to result in better Global Income 6.2% UK 21.9% investment performance.
Two external sub-managers Private Equity 14.9% Japan 4.7% have been appointed for the North America large and Europe ex UK 10.7% Global Funds 4.1% mid-cap equity portfolios, namely Barrow Hanley and Source: F&C T Rowe Price.
Recommendations for private equity and unlisted investments are subject to approval 6 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC by the Board.
The private equity funds of funds range of 020% of shareholders funds based on portfolio is managed externally by Pantheon Ventures valuing the Companys debentures at market value.
Limited and HarbourVest Partners LLC.
There are no We have created a very flexible structure to manage plans to make further commitments to private equity borrowings over the next five years as explained by investments until the Companys exposure moves the Fund Manager on page 8. nearer to its original strategic target of 10%.
An analysis of the entire portfolio on 31 December Buyback strategy 2013 is contained in the Fund Managers Review.
The Company has for many years bought back its The Companys full list of its investments can be own shares for cancellation at a discount to net asset viewed on the website.
The twenty largest listed value per share.
This forms part of its wider strategy equity holdings can be found on page 10, and the under which the Board has the objective of achieving ten largest private equity holdings are on page 11. a less volatile discount to net asset value, in normal market conditions, of around 10% with debt at Responsible ownership market value, as well as enhancing net asset value The Boards primary responsibility is to ensure per share for continuing shareholders.
that the Companys portfolio is properly invested and managed in accordance with the investment Marketing strategy objective.
The Board supports the Manager in its The Manager continues to promote investment belief that good governance creates value.
The in the Companys shares, which are suitable for Manager takes a particular interest in corporate retail distribution in the UK as well as professionally governance and sustainable business practices, advised private clients and institutional investors.
which includes the integration of environmental, Promotion has traditionally been made through the social and governance issues into its investment F&C Savings Plans, which remain a cost effective decisions.
Information on the Companys voting and flexible way to invest in the Company.
policy can be found in the Directors Report on The Company is well positioned to be a beneficiary page 18. of the Retail Distribution Review and is beginning to see a notable increase in the number of shares held Investment policy through investment platforms.
The Board hopes to The Companys Investment Policy Statement is set see access to the Companys shares on as many out in detail on page 18. platforms as possible as more and more investors turn to the Direct-to-Consumer execution-only market.
Gearing strategy The Board will continue to work closely with the Over many years the Company has used borrowings Manager to ensure optimal delivery of the Companys to enhance its returns.
The Board has set a gearing investment proposition through all available channels.
