Directors Report The Directors submit the Annual Report and Accounting and going concern Accounts of the Company for the year ended The Financial Statements, starting on page 41, 31 December 2013. comply with current UK Financial Reporting Standards, supplemented by the Statement of Statement regarding Annual Report and Accounts Recommended Practice for Investment Trust The Directors consider that the Annual Report Companies and Venture Capital Trusts SORP.
and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced The significant accounting policies of the Company and understandable and provides the information are set out in note 2 on the accounts.
The unqualified necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys auditors opinion on the Financial Statements performance, business model and strategy.
The Companys investment policy statement places the emphasis on investing Results and dividends in readily realisable listed securities and puts a limit The results for the year are set out in the attached on borrowings.
The Company retains title to all accounts.
assets held by the Custodian.
Trust deeds govern The interim dividends totalling 6.30 pence per its debentures and agreements cover its bank share, together with the final dividend of 2.70 pence borrowing facilities.
Cash is held only with banks per share, which will be paid on 1 May 2014 to approved and regularly reviewed by the Manager.
shareholders registered on 28 March 2014 Note 26 on the accounts sets out the financial risk Resolution 4, will bring the total dividend for the year profile of the Company and indicates the effect on to 9.00 pence per share.
This represents an increase the assets and liabilities of fluctuations in the value of of 5.9% over the comparable 8.5 pence per share securities, and exchange and interest rates.
paid in the previous year.
The Directors believe that, in the light of the controls and monitoring processes that are in Company status place, the Company has adequate resources and The Company is an investment company as defined arrangements to continue operating within its stated by Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
As policy for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the such, it analyses its income between revenue, which accounts continue to be drawn up on the basis that is available for distribution by way of dividends, and the Company is a going concern.
capital, which under its articles of association it is Shareholders will be asked to approve the currently prohibited from distributing other than by adoption of the Annual Report and Accounts at the way of share buybacks.
The Company is registered in England and Wales with company registration number 12901 and is Independent auditors subject to the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules, UK So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant company law, financial reporting standards, taxation audit information of which PwC are unaware.
The law and its own articles of association.
Directors believe that they have each taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in Investment trust taxation status order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit The Company is liable to UK corporation tax on its net information and to establish that PwC are aware of revenue profits but is exempt from corporation taxation the information.
The Independent Auditors Report on capital gains, provided it complies at all times with can be found on page 37. section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 section PwC have indicated their willingness to continue in 1158.
The Company has been accepted by HMRC office and resolutions will be proposed at the Annual as an approved investment trust subject to it continuing General Meeting to re-appoint them and determine to meet the relevant eligibility conditions and ongoing their remuneration Resolutions 13 and 14.
The Company conducts its affairs so as the audit will be put out to tender later in the year as to enable it to comply with the requirements.
Report and Accounts 2013 17 Directors Report continued Investment policy statement the time of investment for both put and call options.
Risk diversification More details can be found on page 59 in note 26 is achieved through geographic asset allocation on the accounts.
and industry sector and stock selection across a wide range of markets.
Within the general policy Voting policy of maintaining a diversified portfolio, there are no F&C, in the absence of explicit instructions from the specific geographic or industry sector exposure limits Board, is empowered to exercise discretion in the use for the publicly listed equities.
The Board has placed of the Companys voting rights.
All shareholdings are a limit of 5% of the value of the total portfolio on voted at all meetings worldwide where practicable in unlisted securities, at the time of acquisition and accordance with the Managers own corporate excluding private equity investments, and any governance policy, which is to seek to maximise unlisted investment requires specific Board approval.
shareholder value by constructive use of votes at Shareholder approval would be sought in the event company meetings and by endeavouring to use its that the Board considers that the long-term exposure influence as an investor with a principled approach to to private equity investments should exceed a figure corporate governance.
Environmental factors are, where of 20%: the Board has agreed to make no new appropriate, taken into consideration with regard to commitments until the Companys exposure moves investment decisions taken on behalf of the Company.
back closer to its strategic target of 10%.
F&Cs statement of compliance with The UK Under the Companys articles of association, with Stewardship Code, issued by the Financial limited exceptions, no single investment may be Reporting Council in July 2010, has been made by the Company which exceeds 10% of the reviewed and endorsed by the Board, which value of the total portfolio at the time of acquisition.
encourages and supports the Manager on its Under the Listing Rules, no more than 10% of voting policy and its stance towards environmental, the total assets may be invested in other listed social and governance issues.
The statement closed-ended investment companies, unless such is available on the Managers website at investment companies have themselves published www.
The Board investment policies to invest no more than 15% of periodically receives a report on instances where the their total assets in other closed-ended investment Manager has voted against the recommendation of companies, in which case the limit is 15%.
The Board the management on any resolution.
It also expects to has placed a limit of 5% of the value of the total be informed of any sensitive voting issues involving portfolio on investment funds managed by F&C at the the Companys investments.
time of acquisition, and any such investment requires specific Board approval.
Capital structure Borrowings, which can be taken out either As at 31 December 2013 there were 570,359,016 in Sterling or foreign currency, would normally ordinary shares of 25 pence each ordinary shares be expected to fall within a range of 020% of in issue.
There had been no changes to the number shareholders funds based on valuing the Companys of ordinary shares as at 3 March 2014.
All ordinary debentures at market value.
shares rank equally for dividends and distributions The Company will typically remain fully invested in and carry one vote each.
There are no restrictions equities, but is not prohibited from investing in other concerning the transfer of securities in the Company, types of securities or assets.
Derivatives may be used no special rights with regard to control attached for the purpose of income enhancement and efficient to securities, no agreements between holders of portfolio management including, if appropriate, securities regarding their transfer known to the protection against currency risks.
With regard to Company and no agreement which the Company is income enhancement, options may only be written party to that affects its control following a takeover on quoted stocks and the total nominal exposure is bid.
Details of the capital structure can be found in limited to a maximum of 5% of the UK portfolio at note 18 on the accounts.
The revenue profits of the 18 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Company including accumulated revenue reserves Borrowings are available for distribution by way of dividends to The Company has a 110 million 11.25% debenture the holders of the ordinary shares.
Upon a windingstock, which will be redeemed on 31 December up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the 2014 after twenty-five years.
The Company also surplus assets would be distributed to shareholders has a 575,000 4.25% perpetual debenture stock.
pro rata to their holdings of ordinary shares.
Information in relation to the debentures can be found At the Annual General Meeting held on 23 April in notes 14 and 17 on the accounts.
The Company 2013, shareholders renewed the Boards authority to also has the ability to use short-term borrowings by buy back up to 14.99% of the Companys ordinary way of loans and overdrafts, subject to the limits shares for cancellation.
A total of 6,832,000 shares set out above in the Companys investment policy were bought back and cancelled, representing 1.2% statement and in the debenture deeds.
A borrowing of of the shares in issue at 31 December 2012.
This 100 million is in place with JPMorgan Chase Bank in enhanced the net asset value per share by 0.5 pence.
the currency equivalents of US$80 million and 6,600 The purchases were made at prices ranging between million for a fixed term of seven years maturing in April 330.2 pence and 378.7 pence and the aggregate 2019.
There is also a multi-currency overdraft facility consideration paid for the shares, including stamp with this bank.
In September and December 2013 the duty and commissions, was 24,573,000.
There have existing multi-currency credit facilities with National been no buybacks between the date of the year end Australia Bank and Scotia Capital totalling 125 million and the date of this report.
These were replaced in December 2013 with a two-year 100 million facility with Royal Bank of Voting rights and proportional voting Scotland and a three-year facility with Scotia Capital.
At 28 February 2014 the Companys 570,359,016 Both of these facilities provide for a commitment of ordinary shares in issue represented a total of 100 million and the option to request an additional 570,359,016 voting rights.
As at 31 December commitment of 100 million.
Further reference is 2013 and since that date no notifications of made on page 8 and in notes 13 and 16 on the significant voting rights have been received under accounts.
the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Directors remuneration reports Approximately 45.3% of the Companys share The Directors remuneration policy and annual capital is held on behalf of non-discretionary clients report, which can be found on pages 29 to 31, through the F&C savings plans.
The nominee provide detailed information on the remuneration company holding these shares votes the shares arrangements for Directors of the Company.
Included held on behalf of planholders who have not is the Directors Remuneration Policy for the first time, returned their voting directions in proportion to the which shareholders will be asked to approve at the directions of those who have proportional voting.
Shareholders Implementation of this arrangement is subject to will also be asked to approve the Directors Annual a minimum threshold of 5% of the shares held in Report on Remuneration Resolution 3. the savings plans being voted.
A maximum limit of 647,000 shares that any one individual investor Director re-elections can vote, being approximately 5% of the minimum Other than Ms Francesca Ecsery who joined on threshold, also applies.
Any shares voted by an 1 August 2013, all the Directors held office throughout investor in excess of the maximum limit remain valid, the year under review and will stand for re-election but do not form part of the proportional voting basis.
by shareholders at the annual general meeting in Planholders have the right to exclude their shares accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate from the proportional voting arrangement.
Ms Ecsery will stand for election Resolution 12.
The Nomination Committee has considered each of these including a Report and Accounts 2013 19 Directors Report continued review of their status as independent directors.
The investment vehicles managed by F&C.
The amount Board has concurred with the Nomination Committees received was 7,300,000 2012: 6,228,000.
Note 4 assessment that each Director continues to make a on the accounts provides detailed information in valuable and effective contribution and remains relation to the management fee.
Sub-managers fees Directors interests and indemnification The Manager incurred investment management fees There were no contracts of significance to which the from the sub-managers appointed to manage the Company was a party and in which a Director is, North America portfolio.
The Company reimburses or was, materially interested during the year.
There the Manager for these fees, which in 2013 amounted are no agreements between the Company and its to 1.8 million 2011: 1.5 million see note 4 on the Directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
The Company has granted a deed of indemnity to the Directors in respect of liabilities that may Private equity managers fees attach to them in the capacity as Directors of the The fees paid to Pantheon and HarbourVest in respect Company.
This covers any liabilities that may arise of the private equity funds of funds amounted to 6.0 to a third party for negligence, default or breach of million for 2013 2012: 6.3 million of which 0.6 trust or duty.
The deed of indemnity has been in force million was paid directly and 5.4 million was incurred throughout the period under review and remains in indirectly through the funds.
Some of the funds have place as at the date of this report.
It is available for arrangements whereby these private equity managers inspection at the Companys registered office during share in the profits once certain hurdle rates of return normal business hours and at the Annual General to investors have been achieved.
The Company also maintains directors and are varied and complex, but are on normal commercial officers liability insurance.
terms within the private equity funds of funds industry.
Fees payable by the underlying funds are negotiated Safe custody of assets by Pantheon and HarbourVest.
The arrangements The Companys listed investments are held in safe also vary from fund to fund, but management fees of custody by the Custodian.
Operational matters with 2% per annum and a 20% carried interest, once an the Custodian are carried out on the Companys behalf agreed hurdle rate of return for investors has been by the Manager in accordance with the provisions achieved, would be normal.
A depositary will be appointed later in the year in accordance with the Foreign & Colonial and F&C Alternative Investment Fund Management Directive Once a subsidiary of Foreign & Colonial, F&C is now AIFMD.
owned by F&C Asset Management plc, a large panEuropean investment group listed on the London Greenhouse gas emissions Stock Exchange.
Foreign & Colonial has a long All of the Companys activities are outsourced to third association with F&C, having originally established parties.
As such it does not have any physical assets, and developed the business for the purpose of property, employees or operations of its own and does managing its assets as far back as 1953. not generate any greenhouse gas or other emissions.
Part of the legacy is that the names Foreign & Colonial and F&C are often used synonymously The Managers fees and incorrectly by commentators in the public arena.
The Manager receives an annual fee, which for the However, the companies each own their respective year under review was equal to 0.365% of the market names and are two distinct and completely capitalisation of the Company.
The fee is calculated independent entities.
The Companys relationship and paid monthly and is subject to a deduction with F&C is fully arms-length with no crossfor amounts earned from investments in other directorships or common share interests.
20 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Manager evaluation process Manager reappointment The Managers performance is considered at every The annual evaluation took place in January 2014 with Board meeting, with a formal evaluation in January of presentations from FCAMs Chief Executive Officer, each year.
For the purposes of its ongoing monitoring, Co Head of Investment, the Fund Manager and the the Board receives detailed reports and views from the Head of Investment Trusts.
This focused primarily Fund Manager on investment policy, asset allocation, on investment performance and an overview of the gearing and risk, together with quarterly presentations proposals for the agreed takeover of FCAM by Bank on the F&C managed regional portfolios.
With regard to performance, the Manager updates are received from the US sub-managers.
had beaten the Companys benchmark and the The Board also receives comprehensive performance weighted average of the net asset value total return of measurement schedules, provided by Morningstar UK the AIC Global sector over one, three and five years.
These enable it to assess the success It had underperformed slightly against the peer group or failure of the management of the total portfolio over ten years but had comfortably outperformed against the performance objectives set by the Board, to against the benchmark.
Asset allocation had been assess the sources of positive and negative contribution negative and gearing positive in a rising market.
Stock to the portfolio in terms of gearing, asset allocation selection had again been strong in Europe and North and stock selection and to assess the performance of America but was again disappointing in Emerging each region against its local index and the risk return Markets and Japan.
The UK had performed almost characteristics of the portfolio.
in line with the index but over longer periods had underperformed.
The Board noted F&Cs plans to Asset allocation, stock selection and gearing address this.
The Boards assessment also took into attribution account the progress that had been made with F&C % 1 year 3 years 5 years over objectives set for 2013 covering both investment Asset allocation 3.1 3.4 4.2 and marketing topics.
The Board met in closed session following the Stock selection 1.1 1.6 0.7 presentations and concluded that in their opinion the Gearing 3.2 5.1 7.3 continuing appointment of F&C as Manager on the Based on debt at market value.
terms agreed was in the interests of shareholders as The table shows the contributions to total return versus the Companys benchmark from asset allocation, stock selection and gearing decisions a whole.
over one, three and five years.
Source: F&C Regional portfolio attribution in Sterling 1 year % 3 years % 5 years % Index Index Index Region Return return Return return Return return UK 18.7 18.9 23.2 28.9 77.9 92.1 North America 35.1 28.3 57.7 43.8 124.7 96.6 Europe ex UK 29.6 26.5 52.2 26.9 99.7 60.9 Japan 23.0 25.0 7.3 12.4 17.0 26.1 Emerging Markets 7.4 4.1 14.4 10.3 61.6 75.8 # Global Income 8.9 # Global Funds 1.3 Private Equity 8.2 29.1 33.4 Returns are cumulative # Established 22 January 2013 Source: F&C Report and Accounts 2013 21 Directors Report continued North American performance US Dollars 31 December 2013 12 month Value % of US performance US$m Portfolio % T Rowe Price US Large Cap Growth 566.7 43.9 41.9 Barrow Hanley US Large Cap Value 568.1 44.0 34.7 US Smaller Companies F&C managed portfolio 155.1 12.1 34.5 Total North America portfolio 1,289.9 100.0 37.7 S&P 500 Total Return Index 32.4 Russell 1000 Value Index 32.5 Russell 1000 Growth Index 31.3 Russell 2000 Index 38.8 The mandate aims to outperform the S&P 500 benchmark index by 2% per annum, annualised on a rolling three year basis.
Source: F&C Private equity portfolio Cumulative Commitment Cumulative Value of Original commitment outstanding cash holding commitment drawn down 31 December returned 31 December 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 2013 290,000 260,875 29,125 176,898 174,795 Total Euro denominated portfolio 2012 290,000 251,375 38,625 132,537 197,214 US$000s US$000s US$000s US$000s US$000s 2013 589,050 500,490 88,560 255,712 408,328 Total US Dollar denominated portfolio 2012 589,050 474,129 114,921 166,119 428,606 Commitment Value of outstanding holding 31 December 31 December 2013 2013 000s 000s 1 Total private equity portfolio Brought forward 102,027 424,107 2 Committed in 2013 2 Cash drawn in 2013 24,612 24,612 2 94,707 Cash returned in 2013 3 Valuation movements 36,284 Exchange movements 287 1,665 3 Total private equity portfolio Carried forward 77,702 391,961 1 At exchange rates ruling at 31 December 2012 2 At actual exchange rates in 2013 3 At exchange rates ruling at 31 December 2013 Source: F&C 22 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Annual General Meeting them to existing shareholders in proportion to The Annual General Meeting will be held at Merchant their holdings.
Resolution 16 gives the Directors Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2 the necessary authority to allot securities up on Tuesday, 29 April 2014 at 12 noon.
The Notice to an aggregate nominal amount of 7,129,000 of Annual General Meeting appears on pages 67 28,516,000 ordinary shares, being equivalent to to 70 and includes a map of the venue.
The Fund approximately 5% of the issued share capital, with Manager will give a presentation and there will be the power to allot such securities for cash otherwise an opportunity to meet the new Fund Manager and than to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis.
The ask questions during the meeting.
Shareholders authority and power expires at the conclusion of the will be able to meet the Directors informally over annual general meeting in 2015. refreshments after the meeting.
This authority and power provides the Directors with a degree of flexibility to increase the assets of Authority for the Company to purchase its own the Company by the issue of new shares, should any shares Resolution 15 favourable opportunities arise to the advantage of Resolution 15 authorises the Company to purchase shareholders.
in the market up to a maximum of 85,450,000 The Directors can, if necessary, use the authority ordinary shares equivalent to approximately and power to satisfy demand from participants in 14.99% of the issued share capital for cancellation the F&C Private Investor, Pension Savings or at a minimum price of 25 pence per share and a Childrens Investment Plans, the F&C Child Trust maximum price per share of not more than 5% above Fund, Junior ISA or an F&C Individual Savings the average of the middle market quotations for an Account the F&C Savings Plans when they ordinary share as derived from the London Stock believe it is advantageous to such participants and Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days the Companys shareholders to do so.
Under no immediately before the date of purchase.
circumstances would the Directors use the authority The Directors would continue to use this authority in and power to issue shares at a price which would accordance with the strategy set out on page 7. result in a dilution of net asset value per ordinary Purchased shares will continue to be cancelled.
Purchases of ordinary shares under the authority will be financed out of realised revenue and or capital Amendments to the articles of association reserves and funded from the Companys own cash Resolution 17 resources or, if appropriate, from short-term borrowings.
It is proposed that the Company adopt new articles The authority to purchase ordinary shares will of association.
The proposed new articles reflect continue until the annual general meeting in 2015. further changes in company and tax laws and The Board intends to seek a renewal of such relevant corporate governance rules and practices.
authority at subsequent annual general meetings.
The Company will be an alternative investment fund for the purposes of the AIFMD.
It is therefore Authority of Directors to allot shares proposed to amend the articles of association in Resolution 16 order to reflect certain requirements arising as a Resolution 16 is similar in content to the authority result of the implementation of the Directive.
and power given to the Directors at previous annual In particular, the articles of association have general meetings.
By law, directors are not permitted been amended so that the Board may authorise to allot new shares or to grant rights over shares a depositary appointed by the Company to avail unless authorised to do so by shareholders.
In itself of a contractual discharge of liability in certain addition, directors require specific authority from circumstances, and provided always that other shareholders before allotting new shares or granting conditions for such discharge have been met.
rights over shares for cash, without first offering Report and Accounts 2013 23 Directors Report continued There have been recent changes to UK tax All proxy appointments should in any event be and corporate laws concerning investment trusts returned or lodged so as to be received not later than and investment companies.
As a result of these 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the changes, the requirement for such companies to Annual General Meeting.
have a restriction in their articles of association prohibiting the distribution of realised capital profits Form of direction and proportional voting has been removed.
Accordingly, it is proposed that If you are an investor in any of the F&C Savings the Companys articles of association be amended Plans, you will have received a form of direction to reflect the new position.
Note, however, that the for use at the Annual General Meeting and you Board has no current intention of paying dividends will also have the option of lodging your voting out of capital.
The Manager operates The full terms of the proposed new articles of a proportional voting arrangement, which is explained association including a copy marked to show on page 19. changes to the existing articles of association All voting directions should be made as soon as will be available for inspection at the Companys possible in accordance with the instructions on the registered office.
form of direction and, in any event, not later than 96 hours before the time appointed for holding the VOTING meeting, so that the nominee company can submit a Form of proxy form of proxy before the 48 hour period begins.
If you are a registered shareholder you will find enclosed a form of proxy for use at the Annual General Recommendation Meeting.
You will also have the option of lodging your Your Board considers that the resolutions to be proxy vote using the Internet.
For shares held through proposed at the Meeting are in the best interests CREST, proxy appointments may be submitted via the of shareholders as a whole.
The Board therefore CREST proxy voting system.
Please either complete, recommends that shareholders vote in favour of each sign and return the form of proxy in the envelope resolution, as the Directors intend to do in respect of provided as soon as possible in accordance with the their own beneficial holdings.
instructions or, alternatively, lodge your proxy vote via the Internet or the CREST proxy voting system, whether or not you intend to be present at the Annual By order of the Board, General Meeting.
This will not preclude you from for and on behalf of F&C Management Limited, attending and voting in person if you wish to do so.
Secretary 3 March 2014 24 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
