32 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 Board of Directors 1.
Ian Gorham, ACA Chairman, 52 Chief Executive Officer, 41 Appointed Chairman in December 2009 Appointed CEO in September 2010 Chairman of the Nomination Committee, member of the Remuneration Committee Ian joined Hargreaves Lansdown in 2009 as Chief Operating Officer.
Previously he 1 Michael became a non-executive director of qualified as a Chartered Accountant, and the Company in September 2006.
Michael worked for Deloitte where he helped build is a qualified actuary with 31 years' industry their UK financial services operations and experience.
He is also a non-executive was Head of Grant Thornton's UK financial director of esure Group PLC, CBRE Global services business.
Ian has worked with Investors Group UK Limited and Chesnara many financial services companies on a PLC.
He is a member of the advisory board wide range of strategic and operational of Spectrum Corporate Finance and chairs matters.
Ian holds no external Director the board of Trustees of Wessex Heartbeat.
Michael was formerly Chief Operating 2 Officer at Skandia UK Limited.
Peter Hargreaves, FCA Chief Financial Officer, 41 Executive Director, 66 Appointed Chief Financial Officer in Appointed to his current role in September 3 November 2008 2010 formerly CEO Tracey joined Hargreaves Lansdown in Peter co-founded Hargreaves Lansdown 1999.
Her previous responsibilities within in 1981, and was Chief Executive of the the Group have included the operational Group until September 2010.
Previously, areas of IT systems and client accounting, he qualified as a Chartered Accountant group finance, treasury and the company and worked for KPMG, Unisys Group secretarial function.
In 2006 Tracey was and Whitbread Plc.
Peter is also a nonappointed to the role of Group Accounting executive director of ITM Power PLC Director and to the Executive Committee 4 before being appointed to the main Board in 2008.
Prior to joining Hargreaves Lansdown she qualified as an accountant before working for LloydsTSB.
Tracey holds no external Director appointments.
co. uk Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 33 5.
Dharmash Mistry, BA Oxon, MEng Non-Executive Director, 57 Non-Executive Director, 43 Appointed Non-Executive Director in Appointed Non-Executive Director in August 2010.
Member of the Audit October 2011.
Member of the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee 5 Chris has over 30 years IT industry Dharmash is a former partner at Balderton experience and formerly held senior IT Capital LLC, one of Europes leading roles in Cable & Wireless and Reuters.
He venture capital firms and a non-executive is the co-founder of Actinic, the software director at Dixons Retail plc.
Prior to company specialising in ecommerce this he served on the board of Lovefilm solutions for SMEs.
Chris is Chairman of AMZN and was Group Managing Director Private Software Limited, and its wholly of Emap Consumer Media.
He started his owned subsidiaries, including SellerDeck career as a Brand Manager at Procter and Limited, director of Powered Now Limited, Gamble, followed by a period at The Boston 6 and non-executive director of i-KMP Consulting group Limited.
Jonathan Bloomer, FCA Non-Executive Director, 58 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, 59 Appointed Non-Executive Director in 7 October 2011.
Member of the Audit Appointed Non-Executive Director in Committee & Nomination Committee September 2006.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee, Stephen is a non-executive director of member of the Nomination Committee Timpson Group plc and Chairman of Business West Ltd. Stephens career has Jonathan was formerly a partner of spanned 14 years on the boards of major Cerberus European Capital Advisors, UK retailers and earlier roles with Mars the UK arm of Cerberus Capital and has Inc, Unilever and Alberto-Culver.
Stephen previously been the Chief Executive of served for seven years as Marketing Lucida plc and Group Chief Executive of 8 Director at B&Q plc before leading the Prudential.
He also spent twenty years in acquisition of Screwfix Direct which he then practice with Arthur Andersen LLP and was chaired.
Previous positions also include Chairman of the Practitioner Panel of the board membership of Woolworth plc and FSA.
His previous positions also include Director of Communications at Kingfisher board membership of the Association plc.
He is a former Chairman, and now of British Insurers, Geneva Association, fellow, of the Marketing Society, and is Railtrack plc and Autonomy plc.
Jonathan former Director General of British Retail is also a Trustee and the Treasurer of the Consortium BRC.
NSPCC, and non-executive Chairman of JLT Employee Benefits Group.
