14 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 Strategic priorities and progress Strategic objectives Attract and retain clients Generate profitable growth Our aims Excellent service Asset gathering Continued commercial improvements Progress the Investment Supermarket Our 2013 priorities to services to enhance the client strategy.
Continued energy into new initiatives, Extend the channels by which clients can such as Corporate Vantage and autouse our services.
Maximizing the use of mobile and digital media.
Preparation for the implementation of RDR.
In 2013 we maintained our excellent In 2013, assets under administration Progress against our objectives client retention rate of 94.5%.
The 96% of clients responding to a May 2013 asset retention rate remained very high survey rated our service as good, very at 93.6%.
Corporate Vantage service gained an Extended online services, further additional 31 corporate clients during the developments to iPhone and Android year with AUA as at 30 June 2013 of 355 apps and development of an iPad app for million 2012: 95 million.
Value of transfers into Vantage up 52% Family linked accounts introduced.
and wider research coverage to enhance Continued focus and refinement of digital the client experience.
Superclean funds better deals on Preparation for the implementation of investment funds to reduce the total RDR.
Campaign on issues which affect our clients.
co. uk Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 15 Strategic priorities and progress Increase shareholder value Satisfying careers for staff Our business model Efficiency improvements Quality staff Fund supermarkets and wrap platforms typically focus on servicing the IFA community.
Our investment Continued operational efficiency Continue to offer share-based incentives supermarket goes direct to the improvements, with particular focus to all staff where feasible to encourage private investor.
The Hargreaves on extending the range and take up of share ownership amongst staff.
Lansdown business model allows paperless and online services.
Ensure that remuneration schemes are in us to offer highly competitive prices Continued investment into IT, focus on line with shareholder interests and foster to our clients and achieve strong mobile and digital technologies.
We aim to create shareholder value by retaining our position as the best place in The proportion of Vantage clients who Continued to develop financial advisers the UK for private investors to buy manage their investments online has through our internal apprenticeship investments.
increased with 90% of share dealing in programme.
Assisted 152 staff across the company in Our strategy is focused on growing 81% of our clients have registered for taking professional exams.
the value of assets we have under online access 2012: 78%.
Recruited additional IT developers and administration or management We have invested in our IT development improved project management process.
and consequently increasing capacity and initiatives to future proof Retained all key management.
our systems: principally through the Continued use of share incentives for key The growth is delivered through recruitment of additional staff.
staff and SAYE scheme for all staff.
84.1% providing an excellent service to our Cost ratio costs as a proportion of AUA of eligible staff are in one or more SAYE clients whilst maintaining tight cost reduced by 3.7bps to 24.5bps.
control and achieving efficiencies in order to improve our profit margin.
Focus on industry automation Continue to offer share-based incentives improvements, including electronic reto all staff where feasible to encourage registration.
