2 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 Visit the website for the full range of services: www.
co. uk investment-services Our services Hargreaves Lansdown aims to help each client make more of their money throughout their life.
We have established a reputation for providing high quality service and value-for-money products to private investors, whether they are making their own investment decisions or looking for an advisory or discretionary service.
Vantage Revenue 227.2m 22% Vantage is a one-stop shop for investments.
Changed all Corporate Vantage Clients can hold all their funds, shares, my small pension plans gathered over ETFs, bonds, investment trusts, ISAs and In addition to services for private individuals the years to HL.
They fully kept me self-invested personal pensions SIPPs in a we are a leading provider and broker of single, low cost, easy-to-manage place.
informed of each stage of the process corporate pension and wrap solutions.
Our corporate wrap allows employees to benefit and progress.
Any questions I had were Whether a first time investor or wanting to from the Hargreaves Lansdown Vantage dealt with quickly and efficiently - would improve the way that existing investments service via their workplace.
are managed, our aim is to give our Vantage includes award-winning SIPP, ISA, clients all the tools, help and information Fund and Share accounts.
Mr Wade they need to make their own investment Norwich decisions and save money.
In effect we Aside from Vantage, Hargreaves Lansdown want to help people become their own also provides other services to companies financial adviser.
including a market-leading retirement and annuity broking service allowing employees The Vantage Service allows clients to to obtain a higher income via our annuity bring all their ISAs, Pensions SIPPs, and search engine.
Our Corporate annuity funds and share accounts into one easy and Corporate Vantage wrap services are to manage place.
provided to many household names: Clients can consolidate their investments for example, pensions accumulated in previous employment into the Vantage service to keep track of their investments and manage them in one place.
Clients can manage their investments by telephone, post, online or mobile.
Either way, by dealing with us directly, they can save time and money.
co. uk Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 3 Discretionary service and managed funds Revenue 34.1m 25% rebalanced to maintain the investment Whether they are a first time investor in Portfolio Management Service objectives.
Where necessary, changes are need of a simple way to invest in the stock If clients are not able to give their made to the portfolios by the investment market or a more experienced investor investment portfolio the attention it manager.
looking for a broadly based fund around deserves, our solution is the Portfolio which to group specialised holdings, Management Service.
each HL Multi-Manager fund provides HL Multi-Manager Funds a professionally monitored portfolio of Our experienced investment managers HL Multi-Manager funds offer a broad, what we believe are some of the best fund work closely with our research analysts managed portfolio of funds through a managers in their field.
to continually find the best fund managers single investment, for those who wish to for our portfolios.
The portfolios are leave the choice of underlying funds to our constantly reviewed by the manager and experts.
Third party and other services Revenue 31.1m 21% The Third Party and Other services division providers across the open market.
The For those who prefer to hold paper share distributes investment products that are not online annuity service is clear and simple to certificates our low cost, quick and easy held in Vantage accounts.
use, and is supported by our knowledgeable Certificated Share Dealing Service allows annuity specialists who are available to clients to buy or sell shares in certificated answer any query.
We also make this form without fuss or inconvenience.
Annuities service - a retirement annuity service available to employers for service that could increase income use by their employees.
Other Services by up to 40% For those who prefer more flexibility and We offer a foreign currency service to both As the UK's number one annuity broker accept a higher risk approach, we also private clients and companies and for more source: MyTouchstone we help individuals offer a very competitive Vantage Income sophisticated investors we offer the ability obtain a superior retirement income.
Our Drawdown service to be used alongside to invest in Venture Capital Trusts VCTs, annuity service enables clients to find a or as an alternative to a secured annuity Contracts For Difference and Financial better pension income - in some health or income.
lifestyle cases it can improve income by up to 40%.
We provide instant personal Certificated share dealing no obligation quotes completely online in minutes, allowing clients to compare live Most clients prefer the convenience and annuity rates from the UK's top annuity cost of the Vantage share dealing service.
co. uk 4 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 Why clients choose Hargreaves Lansdown On this page we have set out some of the reasons why clients choose to use Hargreaves Lansdown.
When choosing an investment service, the four most important considerations are: 1.
Value for money I am always impressed with the Hargreaves Lansdown is a trusted brand excellent service from HL.
Whether and a financially secure business.
We offer an exceptional range of investments online or by phone, transactions are and services, and have invested in skilled always dealt speedily and efficiently.
helpdesk staff and the latest technology to Your advisers are always helpful ensure that we provide a consistently high and knowledgeable and phones are quality, accessible and convenient service.
Helpdesk We do not set out to be the cheapest: answered immediately.
instead we aim to offer the best value.
Mr Elliot We offer a range of information, tools and Newcastle-upon-Tyne services for clients who prefer to choose their own investment as well as financial advice for those who want more help.
I am most impressed with every aspect of the HL service.
Queries have been We aim to provide the best service, best answered promptly and courteously information and best prices to ensure that and processing of documentation has we remain the best place in the UK to buy iPhone App investments.
Mrs Dover Harrogate Data security www.
co. uk Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 5 Trust and security Excellent service A recognised, trusted and financially 96% of clients rated our service as secure FTSE100 business.
excellent, very good or good.
Dedicated to keeping our clients' investments safe and secure.
Based on a survey of 13,833 respondents in May 2013.
Convenience and ease Savings, value for money Our mobile App has been In the last year we saved clients downloaded 125,000 times.
more than 234 million on investment charges.
Helpful and Trusted source of useful, knowledgeable staff independent information The average call response time of The number of visits to our website our helpdesks is 10 seconds.
Investment experts Choice We have been helping clients A wide range of investments - to make the most of their 2,500 funds, plus UK, US and investments since 1981.
European shares, investment trusts, gilts, ETFs, bonds and cash.
Advice when you need it Client focussed improvement We offer financial advice, We listen to our clients.
Their financial planning and portfolio feedback is key to how we improve management.
Or tools and support and grow our services.
co. uk 6 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 Best service Best information Best prices Best service i Best information Clients can manage investments online, We place enormous emphasis on in each sector, Master Portfolios for via our smartphone apps, by post or research.
Open the money pages of any those who want a starting point for an phone.
quality weekend newspaper and you will investment portfolio, and a range of multiCalls answered in less than 10 seconds almost always see one of our experts manager funds for those who wish to go on average.
No automated lines, no quoted.
one step further and leave the choice of 'press one for this, or two for that, our We monitor over 90% of the funds that underlying funds entirely to our experts.
clients speak to a person based here in our clients hold by number of investors, Weekly sector reports from Shares our Bristol office straightaway.
regularly sending updates by email.
We Magazine and daily market updates by We have more than 100 highly also provide stock market research.
Staying up-to-date knowledgeable and friendly helpdesk Portfolio analysis tools are available online with market news could not be easier.
staff who assist clients each day.
clients can view detailed geographical Thousands of fund and share factsheets Direct dealing line.
Limit, fill or kill and and sector breakdowns of their portfolio to available online, with charts and tools worked orders on shares.
show exactly where they are invested.
enabling clients to carry out their own Most emails answered within 4 hours, Our latest investment ideas via our analysis.
acclaimed newsletter, the Investment Share price and news alerts service - Our linked accounts service allows Times, along with investment research instant notification by email if a share clients to manage all their familys and market comment to keep clients up to falls or rises to your desired price target.
accounts from a single log in.
Clients can also register to receive the Clients receive one valuation for all their Our research team also produce the latest company announcements, as they ISAs, funds, shares and pension cutting Wealth 150 - a list of our favourite funds are released, directly to their email inbox.
paperwork and making it easier to stay in control.
Clients receive one consolidated tax certificate making tax returns easier to complete.
We continually invest to further improve our services.
Investment Times iPad magazine www.
co. uk Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 7 Very impressed with the efficiency and friendliness of HL staff - also with the discounts offered on dealing charges.
I enjoy the challenge and responsibility of selecting my own choice of investments from the HL range of funds.
Mr Stainer Warwickshire Best Prices Initial discounts of up to 5.5% available on over 2,200 funds - saving up to 550 on a 10,000 investment.
Annual savings of up to 0.5% on over 1,000 funds - saving another 100 per year on a holding of 40,000 with a typical loyalty bonus of 0.25%.
No dealing commission charges to buy, sell or switch investment funds.
Share dealing from 5.95 per deal and clients never pay more than 11.95 per deal online.
We also offer a telephone dealing service.
Price improvement service on share deals - when clients place a share deal, our price improvement system instantaneously requests quotes from up to 30 London Stock Exchange market makers and returns the best price for the deal.
Using so many market makers Our Research Team means that in many cases we can get a better price than quoted on the market.
We employ more than 100 technical and IT staff working across IT development, Our website and digital apps support, infrastructure and security.
This constant investment has enabled During the financial year our website The iPhone and Android apps have been us to keep our systems and operations www.
co. uk was visited 44.5 million downloaded more than 125,000 times efficient and scalable, meaning that we times, up 46% on the previous year.
since their launch in August 2011.
We are can deliver both an excellent and great These visits gave rise to over 466 million continuing to build on this success with value service to our clients.
In August 2013 our website enhancements to the existing apps and the was ranked 5th in the UK Business and development of an iPad app which will be Finance - Stocks and Shares category launched late 2013. by Experian Hitwise compared to 7th in August 2012. www.
