STRATEGIC REPORT Business model and status The Company is an investment company within the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
It was approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust under Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the year ended 31 December 2012, subject to matters that may arise from any subsequent enquiry by HM Revenue & Customs into the Companys tax return.
In the opinion of the Directors the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so as to enable it to continue to seek such approval.
In accordance with recent changes to Section 1158, the Company has obtained approval as an investment trust from HM Revenue & Customs for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2013.
Objective The Companys objective is to achieve capital appreciation through investments in smaller quoted companies, in the areas of telecommunications, multi-media and technology TMT.
Investments may be made across the world.
The business activities of investee companies will include information technology, broadcasting, printing and publishing and the supply of equipment and services to these companies.
Investment policy strategy While the policy is global investment in the above target areas, the approach is to construct a diversified portfolio through the identification of individual companies which offer long term growth potential, typically over a five year horizon or more.
The portfolio is actively managed and does not seek to track any comparative index.
With a remit to invest in smaller companies with market capitalisation generally below 1bn, there tends to be a correlation with the performance of smaller companies, as well as those of the technology sector.
A degree of volatility relative to the overall market should be expected.
The risk associated with the illiquidity of smaller companies is reduced by generally restricting the stake in any one company to less than 10% of the shares in issue.
A number of investments are in early stage companies, which have a higher stock specific risk but the potential for above average growth.
Stock specific risk is reduced by having a diversified portfolio of over 250 holdings.
In addition, to contain the risk of any one holding, the Manager generally takes profits when a holding reaches more than 5% of the portfolio.
The Manager actively manages the exposure within the constraint that illiquid positions cannot be traded for short term movements.
The Company has a policy not to invest more than 15% of gross assets in other UK listed investment companies.
From time to time, fixed interest holdings, non equity or unlisted investments may be held on an opportunistic basis.
The Company recognises the long term advantages of gearing and has a maximum gearing limit of 50% of net assets.
Borrowings are invested primarily in equity markets but the Manager is entitled to invest in other securities in the companies in the target areas when it is considered that the investment grounds merit the Company taking a geared position.
The Boards intention is to gear the portfolio when appropriate.
Gearing levels are monitored closely by the Manager and reviewed by Directors at each board meeting.
The Company may use derivatives which will be principally, but not exclusively, for the purpose of efficient portfolio management i. e. for the purpose of reducing, transferring or eliminating investment risk in its investments, including protection against currency risk.
A detailed analysis of the Companys investment portfolio is set out on pages 16 to 20 and in the Investment Managers Report.
Performance and key performance indicators KPIs At each board meeting, the Directors consider a number of performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving its objectives.
The KPIs used to measure the progress and performance of the Company over time are established industry measures and are as follows: the movement in net asset value per ordinary share compared to the comparative index: the movement in the share price: the discount: and the ongoing charges.
A historical record of these measures is shown on pages 2, 3 and 21.
Share capital At 31 December 2013 the Companys capital structure consisted of 77,679,546 Ordinary shares of 25p each 2012 79,323,283 Ordinary shares.
During the year 1,643,737 2012 375,000 shares were bought back and cancelled.
There are no restrictions concerning the holding or transfer of the Companys Ordinary shares and there are no special rights attached to any of the shares.
On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the surplus assets would be paid to Ordinary shareholders in proportion to their shareholdings.
indd 22 05 03 2014 09:01 STRATEGIC REPORT continued Borrowings see note 11 of the financial statements The Company repaid 25million of its RBS Loan Facility on 31 October 2013. Review of the year and future trends A review of the year and the investment outlook is contained in the Chairmans Statement and the Investment Managers Report on pages 5 to 11.
Principal risks and uncertainties The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities and its principal risks are therefore market related and include market risk comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of those risks and how they are managed is contained in note 20 to the accounts on pages 50 to 57.
Other risks faced by the Company include the following: Regulatory risk failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements could lead to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange Listing, financial penalties or a qualified audit report.
Breach of Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could lead to the Company being subject to tax on capital gains.
The Manager and Administrator provide regular reports to the Audit Committee on their monitoring programmes.
The Manager monitors investment positions and the Administrator monitors the level of forecast income and expenditure to ensure the provisions of Sections 1158 and 1159 are not breached.
Major regulatory change could impose disproportionate compliance burdens on the Company.
In such circumstances representation is made to ensure that special circumstances of investment trusts are recognised.
Operational financial risk failure of the Administrators accounting systems or those of other third party service providers could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring or a misappropriation of assets.
The Manager, Administrator and Company Secretary each have a comprehensive business continuity plan which facilitates continued operation of the business in the event of a service disruption or major disruption.
The Audit Committee reviews the Administrators Report on Internal Controls and the reports by other key third party providers are reviewed by the Administrator on behalf of the Audit Committee.
Discount volatility the discount at which the Companys shares trade can widen.
The Board monitors the level of discount and the Company has authority to buy back its own shares.
Gearing risk the Company may borrow money for investment purposes.
If the investments fall in value, any borrowings will magnify the extent of this loss.
If borrowing facilities are not renewed, the Company may have to sell investments to repay borrowings.
All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board and gearing levels are discussed by the Board and Manager at every meeting.
The majority of the Companys investments are in quoted securities.
Employees, social and community issues, gender The Company has no employees.
Its board is made up of five directors, all male.
As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social or community responsibilities.
However, the Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and governance factors when selecting and retaining investments.
Details of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment can be found under the section on stewardship later in this report.
Investment management, strategy implementation and administration The management of the Company and the implementation of its investment strategy is contracted to Herald Investment Management Limited HIML.
HIML is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
The management contract is subject to 12 months notice by either party.
The senior director of HIML with prime responsibility for the management of the Companys portfolio is Katie Potts, who is also a substantial shareholder of HIML.
HIML is remunerated at a monthly rate of 0.08333% of the Companys net asset value calculated using middle market prices.
Compensation fees would only be payable in respect of this 12 month period if termination were to occur sooner.
Careful consideration has been given by the Board as to the basis on which the management fee is charged.
The Board considers that maintaining a relatively low level of ongoing charges is in the best interest of all shareholders.
The Board is also of the view that calculating the fee with reference to performance would be unlikely to exert a positive influence over the long term performance.
At 31 December 2013, Katie Potts held 317,752 of the Companys shares.
At 31 December 2013, the Company was the beneficial owner of 14.5% of the Ordinary share capital of HIML Holdings Limited, the parent company of HIML.
Administration of the Company and its investments was contracted by HIML to Baillie Gifford & Co, who also acted as Company Secretary.
Following notice from Baillie Gifford & Co to terminate these arrangements, The Bank of New York Mellon BNYM was appointed as Administrator and Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited as company secretary.
The handover took place on 31 October 2013 and the new arrangements have worked well so far.
HERALD INVESTMENT TRUST plc 23 106988 Herald AR 1213-v10.
indd 23 05 03 2014 09:01 STRATEGIC REPORT continued The Board considers the investment management and secretarial arrangements for the Company on a continuing basis and a formal review is conducted annually.
The Board considers, amongst others, the following topics in its review: investment performance in relation to the investment policy and strategy: the continuity of personnel managing the assets and reporting to the Board: the level of service provided in terms of the accuracy and timeliness of reports to the Board and the frequency and quality of both verbal and written communications with shareholders.
Following the most recent review the Board is of the opinion that the continued appointment of HIML as investment manager, on the terms agreed, is in the interests of shareholders due to the experience of the Manager and the quality of information provided to the Board.
Stewardship responsibilities as an institutional shareholder The Company has given discretionary voting powers to the investment manager, HIML.
The Manager votes against resolutions it considers may damage shareholders rights or economic interests.
The Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and governance ESG factors when selecting and retaining investments and has asked the Manager to take these issues into account as long as the investment objectives are not compromised.
The Manager does not exclude companies from its investment universe purely on the grounds of ESG issues but adopts a positive engagement approach whereby matters are discussed with management with the aim of improving the relevant policies and management systems and enabling the Manager to consider how ESG factors could impact long term investment returns.
The Managers Statement of Compliance with the UK Stewardship Code can be found on the Managers website at www.
The Managers policy has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
Dividends The Ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends.
Interim dividends are determined by the Directors and final dividends are subject to shareholder approval.
By order of the Board Julian Cazalet Chairman 25 February 2014 24 106988 Herald AR 1213-v10.
