COMPANY SUMMARY COMPANY DATA AT 31 DECEMBER 2013 Total assets Shareholders funds Market capitalisation 663m 624m 532m Before deduction of bank loans and derivative financial instruments.
Policy and Objective Heralds objective is to achieve capital appreciation through investments in smaller quoted companies in the areas of telecommunications, multimedia and technology TMT.
Investments may be made across the world.
The business activities of investee companies will include information technology, broadcasting, printing and publishing and the supply of equipment and services to these companies.
The Companys investment policy is contained within the Strategic Report on page 22.
Comparative Index The portfolio comparative index against which performance is measured is 2 3 Numis Smaller Companies Index previously Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index plus AIM ex.
investment companies and 1 3 Russell 2000 small cap Technology Index in sterling terms.
Though we consider this comparative index to provide a reasonable base for measuring the Companys performance, the portfolio is not modelled on it and outcomes may diverge widely.
Management Details Herald Investment Management Limited HIML is the appointed investment manager to the Company.
The management contract can be terminated at twelve months notice.
Administration of the Company and its investments is contracted by HIML to The Bank of New York Mellon.
The Company Secretary is Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited.
Capital Structure The Companys share capital consists of 77,679,546 Ordinary shares of 25p each which are issued and fully paid.
The Company has been granted authority to buy back a limited number of its own Ordinary shares for cancellation.
During the year 1,643,737 Ordinary shares were bought back and cancelled.
The Directors are seeking to renew this authority at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Management Fee HIMLs annual remuneration is 1.0% of the Companys net asset value based on middle market prices, calculated on a monthly basis payable in arrears.
Continuation At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in April 2013 shareholders voted in favour of the Companys continuing to operate as an investment trust.
The next continuation vote will be at the Annual General Meeting in April 2016 and every third year thereafter.
AIC The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
None of the views expressed in this document should be construed as advice to buy or sell a particular investment.
Investment trusts are UK public listed companies and as such comply with the listing rules of the UK Listing Authority, which is a division of the Financial Conduct Authority.
HERALD INVESTMENT TRUST plc 1 106988 Herald AR 1213-v10.
