Board of Directors Left to right: Sarah Evans, Chris Russell, Graham Picken, John Hallam, Susie Farnon and Ian Russell CBE The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and independent of the Investment Adviser, are listed below.
Mr Graham Picken 64 Chairman Mrs Sarah Evans 58 Appointed to the Board 12 January 2006 Appointed to the Board 9 June 2008 Graham Picken British, resident in the UK, is an experienced banker Sarah Evans British, resident in Guernsey, is a Chartered and financial practitioner and has been Chairman of the Company Accountant and a non-executive director of several other listed since its launch.
Appointed a non-executive director of Skipton investment funds, as well as the Guernsey subsidiary of a global Building Society in January 2012, he was formerly, a non-executive bank and an unlisted fund of hedge funds.
She spent over six years director of the Derbyshire Building Society, where he became Chief with the Barclays Bank PLC group from 1994 to 2001.
During that Executive in February 2008 and led the society to a merger with time she was a treasury director and from 1996 to 1998 she was Nationwide Building Society in December 2008, before standing Finance Director of Barclays Mercantile, where she was responsible down at the end of March 2009.
Until 2003, Grahams career spanned for all aspects of financial control and operational risk management.
over thirty years with Midland and HSBC Banks where, before he Prior to joining Barclays she ran her own consultancy business retired, he was General Manager of HSBC Bank plc responsible for advising financial institutions on all aspects of securitisation.
From commercial and corporate banking including specialised and equity 1982 to 1988 she was with Kleinwort Benson, latterly as head of finance.
Before that Graham was Chief Executive of Forward Trust group finance.
She is a member of the Institute of Directors.
Group, an authorised bank, and Chairman of First Direct, a division of HSBC Bank plc.
Other public company directorships listed in London : Crystal Amber Fund Limited listed on AIM Graham has no other listed company directorships.
CQS Diversified Fund Limited Harbourvest Senior Loans Europe Limited H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 41 Board of Directors continued Mrs Sally-Ann Farnon 53 Mr Chris Russell 64 Appointed to the Board on 1 May 2013 Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2010.
Sally-Ann Farnon known as Susie Guernsey, resident in Guernsey, Chris Russell British, is a Guernsey resident non-executive director is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and of investment and financial companies in the UK, Hong Kong and Wales and qualified in 1983.
She was a Banking and Finance Partner Guernsey.
He is Chairman of F&C Commercial Property Trust Ltd and with KPMG Channel Islands from 1990 until 2001 and Head of Audit Deputy Chairman of the UK trade body, the Association of Investment KPMG Channel Islands from 1999.
She has served as President of the Companies.
Chris was formerly a director of Gartmore Investment Guernsey Society of Chartered and Certified Accountants and as a Management Plc, where he was Head of Gartmores businesses in member of The States of Guernsey Audit Commission and The the US and Japan.
Before that he was a holding board director of the Guernsey Public Accounts Committee.
She is Vice-Chairman of The Jardine Fleming Group in Asia.
He is a Fellow of the UK Society of Guernsey Financial Services Commission and a Non-Executive Investment Professionals and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Director of a number of property and investment companies.
Other public company directorships Other public company directorships listed in London unless noted otherwise : listed in London unless noted otherwise : Breedon Aggregates Limited listed on AIM JP Morgan Japan Smaller Companies Trust plc Cenkos Channel Islands Limited listed on CISX Macau Property Opportunities Fund Limited Dexion Absolute Limited Standard Life Investments Property and Income Trust Limited Mr Ian Russell 60 Appointed to the Board on 1 May 2013 Mr John Hallam 64 Senior Independent Director Ian Russell CBE British, is resident in the UK and is a qualified Appointed to the Board 12 January 2006 accountant.
He worked for Scottish Power plc between 1994 and 2006, initially as Finance Director and from 2001 as its CEO.
Prior to John Hallam British, resident in Guernsey, is a Fellow of the this he spent 8 years as Finance Director at HSBC Asset Management Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and in Hong Kong and London.
qualified as an accountant in 1971.
He is a former partner of  having retired in 1999 after 27 years with Other public company directorships the firm both in Guernsey and in other countries.
He is currently listed in London unless noted otherwise : Chairman of Dexion Absolute Ltd and Partners Group Global Johnston Press plc Opportunities Ltd as well as being a director of a number of other British Polythene Industries plc financial services companies, some of which are listed on the London Mercantile Investment Trust plc Stock Exchange.
He served for many years as a member of the British Assets Trust plc Guernsey Financial Services Commission from which he retired in 2006, having been its Chairman for the previous three years.
Other public company directorships Both Mrs Susie Farnon and Mr John Hallam are directors of Dexion listed in London unless noted otherwise Absolute Limited.
BH Global Limited listed on London, Bermuda and Dubai Certain of the Directors maintain additional directorships that are also listed Dexion Absolute Limited but not actively traded on various exchanges.
Details may be obtained from NB Distressed Debt listed on SFM London the Company Secretary.
NB Private Equity Partners Limited listed on SFM London and Amsterdam Partners Group Global Opportunities Limited listed in Ireland 42 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013
