Investment Policy Investment Objective Geographic Focus The Company seeks to provide investors with long-term The Directors believe that attractive opportunities for the Group to distributions, at levels that are sustainable, and to preserve the enhance returns for investors are likely to arise outside as well as capital value of its investment portfolio over the long-term with within the UK where the majority of the projects in the current potential for capital growth.
The Company targets an annual portfolio are based.
The Group may therefore make investments in distribution of at least 7.00p per Ordinary Share, with the prospect of the European Union, Norway, Switzerland, the Americas and selected increasing this figure provided it is sustainable with regard to the territories in Asia and Australasia.
The Group may also make portfolios forecast operational performance and the prevailing investments in other markets should suitable opportunities arise.
The Company is targeting an IRR of 7 to 8% on the original issue price of its Ordinary Shares in March 2006, to be The Group will seek to mitigate country risk by concentrating on achieved over the long-term via active management, including the investment opportunities in jurisdictions where it considers that acquisition by the Group being the Company and its wholly-owned contract structures and enforceability are reliable, where to the subsidiaries of further investments to complement the Current extent applicable public sector obligations carry a satisfactory Portfolio and by the prudent use of gearing.
credit rating and where financial markets are relatively mature.
Investment Criteria Single Investment Limit and Diversity of Clients and Suppliers The Groups Investment Policy is to ensure a diversified portfolio which has a number of similarly sized investments and is not When any new acquisition is made, the Company will ensure that dominated by any single investment.
The Group will seek to acquire the investment acquired does not have an acquisition value or, if infrastructure equity with similar risk reward characteristics to the it is an additional stake in an existing investment, the combined current portfolio, which may include but is not limited to : value of both the existing stake and the additional stake acquired greater than 20% of the total gross assets of the Company public sector, government-backed or regulated revenues: immediately post acquisition.
concessions which are predominantly availability based i. e. The total gross assets will be calculated based on the last published the payments from the concession do not generally depend on gross investment valuation of the portfolio plus acquisitions made the level of use of the project asset : and or since the date of such valuation at their cost of acquisition.
companies in the regulated utilities sector.
The purpose of this limit is to ensure the portfolio has a number of The Group will also seek to enhance returns for Shareholders by investments and is not dominated by any single investment.
acquiring more diverse infrastructure investments.
The Directors currently intend that the Group may invest in aggregate up to 35% of In selecting new investments to acquire, the Investment Adviser will its total assets at the time the relevant investment is made in: seek to ensure that the portfolio of investments has a range of public sector clients and supply chain contractors, in order to avoid overProject companies which have not yet completed the reliance on either a single client or a single contractor.
construction phases of their concessions but where prospective yield characteristics and associated risks are deemed Other Investment Restrictions appropriate to the investment objectives of the Company.
This The Company is subject to certain investment restrictions pursuant may include investment in companies which are in the process of to the UKLA Listing Rules.
These are as follows: bidding for concessions, to the extent that such companies form part of a more mature portfolio of investments which the Group a The Companys primary objective is investing and managing its considers it appropriate to acquire: and or assets with a view to spreading or otherwise managing Project companies with demand based concessions where investment risk.
The Company must, at all times, invest and the Investment Adviser considers that demand and stability of manage its assets in a way which is in accordance with the revenues are not yet established, and or project companies Investment Policy: which do not have public sector sponsored awarded or government-backed concessions: and b The Company will not conduct a trading activity which is to a lesser extent but counting towards the same aggregate significant in the context of the Group as a whole.
The Company 35%, and again at the time the relevant investment is made will not cross-finance businesses forming part of the Groups other funds that make infrastructure investments and or investment portfolio: and financial instruments and securities issued by companies that make infrastructure investments, or whose activities are similar c No more than 10%, in aggregate, of the Companys assets will be or comparable to infrastructure investments.
invested in other listed closed-ended investment funds.
The Listing Rules may be amended or replaced over time.
To the extent that the above investment restrictions are no longer imposed under the Listing Rules those investment restrictions shall cease to apply to the Company.
10 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 Key features of the Rules of Engagement include: Gearing The Group intends to make prudent use of leverage to finance the the creation of separate committees within the Investment acquisition of investments, to enhance returns to investors and to Adviser.
These committees represent the interests of the vendors finance outstanding subscription obligations.
on the one hand the Sellside Committee and the Group on the other the Buyside Committee, to ensure arms length decision Under the Articles, the Groups outstanding borrowings, excluding making and approval processes.
The membership of each intra-group borrowings and the debts of underlying investee committee is restricted in such a way as to ensure its companies, but including any financial guarantees to support independence and to minimise conflicts of interest arising: subscription obligations, are limited to 50% of the Adjusted Gross Asset Value meaning the fair market value, without deductions for a requirement for the Buyside Committee to conduct an borrowed money or other liabilities or accruals, and including independent due diligence process on the assets proposed to be outstanding subscription obligations of its investments and cash acquired prior to making an offer for their purchase: balances at any time.
a requirement for any offer made for the assets to be supported by a report on the Fair Market Value for the transaction from an The Group may borrow in currencies other than pounds sterling as independent expert: part of its currency hedging strategy.
the establishment of Chinese walls between the Buyside and Sellside Committees with appropriate information barrier Amendments procedures to ensure information that is confidential to one or Any material amendments to the Investment Policy will require the the other side is kept confidential to that side: and approval of Shareholders.
the provision of a release letter to each employee of the Investment Adviser who is a member of the Buyside and Sellside New Investments and Conflicts Committees.
The release letter confirms that the employee shall of Interest be treated as not being bound by his her duties as an employee It is expected that further investments will be sourced by the to the extent that such duties conflict with any actions or Investment Adviser and it is likely that some of these will be decisions which are in the employees reasonable opinion investments that have been originated and developed by, and may necessary for him her to carry out as a member of the Buyside or be acquired from, the Investment Adviser or its affiliates or from a Sellside Committee.
fund managed by the Investment Adviser or its affiliates.
In order to deal with these potential conflicts of interest, detailed procedures In considering any such acquisition the Directors will, as they deem and arrangements have been established to manage transactions necessary, review and ask questions of the Buyside Committee and between the Group, the Investment Adviser or its affiliates or funds the Groups other advisers, to ensure that the Directors are satisfied managed by the Investment Adviser or its affiliates the Rules of that the terms of any such acquisitions are negotiated on an arms Engagement.
If the Group invests in funds managed or operated by length basis.
the Investment Adviser or its affiliates, the Group shall bear any management or similar fees charged in relation to such fund provided, however, that the value of the Groups investments in such funds shall not be counted towards the valuation of the Groups investments for the purposes of calculating the fees profit share payable to the Investment Adviser or the General Partner.
It is possible that in future the Group may seek to purchase certain investments from funds managed or operated by the Investment Adviser or its affiliates once those investments have matured and to the extent that the investments suit the Groups investment objectives and strategy.
If such acquisitions are made, appropriate procedures from the Rules of Engagement will be put in place to manage the conflict.
