HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Strategic Report Who we are Our purpose Who we are Our purpose HSBC is one of the largest banking and Our purpose is to be where the growth is, connecting customers to opportunities, financial services organisations in the world.
enabling businesses to thrive and economies to prosper, and ultimately helping people to Customers: fulfil their hopes and realise their ambitions.
54 million Our strategic priorities Served by: 254,000 employees We aim to be the worlds leading and most respected international bank.
We will Through four global businesses: achieve this by focusing on the needs of our Retail Banking and Wealth Management customers and the societies we serve, Commercial Banking thereby delivering long-term sustainable Global Banking and Markets value to all our stakeholders.
Global Private Banking For 2011 to 2013, we defined strategic actions across three areas: capital deployment, organisation and Located in: cost efficiency, and growth.
In May 2013, we 75 countries and territories announced a set of three interconnected and equally weighted priorities for 2014 to 2016 to help us Across six geographical regions: deliver our strategy: Europe Hong Kong grow the business and dividends: Rest of Asia-Pacific implement Global Standards: and Middle East and North Africa streamline processes and procedures.
North America These priorities form the basis for this Strategic Latin America Report.
Each priority is interrelated, complementary and underpinned by initiatives within our day-to-day Offices: business.
Together they create value for our Over 6,300 customers and shareholders, and contribute to the long-term sustainability of HSBC.
Global headquarters: London A diagrammatic representation of the priorities and their related themes is provided on page 12.
Market capitalisation: US$207 billion How we measure performance We track our progress in implementing our strategy Listed on stock exchanges in: with a range of financial and non-financial measures London or key performance indicators.
Specific targets have Hong Kong been set for the period 2014 to 2016 at both a Group New York level and for each of our global businesses and Paris regions.
Bermuda Rewarding performance Shareholders: 216,000 in 131 countries and territories The remuneration of all staff within the Group, including executive Directors, is based on the achievement of financial and non-financial Cover images: internationalisation of the renminbi objectives.
These objectives, which are aligned with the Groups strategy, are detailed in individuals The images show the views from HSBCs head offices in Shanghai, Hong Kong and London the annual scorecards.
To be considered for a variable three cities that are key to the development of pay award, an individual must have fully complied Chinas currency, the renminbi RMB.
The growth with HSBC Values.
of the RMB is set to be a defining theme of the 21st century.
HSBC has RMB capabilities in over 50 For further information on HSBC Values, see page 25. countries and territories worldwide, where our customers can count on an expert service.
1 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
