Products and services We deliver services through four principal channels: branches, Retail Banking and Wealth Management self-service terminals, telephone service centres and digital internet and mobile.
Customers can transact with the bank via RBWM serves over 50 million personal customers.
a combination of these channels, through the following We take deposits and provide transactional banking offerings: services to enable customers to manage their day-toHSBC Premier: we provide preferential banking services day finances and save for the future.
We selectively and global recognition to our mass affluent customers and offer credit facilities to assist customers in their short their immediate families with a dedicated relationship manager, specialist wealth advice and tailored solutions.
or longer-term borrowing requirements: and we Customers can access emergency travel assistance, priority provide financial advisory, broking, insurance and telephone banking and an online global view of their investment services to help them to manage and protect Premier accounts around the world.
HSBC Advance: we provide a range of preferential products and services to simplify the banking needs of We develop products designed to meet the needs customers and to help them manage and plan their money to achieve their financial goals and ambitions.
of specific customer segments, which may include a range of different services and delivery channels.
Wealth Solutions & Financial Planning: a financial planning process designed around individual customer needs Typically, customer offerings include: to help our clients to protect, grow and manage their wealth through investment and wealth insurance products liability-driven services: deposits and account manufactured by Global Asset Management, Markets and HSBC Insurance and by selected third-party providers.
services: Basic banking: we increasingly provide globally asset-driven services: credit and lending, both standardised but locally delivered, reliable, easy to understand, good-value banking products and services using secured and unsecured: and global product platforms and globally set service standards.
fee-driven and other services: financial advisory, broking, life insurance manufacturing and asset management.
Total RBWM comprises our Principal RBWM business and the US run-off portfolio.
Credit and Lending: we offer a broad range of domestic Commercial Banking and cross-border financing, including overdrafts, corporate cards, term loans and syndicated, leveraged, acquisition and Our CMB business is segmented into large corporates, project finance.
Asset finance is also offered in selected mid-market companies and Business Banking.
allows us to provide an appropriate level of support to Global Trade and Receivables Finance: we provide the companies with more sophisticated needs and SMEs as services and finance our clients need throughout the trade they grow both domestically and internationally, and cycle including: letters of credit, collections, guarantees: receivables finance: supply chain solutions: commodity and ensures a clear focus on internationally aspirant structured finance: and risk distribution.
the development of renminbi as a trade currency, with renminbi capabilities in more than 50 markets.
We place particular emphasis on international Payments and Cash Management: we are a leading connectivity to meet the needs of our business provider of domestic and cross-border payments, collections, customers.
We aim to be recognised as the leading liquidity management and account services offering local, international trade and business bank by focusing regional and global solutions delivered via e-enabled platforms designed to address the current and future needs of on faster-growing markets, repositioning towards our clients.
international business and enhancing collaboration Insurance and Investments: we offer business and across the Group.
This will be underpinned by financial protection, trade insurance, employee benefits, reducing complexity and operational risk and driving corporate wealth management and a variety of other commercial risk insurance products in selected countries.
efficiency gains through adopting a global operating model.
GB&M: our CMB franchise represents a key client base for GB&M products and services, including foreign exchange and interest rate products, together with capital raising on debt and equity markets and advisory services.
79 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Global businesses Products and services RBWM GB&M is managed within the following framework: Global Banking and Markets Client Coverage contains relationship managers organised GB&M provides tailored financial solutions to major by sector, region and country who work to understand client needs and provide holistic solutions by bringing together government, corporate and institutional clients HSBCs broad array of product capabilities.
Managed as a global business with regional Markets provides sales and trading services which are oversight, GB&M operates a long-term relationship categorised as follows: management approach to build a full understanding - Credit and Rates sell, trade and distribute fixed income of clients financial requirements.
Sector-focused securities to clients including corporates, financial client service teams comprising relationship managers institutions, sovereigns, agencies and public sector issuers.
They also offer clients risk management solutions.
and product specialists develop financial solutions - Foreign Exchange provides spot and derivative products to meet individual client needs.
With a presence in to meet the investment demands of institutional investors, over 60 countries territories and access to HSBCs the hedging needs of SMEs, MMEs and large corporates in worldwide presence and capabilities, this business GB&M and CMB, and the needs of RBWM customers in serves subsidiaries and offices of our clients on a our branches.
Foreign Exchange trades on behalf of clients in over 90 currencies.
- Equities provides sales and trading services for clients, In August 2013, GB&M was reshaped to including direct market access and financing and hedging solutions.
more effectively focus resources on clients and Capital Financing offers financing and advisory services.
enhance relationships, and to better capture growth Products include debt and equity capital raising, advisory, opportunities which create greater value for our corporate lending, leveraged finance, asset and structured clients and our shareholders.
finance, real estate, infrastructure and project finance, and export credit.
Payments and Cash Management products include nonretail deposit taking and international, regional and domestic payments and cash management services.
Securities Services provides custody and clearing services to corporate and institutional clients and funds administration to both domestic and cross-border investors.
Global Trade and Receivables Finance provides trade services for our clients.
Balance Sheet Management is responsible for the management of liquidity and funding.
It also manages structural interest rate positions within the Markets limit structure.
Private Banking services comprise multicurrency and Global Private Banking fiduciary deposits, account services, and credit and specialist lending.
GPB also accesses HSBCs universal banking GPB provides investment management and trustee capabilities to offer products and services such as credit solutions to high net worth individuals and their cards, internet banking, and corporate and investment families in the Groups priority markets.
to meet the needs of our clients by providing excellent Investment Management comprises advisory and customer service and offering a comprehensive suite discretionary investment services, as well as brokerage across asset classes.
This includes a complete range of of solutions.
investment vehicles, portfolio management, securities services and alternatives.
Drawing on the strength of the HSBC Group and Private Trust Solutions comprise trusts and estate the most suitable products from the marketplace, we planning, designed to protect wealth and preserve it for work with our clients to provide solutions to grow, future generations through structures tailored to meet the manage, and preserve wealth for today and for the individual needs of each client.
