ongoing basis, the defined benefit schemes assets The most recent actuarial valuation of the plan represented 100% of the actuarial present value of to determine compliance with US statutory funding the benefits accrued to members, after allowing for requirements was made at 1 January 2013 by Daniel expected future increases in salaries.
On a wind-up Ropp, Fellow of the Society of Actuaries, Enrolled basis, the schemes assets represented 107% of the Actuary, member of the American Academy of members vested benefits, based on current salaries, Actuaries, formerly of Mercer.
At that date, the and the resulting surplus amounted to US$68m.
market value of the plans assets was US$3,614m.
The attained age method has been adopted for the The assets represented 122% of the benefits accrued valuation and the major assumptions used in this to members as valued under the provisions of the valuation were a discount rate of 5% per annum Pension Protection Act of 2006 that was effective and long-term salary increases of 4% per annum.
for the plan year beginning 1 January 2008.
The The recommended employer contribution rate as a resulting surplus amounted to US$646m.
The percentage of scheme salaries is 15% over the period method employed for this valuation was the 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013, and 16.1% traditional unit credit method and the discount rate local staff category and 20% senior staff category was determined using a segment rate method as over the period 1 January 2014 to 31 December selected by HSBC under the relevant regulations, 2015.
No additional special contributions have which resulted in an effective interest rate of 6.42% been agreed.
The HSBC North America US Retirement Sustainability risk Unaudited Income Plan Audited Assessing the environmental and social In 2010, the Investment Committee the Committee impacts of providing finance to our unanimously agreed to transition the retirement customers is integral to our overall risk income plans target asset allocation mix to 40% management processes.
equity securities, 59% fixed income securities and In 2013, we implemented several changes to 1% cash over a 24-month period.
In 2011, the our policies and procedures to streamline the Committee decided to accelerate this shift to the management of sustainability risks.
This ranged 2011 year-end and the target asset allocation mix from producing guidelines on how we extend the was maintained during 2012.
Should interest Equator Principles beyond project finance into rates rise faster than currently projected by the corporate loans, to technical improvements in our Committee, a further shift to a higher percentage systems to improve the accuracy of our management of fixed income securities may be made.
In the third quarter of 2012, it was agreed to A summary of our current policies and cease all future contributions under the cash balance practices regarding reputational risk, pension formula and freeze the plan with effect from risk and sustainability risk is provided in the 1 January 2013.
The participants no longer accrue Appendix to Risk on page 297. benefits, though those with existing balances continue to receive interest credits until the account is distributed.
Footnotes to Risk Credit risk 1 Other personal lending includes second lien mortgages and other property-related lending.
2 Financial includes loans and advances to banks.
3 The loans and advances offset relates to customer loans and deposits and balances where there is a legally enforceable right of offset in the event of counterparty default and where, as a result, there is a net exposure for credit risk management purposes.
However, as there is no intention to settle these balances on a net basis under normal circumstances, they do not qualify for net presentation for accounting purposes.
The effects of collateral held are not taken into account.
4 The amount of the loan commitments reflects, where relevant, the expected level of take-up of pre-approved loan offers made by mailshots to personal customers.
In addition to those amounts, there is a further maximum possible exposure to credit risk of US$34bn 2012: US$28bn, reflecting the full take-up of such irrevocable loan commitments.
The take-up of such offers is generally at modest levels.
5 Includes residential mortgages of HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Finance.
6 Comprising Rest of Asia-Pacific, Middle East and North Africa, and Latin America.
7 HSBC Finance lending is shown on a management basis and includes loans transferred to HSBC USA Inc. which are managed by HSBC Finance.
263 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Footnotes to Risk 8 Property acquired through foreclosure is initially recognised at the lower of the carrying amount of the loan or its fair value less estimated costs to sell initial foreclosed property carrying amount.
The average loss on sale of foreclosed properties is calculated as cash proceeds less the initial foreclosed properties carrying amount divided by the unpaid loan principal balance prior to writedown excluding any accrued finance income plus certain other ancillary disbursements that, by law, are reimbursable from the cash proceeds e. g. real estate tax advances and were incurred prior to our taking title to the property.
This ratio represents the portion of our total loss on foreclosed properties that occurred after we took title to the property.
9 The average total loss on foreclosed properties includes both the loss on sale of the foreclosed property as discussed in footnote 8 and the cumulative write-downs recognised on the loans up to the time we took title to the property.
10 Other commercial loans and advances include advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy and utilities.
11 Impairment allowances are not reported for financial instruments, for which the carrying amount is reduced directly for impairment and not through the use of an allowance account.
12 Impairment is not measured for assets held in trading portfolios or designated at fair value as assets in such portfolios are managed according to movements in fair value, and the fair value movement is taken directly to the income statement.
Consequently, we report all such balances under Neither past due nor impaired.
13 Loans and advances to customers includes asset-backed securities that have been externally rated as strong 2013: US$1.7bn: 2012: US$2.3bn, good 2013: US$255m: 2012: US$457m, satisfactory 2013: US$200m: 2012: US$390m, sub-standard 2013: US$283m: 2012: US$422m and impaired 2013: US$252m: 2012: US$259m.
14 Included in this category are loans of US$1.9bn 2012: US$2.3bn that have been re-aged once and were less than 60 days past due at the point of re-age.
These loans are not classified as impaired following re-age due to the overall expectation that these customers will perform on the original contractual terms of their borrowing in the future.
15 Individually assessed impaired loans and advances are those classified as CRR 9, CRR 10, EL 9 or EL 10, loans and advances 90 days or more past due, unless individually they have been assessed as not impaired see page 172, Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments and renegotiated loans and advances meeting the criteria to be disclosed as impaired see page 185.
16 Collectively assessed loans and advances comprise homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant, and loans subject to individual assessment where no impairment has been identified on an individual basis, but on which a collective impairment allowance has been calculated to reflect losses which have been incurred but not yet identified.
17 Collectively assessed loans and advances not impaired are those classified as CRR1 to CRR8 and EL1 to EL8 but excluding loans and advances 90 days or more past due and renegotiated loans and advances meeting the criteria to be disclosed as impaired.
18 Collectively assessed impairment allowances are allocated to geographical segments based on the location of the office booking the allowances or provisions.
Consequently, the collectively assessed impairment allowances booked in Hong Kong may cover assets booked in branches located outside Hong Kong, principally in Rest of Asia-Pacific, as well as those booked in Hong Kong.
19 Included within Exchange and other movements is US$0.2bn of impairment allowances reclassified to held for sale 2012: US$0.8bn.
20 Net of repo transactions, settlement accounts and stock borrowings.
21 As a percentage of loans and advances to banks and loans and advances to customers, as applicable.
22 Loans and advances to customers are excluded from balances when reclassified to Assets held for sale.
23 Currency translation is the effect of translating the results of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year at the average rates of exchange applicable in the current year.
24 Negative numbers are favourable: positive numbers are unfavourable.
26 First lien residential mortgages include Hong Kong Government Home Ownership Scheme loans of US$3.2bn at 31 December 2013 2012: US$3.2bn.
Where disclosed, earlier comparatives were 2011: US$3.3bn: 2010: US$3.5bn: 2009: US$3.5bn.
27 The impairment allowances on loans and advances to banks in 2013 relate to the geographical regions, Europe, North America, and Middle East and North Africa: 2012: Europe and Middle East and North Africa.
28 In 2013, GB&M changed the way it manages repo and reverse repo activities in the Credit and Rates businesses as set out on page 219.
This led to an increase in the amount of reverse repo agreements classified as Loans and advances to customers at amortised cost.
The increase in amortised cost balances primarily occurred in Europe and North America, specifically in the UK and the US.
29 Carrying amount of the net principal exposure.
30 Total includes holdings of ABSs issued by The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Freddie Mac and The Federal National Mortgage Association Fannie Mae.
31 Directly held includes assets held by Solitaire where we provide first loss protection and assets held directly by the Group.
32 Effect of impairments represents the reduction or increase in the reserve on initial impairment and subsequent reversal of impairment of the assets.
33 The gross principal is the redemption amount on maturity or, in the case of an amortising instrument, the sum of the future redemption amounts through the residual life of the security.
34 Credit default swap gross protection is the gross principal of the underlying instrument that is protected by CDSs.
35 Net principal exposure is the gross principal amount of assets that are not protected by CDSs.
It also includes assets that benefit from monoline protection.
36 Cumulative fair value adjustment recorded against exposures to OTC derivative counterparties to reflect their creditworthiness.
37 Funded exposures represent the loan amounts advanced to the customer, net of fees held on deposit.
38 Unfunded exposures represent the contractually committed loan facility amount not yet drawn down by the customer, less any fair value write-downs, net of fees held on deposit.
39 In-country liabilities in Italy include liabilities issued under local law but booked outside the country.
Liquidity and funding 40 The most favourable metrics are a smaller advances to core funding and larger stressed one-month and three-month coverage ratios.
41 The HSBC UK entity shown comprises five legal entities: HSBC Bank plc including all overseas branches, and SPEs consolidated by HSBC Bank plc for Financial Statement purposes, Marks and Spencer Financial Services Limited, HSBC Private Bank UK Ltd, HFC Bank Ltd and HSBC Trust Company UK Limited, managed as a single operating entity, in line with the application of UK liquidity regulation as agreed with the UK PRA.
42 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation represents the bank in Hong Kong including all overseas branches.
Each branch is monitored and controlled for liquidity and funding risk purposes as a stand-alone operating entity.
264 43 The HSBC USA principal entity shown represents the HSBC USA Inc consolidated group: predominantly HSBC USA Inc and HSBC Bank USA, NA.
The HSBC USA Inc consolidated group is managed as a single operating entity.
44 The total shown for other principal HSBC operating entities represents the combined position of all the other operating entities overseen directly by the Risk Management Meeting of the GMB.
45 Estimated liquidity value represents the expected realisable value of assets prior to management assumed haircuts.
46 The undrawn balance for the five largest committed liquidity facilities provided to customers other than facilities to conduits.
47 The undrawn balance for the total of all committed liquidity facilities provided to the largest market sector, other than facilities to conduits.
Market risk 48 Trading portfolios comprise positions arising from the market-making and warehousing of customer-derived positions.
49 Portfolio diversification is the market risk dispersion effect of holding a portfolio containing different risk types.
It represents the reduction in unsystematic market risk that occurs when combining a number of different risk types, for example, interest rate, equity and foreign exchange, together in one portfolio.
It is measured as the difference between the sum of the VaR by individual risk type and the combined total VaR.
A negative number represents the benefit of portfolio diversification.
As the maximum and minimum occur on different days for different risk types, it is not meaningful to calculate a portfolio diversification benefit for these measures.
50 The total VaR is non-additive across risk types due to diversification effects.
51 Investments in private equity are primarily made through managed funds that are subject to limits on the amount of investment.
Potential new commitments are subject to risk appraisal to ensure that industry and geographical concentrations remain within acceptable levels for the portfolio as a whole.
Regular reviews are performed to substantiate the valuation of the investments within the portfolio.
52 Investments held to facilitate ongoing business include holdings in government-sponsored enterprises and local stock exchanges.
53 Instead of assuming that all interest rates move together, we group our interest rate exposures into currency blocs whose rates are considered likely to move together.
See Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements on page 574.
Risk management of insurance operations 54 Other long-term includes term assurance, credit life insurance, and universal life insurance.
55 Although investment contracts with discretionary participation features DPF are financial investments, HSBC continues to account for them as insurance contracts as permitted by IFRS 4.
56 No assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale in the current period.
In the comparative period assets and liabilities that were classified as held for sale were reported in the Other assets column together with shareholder assets.
The majority of these assets which totalled US$2.0bn were debt securities with a strong credit rating and were reported as Other assets and investment properties.
All liabilities for insurance businesses classified as held for sale were reported in Other liabilities and totalled US$1.2bn.
The majority of these liabilities were life and non-life policyholder liabilities expected to mature after five years.
57 Present value of in-force long-term insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF.
58 Deferred tax includes the deferred tax liabilities arising on recognition of PVIF.
59 Does not include associated insurance company SABB Takaful Company or joint venture insurance company Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited.
60 HSBC has no insurance manufacturing subsidiaries in the Middle East and North Africa.
61 The life insurance business in North America previously reported as held-for-sale was disposed of in the first half of 2013.
62 Comprise unit-linked life insurance contracts and linked long-term investment contracts.
63 Comprise non-linked insurance contracts and non-linked long-term investment contracts.
64 Comprise mainly loans and advances to banks, cash and intercompany balances with other non-insurance legal entities.
65 The cost of guarantees figure presented comprises the modelled cost of guarantees under products manufactured by our insurance subsidiaries, including both the cost of guarantees reserved for through policyholder liabilities and the amount accounted for as a deduction to PVIF.
This is considered to provide more relevant information than the total liabilities to policyholders established for guaranteed products manufactured by our insurance subsidiaries as disclosed in prior periods.
66 Real annual return guarantees provide the policyholder a guaranteed return in excess of the rate of inflation, and are supported by inflation-linked debt securities with yields that are also expressed in real terms.
67 Shareholders funds comprise solvency and unencumbered assets.
68 Non-linked insurance includes remaining non-life business.
69 In most cases, policyholders have the option to terminate their contracts at any time and receive the surrender values of their policies.
These may be significantly lower than the amounts shown.
70 Insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF can give policyholders the contractual right to receive, as a supplement to their guaranteed benefits, additional benefits that may be a significant portion of the total contractual benefits, but whose amount and timing are determined by HSBC.
These additional benefits are contractually based on the performance of a specified pool of contracts or assets, or the profit of the company issuing the contracts.
71 Sensitivity to lapse rates has been updated to show the effect of a 10% stress compared to the effect of a 50% stress disclosed in prior periods since this is considered to provide more relevant information which is better aligned to the severity of the other sensitivities to non-economic assumptions disclosed.
Pension risk 72 Option overlay strategies which are expected to improve the risk return profile of the equity allocation will be targeted.
73 In 2012 and 2013, alternative assets included ABSs, MBSs and infrastructure assets.
In 2006, alternative assets included loans and infrastructure assets.
74 Whilst there is no target cash allocation, the amount of cash is expected to vary between 0-5% depending upon the liquidity requirements of the scheme, which will affect the actual allocation of bonds correspondingly.
265 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
