HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review Financial summary Use of non-GAAP financial measures Financial summary with reported results for 2012 retranslated at 2013 exchange rates.
Except where stated otherwise, Use of non-GAAP financial measures 47 commentaries are on a constant currency basis, Constant currency............. 47 as reconciled in the table below.
Underlying performance 47 The foreign currency translation differences Consolidated income statement 51 reflect the movements of the US dollar against most major currencies during 2013.
53 Group performance by income and expense item... We exclude the translation differences because Net interest income 53 we consider the like-for-like basis of constant Net fee income....... 55 currency financial measures more appropriately Net trading income 55 reflects changes due to operating performance.
Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value 56 Constant currency Gains less losses from financial investments............... 58 Net earned insurance premiums
Constant currency comparatives for 2012 referred to in the 58 commentaries are computed by retranslating into US dollars Gains on disposal of US branch network, US for non-US dollar branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and cards business and Ping An 59 associates: Other operating income.......... 59 the income statements for 2012 at the average rates of Net insurance claims incurred and movement in exchange for 2013: and liabilities to policyholders.. 60 the balance sheet at 31 December 2012 at the prevailing Loan impairment charges and other credit risk rates of exchange on 31 December 2013. provisions........................... 61 No adjustment has been made to the exchange rates used to Operating expenses................. 62 translate foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities Share of profit in associates and joint ventures............ into the functional currencies of any HSBC branches, 64 subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates.
When reference Tax expense 64 is made to constant currency in tables or commentaries, comparative data reported in the functional currencies of Consolidated balance sheet 65 HSBCs operations have been translated at the appropriate Movement in 2013................ exchange rates applied in the current year on the basis 66 described above.
Underlying performance Critical accounting policies 72 To arrive at underlying performance: The management commentary included in the Report of the Directors: Financial Review, together with the Employees we adjust for the year-on-year effects of foreign and Corporate sustainability sections of Corporate currency translation: Governance and the Directors Remuneration Report is presented in compliance with the IFRSs Practice Statement we eliminate the fair value movements on our Management Commentary issued by the IASB.
long-term debt attributable to credit spread own credit spread where the net result of Use of non-GAAP financial measures such movements will be zero upon maturity Our reported results are prepared in accordance of the debt.
This does not include fair value with IFRSs as detailed in the Financial Statements changes due to own credit risk in respect of starting on page 416.
In measuring our performance, trading liabilities or derivative liabilities: and the financial measures that we use include those we adjust for acquisitions, disposals and changes which have been derived from our reported results in of ownership levels of subsidiaries, associates, order to eliminate factors which distort year-on-year joint ventures and businesses.
These are considered non-GAAP financial measures.
Non-GAAP financial measures For acquisitions, disposals and changes of that we use throughout our Financial Review and are ownership levels of subsidiaries, associates, joint described below.
Other non-GAAP financial ventures and businesses, we eliminate the gain or measures are described and reconciled to the loss on disposal or dilution and any associated gain closest reported financial measure when used.
or loss on reclassification or impairment recognised in the year incurred, and remove the operating profit Constant currency or loss of the acquired, disposed of or diluted subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and The constant currency measure adjusts for the yearbusinesses from all the years presented so we can on-year effects of foreign currency translation view results on a like-for-like basis.
For example, differences by comparing reported results for 2013 if a disposal was made in the current year, any gain 47 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
