The risk Our response Interests in associates Refer to the summary of critical accounting policies on pages 72 to 76, the Group Audit Committee Report on pages 348 to 352 and the disclosures of interests in associates in Note 21 on the Financial Statements.
The majority of HSBCs interests in Our audit procedures included an assessment of the methodology associates relate to its 19.03% interest in to calculate the value-in-use and the assumptions used in this Bank of Communications Co. Limited calculation.
BoCom, which is listed on the Hong We assessed the reasonableness of cash flow projections in the Kong and Shanghai stock exchanges.
short to medium term and considered the appropriateness of Under the equity method of accounting for long-term growth rates used to extrapolate these cash flows.
We associates, these interests are initially stated compared key inputs in the value-in-use model such as revenue at cost, and are adjusted thereafter for the growth rates, cost-to-income ratio and discount rate to externally post-acquisition change in HSBCs share available industry, economic and financial data, to consensus of the net assets of the associate less any market forecasts and to BoComs recent experience.
with management of BoCom to understand their views on business performance and trends as part of our assessment of In 2013, we focused on the possible HSBCs future cash flow projections.
impairment of BoCom indicated by the fact that its market value has been below its We also compared the results of the value-in-use calculations to carrying amount for sustained periods of time market available price earnings multiples for BoCom and other in 2013, and the subsequent estimate of its listed banks in mainland China and assessed the Groups analysis recoverable amount based on its value-in-use of the difference between the market value and the value-in-use which was sensitive to the projected future of its interest in BoCom.
This assessment included consideration cash flows and discount rates.
of the valuation methodologies and assumptions used by other market participants.
Additionally, we considered whether the Groups disclosures of the application of judgement in estimating the recoverable amount and the sensitivity of the results of those estimates in Note 21 on the financial statements adequately reflect the risks associated with impairment of interests in associates.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at US$1,195m.
This has been determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation, adjusted to exclude fair value movements on long-term debt attributable to credit spread own credit spread which we believe to be one of the principal considerations for members of the company in assessing financial performance.
Materiality represents 5.3% of Group profit before tax and 5.0% after adjustment to exclude own credit spread.
We agreed with the Group Audit Committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of US$60m, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by local audit teams at the key management reporting units and entities together components in all five regions: Europe 7 components Asia Pacific 8 components North America 4 components Middle East and North Africa 1 component Latin America 3 components These audits covered 86% of total Group operating income: 84% of total profits and losses that made up Group profit before tax: and 90% of total Group assets.
The segment disclosures in Note 12 set out the individual significance of each region.
413 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
