HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Strategic Report continued Value creation and long-term sustainability Strategic priority 1 Grow the business and dividends Business model Our strategic priorities Our strategic priorities are designed to ensure we have a sustainable business for the long term.
Grow Implement Profit underpins long-term business sustainability A global bank needs global standards consistent and growing our profit is an integral part of our operating principles that are fundamental to the strategy.
The conditions for creating value way we do business and which help us to and generating profits are reflected in our detect, deter and protect against financial business and operating models, which crime.
Implementing Global Standards determine how our global businesses, affects how we govern the Group, the geographical regions and functions nature of our core business and the interact.
Delivering organic performance, recognition and growth will support behaviours of all our people a progressive in managing high quality dividend.
It starts with embedding our HSBC Values in everything we do.
Financial HSBC performance Values see page 16 see page 25 Operating Governance model see page 25 see page 14 Value creation and long-term Business Employees model sustainability see page 27 see page 13 Operations Customers see page 30 see page 31 Environment, social and community see page 34 Streamline This initiative is critical to the long-term sustainability of our business.
Societys expectations of the financial services industry are evolving and becoming more demanding.
At the same time, the digital revolution is reducing barriers to new entrants to the industry and markets are becoming increasingly competitive.
In this environment, it is essential that we focus relentlessly on improving efficiency, ensuring that all parts of the Group streamline their processes and procedures and, as a consequence, reduce their costs.
In doing so, we must remain cognisant of our wider obligations to the community, including human rights, and the environment.
