151 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Summary of 2013 Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a Total exposure to credit risk remained broadly customer or counterparty fails to meet unchanged in 2013 with loans and advances an obligation under a contract.
It arises remaining the largest element.
While the total principally from direct lending, trade finance exposure to credit risk remained broadly stable, and leasing business, but also from other there was an increase in the amount of reverse products such as guarantees and credit repos classified as Loans and advances to banks derivatives and from holding assets in the and Loans and advances to customers, with a form of debt securities.
corresponding reduction in the amount classified as Trading assets.
This followed a change in the way There were no material changes to our policies and GB&M manages reverse repo activities during the practices for the management of credit risk in 2013. year, as set out on page 220.
For a detailed analysis of our maximum exposure to credit A summary of our current policies and risk, see page 157. practices regarding credit risk is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 266.
In 2013, we successfully weathered the imposition of capital controls in Cyprus and we continued to Summary of credit risk in 2013 monitor events in the eurozone.
We also continued Unaudited to monitor our portfolio in Egypt as the constitutional crisis unfolded.
Maximum exposure to credit risk More details of the specific political and macroeconomic risks At 31 December associated with these countries, and our management 2013 2012 response, are provided on page 148.
This reduction was mainly in North America due to the run-off and loan sales in our CML portfolio.
For further details on our loan impairment allowances, see page 188.
The following commentary is on a constant reflecting the continued run-off and loan sales in currency basis.
our CML portfolio and an improvement in the housing market.
In Hong Kong and Rest of AsiaTotal personal lending of US$411bn at Pacific, impairment allowances remained at low 31 December 2013 was broadly in line with 2012. levels throughout 2013.
Impairment allowances as Balances decreased in North America from a percentage of total personal lending reduced to the continued run-off and loan sales in our CML 1.6% from 2.0% in 2012.
This was driven by North portfolio, including the disposal of our non-real America for the reasons noted above.
In Europe, estate loan portfolio and several tranches they declined as a percentage of gross personal of real estate loan balances.
In addition, in Latin lending balances to 0.7% compared with 0.8% in America, we disposed of our operations in Panama.
These reductions were broadly offset by increases in residential mortgage balances in Rest of AsiaDuring the year we reviewed the impairment Pacific, the UK and Hong Kong.
allowance methodology used for retail banking across the Group see page 72.
Total wholesale lending increased to US$896bn This was partly offset by a decline in Latin America at 31 December 2013 from US$747bn at the end of following the disposal of our operations in Panama.
2012 due to increased reverse repo loans to banks Impairment allowances increased to US$9bn and customers resulting from the change in the way at 31 December 2013 from US$8bn at the end of GB&M manages these activities see page 220.
In Latin America, they rose as a proportion of Total reverse repos to customers increased by gross corporate and commercial lending to 4.44% US$53bn and to banks by US$56bn.
This was principally in Mexico from Excluding reverse repos, total balances rose due higher individually assessed impairments in CMB to higher international trade and services lending, relating to homebuilders resulting from a change in mainly in Hong Kong and, to a lesser extent, in Rest public housing policy.
In Brazil, there were increases of Asia-Pacific as we capitalised on trade and capital in CMB due to model changes and assumption flows.
Commercial real estate and other property revisions on restructured loan account portfolios, related balances increased, mainly in Hong Kong which were partly offset by an improvement in the as a result of demand for financing in the property quality of the portfolio.
In addition there were higher investment and development sectors.
Other specific impairments across a number of corporate commercial balances increased, notably in GB&M exposures.
In the Middle East and North Africa, in the UK, on corporate overdraft balances which did impairment allowances as a proportion of gross not meet the netting criteria.
In addition, loans and financial lending fell from 1.70% to 0.87%, mainly advances to banks rose as a result of increased trade due to a release on an individually assessed re-finance and central bank lending in Hong Kong.
For a more detailed analysis of our wholesale lending, see page 165.
US$11bn of the Europe and North America, resulting from higher renegotiated loans in North America were impaired reverse repo balances due to the change in the way at 31 December 2013 2012: US$17bn.
GB&M manages these activities see page 220.
For a more detailed analysis of the credit quality of financial instruments, see page 169.
At 31 December 2013, US$15bn of gross loans and advances were classified as past due but not Impairment of loans and advances impaired compared with US$19bn at the end of Unaudited 2012, a reduction of 18%.
The largest concentration of these balances was in HSBC Finance.
The Loan impairment charges by geographical region decrease was mainly in Latin America where we US$m repositioned our portfolio in Brazil and disposed 4,000 2013 2012 of our operations in Panama, and in North America, 3,000 due to the continued run-off and loan sales in the 2,000 CML portfolio.
1,000 Gross loans and advances classified as impaired decreased by 6% to US$37bn, mainly in North 0 Europe Hong Rest of MENA North Latin America due to the continued run-off and loan sales Kong AsiaAmerica America Pacific in the CML portfolio.
Renegotiated loans totalled US$34bn at Loan impairment charges by industry 31 December 2013 compared with US$42bn at US$m 4,000 the end of 2012.
The reduction was primarily due 2013 2012 to the continued run-off and loan sales in the CML 3,000 portfolio.
North America accounted for the largest 2,000 1,000 0 First lien Other Corporate Commercial Financial residential personal commercial real estate mortgages lending 155 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Summary of 2013 Credit exposure Loan impairment charges in 2013 decreased to Assets held for sale US$6.0bn from US$8.2bn in 2012 on a reported During 2013, the growth in gross loans and advances basis.
On a constant currency basis they were 24% was affected by a reclassification of certain lending lower.
The reduction was primarily in RBWM in balances to Assets held for sale.
Disclosures North America, due to improvements in housing relating to assets held for sale are provided in the market conditions and lower delinquency levels, following credit risk management tables, primarily along with the continued run-off and loan disposals where the disclosure is relevant to the measurement in the CML portfolio and the sale of the CRS of these financial assets: business in 2012.
This decline was partly offset by Maximum exposure to credit risk page 159 : increases in Latin America, principally in Mexico, where there were higher specific impairments in Distribution of financial instruments by credit CMB which primarily related to homebuilders due quality page 170 : and to a change in public housing policy, and collective Ageing analysis of days past due but not impairment provisions in RBWM.
In Brazil, loan impaired gross financial instruments impairment charges increased, reflecting impairment page 173. model changes and assumption revisions for restructured loan account portfolios in RBWM Although gross loans and advances held for sale and CMB and higher specific impairments across a and related impairment allowances are reclassified number of corporate exposures.
This rise was partly from Loans and advances to customers and Loans offset by improvements in the quality of the portfolio and advances to banks in the balance sheet, there is in Brazil as the modification of credit strategies in no equivalent income statement reclassification.
As a previous years helped to mitigate rising delinquency result, charges for loan impairment losses shown in rates.
the credit risk disclosures include loan impairment charges relating to financial assets classified as For a more detailed analysis of the impairment of loans and advances, see page 187.
Loans and advances to customers and banks measured at amortised cost Audited At 31 December 2013 At 31 December 2012 Impairment Impairment Gross allowances Gross allowances loans and on loans and loans and on loans and advances advances advances advances US$m US$m US$m US$m Reported in Loans and advances to customers and banks........ 1,307,026 15,201 1,166,338 16,169 Reported in Assets held for sale 1,970 111 7,350 718 1,308,996 15,312 1,173,688 16,887 The lending balances in Assets held for sale fair value.
Any difference between the carrying at the end of 2013 included balances associated amount and the sales price, which is the fair value with the disposal of our operations in Colombia, at the time of sale, would be recognised as a gain Uruguay and Jordan, net of impairment allowances.
We continue to measure lending balances The table below analyses the amount of loan held for sale at amortised cost less allowances for impairment charges and other credit risk provisions impairment: such carrying amounts may differ from LICs arising from assets held for sale.
156 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk Derivatives provisions Our maximum exposure to derivatives decreased, Unaudited primarily reflecting a reduction in the fair value of 2013 US$m interest rate derivative contracts in Europe due to LICs arising from: upward movements in yield curves in major disposals and assets held for sale........ 197 currencies.
Over half of all trades were exchange assets not held for sale 5,652 traded or otherwise settled centrally, the majority of 5,849 these being interest rate derivatives.
See Note 16 on the Financial Statements for the carrying The derivatives offset amount in the table amount and the fair value at 31 December 2013 of loans and on page 159 relates to exposures where the advances to banks and customers classified as held for sale.
counterparty has an offsetting derivative exposure with HSBC, a master netting arrangement is in place Credit exposure and the credit risk exposure is managed on a net Maximum exposure to credit risk basis, or the position is specifically collateralised, Audited normally in the form of cash.
The table on page 159 provides information At 31 December 2013, the total amount of such on balance sheet items, offsets and loan and other offsets was US$252bn 2012: US$311bn, of which credit-related commitments.
Commentary on balance US$209bn 2012: US$270bn were offsets under a sheet movements is provided on page 66. master netting arrangement, US$36bn 2012: US$39bn was collateral received in cash and Maximum exposure to credit risk table page 159 US$7bn 2012: US$1.8bn was other collateral.
The The table presents our maximum exposure to credit risk from decline in the total offset reflects the reduction in the balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments fair value of derivative contracts in the year resulting before taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements unless such enhancements meet accounting from an upward shift in major yield curves.
For financial assets recognised on amounts do not qualify for offset for accounting the balance sheet, the maximum exposure to credit risk equals purposes as either there is no legally enforceable their carrying amount: for financial guarantees and similar contracts granted, it is the maximum amount that we would right to offset or it is not intended for settlement to have to pay if the guarantees were called upon.
commitments and other credit-related commitments that are irrevocable over the life of the respective facilities, it is generally the full amount of the committed facilities.
Loan and other credit-related commitments Loan and other credit-related commitments largely Loans and advances consist of corporate and commercial off-balance sheet commitments including term and trade-related For details of our maximum exposure to loans and advances, see Personal lending on page 160 unaudited : Wholesale lending balances and overdrafts, and retail offlending on page 165 unaudited : Credit quality of financial balance sheet commitments including overdrafts, instruments on page 169: and Concentration of exposure on residential mortgages, personal loans and credit card page 197 unaudited.
They remained well diversified across The loans and advances offset in the table on geographical regions.
page 159 relates to customer loans and deposits and At 31 December 2013, loan and other creditbalances where there is a legally enforceable right of related commitments rose to US$588bn 2012: offset in the event of counterparty default and where, US$579bn, driven by increased undrawn corporate as a result, there is a net exposure for credit risk facilities in Europe, mainly in France, the UK and purposes.
However, as there is no intention to settle Germany, and in North America reflecting our focus these balances on a net basis under normal on growing in target commercial segments in the circumstances, they do not qualify for net US.
These increases were partly offset by a decline presentation for accounting purposes.
in Latin America following the disposal of our operations in Panama.
For details of our loans and other credit-related commitments, see page 160 unaudited.
157 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Credit exposure Other credit risk mitigants borne by the policyholder.
In addition, we hold collateral in the form of financial instruments that While not disclosed as an offset in the Maximum are not recognised on the balance sheet.
exposure to credit risk table, other arrangements are in place which reduce our maximum exposure to See page 178 and Note 34 on the Financial Statements for further details on collateral in respect of certain loans and credit risk.
These include short positions in securities advances.
We also offer loans secured on personal lending products to meet customer needs.
existing assets, such as first and second liens on Given the diversity of the markets in which residential property and unsecured lending products we operate, the range is not standard across such as overdrafts, credit cards and payroll loans.
all countries but is tailored to meet the demands of individual markets.
Total personal lending was US$411bn at LTV thresholds and debt-to-income ratios are 31 December 2013, down from US$415bn at the end managed at regional and country levels and, of 2012 US$412bn on a constant currency basis.
although the parameters must comply with Group The decrease on a constant currency basis reflected policy, strategy and risk appetite, they differ in the the continued run-off and loan sales in the CML various locations in which we operate to reflect the portfolio in the US and the disposal of our operations local economic and housing market conditions, in Panama.
This was mostly offset by an increase in regulations, portfolio performance, pricing and mortgage lending in Rest of Asia-Pacific, the UK other product features.
The commentary that follows is on a constant currency basis.
For further analysis of the impairment of loans and allowances, see page 187.
At 31 December 2013, total mortgage lending was US$305bn, a reduction of US$3bn on 2012.
Mortgage lending Balances declined in North America due to Unaudited the continued run-off and loan sales in the CML We offer a wide range of mortgage products portfolio, and in Latin America following the designed to meet customer needs, including capital disposal of our operations in Panama.
This was repayment, interest-only, affordability and offset largely offset by increases in Rest of Asia-Pacific mortgages.
and Hong Kong which reflected our focus on Group credit policy prescribes the range of secured lending, although the rate of growth in the acceptable residential property loan-to-value latter began to slow as transaction volumes in the LTV thresholds with the maximum upper limit property market declined in 2013.
Balances also for new loans set between 75% and 95%.
Specific grew in the UK due to our competitive offering.
Mortgage lending in the US HSBC Finance Unaudited The CML portfolio continued to be affected by In the US, total mortgage lending balances were economic conditions in the US, where the housing US$47bn at 31 December 2013, a decrease of 15% market improved but unemployment remained high compared with the end of 2012.
Overall, US despite levels declining during 2013.
In addition, mortgage lending comprised 12% of our total liquidation rates continued to be affected by declines personal lending and 16% of our total mortgage in loan prepayment rates as fewer refinancing lending.
opportunities for our customers existed.
Mortgage lending balances at 31 December 2013 in HSBC Finance were US$30bn, a decrease of 22% compared with the end of 2012 due to the continued run-off and loan sales in the CML portfolio.
In HSBC Bank USA, mortgage lending balances were US$18bn at 31 December 2013, broadly in line with 2012.
162 HSBC Finance US Consumer and Mortgage HSBC Bank USA 7 Lending residential mortgages In HSBC Bank USA we continued to sell a portion Unaudited of new originations to the secondary market as a At 31 December 2013 2012 means of managing our interest rate risk and US$m US$m improving structural liquidity and focused on our Residential mortgages strategy to grow the HSBC Premier customer base.
The delinquency ratio fell over the same period.
Second lien mortgages in the US For first lien residential mortgages in our CML The majority of second lien residential mortgages are taken portfolio, two months and over delinquent balances up by customers who hold a first lien mortgage issued by a were US$4.6bn at 31 December 2013 compared with third party.
Second lien residential mortgage loans have a US$7.6bn at 31 December 2012.
The decline in risk profile characterised by higher LTV ratios, because in delinquent balances mainly reflected the continued the majority of cases the loans were taken out to complete the refinancing of properties.
Loss severity on default of portfolio run-off and loan sales as well as second liens has typically approached 100% of the amount the improved conditions in the housing market.
outstanding, as any equity in the property is consumed through the repayment of the first lien loan.
Second lien residential mortgage balances in our Impairment allowances for these loans are determined CML portfolio two months and over delinquent by applying a roll-rate migration analysis which captures the declined by 21% to US$276m at 31 December 2013, propensity of these loans to default based on past experience.
as a result of the continued run-off and loan sales in Once we believe that a second lien residential mortgage loan is likely to progress to write-off, the loss severity assumed in the CML portfolio.
establishing our impairment allowance is close to 100% in the CML portfolios, and more than 80% in HSBC Bank USA.
The number of foreclosed end of 2011 and during the first half of 2012.
We properties at 31 December 2013 increased to 4,254 have resumed processing suspended foreclosure from 2,973 at the end of December 2012, reflecting actions in all states and have referred the majority the higher volume of properties added to the of the backlog of loans for foreclosure.
The average total loss and the also began initiating new foreclosure activities in average loss on sale of foreclosed properties improved all states.
As a consequence, although the number of during 2013, reflecting improvements in home prices foreclosed properties sold increased and the time to during the year.
sell these properties accelerated, the number of new properties added to the foreclosed inventory at For further information on renegotiated loans in North HSBC Finance in 2013 increased to 9,752.
This America, see page 174. number will continue to be affected by refinements to our foreclosure processes.
The number of real Non-US mortgage lending Unaudited estate owned properties adding to inventory during 2014 will be affected by our receivable sale The commentary that follows is on a constant programme.
We expect many of the properties currency basis.
currently in foreclosure to be sold prior to taking Total non-US mortgage lending was US$258bn title.
at 31 December 2013, an increase of US$5bn on 2012.
Valuation of foreclosed properties in the US Our most significant concentrations of mortgage We obtain real estate by foreclosing on the collateral pledged lending were in the UK and Hong Kong.
as security for residential mortgages.
Prior to foreclosure, carrying amounts of the loans in excess of fair value less costs The Groups largest concentration of mortgage to sell are written down to the discounted cash flows expected exposure was in the UK.
At 31 December 2013 it to be recovered, including from the sale of the property.
Broker price opinions are obtained and updated every The credit performance of our UK mortgage portfolio 180 days and real estate price trends are reviewed quarterly to reflect any improvement or additional deterioration.
Our was stable, reflecting actions taken in previous years methodology is regularly validated by comparing the which included restrictions on lending to purchase discounted cash flows expected to be recovered based on residential property for the purpose of rental.
current market conditions including estimated cash flows from the sale of the property to the updated broker price Impairment allowances on first lien mortgages as a opinion, adjusted for the estimated historical difference proportion of total first lien mortgage loan balances between interior and exterior appraisals.
The fair values of remained low.
Almost all lending was originated foreclosed properties are initially determined on the basis of broker price opinions.
Within 90 days of foreclosure, a more through our own sales force, and the self-certification detailed property valuation is performed reflecting information of income was not permitted.
The majority of our obtained from a physical interior inspection of the property mortgage lending in the UK was to existing customers and additional allowances or write-downs are recorded as who held current or savings accounts with HSBC.
Updates to the valuation are performed no less than once every 45 days until the property is sold, with average LTV ratio for new business was 60% during declines or increases recognised through changes to 2013 2012: 59%.
Loan impairment charges and allowances.
delinquency levels in our UK mortgage book declined, aided by the low interest rate environment.
164 Interest-only mortgage products in the UK Rest of Asia-Pacific, resulting from our focus on totalled US$49bn or 37% of the UK mortgage secured lending and supported by marketing portfolio, down marginally on 2012.
All interest-only campaigns, mainly in mainland China and Australia.
lending is assessed for affordability on a capital This was partly offset by a reduction in Latin America repayment basis and, since March 2013, is only due to the disposal of our operations in Panama.
Offset mortgage products in the UK totalled US$22bn or 17% of the Other personal lending Unaudited UK mortgage portfolio.
The offset mortgage product, originated only by First Direct, is assessed for Credit cards affordability on a capital repayment basis.
Offset Total credit card lending of US$30bn at mortgage customers may make regular or one-off 31 December 2013 was 2% higher than at the end of capital repayments but are able to redraw additional 2012, mainly in Hong Kong from marketing funds up to an agreed limit.
campaigns and in Turkey from business expansion.
The underwriting criteria for interest-only This was partly offset by the sale of the private label products are consistent with those for equivalent credit card portfolio in Canada in 2013. capital repayment mortgages, and such products are typically originated at more conservative LTV ratios.
Other personal non-credit card lending We monitor specific risk characteristics within the Other personal non-credit card lending balances interest-only portfolio, such as LTV ratio, age at remained broadly in line with 2012 at US$80bn at expiry, current income levels and credit bureau scores.
There were reductions in North There are currently no concentrations of higher risk America in the US on second lien mortgages as characteristics that cause the interest-only portfolio noted above and in Canada, mainly due to client to be considered as carrying unduly high credit risk, deleveraging, high credit standards and tightened and delinquency and impairment charges remain low, regulatory lending guidelines.
In Latin America, demonstrating similar performance characteristics there was a decline due to the disposal of our to our capital repayment products.
We run contact operations in Panama, our focus on growing secured programmes to ensure we build an informed lending and our more restrictive lending criteria in relationship with customers so that they receive Brazil.
This was largely offset by increases in term appropriate support in meeting the final repayment lending in France, second lien mortgages in of principal and understand the alternative repayment Singapore and personal loans in Mexico.
Mortgage lending in Hong Kong was US$54bn, Wholesale lending an increase of 3% on the end of 2012, although the Unaudited rate of growth began to slow as transaction volumes Wholesale lending covers the range of credit in the property market declined in 2013.
The quality facilities granted to sovereign borrowers, banks, of our mortgage book remained high with no new non-bank financial institutions, corporate entities impairment allowances in 2013.
The average LTV and commercial borrowers.
Our wholesale portfolios ratio on new mortgage lending was 44% compared are well diversified across geographical and industry with an estimated 32% for the overall portfolio.
sectors, with certain exposures subject to specific Mortgage lending in Rest of North America fell portfolio controls.
This included a reduction of During the year GB&M made a change to the US$857m in Canada due to tightened regulatory way it manages reverse repo activities see lending guidelines.
page 220, materially affecting loans and advances to Mortgage lending in other regions rose by 7% to banks and financial non-bank balances.
After excluding reverse repo balances, d as a percentage of D was 1.43% for Europe, 1.24% for North America and 1.2% in total at 31 December 2013.
After excluding reverse repo balances, h as a percentage of H was 1.4% for Europe, 1.12% for North America and 1.17% in total at 31 December 2012.
On a reported basis, total wholesale lending The commentary that follows is on a constant increased by US$145bn to US$896bn at currency basis.
On a constant currency basis balances grew by US$149bn, of which reverse Financial non-bank repo balances to customers increased by US$53bn Financial non-bank lending increased from and to banks by US$56bn, driven by the change in US$82bn at 31 December 2012 to US$138bn at the way GB&M manages these activities see 31 December 2013.
This was mainly in Europe and page 220.
Excluding reverse repos, total balances North America due to increased reverse repo rose due to higher international trade and services balances, as discussed above.
lending, mainly in Hong Kong and, to a lesser extent, in Rest of Asia-Pacific, as we capitalised on Loans and advances to banks trade and capital flows.
Other commercial balances increased, notably in GB&M in the UK, on corporate Loans and advances to banks increased from overdraft balances which did not meet the netting US$150bn at 31 December 2012 to US$212bn criteria.
In addition, loans and advances to banks at 31 December 2013.
This was driven by higher rose as a result of increased trade re-finance and reverse repo balances due to the change in the way central bank lending in Hong Kong.
This was partly GB&M manages these activities, mainly affecting offset by a decline in Latin America following the Europe and North America.
In addition, there was a disposal of our operations in Panama.
rise in placements with financial institutions in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific.
For more detail on impairment allowances see page 187.
167 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Wholesale lending Credit quality of financial instruments Corporate and commercial of the principal at maturity.
Typically, a customer will arrange repayment through the acquisition of a Corporate and commercial lending increased by new loan to settle the existing debt.
Refinance risk is US$33bn to US$544bn at 31 December 2013.
This the risk that a customer, being unable to repay their was driven by a rise in international trade and debt on maturity, is unable to refinance the debt at services lending balances, mainly in Hong Kong commercial rates.
Refinance risk is described in and, to a lesser extent, Rest of Asia-Pacific as more detail on page 272.
This risk is subject to close we capitalised on trade and capital flows.
Other scrutiny in key commercial real estate markets commercial balances increased, notably in GB&M in because it can arise, in particular, when a loan is the UK, on corporate overdraft balances which did serviced exclusively by the property to which it not meet the netting criteria, and in North America relates, i. e. when the bank does not, or is not able to, from growth in lending to corporate customers, place principal reliance on other cash flows available reflecting our focus on target segments in the US.
We monitor our commercial real This was partly offset in Latin America as a result estate portfolio closely, assessing those drivers that of the disposal of our operations in Panama and may indicate potential issues with refinancing.
The tightened lending criteria across most of the region principal driver is the vintage of the loan, when coupled with a reduction of government loans in origination reflected previous market norms which Hong Kong following repayments in the year.
no longer apply in the current market.
Examples Total commercial real estate and other propertymight be higher LTV ratios and or lower interest related lending was US$120bn at 31 December cover ratios.
The range of refinancing sources in the 2013, marginally higher compared with 2012.
Loan local market is also an important consideration, with balances grew in Hong Kong as a result of demand risk increasing when lenders are restricted to banks for financing in the property investment and and when bank liquidity is limited.
This was partly offset by underlying fundamentals such as the reliability of lower demand for lending in the UK and the disposal tenants, the ability to let and the condition of the of our operations in Panama.
property are important, as they influence property values.
Commercial real estate For the Groups commercial real estate Our exposure to commercial real estate lending portfolios as a whole, the behaviour of markets and continued to be concentrated in Hong Kong, the the quality of assets did not cause undue concern in UK, Rest of Asia-Pacific and North America.
While the commercial real estate market in markets in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific the UK has taken some time to recover, the drivers remained relatively strong throughout 2013 despite described above are not currently causing sufficient cooling measures and the prospect of an end to concern regarding our sensitivity to the risk of tapering in the US.
In the UK, the commercial refinancing to warrant enhanced management property market steadily improved as demand for attention.
Stronger liquidity in 2013, as a wider commercial tenancies rose amid signs that the range of international financiers returned to the benefits of the economic recovery were beginning market, significantly eased pressure on the options to filter to regional markets beyond London and the for refinance.
South East, which had remained relatively strong At 31 December 2013, we had US$22bn throughout the downturn.
In North America, the US of commercial real estate loans in the UK of which market showed the benefits of a return to economic US$7bn were due to be refinanced within the next growth with trends reflecting the recovery, 12 months.
Of these balances, cases subject to close particularly in larger metropolitan markets, where monitoring in our Loan Management unit amounted both commercial and residential demand improved.
US$2bn were disclosed as impaired with In Canada, broader concerns regarding overheating impairment allowances of US$650m.
Where these in the real estate markets did not affect the loans are not considered impaired it is because there commercial property market.
is sufficient evidence to indicate that the associated contractual cash flows will be recovered or that the Refinance risk in commercial real estate loans will not need to be refinanced on terms we It is not untypical for commercial real estate lending would consider below market norms.
to require the repayment of a significant proportion 168 Credit quality of financial instruments of these balances were classified as either strong Audited or good, broadly in line with the end of 2012.
A summary of our current policies and The majority of the Groups exposure to practices regarding the credit quality of financial investments was in the form of availablefinancial instruments is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 267. for-sale debt securities issued by governments and government agencies classified as strong.
This The five classifications describing the credit proportion was broadly unchanged in 2013 at 87%.
quality of our lending, debt securities portfolios Trading assets on which credit quality has and derivatives are defined on page 267 unaudited.
been assessed decreased by 35% from 31 December Additional credit quality information in respect 2012 to US$239bn due to lower reverse repo of our consolidated holdings of ABSs is provided balances following a change to the way GB&M on page 275. manages these activities.
The proportion of balances For the purpose of the following disclosure, classified as strong rose marginally from 65% at retail loans which are past due up to 89 days and are 31 December 2012 to 68% at 31 December 2013. not otherwise classified as impaired in accordance This was due to the reduction in reverse repo with our disclosure convention see page 267 balances as noted above, with most of these balances unaudited, are not disclosed within the expected previously being spread across the strong, good loss EL grade to which they relate, but are and satisfactory classifications.
In addition, there separately classified as past due but not impaired.
was a reduction in our holdings of government bonds in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific.
2013 compared with 2012 The proportion of derivative assets classified as Unaudited strong fell marginally from 79% at the end of 2012 We assess credit quality on all financial instruments to 78% at 31 December 2013 as a result of a decrease which are subject to credit risk, as shown in the in the fair value of interest rate derivatives classified table on page 170. as strong in Europe.
The proportion of satisfactory balances fell to 5% from 7% for the same reason.
On a reported basis, the balance of financial instruments bearing credit risk at 31 December 2013 Cash and balances at central banks rose by was US$2,478bn, of which US$1,650bn or 67% was 18% to US$167bn, mainly in Europe due to classified as strong 31 December 2012: 67%.
the placement of surplus funds from deposit growth The proportion of financial instruments classified as exceeding lending growth and, to a lesser extent in good and satisfactory remained broadly stable at North America.
Substantially all of the Groups cash 17% and 13%, respectively.
The proportion of and balances at central banks were classified as sub-standard financial instruments remained low strong, with the most significant concentrations in at 2% at 31 December 2013.
Loans and advances held at amortised cost increased to US$1,292bn from US$1,150bn at 31 December 2012.
At 31 December 2013, 77% 169 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Credit quality of financial instruments Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality Audited Neither past due nor impaired Past due ImpairSubbut not ment 11 Strong Good Satisfactory standard impaired Impaired allowances Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2013 Cash and balances at central banks 162,017 2,877 265 1,440 166,599 Items in the course of collection from other banks.. 5,590 66 286 79 6,021 Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness.
171 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Credit quality of financial instruments Past due but not impaired gross financial 90 days for technical reasons such as delays in instruments documentation but there is no concern over the Audited creditworthiness of the counterparty.
When groups of loans are collectively assessed for impairment, Past due but not impaired loans are those in respect collective impairment allowances are recognised of which the customer is in the early stages of for loans classified as past due but not impaired.
delinquency and has failed to make a payment or a partial payment in accordance with the contractual At 31 December 2013, US$15.5bn of loans and terms of the loan agreement.
This is typically when advances held at amortised cost were classified as a loan is less than 90 days past due and there are no past due but not impaired 2012: US$18.9bn.
The other indicators of impairment.
largest concentration of these balances was in HSBC Finance, where they decreased by 13% compared Further examples of exposures past due but not with the end of 2012 due to the continued run-off impaired include individually assessed mortgages and loan sales in the CML portfolio.
In Latin that are in arrears more than 90 days for which there America, balances decreased by 54% to US$1.6bn, are no other indicators of impairment and the value primarily in Brazil as we reposition our portfolio.
In of collateral is sufficient to repay both the principal addition, we disposed of our operations in Panama.
The contractual terms of a loan may be modified for There were no material changes to our group a number of reasons, including changes in market standard policies and procedures regarding conditions, customer retention and other factors not renegotiated loans in 2013.
In Brazil, we realigned related to the current or potential credit deterioration local practices to meet Group standard policy and of a customer.
Forbearance describes concessions reviewed the impairment allowance methodology made on the contractual terms of a loan in response used for our retail banking and Business Banking to an obligors financial difficulties.
We classify mass portfolios to ensure that it better reflected the and report loans on which concessions have been level of restructuring that is taking place and the granted under conditions of credit distress as performance of these restructured accounts.
renegotiated loans when their contractual payment The following tables show the gross carrying terms have been modified, because we have amounts of the Groups holdings of renegotiated significant concerns about the borrowers ability to loans and advances to customers by industry sector, meet contractual payments when due.
Concessions geography and credit quality classification.
175 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Credit quality of financial instruments The above table shows the movement in Renegotiated retail loans in Hong Kong, Rest of renegotiated loans for the year.
During the year Asia-Pacific and the Middle East and North Africa there were US$6.3bn of new loans classified as remained low.
renegotiated, of which US$294m resulted in the derecognition of the original loan and recognition HSBC Finance loan modifications and re-age of a new loan.
The majority of the movement during programmes the year was in Other, which included a reduction HSBC Finance maintains loan modification and in North America of US$5.6bn due to loan sales in re-age loan renegotiation programmes in order to the CML portfolio and transfers to other assets upon manage customer relationships, improve collection foreclosure and repossession of the real estate opportunities and, if possible, avoid foreclosure.
In addition, there were refinements in data collection to personal and Since 2006, HSBC Finance has implemented corporate and commercial, which resulted in an extensive loan renegotiation programme, and a improved renegotiated loan identification and led to a significant portion of its loan portfolio has been decrease in Turkey of US$523m.
subject to renegotiation at some stage in the life of the customer relationship as a consequence of the See page 270 for further details on the types of restructures economic conditions in the US and the nature of that may result in derecognition accounting.
2013 compared with 2012 The volume of loans that qualify for modification Unaudited has reduced significantly in recent years.
We expect The following commentary is on a reported basis.
this trend to continue as HSBC Finance believes the percentage of its customers with unmodified loans Renegotiated loans totalled US$34.2bn at who would benefit from loan modification in a way 31 December 2013 2012: US$42.2bn.
The most that would avoid non-payment of future cash flows significant portfolio remained in North America at is decreasing.
In addition, volumes of new loan US$18.8bn or 55% of the total at 31 December 2013 modifications are expected to decrease due to gradual 2012: US$26.2bn or 62%, substantially all improvements in economic conditions, the cessation of which were retail loans held by HSBC Finance of new real estate secured and personal non-credit Further commentary is provided below for retail and card receivables originations, and the continued runcorporate and commercial renegotiated loans.
off and loan sales in the CML portfolio.
Retail renegotiated loans Qualifying criteria Unaudited For an account to qualify for renegotiation it must The following commentary is on a reported basis.
However, HSBC Finance Renegotiated loans to retail customers totalled retains the right to decline a renegotiation.
The US$21.6bn at 31 December 2013, a reduction of extent to which HSBC Finance renegotiates US$8.2bn compared with the end of 2012.
This was accounts that are eligible under its existing policies due to the continued run-off and loan sales in the varies according to its view of prevailing economic CML portfolio.
The most significant portfolio of conditions and other factors which may change from renegotiated retail loans remained in North America year to year.
In addition, exceptions to policies and and amounted to US$18.1bn or 84% of the Groups practices may be made in specific situations in total, substantially all of which were retail loans held response to legal or regulatory agreements or orders.
Renegotiated real estate secured and personal The next largest portfolio of renegotiated lending receivables are not eligible for a subsequent retail loans was in Europe and amounted to renegotiation for twelve and six months, respectively, US$2.3bn, a reduction of US$566m compared with with a maximum of five renegotiations permitted the end of 2012.
The decrease was mainly due to within a five-year period.
Borrowers must be repayments and write-offs on renegotiated loans in approved for a modification and generally make the UK.
two minimum qualifying monthly payments within 60 days to activate a modification.
In certain In Latin America, renegotiated retail loans circumstances where the debt has been restructured decreased by US$174m to US$607m, mainly in bankruptcy proceedings, fewer or no payments resulting from more restrictive conditions being may be required.
Accounts whose borrowers are required for the approval of renegotiations.
subject to a Chapter 13 plan filed with a bankruptcy court generally may be re-aged upon receipt of one 176 qualifying payment, while accounts whose borrowers 2013 compared with 2012 have filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy protection may At 31 December 2013, renegotiated real estate be re-aged upon receipt of a signed reaffirmation secured accounts in HSBC Finance represented 91% agreement.
In addition, for some products accounts 2012: 86% of North Americas total renegotiated may be re-aged without receipt of a payment in loans.
US$10bn 2012: US$14bn of renegotiated certain special circumstances e. g. in the event of a real estate secured loans were classified as impaired.
natural disaster or a hardship programme.
A significant portion of HSBC Finances renegotiated portfolio has received multiple Types of loan renegotiation programme in HSBC Finance renegotiations.
Consequently, a significant A temporary modification is a change to the contractual terms of a loan that results in HSBC Finance giving up a proportion of loans included in the table below have right to contractual cash flows over a pre-defined period.
undergone multiple re-ages or modifications.
In With a temporary modification the loan is expected to revert this regard, multiple modifications have remained back to the original contractual terms, including the interest rate charged, after the modification period.
An example is consistent at 75% to 80% of total modifications.
During 2013, the aggregate number of A substantial number of HSBC Finance modifications involve interest rate reductions, which lower the amount of renegotiated loans reduced, due to the run-off interest income HSBC Finance is contractually entitled to and loan sales in the CML portfolio, despite receive in future periods.
Historically, modifications have renegotiation activity continuing.
Within the generally been for six months, although extended modification periods are now more common.
constraints of our Group credit policy, HSBC Loans that have been re-aged are classified as impaired Finances policies allow for multiple renegotiations with the exception of first-time loan re-ages that were less under certain circumstances, and a significant than 60 days past due at the time of re-age.
These remain number of accounts received second or subsequent classified as impaired until they have demonstrated a history of payment performance against their original contracted renegotiations during the year which do not appear terms for at least 12 months.
These statistics treat a loan A permanent modification is a change to the contractual as an addition to the volume of renegotiated loans on terms of a loan that results in HSBC Finance giving up a its first renegotiation only.
At 31 December 2013, right to contractual cash flows over the life of the loan.
renegotiated loans were 57% 2012: 58% of the An example is a permanent reduction in the interest rate charged.
total portfolio of HSBC Finances real estate secured Permanent or long-term modifications which are due to an accounts.
underlying hardship event remain classified as impaired for their full life.
The term re-age describes a renegotiation by which the contractual delinquency status of a loan is reset to current after demonstrating payment performance.
The overdue principal and or interest is deferred and paid at a later date.
Loan re-ageing enables customers who have been unable to make a small number of payments to have their loan delinquency status reset to current so that their credit score is not affected by the overdue balances.
Loans that have been re-aged remain classified as impaired until they have demonstrated a history of payment performance against the original contractual terms for at least 12 months.
A temporary or permanent modification may also lead to a re-ageing of a loan although a loan may be re-aged without any modification to its original terms and conditions.
Where loans have been granted multiple concessions, subject to the qualifying criteria discussed above, the concession is deemed to have been made due to concern regarding the borrowers ability to pay, and the loan is disclosed as impaired.
The loan remains disclosed as impaired from that date forward until the borrower has demonstrated a history of repayment performance for the period of time required for either modifications or re-ages, as described above.
177 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Credit quality of financial instruments Collateral Gross loan portfolio of HSBC Finance real estate secured balances Unaudited Total ImpairTotal reTotal nonTotal impairment Modified negotiated renegotiated gross ment allowances 14 Re-aged and re-aged Modified loans loans loans allowances gross loans US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m % At 31 December 2013... 8,167 8,213 768 17,148 13,171 30,319 3,028 10 At 31 December 2012.... 9,640 11,660 1,121 22,421 16,261 38,743 4,481 12 For footnote, see page 263.
Unaudited In Rest of Asia-Pacific, the majority of the For the current policies and procedures US$95m reduction in renegotiated loan balances was regarding renegotiated loans in the corporate in the manufacturing and international trade services and commercial sector, see the Appendix to Risk on page 271. sector as well as the commercial real estate and other property-related sector.
On a reported basis, there was a US$207m increase Renegotiated balances in Latin America in renegotiated loans in the corporate and increased by US$186m compared with the end commercial sector in 2013 to US$12bn.
Higher of 2012, primarily due to a small number of large balances in Europe US$441m and Latin America renegotiations in the commercial real estate and US$186m, were partly offset by reductions across other property-related sector in Mexico, related to the other regions.
homebuilders resulting from a change in public In Europe, there were higher balances in housing policy.
manufacturing and international trade services of US$707m, mainly in the UK due to a small number Collateral of significant individual restructurings, and in other Collateral and other credit enhancements commercial balances of US$435m, principally in held Spain.
This was partly offset by lower balances in Audited the commercial real estate and other property-related sector of US$701m, mainly in the UK due to net Loans and advances held at amortised cost loan repayments.
It is the Groups practice to lend on the basis of In the Middle East and North Africa, the customers ability to meet their obligations out of majority of the fall of US$276m was due to loan cash flow resources rather than rely on the value repayments in both manufacturing and international of security offered.
Depending on a customers standing and the type of product, facilities may 178 be provided without security.
For other lending, a partially collateralised may benefit from such credit charge over collateral is obtained and considered in mitigants.
determining the credit decision and pricing.
In the Certain credit mitigants are used strategically event of default, the bank may utilise the collateral in portfolio management activities.
While single as a source of repayment.
Depending on its form, name concentrations arise in portfolios managed collateral can have a significant financial effect in by GB&M and CMB, it is only in the former that mitigating our exposure to credit risk.
their size requires the use of portfolio level credit The tables below provide a quantification of mitigants.
Across GB&M risk limits and utilisations, the value of fixed charges we hold over borrowers maturity profiles and risk quality are monitored specific assets where we have a history of enforcing, and managed pro-actively.
This process is key to and are able to enforce, collateral in satisfying a determining our risk appetite for these larger, more debt in the event of the borrower failing to meet its complex, geographically distributed customer contractual obligations, and where the collateral is groups.
While the principal form of risk management cash or can be realised by sale in an established continues to be at the point of exposure origination market.
The collateral valuation in the tables below through the lending decision-making process, excludes any adjustments for obtaining and selling GB&M also utilises loan sales and credit default the collateral.
swap CDS hedges to manage concentrations and reduce risk.
These transactions are the responsibility We may also manage our risk by employing of a dedicated GB&M portfolio management team.
other types of collateral and credit risk Hedging activity is carried out within agreed credit enhancements such as second charges, other liens parameters, and is subject to market risk limits and a and unsupported guarantees, but the valuation of robust governance structure.
CDS mitigants are held such mitigants is less certain and their financial at portfolio level and are not reported in the effect has not been quantified.
In particular, loans presentation below.
Off-balance sheet commitments risk LTV bandings of 75% and below.
include loans that have been approved but which the customer has not yet drawn, and the undrawn portion Other personal lending of loans that have a flexible drawdown facility such as Other personal lending consists primarily of overdrafts, the offset mortgage product.
The collateral included in credit cards and second lien mortgage portfolios.
the table above consists of first charges on real estate.
Second lien lending is supported by collateral but the The LTV ratio is calculated as the gross onclaim on the collateral is subordinate to the first lien balance sheet carrying amount of the loan and any offcharge.
The majority of our second lien portfolios were balance sheet loan commitment at the balance sheet originated in North America where loss experience on date divided by the value of collateral.
The defaulted second lien loans has typically approached methodologies for obtaining residential property 100%: consequently, we do not generally attach any collateral values vary throughout the Group, but significant financial value to this type of collateral.
are typically determined by using a combination Credit cards and overdrafts are usually unsecured.
of professional appraisals, house price indices and statistical analysis.
Valuations must be updated Corporate, commercial and financial non-bank on a regular basis and, as a minimum, at intervals lending of every three years.
They are conducted more Collateral held is analysed separately below for frequently when market conditions or portfolio commercial real estate and for other corporate, performance are subject to significant change or when commercial and financial non-bank lending.
a loan is identified and assessed as impaired.
This reflects the difference in collateral held on The LTV ratio bandings are consistent with the portfolios.
In each case, the analysis includes our internal risk management reporting.
While we off-balance sheet loan commitments, primarily do have mortgages in the higher LTV bands, our undrawn credit lines.
These facilities are disclosed as not obligors credit quality declines sufficiently to raise collateralised if they are unsecured or benefit from questions over whether the principal source of credit risk mitigation from guarantees, which are not payment can fully meet the obligation i. e. the quantified for the purposes of this disclosure.
In obligors credit quality classification indicates it is at Hong Kong, market practice is typically for lending the lower end, that is sub-standard, or approaching to major property companies to be secured by impaired.
Where such concerns exist the revaluation guarantees or unsecured.
In Europe, facilities of method selected will depend upon the LTV a working capital nature are generally not secured relationship, the direction in which the local by a first fixed charge and are therefore disclosed commercial real estate market has moved since the as not collateralised.
last valuation and, most importantly, the specific characteristics of the underlying commercial real The value of commercial real estate collateral is estate which is of concern.
Collateral values held determined by using a combination of professional for customers rated CRR 9 to 10 i. e. classified as and internal valuations and physical inspections.
impaired are separately disclosed above, starting Due to the complexity of valuing collateral for with 2013. commercial real estate, local valuation policies determine the frequency of review on the basis of For further details on  and LTV calculations for commercial real estate and other corporate local market conditions.
The LTV ratios presented are calculated above lending primarily includes first legal charges by directly associating loans and advances with the over real estate and charges over cash in the collateral that individually and uniquely supports commercial and industrial sector, and charges over each facility.
Where collateral assets are shared by cash and marketable financial instruments in the multiple loans and advances, whether specifically or, financial non-bank sector.
Government sector more generally, by way of an all monies charge, the lending is generally unsecured.
collateral value is pro-rated across the loans and advances protected by the collateral.
It should be noted that the above table excludes other types of collateral which are commonly taken In both the commercial real estate and other for corporate and commercial lending such as corporate and commercial collateral tables the unsupported guarantees and floating charges over difference between the collateral value and the value the assets of a customers business.
While such of partially collateralised lending cannot be directly mitigants have value, often providing rights in compared with any impairment allowances insolvency, their assignable value is not sufficiently recognised in respect of impaired loans, as the certain and they are assigned no value for disclosure loans may be performing in accordance with their purposes.
When loans are not performing in accordance with their contractual terms, the As with commercial real estate, the value of recovery of cash flows may be affected by other real estate collateral included in the table above is cash resources of the customer, or other credit risk generally determined by using a combination of enhancements not quantified for the tables above.
professional and internal valuations and physical The values in the tables represent the expected inspections.
The frequency of revaluation is similar market value on an open market basis: no adjustment to commercial real estate loans and advances: has been made to the collateral for any expected however, for financing activities in corporate and costs of recovery.
When a loan is considered for commercial lending that are not predominantly impairment, the value used in the impairment commercial real estate-oriented, collateral value is allowance calculation takes such costs into not as strongly correlated to principal repayment consideration and might also reflect any deviation performance.
Collateral values are generally from an open market value arising from the expected refreshed when an obligors general credit conditions for sale, such as a forced sale within a performance deteriorates and we have to assess specified timetable.
While the values reported are the likely performance of secondary sources of therefore expected to be closely aligned to the values repayment should it prove necessary to rely on them.
used in impairment assessment, they will not be the For this reason, the table above reports values only same.
The existence or otherwise of specific for customers with CRR 8 to 10, recognising that collateral is not taken into account in the modeling these loans and advances generally have valuations of wholesale impairment allowances for loss events which are comparatively recent.
Starting with 2013, which are incurred but not reported.
These models collateral values held for customers rated CRR 9 operate on portfolio level observations of current to 10 i. e. classified as impaired are separately loss in each portfolio to which they are applied as disclosed.
For the above table, cash is valued at its described on page 272.
As current loss estimates are nominal value and marketable securities at their 183 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Collateral Impaired loans derived from adjusted historical observations, the Loans and advances to banks contribution of collateral is indirectly reflected in the The following table shows loans and advances to loss history.
banks, including off-balance sheet loan commitments by level of collateral.
Our policy for determining impairment allowances, including the effect of collateral on these impairment allowances, is described on page 272.
Loans and advances to banks collateral is passed between the parties to mitigate are typically unsecured.
Certain products such as the counterparty risk inherent in outstanding reverse repos and stock borrowing are effectively positions.
The majority of our CSAs are with collateralised and have been included in the financial institutional clients.
above as fully or partly collateralised.
The fully We manage the counterparty exposure arising collateralised loans and advances to banks in Europe from market risk on our OTC derivative contracts consist primarily of reverse repo agreements by using collateral agreements with counterparties and stock borrowing.
Collateral values held for and netting agreements.
Currently, we do not customers rated CRR 9 to 10 i. e. classified as actively manage our general OTC derivative impaired are separately disclosed above, starting counterparty exposure in the credit markets, with 2013. although we may manage individual exposures in certain circumstances.
Derivatives For a description of how the derivative offset amount in the The International Swaps and Derivatives Association Maximum exposure to credit risk table is derived, see ISDA Master Agreement is our preferred page 159. agreement for documenting derivatives activity.
Other credit risk exposures It provides the contractual framework within which dealing activity across a full range of overIn addition to collateralised lending, other credit the-counter OTC products is conducted, and enhancements are employed and methods used to contractually binds both parties to apply close-out mitigate credit risk arising from financial assets.
netting across all outstanding transactions covered These are described in more detail below: by an agreement if either party defaults or another some securities issued by governments, banks pre-agreed termination event occurs.
It is common, and other financial institutions benefit from and our preferred practice, for the parties to execute 184 Carrying amount of assets obtained additional credit enhancement provided by government guarantees that cover the assets.
At 31 December 2013 2012 Details of government guarantees are included in Notes 6, 10 US$m US$m and 12 on the Financial Statements.
Nature of assets Residential property 408 353 debt securities issued by corporates are Commercial and industrial primarily unsecured: property............... 43 88 Other.. 2 3 debt securities issued by banks and financial 453 444 institutions include ABSs and similar instruments which are supported by underlying The increase in foreclosed residential properties pools of financial assets.
Credit risk associated was due to the suspension of foreclosure activities at with ABSs is reduced through the purchase of the end of 2011 and during the first half of 2012.
the US we have resumed processing suspended Disclosure of the Groups holdings of ABSs and associated foreclosure actions in all states and have referred the CDS protection is provided on page 204. majority of the backlog of loans for foreclosure.
We have also begun initiating new foreclosure activities trading assets include loans and advances held in all states see page 164 unaudited.
These mainly consist of We make repossessed properties available for cash collateral posted to satisfy margin sale in an orderly fashion, with the proceeds used requirements on derivatives, settlement to reduce or repay the outstanding indebtedness.
If accounts, reverse repos and stock borrowing.
excess funds arise after the debt has been repaid, There is limited credit risk on cash collateral they are made available to repay other secured posted since in the event of default of the lenders with lower priority or are returned to the counterparty these would be set off against the customer.
We do not generally occupy repossessed related liability.
Reverse repos and stock properties for our business use.
borrowing are by their nature collaterised.
Collateral accepted as security that the Group is permitted to Impaired loans sell or repledge under these arrangements is described in Audited Note 36 on the Financial Statements.
Impaired loans and advances are those that meet The Groups maximum exposure to credit any of the following criteria: risk includes financial guarantees and similar wholesale loans and advances classified as arrangements that we issue or enter into, and loan Customer Risk Rating CRR 9 or CRR 10. commitments that we are irrevocably committed to.
These grades are assigned when the bank Depending on the terms of the arrangement, we may considers that either the customer is unlikely have recourse to additional credit mitigation in the to pay its credit obligations in full, without event that a guarantee is called upon or a loan recourse to security, or when the customer is commitment is drawn and subsequently defaults.
past due 90 days or more on any material credit For further information on these arrangements, see obligation to HSBC.
Note 40 on the Financial Statements.
retail loans and advances classified as Expected Collateral and other credit enhancements Loss EL 9 or EL 10.
These grades are obtained assigned to retail loans and advances greater Audited than 90 days past due unless individually they have been assessed as not impaired.
The carrying amount of assets obtained by taking possession of collateral held as security, or calling For further details of the CRR and the EL scales see page 267 unaudited : upon other credit enhancements, is as follows: 185 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Impaired loans renegotiated loans and advances that have been risk characteristics surrounding the renegotiation.
subject to a change in contractual cash flows as For loans that are assessed for impairment on an a result of a concession which the lender would individual basis, all available evidence is assessed not otherwise consider, and where it is probable on a case-by-case basis.
that without the concession the borrower would In HSBC Finance, where a significant majority be unable to meet the contractual payment of HSBCs loan forbearance activity occurs, the obligations in full, unless the concession is history of payment performance is assessed with insignificant and there are no other indicators reference to the original terms of the contract, of impairment.
Renegotiated loans remain reflecting the higher credit risk characteristics of classified as impaired until there is sufficient this portfolio.
The payment performance periods are evidence to demonstrate a significant reduction monitored to ensure they remain appropriate to the in the risk of non-payment of future cash flows, levels of relapse observed within the portfolio.
and there are no other indicators of impairment.
For further disclosure on loans subject to forbearance, see For loans that are assessed for impairment page 268. on a collective basis, the evidence to support Renegotiated loans and forbearance disclosures reclassification as no longer impaired typically are subject to evolving industry practice and comprises a history of payment performance against regulatory guidance.
Impairment of loans and advances assessed or collectively assessed, and collective Audited impairment allowances on loans and advances classified as not impaired.
After excluding reverse repo balances, c as a percentage of C was 1.21% for Europe, 3.21% for North America and 1.5% in total at 31 December 2013.
After excluding reverse repos, f as a percentage of F was 1.21% for Europe, 4.01% for North America and 1.65% in total at 31 December 2012.
2013 compared with 2012 Impaired loans decreased by 5% compared with Unaudited the end of 2012 to US$37bn, reflecting the continued run-off and loan sales in the US CML portfolio.
On a reported basis, loan impairment allowances were US$15bn at 31 December 2013, a 6% decrease Releases and recoveries of US$2.2bn were compared with the end of 2012.
Impaired loans and higher than in 2012, mainly in Europe on advances were US$37bn, a decrease of 6% from the collectively assessed recoveries in RBWM following end of 2012. debt sales in the UK in 2013 and, in the Middle East and North Africa, due to a small number of The following commentary is on a constant individual releases, mainly in GB&M on UAEcurrency basis.
Loan impairment allowances fell by 5% to US$15bn.
The reduction was mainly in North Regional analysis America, driven by the continued run-off and loan In Europe, new loan impairment allowances sales in the US CML portfolio and improvements decreased marginally to US$3bn, primarily due to in housing market conditions.
lower new individual allowances in GB&M and in CMB, mainly in France and on Greek exposures, 189 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Impaired loans reflecting improvements to the challenging economic by lower new collectively assessed allowances as a conditions in 2012.
This was largely offset by higher result of improvements in housing market conditions new collective allowances in the UK, mainly in the and the continued run-off and loan sales in the CML retail sector.
Impaired loans increased by 16% compared Impaired loans fell by 25% to US$15bn with the end of 2012 to US$13bn, resulting from compared with the end of 2012 due to the continued a small number of individually assessed corporate run-off and loan sales in the CML portfolio.
and commercial loans in the UK and France and Releases and recoveries in North America were portfolio growth in Turkey.
Releases and recoveries in Europe were In Latin America, new loan impairment US$1bn, a rise of 13% compared with the end of allowances increased by 25% to US$3bn, primarily 2012, mainly due to higher recoveries from debt in Mexico from higher specific impairments in sales in the UK in 2013.
This was partly offset by CMB relating to homebuilders due to a change in lower releases, mainly in France in GB&M and the public housing policy, and higher collective CMB.
In Brazil, collectively In Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific new assessed new allowances increased as a result of loan impairment allowances and impaired loans impairment methodology changes and assumption remained at low levels.
revisions for restructured loan account portfolios in RBWM and CMB as well as higher specific In the Middle East and North Africa, new loan impairments across a number of corporate impairment allowances were US$278m, a decrease exposures.
This was partly offset by improvements of US$180m.
This was due to a reduction in new in credit quality in Brazil as modifications to credit individually assessed allowances as a result of the strategies in previous years to mitigate rising overall improvement in the loan portfolio compared delinquency rates took effect.
with 2012, and improved property prices in the UAE.
Impaired loans increased by 47% from the end of 2012 to US$4bn, mainly relating to Impaired loans of US$2bn at 31 December 2013 homebuilders in Mexico and from methodology were 7% lower than in 2012, mainly in the UAE due changes and higher individually assessed to recoveries and an improvement in credit quality.
impairments in CMB in Brazil across a number Releases and recoveries in the region rose by of corporate exposures.
US$114m on 2012 to US$322m due to a small Releases and recoveries in Latin America number of individual releases, mainly in GB&M reduced to US$313m compared with 2012, mainly on UAE-related exposures.
in RBWM in Brazil and Mexico.
In North America, new loan impairment For an analysis of loan impairment charges and other credit allowances decreased by 60% to US$1.5bn, driven risk provisions by global business, see page 94.
Reconciliation of reported and constant currency impairment charge to the income statement Unaudited 31 Dec 12 Movement Currency at 31 Dec 13 - constant Constant 31 Dec 12 translation exchange currency 31 Dec 13 Reported currency 23 24 24 as reported adjustment rates basis as reported change change US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m % % Charge for impairment losses.
196 Concentration of exposure Trading securities remained the largest concentration Unaudited within trading assets at 68% compared with 47% in 2012.
This increase was due to a change in the way Concentrations of credit risk are described GB&M manage reverse repo activities, which led to in the Appendix to Risk on page 273. a significant reduction in these balances in loans and advances to banks and customers.
The largest concentration within the trading securities portfolio The geographical diversification of our lending was in government and government agency debt portfolio and our broad range of global businesses securities.
We had significant exposures to US and products ensured that we did not overly depend Treasury and government agency debt securities on a few markets to generate growth in 2013.
This US$23bn and UK US$12bn and Hong Kong diversification also supported our strategy for US$6bn government debt securities.
growth in faster-growing markets and in those with international connectivity.
For an analysis of debt and equity securities held for trading, see Note 14 on the Financial Statements.
An analysis of credit quality is provided on page 169.
Derivatives Financial investments Derivative assets were US$282bn at 31 December Our holdings of available-for-sale government and 2013 2012: US$357bn, of which the largest government agency debt securities, corporate debt concentrations were interest rate and, to a lesser securities, ABSs and other securities were spread extent, foreign exchange derivatives.
Our exposure across a wide range of issuers and geographical to derivatives decreased by 21% as upward regions in 2013, with 13% invested in securities movements in yield curves in major currencies led to issued by banks and other financial institutions and a decline in the fair value of interest rate contracts, 73% in government or government agency debt largely in Europe, although this was partly offset by securities.
We also held assets backing insurance and a reduction in netting.
For an analysis of derivatives, see Note 18 on the Financial For an analysis of financial investments, see Note 19 on the Statements.
Loans and advances Trading assets Gross loans and advances to customers excluding Trading assets the financial sector of US$957bn at 31 December Unaudited 2013 2012 2013 increased by US$25bn or 3% compared with US$bn US$bn the end of 2012 on a reported basis.
On a constant 25 currency basis they were US$30bn higher.
Trading securities 163 171 Loans and advances to banks......... 28 78 The following tables analyse loans and advances Loans and advances to customers.. 48 118 by industry sector and by the location of the principal 239 367 operations of the lending subsidiary or, in the case For footnote, see page 263. of the operations of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, HSBC Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East and HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the lending branch.
The following commentary is on a constant 31 December 2012.
This was due to continued currency basis.
demand for financing by customers in Hong Kong and, to a lesser extent, in Rest of Asia-Pacific.
Personal lending balances of US$411bn represented 38% of gross lending to customers Commercial real estate lending was 7% of total at 31 December 2013.
This was a reduction of gross lending to customers, broadly unchanged from US$1.4bn compared with 31 December 2012.
The main concentrations of First lien residential mortgage lending continued commercial real estate lending were in the UK and to represent our largest concentration in a single Hong Kong.
exposure type, the most significant balances being Lending to non-bank financial institutions in the UK 44%, Hong Kong 18% and the was US$138bn, an increase of US$56bn compared US 14%.
with 31 December 2012 mainly due to a change in Corporate and commercial lending was 50% the way GB&M manages reverse repo activities, of gross lending to customers at 31 December and increased lending to other financial services 2013, representing our largest lending category.
Our exposure was International trade and services, which comprised spread across a range of institutions, with the most the largest portion of the corporate and commercial significant exposures being in the UK, France and lending category, increased by 10% compared with the US.
198 Loans and advances to banks were widely The tables that follow provide information distributed across many countries and increased on loans and advances by geographical region and by 41% from 31 December 2012.
This was driven by country.
The commentary on these loans and by a change in the way GB&M manage reverse advances can be found under Personal lending and repo activities, and higher placements with financial Wholesale lending on pages 160 and 165, institutions in Hong Kong.
Risk in HSBC Holdings is overseen by the HSBC Holdings Asset and Liability Management HSBC Holdings maximum exposure to credit Committee ALCO.
The major risks faced by risk at 31 December 2013 is shown below.
Its HSBC Holdings are credit risk, liquidity risk and financial assets principally represent claims on market risk in the form of interest rate risk and Group subsidiaries in Europe and North America.
foreign exchange risk, of which the most significant All of the derivative transactions are with HSBC is credit risk.
undertakings that are banking counterparties 2012: Credit risk in HSBC Holdings primarily arises 100% and for which HSBC Holdings has in place from transactions with Group subsidiaries and from master netting arrangements.
Since 2012, the credit guarantees issued in support of obligations assumed risk exposure has been managed on a net basis and by certain Group operations in the normal conduct the remaining net exposure is specifically of their business.
It is reviewed and managed within collateralised in the form of cash.
regulatory and internal limits for exposures by our HSBC Holdings maximum exposure to credit risk Audited At 31 December 2013 At 31 December 2012 Exposure to Exposure to Maximum credit risk Maximum credit risk exposure Offset net exposure Offset net US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand: balances with HSBC undertakings.............. 407 407 353 353 Derivatives 2,789 2,755 34 3,768 3,768 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings...... 53,344 53,344 41,675 41,675 Financial investments 1,210 1,210 1,208 1,208 Financial guarantees and similar contracts........ 52,836 52,836 49,402 49,402 Loan and other credit-related commitments...... 1,245 1,245 1,200 1,200 111,831 2,755 109,076 97,606 3,768 93,838 The credit quality of the loans and advances to leveraged finance transactions: and HSBC undertakings is assessed as strong or good, representations and warranties related to with 100% of the exposure being neither past due mortgage sales and securitisation activities.
The financial Within the above is included information on investments held by HSBC Holdings have a the GB&M legacy credit activities in respect of Standard and Poors S&P rating of A 2012: A. Solitaire Funding Limited Solitaire, the securities investment conduits SICs, ABS trading portfolios Securitisation exposures and other and derivative transactions with monolines.
structured products Audited Further information in respect of Solitaire and the SICs is provided in Note 42 on the Financial Statements.
This section contains information about our exposure to the following: Accounting policies asset-backed securities ABSs, including Our accounting policies for the classification and measurement of financial instruments are in accordance with the mortgage-backed securities MBSs and requirements of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, related collateralised debt obligations CDOs : IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement direct lending at fair value through profit or and IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, as described in Note 2 on the Financial Statements, and the use of assumptions and loss: estimates in respect of the valuation of financial instruments is monoline insurance companies monolines : described in Note 15 on the Financial Statements.
203 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Securitisation exposures and other structured products Balance Sheet Management holds ABSs and sponsored enterprises, the second half of the primarily issued by government agency and year saw the market for these securities moderate sponsored enterprises as part of our investment and they traded with less volatility in this period.
Spreads modestly tightened across the rest of the structured product market in the year, with a notable For further information on Balance Sheet Management, see appreciation in US Alt-A RMBS prices as a result page 238 of the improved view on the US housing market.
Exposure in 2013 Within the following table are assets held in Audited the GB&M legacy credit portfolio with a carrying value of US$28bn 2012: US$31.6bn.
2013 saw an improvement in US macro-economic indicators and continued market appetite for A summary of the nature of HSBCs structured products.
ABSs classified as available for sale external investor first loss protection support, and positions held directly and by Solitaire, where we Our principal holdings of available-for-sale ABSs provide first loss protection of US$1.2bn through are held in GB&M structured entities SEs credit enhancement and a liquidity facility.
Securities investment conduits credit to the impairment line for the amount of Unaudited the loss allocated to capital note holders, subject to the carrying amount of the capital notes being The total carrying amount of ABSs held through sufficient to offset the loss.
Where the aggregate SEs in the overleaf table represents holdings in impairment charges exceeded the carrying value which significant first loss protection is provided of the capital notes, liability write-backs of through capital notes issued by SICs, excluding US$20m 2012: a charge of US$119m were Solitaire.
attributed to HSBC as shown in the table below.
At each reporting date, we assess whether In respect of the SICs, the capital notes held by there is any objective evidence of impairment in third parties are expected to absorb the cash losses the value of the ABSs held by SEs.
The accounting policy for impairment and indicators of impairment is set out in Note 2 on the Financial Statements.
The above table excludes leveraged finance transactions, which are shown separately on page 209.
Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Securitisation exposures Leveraged finance transactions Representations and warranties Transactions with monoline insurers analyse that risk, the value of protection purchased Audited is shown subdivided between those monolines that were rated by S&P at BBBor above at HSBCs exposure to derivative transactions 31 December 2013, and those that were below entered into directly with monolines BBBBBBis the S&P cut-off for an investment Our principal exposure to monolines is through a grade classification.
The Credit valuation number of OTC derivative transactions, mainly adjustment column indicates the valuation CDSs.
We entered into these CDSs primarily to adjustment taken against the net exposures, and purchase credit protection against securities held reflects our best estimate of the likely loss of in the trading portfolio at the time.
value on purchased protection arising from the deterioration in creditworthiness of the monolines.
During 2013, the notional value of contracts These valuation adjustments, which reflect a with monolines and our overall credit exposure to measure of the irrecoverability of the protection monolines decreased as a result of commutations, purchased, have been charged to the income contract expiries and amortisations, and narrowing statement.
The table below sets out the fair value, of the derivative transactions at 31 December Market prices are generally not readily available 2013, and hence the amount at risk if the CDS for CDSs, so their value is based on the market protection purchased were to be wholly ineffective prices of the referenced securities.
because, for example, the monoline insurer was unable to meet its obligations.
In order to further HSBCs exposure to derivative transactions entered into directly with monoline insurers Audited Net exposure Net exposure before credit Credit after credit Notional valuation valuation valuation 36 amount adjustment adjustment adjustment US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2013 Derivative transactions with monoline counterparties Monolines investment grade BBB or above............ 3,297 299 61 238 Monolines sub-investment grade below BBB......... 523 190 110 80 3,820 489 171 318 At 31 December 2012 Derivative transactions with monoline counterparties Monolines investment grade BBB or above............ 4,191 606 121 485 Monolines sub-investment grade below BBB......... 957 303 158 145 5,148 909 279 630 For footnotes, see page 263. Credit valuation adjustments for monolines are traded explicitly with the benefit of this For monolines, the standard CVA methodology as described enhancement, any deterioration in the credit profile on page 350 applies, with the exception that the future of the monoline is reflected in market prices and, exposure profile is deemed to be constant equal to the current therefore, in the carrying amount of these securities market value over the weighted average life of the referenced security.
For wrapped bonds held in the trading portfolio, the mark-to-market movement has been reflected through the income statement.
HSBCs exposure to debt securities which benefit For wrapped bonds held in the available-for-sale from guarantees provided by monolines portfolio, the mark-to-market movement is reflected Within both the trading and available-for-sale in equity unless there is objective evidence of portfolios, we hold bonds that are wrapped with a impairment, in which case the impairment loss credit enhancement from a monoline.
As the bonds is reflected in the income statement.
208 Leveraged finance transactions from our trading and investment activities is shown Audited in the table on page 206.
Leveraged finance transactions include subWe held leveraged finance commitments of investment grade acquisition or event-driven US$1.4bn at 31 December 2013 2012: US$2.8bn, financing.
The following table shows our exposure of which US$1.3bn 2012: US$2.6bn were funded.
to leveraged finance transactions arising from At 31 December 2013, our principal exposure primary transactions.
Our additional exposure to was to companies in the communications and leveraged finance loans through holdings of ABSs infrastructure sector.
Representations and warranties related to Participants in the US mortgage securitisation mortgage sales and securitisation activities market that purchased and repackaged whole loans, Unaudited such as servicers, originators, underwriters, trustees or sponsors of securitisations, have been the subject We have been involved in various activities related of lawsuits and governmental and regulatory to the sale and securitisation of residential mortgages investigations and inquiries.
that are not recognised on our balance sheet.
These activities include: At 31 December 2013, a liability of US$99m 2012: US$219m was recognised in respect of the purchase of US$24bn of third-party various representations and warranties regarding originated mortgages by HSBC Bank USA and the origination and sale by HSBC Bank USA of their securitisation by HSBC Securities USA mortgage loans, primarily to government sponsored Inc. HSI between 2005 and 2007: entities.
These relate to, among other things, the HSI acting as underwriter for the third-party ownership of the loans, the validity of the liens, issuance of private label MBSs with an original the loan selection and origination process and issuance value of US$37bn, most of which were compliance with the origination criteria established sub-prime: and by the agencies.
In the event of a breach of its representations and warranties, HSBC Bank the origination and sale by HSBC Bank USA USA may be obliged to repurchase the loans of mortgage loans, primarily to governmentwith identified defects or to indemnify the buyers.
The estimated liability was based on the level In selling and securitising mortgage loans, of outstanding repurchase demands, the level of various representations and warranties may be outstanding requests for loan files and the expected made to purchasers of the mortgage loans and future repurchase demands in respect of mortgages MBSs.
When purchasing and securitising mortgages sold to date which were either two or more payments originated by third parties and underwriting thirddelinquent or might become delinquent at an party MBSs, the obligation to repurchase loans in estimated conversion rate.
Repurchase demands of the event of a breach of loan level representations US$44m were outstanding at 2013 2012: US$89m.
and warranties resides predominantly with the For further information on legal proceedings and regulatory organisation that originated the loan.
matters, see Note 43 on the Financial Statements.
209 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Eurozone exposures Eurozone exposures peripheral country need to leave the euro it is Unaudited now expected to be on a managed basis that is less likely to present a risk to the eurozone itself.
Exposures to countries in the eurozone The tables in this section summarise our The disclosure in this section is limited to the selected eurozone country exposures, including to: peripheral eurozone countries of Spain, Ireland, Italy, Greece, Portugal and Cyprus, which exhibited governments, central banks and quasi levels of market volatility that exceeded other government agencies: eurozone countries, demonstrating fiscal or banks: political uncertainty that persisted throughout 2013. other financial institutions and corporates: and During the year, core eurozone countries such as personal lending.
Germany and the Netherlands demonstrated an Exposures to banks, other financial institutions, improvement in economic fundamentals, and the other corporates and personal lending are based on risk of contagion leading to a broadly based failure the counterpartys country of domicile.
of the euro abated considerably.
Audited Short positions managed together with trading In the above table, Total gross exposure represents assets mitigate the risk to which we are exposed at the on-balance sheet carrying amounts recorded the balance sheet date when, in the event of default, in accordance with IFRSs and off-balance sheet the trading assets and related short positions exposures.
crystallise gains and losses simultaneously.
When such relationships exist, an element of the risk will Total net exposure is stated after taking into remain if the short and long positions do not match account mitigating offsets that are incorporated into exactly, for example, if the maturity of the short the risk management view of the exposure but do position is less than the trading asset or the short not meet accounting offset requirements.
These risk position is not identical to the security.
The mitigating offsets include: remaining risk is reflected in the gross balance short positions managed together with trading sheet exposure shown before risk mitigation.
assets: However, as the net position best reflects the derivative liabilities for which a legally effects of a credit event should it occur at the enforceable right of offset with derivative assets exists: and 210 balance sheet date, we consider that this measure is Greece, Italy or Spain.
As a result, only exposures a key view of risk at that date.
in Greece, Italy and Spain described as incountry are reported in the table below.
Credit risk mitigation includes derivative liabilities with the same counterparty when a Key risks associated with an exit by a eurozone master netting arrangement is in place and the member include: credit risk exposure is managed on a net basis or Foreign exchange losses: an exit would the position is specifically collateralised, normally probably be accompanied by the passing of laws in the form of cash.
These amounts do not qualify in the country concerned establishing a new local for net presentation for accounting purposes as currency and providing for a redenomination settlement may not actually be made on a net basis, of euro assets into the new local currency.
The though we consider the net presentation more value of assets and liabilities in the country would accurately reflects the risk exposure.
immediately fall assuming the value of the The effect of the transfer of risk to redenominated currency is less than the original policyholders under unit linked insurance contracts euros when translated into the carrying amounts.
and trading assets which represent collateral to It is not possible to predict what the total support associated liabilities are not deducted from consequential loss might be as it is uncertain the total net exposure.
which assets and liabilities would be legally redenominated or the extent of the devaluation.
These Off-balance sheet exposures mainly relate to assets and liabilities predominantly comprise loans commitments to lend and the amounts shown in the and deposits arising from our commercial banking table represent the amounts that could be drawn operations in these countries, and the net assets down by the counterparties.
In the majority of represent our net funding exposure.
The table also cases, we are bound to fulfil these commitments.
identifies in-country off-balance sheet exposures as In some instances, limitations are imposed on a these are at risk of redenomination should they be counterpartys ability to draw down on a facility.
called, giving rise to a balance sheet exposure.
It These limitations are governed by the is to be noted that this analysis can only be an documentation, which differs from counterparty indication as it does not include euro-denominated to counterparty.
exposures booked by HSBC outside the countries at risk which are connected with those countries see Commentary on exposures external contracts below.
At 31 December 2013, our net exposure to the External contracts redenomination risk: peripheral eurozone countries was US$37.5bn, contracts entered into between HSBC businesses US$1.3bn lower than at the end of 2012.
This based outside a country exiting the euro with inwas primarily due to a reduction in exposure to country counterparties or those otherwise closely sovereign borrowers and agencies in Italy, to banks connected with the relevant country may be in Ireland and to other financial institutions and affected by redenomination.
The effect remains corporates in Spain.
These were partly offset by subject to a high level of uncertainty.
Factors such an increase in exposure to banks in Greece due to as the country law under which the contract is reverse repo activity backed by high quality bonds.
documented, the HSBC entity involved and the payment mechanism may all be relevant to this Redenomination risk assessment, as will the precise exit scenario as the Unaudited consequences for external contracts of a disorderly Despite some improvements, the peripheral exit may differ from one sanctioned under EU law.
eurozone countries continue to exhibit distress, In addition, capital controls could be introduced and there is the continuing possibility of a member which may affect our ability to repatriate funds state exiting from the eurozone.
There remains no including currencies not affected by the established legal framework within the European redenomination event.
treaties to facilitate such an event: consequently, it We continue to identify and monitor potential is not possible to accurately predict the course of redenomination risks and, where possible, take events and legal consequences that would ensue.
steps to mitigate them and or reduce our overall Based on our assessment of the likelihood of exposure to losses that might arise in the event a each country leaving the euro, and the related of a redenomination.
We recognise, however, that materiality of our exposures subject to the risk a euro exit could take different forms, depending of redenomination it is our view that the greatest on the scenario.
These could have distinct legal estimated impact of a eurozone exit is presented by consequences which could significantly alter the 211 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Credit risk Eurozone exposures Liquidity and funding potential effectiveness of any mitigation initiatives, tested against the precise circumstances of a and it is accordingly not possible to predict how redenomination event.
222 Encumbered and unencumbered assets............ 223 Summary of assets available to support potential future funding and collateral needs on and off-balance sheet.. 223 The effect of active collateral management.......... 224 Off-balance sheet collateral received and pledged for reverse repo and stock borrowing transactions 224 Off-balance sheet non-cash collateral received and pledged for derivative transactions............ 224 Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and unencumbered assets... 224 unencumbered assets................... 225 Additional contractual obligations 226 Additional information.... 227 Contractual maturity of financial liabilities..... 227 Cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities......... 228 Management of cross-currency liquidity and funding risk........... 280 HSBC Holdings.............. 229 281 Cash flows payable by HSBC Holdings under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities................ 229 1 Appendix to Risk risk policies and practices.
213 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
