HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors remuneration policy 1 Fixed pay includes base salary, fixed pay allowance and remuneration packages must meet any pension allowance for the year.
Benefits value is based on applicable local regulatory requirements: and the value of all benefits received in 2013.
For executive where necessary, compensation may be Directors other than Stuart Gulliver, the value of the benefits have been shown together with fixed pay in provided in respect of forfeiture of awards from the above charts given their relatively small impact.
an existing employer buyout awards.
2 Maximum award level as stated in our remuneration policy on the basis that shareholders approve the increase in the The maximum level of variable remuneration CRD IV cap on variable pay awards as a percentage of excluding buyout awards for any new hires will be fixed pay to 200%.
Includes deferred portion of award.
Target has been defined as 50% of the maximum award.
200% of fixed pay, subject to shareholder approval Minimum assumes no annual incentive award.
at the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2014.
3 Maximum award level as stated in our remuneration policy on the basis that shareholders approve the increase in the Outlined in the following table are all CRD IV cap on variable pay awards as a percentage of components that would be considered for inclusion fixed pay to 200%.
Target has been defined as 50% of in the remuneration package of a new executive the maximum award.
The GPSP scorecard has not been designed with a numeric targeted or expected value of Director and, for each, the approach that would be performance.
Minimum assumes no GPSP award.
4 The maximum award level of the GPSP for Douglas Flint is 100% of fixed pay.
Target has been defined as 50% of the In the case of an internal appointment, any maximum award.
variable element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms on Approach to recruitment remuneration grant.
On the recruitment or appointment of a new For non-executive Directors recruitment, executive Director the Committee would adhere to remuneration will be in line with the Remuneration the following principles: policy table on page 387. remuneration packages should be in line with the policy as outlined on page 381: Components of remuneration package of a new executive Director Component Approach taken to each component of remuneration Fixed pay Base salary and fixed pay allowance to reflect the individuals role, experience and responsibility and be set in the context of market practice.
Pension in line with policy as set out in the Remuneration policy table on page 381.
Benefits Benefits to be provided will be dependent on circumstances but in line with Group policy and Remuneration policy table, including the global mobility policy, where applicable, and local regulations.
Annual incentive New joiners will be eligible to be considered for an annual incentive award as set out in the Remuneration policy table on page 382.
Guaranteed bonuses are only permitted by exception and must be limited to the first year of service, subject to the Group Deferral Policy and performance requirements.
GPSP May be considered for GPSP award in year as set out in the Remuneration policy table on page 383.
Buyout May be offered if the individual holds any outstanding unvested shares which are forfeited on resignation from the previous employer.
Group buyout policy is in line with the PRA Remuneration Code which states that both the terms and amount of any replacement awards will not be more generous than the award forfeited on departure from the former employer.
Delivered as HSBC restricted shares with vesting and retention periods to match the terms of forfeited awards with previous employer as closely as possible, subject to proof of forfeiture and other relevant documentation.
Where the time to vesting is less than 60 days, deferred cash may be awarded for administrative purposes.
Service contracts with the best interests of the Group, the Committee will seek to minimise termination payments.
Directors Executive Directors may be eligible for a payment in relation to statutory Our policy is to employ executive Directors on service rights.
agreements with 12 months notice period.
