HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Employees people and optimising their ideas, abilities and The Corporate Real Estate department within differences.
HSBC has overall responsibility for health and safety and has set global health and safety policies Oversight of our diversity and inclusion agenda and standards for use wherever in the world HSBC and related activities resides with executives on the operates.
Achieving these policies and standards is Group Diversity Committee, complemented by the the responsibility of the country Chief Operating Group People Committee and local People Diversity Officer.
In terms of physical and geopolitical risk, Employee development Global Security and Fraud Risk provide regular security risk assessments to assist management in The development of employees in both developed judging the level of terrorist and violent criminal and emerging markets is essential to the future threat.
Regional Security and Fraud Risk functions strength of our business.
We have implemented a conduct biannual security reviews of all Group systematic approach to identifying, developing critical buildings to ensure measures to protect our and deploying talented employees to ensure an staff, buildings, assets and information are appropriate supply of high calibre individuals with appropriate to the level of threat.
the values, skills and experience for current and future senior management positions.
HSBC remains committed to the effective management of health and safety and protecting In 2013, we continued to build global employees, customers and visitors to HSBC.
consistency across our learning curricula and to improve the relevance and quality of learning Remuneration policy programmes.
We have endeavoured to achieve a standard of excellence focusing on leadership, The quality and commitment of our employees values and technical capability.
is fundamental to our success and accordingly the Board aims to attract, retain and motivate the very Employment of disabled persons best people.
As trust and relationships are vital in our business our goal is to recruit those who are We believe in providing equal opportunities for all committed to making a long-term career with the employees.
The employment of disabled persons is organisation.
included in this commitment and the recruitment, training, career development and promotion of HSBCs reward strategy supports this objective disabled persons is based on the aptitudes and through balancing both short-term and sustainable abilities of the individual.
Our reward strategy aims to reward become disabled during their employment with us, success, not failure, and be properly aligned with our efforts are made to continue their employment and, risk framework and related outcomes.
In order to if necessary, appropriate training and reasonable ensure alignment between remuneration and our equipment and facilities are provided.
business strategy, individual remuneration is determined through assessment of performance Health and safety delivered against both annual and long-term objectives summarised in performance scorecards HSBC is committed to providing a safe and healthy as well as adherence to the HSBC Values of being environment for our employees, customers and open, connected and dependable and acting with visitors and pro-actively managing the health and courageous integrity.
Altogether, performance is safety risks associated with our business.
Our judged, not only on what is achieved over the short objectives include compliance with health and and long term, but also on how it is achieved, as the safety laws in the countries in which we operate, latter contributes to the sustainability of the identifying, removing, reducing or controlling organisation.
material health and safety risks, reducing the likelihood of fires, dangerous occurrences and accidents to employees, customers and visitors.
