Our objective in the management of Group the PRA did not adopt most of the transitional capital is to maintain appropriate levels of provisions available in CRD IV, thereby opting for an capital to support our business strategy and acceleration of the CRD IV end point definition of meet our regulatory requirements.
Notwithstanding this, the CRD IV transitional provisions for unrealised gains have been applied, so that unrealised gains on investment property are Capital highlights derecognised until 1 January 2015.
As a result, our Core tier 1 capital ratio 13.6%, up transitional ratio is slightly lower than end point.
from 12.3% in 2012, as a result of capital generation and management actions.
Despite the final PRA rules, there remains continued uncertainty around the amount of capital Our end point CET1 ratio 10.9%, up that banks will be required to hold.
This relates to the from 9.5% in 2012, as a result of similar quantification and interaction of capital buffers drivers.
and Pillar 2, where further PRA consultations are due in 2014.
Furthermore, there are a significant number Capital overview of draft and unpublished European Banking Authority EBA technical and implementation Capital ratios Unaudited standards due in 2014 which could potentially affect At 31 December our capital position and RWAs.
2013 2012 Our approach to managing Group capital is % % designed to ensure that we exceed current regulatory Core tier 1 ratio 13.6 12.3 requirements, and are well placed to meet those Tier 1 ratio....... 14.5 13.4 Total capital ratio 17.8 16.1 expected in the future.
In 2013 we managed our capital position to meet CRD IV Common equity tier 1 an internal target ratio of 9.5 10.5% on a CET1 1 ratio end point 10.9 9.5 end-point basis, changing to greater than 10% from Common equity tier 1 1 January 2014.
We continue to keep this under ratio Year 1 transition.......... 10.8 review.
A summary of our policies and practices regarding capital management, measurement In November 2013, the Prudential Regulation and allocation is provided in the Appendix to Authority PRA published its expectations in Capital on page 319. relation to capital ratios for major UK banks and building societies.
These were that from 1 January Risk-weighted assets 2014, capital resources should be held equivalent to RWAs by risk type at least 7% of risk-weighted assets using a CRD IV Unaudited end point definition of common equity tier 1 At 31 December CET1 but after taking into account any 2013 2012 adjustments set by the PRA to reflect the Financial US$m US$m Policy Committees FPCs capital shortfall Credit risk 864,300 898,416 exercise recommendations.
These include an Standardised approach.............. 329,464 374,469 assessment of expected future losses, future costs of IRB foundation approach.......... 13,612 10,265 IRB advanced approach............ 521,224 513,682 conduct redress and adjusting for a more prudent calculation of risk weights.
Of which: Run-off portfolios................. 104,869 145,689 In December 2013, the PRA issued its final rules Legacy credit in GB&M.. 26,348 38,587 on CRD IV in Policy Statement PS 7 13.
This US CML and Other.......... 78,521 107,102 3 Card and Retail Services..... 1,143 6,858 transposes the various areas of national discretion within the final CRD IV legislation into UK law that For footnotes, see page 318. is applicable from 1 January 2014.
In its final rules, 299 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Capital RWAs Market risk RWAs reclassification of Industrial Bank from an associate Unaudited to a financial investment.
As a result, the holding At 31 December was removed from the regulatory consolidation 2013 2012 of RWAs and the investment was deducted from US$m US$m capital, resulting in a year-on-year reduction in VaR 4,870 7,616 RWAs of US$39.2bn.
This was partly offset by Stressed VaR 9,402 11,048 loan growth in Bank of Communications, increasing Incremental risk charge........... 23,088 11,062 RWAs by US$14.5bn.
Comprehensive risk measure 2,626 3,387 The disposal of operations in Latin America, Other VaR and stressed VaR..... 12,231 11,355 reduced RWAs by US$6.2bn, although this was Internal model based................... 52,217 44,468 partly offset by RWA growth of US$3.7bn in Brazil, PRA standard rules.................. 11,199 10,476 mainly driven by corporate term lending and trade finance growth in GB&M and CMB.
63,416 54,944 RWAs reduced by US$1.2bn in the Middle East RWAs by global businesses and North Africa, mainly driven by reductions in Unaudited CMB in the UAE and Oman of US$2.2bn, although At 31 December this was partly offset by growth in our associate, The 2013 2012 US$bn US$bn Saudi British Bank, of US$1.1bn.
Retail Banking and Wealth Management 233.5 276.6 During the year there were changes in approach Commercial Banking................ 391.7 397.0 for several portfolios: Global Banking and Markets........ 422.3 403.1 In Europe, income producing real estate Global Private Banking............ 21.7 21.7 portfolios in CMB, GPB and GB&M were Other................ 23.5 25.5 moved from the standardised approach to the 1,092.7 Total................. 1,123.9 IRB slotting approach, reducing RWAs on the standardised approach by US$15.1bn and 4 RWAs by geographical regions increasing RWAs on the IRB approach by Unaudited US$13.4bn.
In addition, as a result of a business At 31 December restructuring, a GB&M corporate portfolio was 2013 2012 moved to the IRB approach, reducing RWAs on US$bn US$bn the standardised approach by US$3.8bn and Total 1,092.7 1,123.9 increasing RWAs on the IRB approach by Europe 300.1 314.7 US$2.4bn.
Credit risk RWAs In Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, Unaudited corporate exposures in CMB and GB&M were Credit risk RWAs are calculated using three identified which did not meet full modelling approaches as permitted by the PRA.
For requirements and these were moved temporarily consolidated Group reporting we have adopted the to the standardised approach, increasing RWAs advanced IRB approach for the majority of our on the standardised approach by US$7.0bn and business, with a small proportion on the foundation reducing RWAs on the IRB approach by IRB approach and the remaining portfolios being on US$6.3bn.
IRB approach RWAs Standardised approach RWAs Credit risk RWA movements by key driver for For portfolios treated under the standardised portfolios treated under the IRB approach are set approach, credit risk RWAs reduced by US$45bn out in the tables on pages 302 and 303.
For the basis of which US$2.7bn was due to foreign exchange of preparation, see the Appendix to Capital on movements.
The reduction was primarily due to the page 319.
300 Foreign exchange movements reduced RWAs accompanied by a rise in regulatory expected losses, under the IRB approach by US$4.6bn: the discussion leading to higher deductions from capital.
of the remaining drivers excludes the effects of Book quality movements in Europe GB&M foreign currency translation.
were mainly the result of credit quality changes for securitisation exposures, reducing RWAs by Acquisitions and disposals US$4.5bn and partly reflecting the effect of Disposals reduced Group IRB RWAs by US$11.8bn.
exposures moving from RWAs to capital deductions.
In line with our objectives to accelerate the run-off There was a reduction in RWAs of US$3.2bn from of the US CML portfolio there were sales of non-real favourable shifts in corporate and institutional estate and personal homeowner loans with an RWA portfolio quality in Europe GB&M.
There were reduction of US$8.2bn in North America RBWM.
further movements in book quality in Europe, Additional sales of defaulted mortgage exposures for including a US$5.3bn RWA management overlay the US CML portfolio, which do not generate applied for corporate exposures in CMB and GB&M RWAs, also had a beneficial impact on the capital in response to increased loss rates and in advance of position through lower deductions for regulatory model recalibration.
In Europe RBWM, RWAs expected losses in North America.
reduced by US$1.7bn on retail mortgage and credit card portfolios, mainly reflecting favourable changes The sale of the HFC Bank UK secured loan in customer risk and the risk distribution in these portfolio in Europe RBWM reduced RWAs by portfolios.
In Latin America GB&M, the disposal of our businesses in Panama, Peru and Paraguay, In Hong Kong, changes in book quality for reduced RWAs by US$1.7bn.
GB&M and CMB corporate customers increased RWAs by US$4.7bn, mainly due to adverse Book size movements in customer credit standing, partly offset by favourable shifts in loss given default metrics and Movements in the size of the book increased Group the risk distribution of the portfolio.
In Hong Kong IRB RWAs by US$14.3bn.
Growth in Hong Kong RBWM, improvements in the quality of the credit and Rest of Asia-Pacific for CMB and GB&M, card and unsecured lending portfolio reduced RWAs mainly driven by corporate term and by US$0.5bn.
trade-related lending and trade finance business, resulted in an RWA increase of US$14.5bn, with a RWA movements from adverse internal rating further increase of US$1.8bn relating to higher changes for sovereign exposures in Middle East and institutional exposures.
In Hong Kong RBWM, North Africa and Hong Kong were broadly offset by credit card and unsecured lending portfolio growth favourable changes in North America.
resulted in an increase in RWAs of US$1.2bn.
Model updates Corporate exposure growth in Europe CMB and GB&M increased RWAs by US$2.1bn, while Model updates increased Group IRB RWAs by reductions for securitisation exposures resulted in a US$11.5bn.
In Europe, income producing real estate reduction in RWAs of US$1.4bn in Europe, portfolios in CMB, GPB and GB&M were moved on reflecting sales and the amortisation of assets, to the IRB slotting approach, reducing RWAs on the mainly in the GB&M legacy credit portfolio.
North standardised approach by US$15.1bn and increasing America RBWM balance reductions reduced RWAs them on the IRB approach by US$13.4bn.
This was by US$14bn, primarily from the continued run-off of accompanied by a rise in regulatory expected losses, the US CML retail mortgage portfolio.
In North leading to higher deductions from capital.
Further America CMB, corporate lending growth resulted in updates included the implementation of a new an increase in RWAs of US$3.2bn.
corporate exposure model, reducing RWAs in Europe GB&M by US$2.3bn, with lower credit Sovereign exposure growth increased RWAs by conversion factors that are more reflective of US$4.3bn, mainly in Rest of Asia-Pacific, Middle historical experience.
East and North Africa and Hong Kong.
Methodology and policy Book quality Methodology and policy updates increased Group Movements in the quality of the book reduced Group IRB RWAs by US$7.5bn.
In Hong Kong and Rest of IRB RWAs by US$6.0bn.
In the US CML retail Asia-Pacific, corporate exposures in CMB and mortgage portfolio, accounts moving into default GB&M were identified which did not meet full reduced RWAs by US$4.2bn in RBWM.
This was modelling requirements, and these were moved 301 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Capital RWAs temporarily to the standardised approach, increasing given default floor, RWAs increased by US$19bn, standardised RWAs by US$7.0bn and reducing mainly in North America, Hong Kong and Rest of RWAs on the IRB approach by US$6.3bn.
Europe CMB, business restructuring enabled the In North America, commercial real estate application of a retail approach to the management portfolios in CMB and GB&M were moved on to of a portfolio of SME customers, reducing RWAs by the standardised approach as required by the PRA, US$0.8bn.
increasing standardised RWAs by US$6.7bn Sovereign exposures were a key driver of and reducing RWAs on the IRB approach by external methodology and policy RWA movements US$3.1bn, as reflected in external methodology in GB&M across a number of regions.
Counterparty credit risk and market risk RWA movement by key driver market risk RWAs internal model based Unaudited Unaudited 2013 2012 Portfolio movements for the modelled approaches US$bn US$bn to market risk and counterparty credit risk CCR RWAs at 1 January 44.5 54.7 RWAs are outlined in the tables below.
In 2013, the IRC model was updated RWAs at 31 December............... 42.2 45.7 to account more explicitly for stressed conditions.
Key input parameters were calibrated to a stressed CCR RWAs calculated on the IRB approach period and further granularity in parameters were reduced by US$3.5bn in 2013.
Book quality introduced to better represent the risk profile.
This movements drove a reduction in RWAs of US$2.7bn led to a one-off increase in the IRC requirement due to an improvement in the credit standing of which is reflected in the current year.
As part of the counterparties.
Book size decreased by US$0.9bn, model oversight, the IRC model will be periodically due to lower exposures across most regions as trades recalibrated to accurately capture the risk profile in matured and volumes reduced.
Further RWA increases of US$4.6bn were due to changes in the stressed VaR CCR RWAs on the standardised approach period and internal methodology updates relating to increased by US$0.9bn, mainly due to higher a change in the basis of consolidation for modelled balance sheet exposures on foreign exchange derivatives with corporate counterparties in Brazil.
303 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Capital RWAs Movement in total regulatory capital in 2013 Capital structure market risk charges as a result of clarification of the Operational risk RWAs Unaudited regulatory rules.
The reduction in Group-level operational risk RWAs The movement in risk levels, reducing RWAs of US$3.1bn was driven by the decrease in North by US$14.5bn, was due to reductions in positions America of US$6.4bn, mainly due to the sensitive to the IRC and changes in the shape of the acceleration of the amortisation of the operational trading portfolio due to defensive positions taken risk RWAs for the US CRS portfolio disposed of in by the Equity and Foreign Exchange businesses in May 2012.
This was partly offset by RWA growth in GB&M, leading to a lower stressed VaR and VaR.
Hong Kong of US$1.5bn and Rest of Asia-Pacific of US$1.2bn due to a higher three-year average operating income from increased loans and advances.
Internal adjustment for own credit spread and net of capital generation contributed US$10.1bn to core dividends.
The table below sets out the composition tier 1 capital, being profits attributable to of our capital under the regulatory requirements in application at 31 December 2013.
The references a m identify balance sheet components on page 307 which are used in the calculation of regulatory capital.
305 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Capital Capital structure Regulatory impact of management actions Unaudited At 31 December RiskTotal weighted Core tier 1 Tier 1 regulatory assets capital capital capital 2012 Reported capital ratios before management actions 12.3% 13.4% 16.1% Reported totals US$m............ 1,123,943 138,789 151,048 180,806 Management actions completed in 2013 US$m.... Dilution of our shareholding in Industrial Bank and the subsequent change in accounting treatment....................... 38,073 981 423 1,827 Completion of the second tranche of the sale of Ping An................... 553 4,637 7,984 Estimated total after management actions completed in 2013 US$m.. 1,085,870 140,323 155,262 186,963 Estimated capital ratios after management actions completed in 2013... 12.9% 14.3% 17.2% Regulatory and accounting consolidations Interests in associates are equity accounted in Unaudited the financial accounting consolidation, whereas their exposures are proportionally consolidated for The basis of consolidation for the purpose of regulatory purposes.
Subsidiaries and associates financial accounting under IFRSs, described in engaged in insurance and non-financial activities Note 1 on the Financial Statements, differs from are excluded from the regulatory consolidation and that used for regulatory purposes as described in deducted from regulatory capital.
The regulatory Structure of the regulatory group on page 12 of the consolidation does not include Special Purpose Pillar 3 Disclosures 2013 report.
The table below Entities SPEs where significant risk has been provides a reconciliation of the balance sheet from transferred to third parties.
Exposures to these the financial accounting to the regulatory scope of SPEs are risk-weighted as securitisation positions consolidation.
It is the regulatory balance sheet, and not Entities in respect of which the basis of the financial accounting balance sheet, which forms consolidation for financial accounting purposes the basis for the calculation of regulatory capital differs from that used for regulatory purposes can requirements.
be found in table 3 of the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2013 report.
308 Basel III implementation and CRD IV This is supplemented by a table on page 311 Unaudited which presents a reconciliation of our reported core tier 1 capital and RWAs to our estimated CET1 end In June 2013, the European Commission published point capital and estimated RWAs at 31 December the final Regulation and Directive, known 2013.
The position at 31 December 2013 is collectively as CRD IV, to give effect to the compared with that at 31 December 2012, where the Basel III framework in the EU.
This came into effect estimated effect was based on the earlier July 2011 on 1 January 2014. draft CRD IV text.
The capital position is presented In December 2013, the PRA issued its final on an end-point definition of CET1 capital, applying rules on CRD IV in PS 7 13, which transposes the all deductions and regulatory adjustments to CET1 various areas of national discretion within the final capital in full, as they would apply at the end of the CRD IV legislation in the UK.
Despite these final transitional period.
PRA rules further PRA consultations are due in 2014 The tables quantify the capital and for CRD IV capital buffers and Pillar 2.
RWA impacts currently known and are based on our In addition, many technical standards and interpretation of the final CRD IV regulation and guidelines have been issued by the EBA in draft final rules issued by PRA, as supplemented form for consultation or are pending publication by regulatory guidance.
These must be adopted by the European The effects of draft EBA standards are not Commission to become legally enforceable, which captured in our numbers.
These could have provides further uncertainty as to the capital additional, potentially significant effects on our requirements under CRD IV.
Following publication of the final CRD IV rules For the detailed basis of preparation, see the and UK national discretions, in order to provide Appendix to Capital, page 324. transparency to the way we manage our transition to Basel III under CRD IV, we set out information for investors on the estimated effects of these rules on our CET1 capital position in the table on page 310.
Whilst CRD IV allows for the majority of the eligible amount by 10% annually, following an regulatory adjustments and deductions from CET1 to initial 20% on 1 January 2014, until they are fully be implemented on a gradual basis from 1 January phased out by 1 January 2022.
2014 to 1 January 2018, the PRA has largely decided Under CRD IV, banks should maintain a Pillar 1 not to make use of these transitional provisions.
This tier 1 buffer of 1.5% of RWAs and a tier 2 buffer of results in a cost to our transitional CET1 ratio, 2.0% of RWAs.
Going forward, as the grandfathering corresponding to the treatment of unrealised gains on provisions fall away, we intend to meet these buffers investment property, which are only capable of being in an economic manner by issuing non-equity capital recognised in CET1 capital from 1 January 2015. as necessary.
At 31 December 2013, the Group had For tier 1 and tier 2 capital, the PRA followed US$11.7bn of CRD IV compliant, non-equity capital the transitional provisions timing as set out in CRD instruments and US$37.8bn of non-equity capital IV to apply the necessary regulatory adjustments and instruments qualifying as eligible capital under deductions.
The effect of these adjustments will be CRD IV by virtue of application of the grandfathering phased in at 20% per annum from 1 January 2014 provisions, after applying the 20% reduction outlined to 1 January 2018. above.
Furthermore, non-CRD IV compliant additional For a full disclosure of the CET1, tier 1 and total capital position on a transitional basis at 31 December 2013, tier 1 and tier 2 instruments benefit from a see Appendix III of the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2013 report.
311 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Capital Capital structure The main effect of the CRD IV final rules the capital calculation of holdings of capital compared with those at 31 December 2012, when the instruments of financial sector entities.
The draft estimated impact was based on the earlier July 2011 contains significant change from the initial draft text, is detailed below.
consultation and is still due for consideration and adoption by the European Commission.
We are To effect the deduction of significant monitoring developments and depending upon the investments in insurance companies from CET1, final standard we will consider the effect, together consistent with the treatment in our Interim Report with any further management actions.
2013, we have removed from the Group consolidated reserves the contribution of our insurance business Our CET1 capital ratio at 31 December 2013 and calculated the amount of the insurance holding was reduced by US$3bn to reflect our prospective deduction, subject to threshold calculations, at cost.
fourth interim dividend declared, net of projected The regulatory treatment of insurance holdings was scrip dividend, which will be paid in 2014.
This clarified in the final PRA rules set out in PS 7 13. represents a change in our basis of preparation to The change in treatment had a negative capital reflect CRD IV final rules.
impact of US$6.4bn on our reserves and resulted in A notable change compared with our the value of our significant investments in CET1 31 December 2012 estimates relates to the CVA risk capital of banks, financial institutions and insurance capital charge, which decreased to US$30.7bn, falling below the threshold amounts for deduction.
mainly as a result of the introduction of exemptions The estimated amount of capital deduction for under the final CRD IV rules.
non-significant or immaterial holdings of Other movements in our RWAs include residual financial sector entities has changed upon credit risk items following the finalisation of the finalisation of the CRD IV text.
rules and their respective systems implementation.
At 31 December 2012, we quantified the effect The latter will continue as future regulatory of management actions estimated to be necessary to proposals are published in finalised form.
negate a capital deduction against this item.
This For a detailed description of the items above, see the Appendix followed an interpretation of the draft July 2011 to Capital, page 324.
CRD IV text around the restriction in the rules for netting of long and short positions held in the trading Leverage ratio book, whereby the maturity of the short position has Unaudited to match the maturity of the long position, or have a The leverage ratio was introduced into the Basel III residual maturity of no less than a year.
framework as a non-risk-based backstop limit, to For our interim results, following confirmation supplement risk-based capital requirements.
It aims of the legislation, we changed the basis of to constrain the build-up of excess leverage in the presentation of the CRD IV estimated capital banking sector, introducing additional safeguards position, to reflect further regulatory clarification against model risk and measurement errors.
The ratio and the anticipated impact of management actions is a volume-based measure calculated as Basel III that while contemplated at that time, could not be tier 1 capital divided by total onand off-balance concluded ahead of final rules.
presentation of the capital position at 31 December Basel III provides for a transitional period for 2012 was changed to take into account the effect of the introduction of this ratio, comprising a supervisory those management actions on immaterial holdings.
monitoring period that started in 2011 and a parallel At 31 December 2013, following evolving run period from January 2013 to January 2017. regulatory discussions, as well as systems The parallel run will be used to assess whether the enhancements, we have been able to more proposed minimum ratio of 3% is appropriate, with a effectively match our long and short positions view to migrating to a Pillar 1 requirement from under one year maturity.
In addition, we have now 1 January 2018. executed selected management actions to optimise In November 2013, the PRA issued a our maturity profile and make best use of matching supervisory statement on leverage and capital ratios opportunities.
These measures have brought our net which requires major UK banks from 1 January 2014 long position below the deduction threshold.
to meet a 3% CRD IV end point tier 1 leverage ratio The EBAs publication of their final draft but after taking deductions to reflect the FPCs regulatory technical standards RTS on Own assessment of expected future losses, future costs Funds Part III on 13 December 2013 elaborates on of conduct redress and adjusting for a more prudent 312 calculation of risk weights, as published previously calculating the leverage ratio for year-end 2013 in June 2013.
This confirmed that the calculation of the leverage ratio is conceptually In January 2014, the Basel Committee published unchanged and will continue to be based on a hybrid its finalised leverage ratio framework, along with of Basel III and CRD IV basis.
The numerator is now the public disclosure requirements applicable from calculated using the final CRD IV end point tier 1 1 January 2015.
Under CRD IV, the final calibration rather than draft capital definition.
The calculation of and legislative proposals are expected to be the exposure measure will continue to be based on the determined following a review of the revised Basel December 2010 Basel III text.
proposals and the basis of the EBAs assessment of the impact and effectiveness of the leverage ratio It should be noted that this PRA-prescribed during a monitoring period from 1 January 2014 basis for disclosing the leverage ratio is not aligned until 30 June 2016. with the November 2013 supervisory statement, the CRD IV final rules or the Basel Committees final Monitoring leverage has been part of HSBCs proposals on the Basel III leverage ratio.
However, regulatory reporting since December 2010.
From the CRD IV basis is expected to be aligned to Basel the 2012 year end, ahead of the Basel III disclosure during 2014. timeline, UK banks were required by the PRA to disclose an estimated leverage ratio at year-end and For a detailed basis of preparation of the leverage ratio, see the Appendix to Capital, mid-year, using a hybrid of Basel III and CRD IV page 328. rules.
We await the outcome UK regulatory update of the EBA consultation process and the finalised The UK financial services regulatory structure has standard during 2014. undergone substantial reform following the abolition of the FSA and the establishment of three new Systemically important banks regulatory bodies on 1 April 2013.
These three In parallel with the Basel III proposals, the Basel bodies comprise the FPC, a committee of the Bank Committee issued a consultative document in July of England, the PRA, a subsidiary of the Bank of 2011, Global systemically important banks: England and the Financial Conduct Authority assessment methodology and the additional loss FCA.
In November 2011, it The PRA and the FCA are the supervisors published its rules and the Financial Stability Board inheriting the majority of the FSAs functions.
The FSB issued the initial list of global systemically FPC is responsible for macro-prudential supervision, important banks G-SIBs.
This list, which includes focusing on systemic risk that may affect the UKs HSBC and 28 other major banks from around the financial stability.
world, will be re-assessed periodically through annual re-scoring of the individual banks and a UK authorities have a number of areas of triennial review of the methodology.
A common theme is the ability of banks internal models to adequately The banks included in the list, depending on capture the risk of the portfolio.
their relative ranking, will be required to hold a buffer in the form of CET1 capital on a scale During 2013, the PRA proposed a wholesale between 1% and 2.5%.
The requirements, initially for loss given default LGD and exposure at default those banks identified as G-SIBs in November 2014, EAD framework to UK banks that includes the on the basis of end-2013 data, are envisaged to be treatment of low-default portfolios.
This imposed phased in from 1 January 2016, becoming fully LGD and EAD floors based on the foundation effective on 1 January 2019.
However, national approach in the case of portfolios with data quality regulators have discretion to introduce higher shortcomings and also those with fewer than 20 thresholds than the minima.
events of default per country.
In July 2013, the Basel Committee issued In December 2013, the PRA concluded its updated final rules, Global systemically important review of HSBC and confirmed that the floors banks: updated assessment methodology and the should be implemented across a range of portfolios additional loss absorbency requirement.
Work is underway to on this, in November 2013 the FSB and the Basel implement the change, which is currently estimated Committee updated the list of G-SIBs, using endto have a negative impact on our CET1 ratio in the 2012 data.
One more institution was added to the list range of 25bps to 35bps.
of 28 banking groups identified as G-SIBs in 2012, In December 2013, the PRA issued its increasing the overall number to 29.
The add-on Supervisory Statement SS13 13 in relation to Market of 2.5% previously assigned to HSBC was left Risk.
This requires firms to identify risks not unchanged.
adequately captured by models and to hold The EBA is currently consulting on the additional funds against those under its Risks not in implementation of the Basel methodology within the VaR RNIV framework.
In assessing these risks, EU.
no offsetting or diversification will be allowed across risk factors.
To align with this, we are Regulatory capital buffers currently reviewing and revising our methodology.
CRD IV, in addition to giving effect to the Basel Committees surcharge for G-SIBs in the form of a global systemically important institutions buffer G-SIIB, establishes a number of additional 314 capital buffers, to be met by CET1 capital, broadly responsible for setting the systemic buffers.
The aligned with the Basel III framework.
CRD IV designated UK authority will have the discretion contemplates that these will be phased in from to set the precise buffer rates above the CRD IV 1 January 2016, subject to national discretion.
minima and to accelerate the timetable for their implementation.
These new capital requirements include a capital conservation buffer designed to ensure banks CRD IV also contemplates a cyclical buffer build up capital outside periods of stress that can be in line with Basel III, in the form of an institutiondrawn down when losses are incurred, set at 2.5% of specific countercyclical capital buffer CCB, to RWAs.
protect against future losses where unsustainable levels of leverage, debt or credit growth pose a Additionally, CRD IV sets out a systemic risk systemic threat.
Should a CCB be required, it is buffer SRB for the financial sector as a whole, or expected to be set in the range of 0-2.5%, whereby one or more sub-sectors, to be deployed as necessary the rate shall consist of the weighted average of the by each EU member state with a view to mitigate CCB rates that apply in the jurisdictions where structural macro-prudential risk.
It is expected that, relevant exposures are located.
if such a risk was found to be prevalent, the SRB would be set at a minimum of 1% of the exposures In January 2014, the FPC issued a policy to which it would apply.
This is not restricted to statement on its powers to supplement capital exposures within the member state itself.
To the requirements, through use of the CCB and the extent it would apply at a global level, it is expected Sectoral Capital Requirements SCR tools.
The that the higher of the G-SIIB and the SRB would CCB allows the FPC to raise capital requirements apply.
above the micro-prudential level for all exposures to borrowers in the UK.
The SCR is a more targeted To implement the CRD IV capital buffers in the tool which allows the FPC to increase capital UK, in August 2013 the PRA issued a consultation requirements above minimum regulatory standards proposing changes to the Pillar 2 framework and for exposures to three broad sectors judged to pose explaining its interaction with the buffers.
Under the a risk to the stability of the financial system as a Pillar 2 framework, banks are already required to hold whole: residential and commercial property: and capital in respect of the internal capital adequacy other parts of the financial sector, potentially on a assessment and supervisory review which leads to a global basis.
final determination by the PRA of individual capital guidance under Pillar 2A.
This is currently met by In October 2013, the Bank of England total capital, and in accordance with PS 7 13, is now published a discussion paper A framework for to be met 56% by CET1 from 1 January 2015. stress testing the UK banking system.
The framework replaces the current stress testing for the The PRA also proposed to introduce a PRA capital planning buffer with annual concurrent stress buffer, to replace the current capital planning add-on tests, the results of which are expected to inform the known as Pillar 2B, also to be held in the form of setting of the PRA buffer, the CCB, sectoral capital CET1 capital.
requirements and other FPC recommendations to The PRA buffer is intended to be calculated the PRA.
The PRA is expected to further consult independently and then compared to the extent to on Pillar 2, the transition to the PRA buffer and the which other CRD IV buffers may already cover the relationship between the PRA buffer and the stress same risks.
Depending upon the business undertaken testing exercise in 2014. by an individual firm, the PRA has stated its Until outstanding consultations are published expectation that the capital conservation buffer and and guidance issued, there remains uncertainty as relevant systemic buffers should serve a similar to the interaction between these buffers, the exact purpose to the PRA buffer and therefore be deducted buffer rate requirements and the ultimate capital from it.
In PS 7 13, the PRA delayed the publication For a high-level representation of the proposed of the remaining rules on capital buffers, pending buffers under the new regime, see figure below.
confirmation from HM Treasury of the UK authority 315 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report CET1 CET1, CET1, AT1 AT1 and T2 and T2 CET1 CET1 CET1 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Capital Future developments counteract this variance was the introduction of PRA buffer new or increased capital floors.
In parallel with the above and as part of the Capital PRA buffer review of the Basel capital framework, also in July conservation assessment buffer 2013, the Basel Committee published a discussion replaces CPB paper on its findings, The regulatory framework: Systemic balancing risk sensitivity, simplicity and buffers comparability.
The Basel Committee proposed that SRB G-SIIB a range of measures should be considered, including Macro prudential tools the possibility of additional floors, as a potential tool Countercyclical capital buffer to constrain the effect of variation in RWAs derived sectoral capital requirements from internal model outputs, to provide further comfort that banks risks are adequately capitalised Pillar 2A ICG and to make capital ratios more comparable.
In November 2013, the FPC postponed a decision on whether to propose parallel RWA Pillar 1 disclosures by UK banks on the Basel standardised approach, pending further assessment by the PRA of the merits, cost and benefits of such a proposition.
In December 2013, the EBA published the final Potential effect of regulatory proposals on results of its investigation into RWAs in the banking HSBCs capital requirements book, aimed at identifying any material difference in Given the developments outlined above, it remains RWA outcomes between banks and understanding the uncertain what HSBCs final capital requirement sources of such differences.
The report concluded that will be.
However, elements of the capital differences in implementation of the IRB approach requirements that are known to date are as follows: were linked to differences in practice on the part of both supervisors and banks.
% 12 The EBA set out a number of policy Minimum CET1 4.5 12 recommendations to address its findings.
These Capital conservation buffer 2.5 G-SIIB buffer to be phased in include enhancing the disclosure and transparency 13 up to 2019... 2.5 of RWA-related information, supporting supervisors in properly implementing the single rulebook with In December 2011, against the backdrop of the delivery of existing mandates set out in CRD IV eurozone instability, the EBA recommended that and developing additional guidance that specifically banks aim to reach a 9% EBA-defined core tier 1 addresses and facilitates consistency in supervisory ratio by the end of June 2012.
In July 2013, the EBA and bank practice.
replaced the 2011 recapitalisation recommendation We are reviewing these proposals and aim to with a new measure on capital preservation.
This further develop the measures that have already been equates for HSBC to US$104bn, compared with taken to support and provide transparency to our actual core tier 1 capital held of US$141bn at metrics, such as RWA flow analysis on pages 302 30 June 2013.
To monitor this, banks submitted and 303 and RWA density analysis on page 36 of additional reporting and capital plans in November the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2013 report, which reflects 2013 to demonstrate that appropriate levels of capital our compliance with the EDTF framework.
The EBA indicated they will review this recommendation by December 2014.
Structural banking reform RWA integrity The Independent Commission on Banking ICB published its final report in September 2011 and the In July 2013, the Basel Committee published its UK government expressed broad approval for the findings on the Analysis of risk-weighted assets principle of establishing a ring-fenced bank for retail for credit risk in the banking book, reporting banking activities and greater loss absorbing that while the majority of RWA variability arises capacity.
from the underlying credit quality of a portfolio, differences also arise from banks choices under In December 2013, the UKs Financial Services the IRB approach.
One of its recommendations to Banking Reform Act 2013 received Royal Assent, 316 becoming primary legislation.
It implements to consider potential structural changes in banks the recommendations of the ICB and of the within the EU.
The group recommended, inter alia, Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards, the ring-fencing of certain market-making and which inter alia establish a framework for ringtrading activities from the deposit-taking and retail fencing the UK retail banking from trading payments activities of major banks and possible activities, and sets out requirements for loss amendments to the use of bail-in instruments as absorbency in the form of equity capital and loss a resolution tool, as well as a number of other absorbing debt.
The PRA, subject to the approval comments.
of HM Treasury, is empowered to require banking In January 2014, following a consultation groups to restructure their operations if it considers period, the European Commission published its that the operation of the ring-fence in a group is own legislative proposals on the structural reform proving to be ineffective.
The exercise of these of the European banking sector which would powers may lead to groups being required to split prohibit proprietary trading in financial instruments their retail and investment banking operations into and commodities, and enable supervisors to require separate corporate groups.
A consultation has also trading activities such as market-making, complex taken place on draft secondary legislation setting out derivatives and securitisation operations to be further details but the underlying rules from undertaken in a separate subsidiary from deposit supervisory authorities are not yet available.
The UK Financial Services Banking Reform The ring-fenced deposit taking entity would Act 2013 also creates a bail-in mechanism as an be subject to separation from the trading entity additional resolution tool alongside existing options including capital and management structures, to transfer all or part of the bank to a private sector issuance of own debt and arms-length transactions purchaser, to transfer parts of the bank to a new between entities.
'bridge' bank which is later sold or takes the bank into temporary public sector ownership.
In a bailThe proposals allow for derogation from these in, shareholders and creditors in the bank have their requirements for super-equivalent national regimes.
investments written down in value or converted into On the current basis, it is understood that non-EU new interests such as new shares without the bank subsidiaries of the Group which could be separately being placed in liquidation.
This allows the bank to resolved without a threat to the financial stability of continue to provide its core banking services without the EU would be excluded from the proposals.
interruption and ensures that the solvency of the The proposals will now be subject to discussion bank is addressed without taxpayer support, while in the European Parliament and the Council of also allowing the Bank of England to provide Ministers representing the EU member states temporary funding to this newly solvent bank.
and are not expected to be finalised in 2014.
The Certain liabilities such as deposits protected by implementation date for any separation under the the Financial Services Compensation Scheme are final rules would depend upon the date on which excluded from bail-in.
It is intended that these bail-in the final legislation is agreed.
The relationship provisions will be consistent with the European between the UK, French, German and any EU Recovery and Resolution Directive once it comes proposals has still to be clarified as does the into force.
interactivity between any of these proposals and the The UK government intends to complete the US Volcker Rule, although the G20 has asked the legislative process by the end of this Parliament in FSB, in collaboration with the IMF and OECD, to May 2015 and to have reforms in place by 2019. assess the cross-border consistency and global financial stability implications of structural In February 2012, the European Commission measures, to be completed by the end of 2014. appointed a High Level Expert Group under the Governor of the Bank of Finland, Erkki Liikanen, 317 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Capital Footnotes to Capital Appendix to Capital Capital Management Footnotes to Capital 1 The basis of preparation for the calculation of the CET1 ratio is detailed on page 324.
The CET1 ratio presented for 31 December 2012 has changed from the presentation in the Annual Report and Accounts 2012 and is shown post anticipated management actions to mitigate capital deductions for non-significant holdings of financial sector entities, consistent with the Interim Report 2013.
Selected management actions have since been undertaken.
2 The value represents marked-to-market method only.
3 Operational risk RWAs, under the standardised approach, are calculated using an average of the last three years revenues.
For business disposals, the operational risk RWAs are not removed immediately on disposal, but diminish over a period of time.
The RWAs for the CRS business represent the remaining operational risk RWAs for the business.
4 RWAs are non-additive across geographical regions due to market risk diversification effects within the Group.
5 There has been a change to the calculation of the key drivers of RWA movements in 2013, which is now performed at a more granular level to include global businesses.
See page 322 for the basis of preparation and supporting notes.
6 Includes externally verified profits for the year ended 31 December 2013.
7 Mainly comprises unrealised gains losses on available-for-sale debt securities related to SPEs.
8 Under PRA rules, unrealised gains losses on debt securities net of tax must be excluded from capital resources.
9 Under PRA rules, any defined benefit asset is derecognised and a defined benefit liability may be substituted with the additional funding that will be paid into the relevant schemes over the following five-year period.
10 Mainly comprise investments in insurance entities.
Due to the expiry of the transitional provision, with effect from 1 January 2013, material insurance holding companies acquired prior to 20 July 2006 are deducted 50% from tier 1 and 50% from total capital at 31 December 2013.
11 Includes own credit spread on trading liabilities.
12 In November 2013, the PRA published its expectations that from 1 January 2014, capital resources should be held equivalent to at least 7% of risk-weighted assets using a Basel III end point definition of CET1 but after taking into account any adjustments set by the PRA to reflect the FPCs capital shortfall exercise recommendations.
We assume but it has not yet been confirmed that the 7% equates to the 4.5% minimum CET1and the 2.5% capital conservation buffer requirements.
13 The systemic buffers are still pending transposition in the UK.
