HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board of Directors Directors and monitor the Groups risk profile and the Board of Directors reporting of performance.
The non-executive The Board of Directors of HSBC Holdings the Directors bring a wide variety of experience from the Board exists to promote the long-term success public and private sectors, including the leadership of the Company and deliver sustainable value to of large complex multinational enterprises.
Led by the Group Chairman, it sets the strategy and risk appetite for the Group and Non-executive Directors terms of approves capital and operating plans presented by appointment management for the achievement of the strategic The Board has determined the time commitment objectives.
Implementation of the strategy is expected of non-executive Directors to be 30 to 36 delegated to the Group Management Board GMB days per annum.
Time devoted to the Company which, in turn, is led by the Group Chief Executive.
could be considerably more, particularly if serving on Board committees.
Directors Non-executive Directors are appointed for an HSBC Holdings has a unitary Board.
The authority initial three-year term and, subject to re-election of the Directors is exercised in Board meetings by shareholders at Annual General Meetings, are where the Board acts collectively.
The Directors who typically expected to serve two three-year terms.
served during the year were Safra Catz, Laura Cha, The Board may invite a director to serve additional Marvin Cheung, Jim Comey appointed 4 March periods.
All Directors are subject to annual election 2013 and retired 4 September 2013, John Coombe, by shareholders.
Sir Jonathan Evans appointed 6 August 2013, Joachim Faber, Rona Fairhead, Renato Fassbind Letters setting out the terms of appointment of appointed 1 January 2013, Douglas Flint, Stuart each of the non-executive Directors, including the Gulliver, James Hughes-Hallett, Sam Laidlaw, John time commitment expected of each of them, are Lipsky, Rachel Lomax, Iain Mackay, Sir Simon available for inspection at 8 Canada Square, London Robertson and John Thornton retired 24 May 2013.
E14 5HQ and will be made available for 15 minutes before the Annual General Meeting and during the Marc Moses, Group Chief Risk Officer, was meeting itself.
appointed a Director with effect from 1 January 2014.
Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive At the time of approval of the Annual Report The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief and Accounts 2013 on 24 February 2014, the Board Executive are separate and a clear division of comprised the Group Chairman, Group Chief responsibilities has been approved by the Board Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Chief to distinguish between the running of the Board Risk Officer and 13 non-executive Directors.
and the executive responsibility for running Kathleen Casey has been appointed a non-executive HSBCs business.
Descriptions of the roles Director with effect from 1 March 2014. and responsibilities of the Group Chairman The names and brief biographical details of and the Group Chief Executive are available at the Directors are included on pages 330 to 335. www.
Their key responsibilities are set Executive Directors out below.
The Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Key responsibilities Group Finance Director and Group Chief Risk Officer are HSBC employees.
Group Chairman Douglas Flint Leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness.
Non-executive Directors Develops relationships with governments, regulators and investors.
Non-executive Directors are not HSBC employees Leads the Groups interactions on matters of public policy and and do not participate in the daily management regulatory reform with regard to the banking and financial of HSBC: they bring an independent perspective, services industry.
constructively challenge and help develop proposals Maintains corporate reputation and character.
on strategy, scrutinise the performance of Undertakes performance management of the Group Chief Executive.
management in meeting agreed goals and objectives 338
