HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Nomination Committee Corporate Sustainability Committee compliance, financial integrity and regulatory Committee reviewed the framework for the enforcement.
execution and implementation of the Global Standards programme and received a presentation Oversight of financial crime-related issues: The on Group-wide communications to employees.
Committee received updates on financial crimeMinutes of the Global Standards Steering related issues facing the Group and relevant Meeting were made available to Committee mitigating controls including: i development of members.
financial crime compliance related aspects of the Groups technology and data systems strategy: Monitor: The Groups Monitor outlined his ii Group policies and procedures on anti-money planned approach to the monitorship of HSBC.
laundering, sanctions and other financial crime The Committee received regular updates on related matters: and iii enhancements to HSBCs interactions with the Monitor.
The Committee Terms of reference and Committee received regular reports on forward-looking effectiveness: The Committee undertook a financial crime compliance risks, matters review of its terms of reference and of its own identified by Internal Audit relating to financial effectiveness.
crime compliance, and reviews undertaken of the Groups anti-money laundering programme.
The In addition to the scheduled Committee meetings, Committee received updates on thematic reviews the Chairman met regularly with the Group Chairman, being undertaken by regulators.
the adviser members of the Committee and senior executives as required.
The Group Chairman, Group Obligations under US and UK agreements: Chief Executive, Chief Legal Officer, Group Chief The Committee oversaw the Groups anti-money Risk Officer, Global Head of Financial Crime laundering and compliance-related initiatives to Compliance and Group Money Laundering Reporting address obligations under the deferred Officer and Global Head of Regulatory Compliance prosecution agreements, and other agreements regularly attend Committee meetings.
and orders entered into or made in connection with the resolution of the investigations by Group Remuneration Committee US and UK regulatory and law enforcement Role and members authorities in December 2012 and actions completed to date.
The Group Remuneration Committee is responsible for approving remuneration policy.
As part of its role, Compliance-related initiatives: The Committee it considers the terms of annual incentive plans, share received reports on the restructuring of the plans, other long-term incentive plans and Compliance function, including the development the individual remuneration packages of executive of the operating model for each of the financial Directors and other senior Group employees, crime compliance and regulatory compliance including all positions of significant influence team and reports on progress in recruitment.
The and those having a material impact on our risk profile Committee reviewed, and received regular and in doing so takes into account the pay and updates on, the Compliance Plan, which conditions across the Group.
No Directors are documents the Groups strategy to augment involved in deciding their own remuneration.
HSBCs anti-money laundering and sanctions compliance programme, which includes policies, Meetings procedures and enhanced training.
Meetings eligible attended to attend 1 Reporting to regulators: Regular updates were Members Sir Simon Robertson provided by the Chief Legal Officer, Group Chief 2 Chairman 4 4 Risk Officer, Global Head of Financial Crime 3 John Thornton 6 7 Compliance and Group Money Laundering John Coombe. 12 12 4 Reporting Officer and Global Head of Regulatory Renato Fassbind 5 5 SamLaidlaw.. 12 12 Compliance on reports to, and meetings held with, regulators about the Groups complianceMeetings held in 2013........... 12 12 related initiatives.
All members are independent non-executive Directors.
With reports submitted to regulators on complianceeffect from the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General related initiatives being undertaken by the Group.
Meeting, John Coombe will retire as a Director and member of the Committee and John Lipsky will become a Global Standards programme: The Committee member of the Committee.
2 Appointed a member and Chairman of the Committee on received regular updates on progress being made 24 May 2013. in implementing Global Standards.
