Former appointments include: Chief Financial and International Regulatory Strategy Group and a Risk Officer, Global Banking and Markets.
Formerly director of TheCityUK since 1 January 2013: European chief financial officer at JP Morgan and non-executive director of The Scottish American audit partner at .
Investment Company PLC, Arcus European Infrastructure Fund GP LLP and Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited formerly BAA Limited : member Sir Simon Robertson, 72 of the Council of Imperial College, London: and Deputy Chairman and senior independent President of the Institute of Fiscal Studies.
non-executive Director Former appointments include: Deputy Governor, Chairman of the Nomination Committee and, since Monetary Stability, at the Bank of England and 24 May 2013, the Group Remuneration Committee.
member of the Monetary Policy Committee: Member of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Permanent Secretary at the UK Government Committee since 18 January 2013.
Departments for Transport and Work and Pensions and the Welsh Office: and Vice President and Chief Skills and experience: A background in of Staff to the President of the World Bank.
Ceased international corporate advisory with a wealth of to be a non-executive director of Reinsurance Group experience in mergers and acquisitions, merchant of America Inc. on 15 May 2013. banking, investment banking and financial markets: honoured with a knighthood in recognition of his services to business: extensive international Iain Mackay, 52 experience having worked in France, Germany, Group Finance Director the UK and the US.
Skills and experience: Extensive financial and Appointed Senior Independent Director: 2007 international experience, having worked in London, Appointed Deputy Chairman: 2010 Paris, US, Africa and Asia.
Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Joined HSBC Appointed to the Board: 2006 in 2007 as Chief Financial Officer of HSBC North Current appointments include: The founding America Holdings Inc. member of Robertson Robey Associates LLP, Appointed to the Board: 2010 formerly Simon Robertson Associates LLP: non-executive director of Berry Bros. & Rudd Current appointments include: a member of the Limited, The Economist Newspaper Limited, Group Management Board.
NewShore Partners Limited and Troy Asset Former appointments include: director of Hang Management: and trustee of the Eden Project Trust Seng Bank Limited: Chief Financial Officer, Asiaand the Royal Opera House Endowment Fund.
Pacific: and Chief Financial Officer, HSBC North Former appointments include: Managing Director America Holdings Inc: Vice President and Chief of Goldman Sachs International: Chairman of Financial Officer of GE Consumer Finance and Dresdner Kleinwort Benson: and non-executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of director of Royal Opera House, Covent Garden GE Healthcare Global Diagnostic Imaging.
Ceased to be non-executive Chairman of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc on 2 May 2013.
Marc Moses, 56 Group Chief Risk Officer Independent non-executive Director.
Skills and experience: Member of the Institute Secretary of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
Extensive risk management and financial experience.
Ben Mathews, 47 Joined HSBC in 2005 as Chief Financial and Risk Group Company Secretary Officer, Global Banking and Markets.
Joined HSBC on 11 June 2013 and became Group Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2014 Company Secretary on 1 July 2013.
Fellow of the Current appointments include: A member of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Director of HSBC Former appointments include: Company Secretary Insurance Bermuda Limited: HSBC Private Bank of Rio Tinto plc from 2007 to 7 June 2013: and Suisse SA: and of HSBC Private Banking Holdings Company Secretary of BG Group plc.
335 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
