HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Strategic Report continued Strategic priority 2 Implement Global Standards HSBC Values Governance risk is underway and will continue in 2014 and risks relating to sanctions and AML compliance.
The implementation programme is focused outcome of these assessments is the basis for risk on the following four areas: management planning, prioritisation and resource allocation for 2014.
In the future, we shall conduct data readiness: creating a complete, cleansed such assessments annually.
data set to improve our understanding of the customer base and facilitate our financial crime Incentives risk assessment.
This will provide the basis for transaction monitoring and assist capacity We adapted our remuneration strategy to balance planning to improve the quality and efficiency short-term and sustainable performance.
It rewards of our KYC activities.
commercial success and compliance with our risk management framework.
customer due diligence: strengthening the rigour with which we research and evaluate our Organisation customers and affiliates to better understand them and their activities: improving KYC We continued to significantly reinforce our second profiling through enhanced due diligence, line of defence described on page 39 through an customer identification, screening and financial increase in Regulatory and Financial Crime crime risk scoring: tightening our controls Compliance headcount of more than 1,750 in 2013 around tax transparency and bearer shares and up by more than 50% since December 2012. putting a global customer selection and exit We are raising awareness and capabilities policy in place.
among our employees through a comprehensive financial crime compliance: building HSBCs global campaign to Ask the Right Questions.
Financial Crime Compliance organisation with the right people and capabilities to support the The Monitor business: developing global policies for antiUnder the agreements entered into with the US money laundering AML, sanctions and Department of Justice DoJ, the UK Financial anti-bribery and corruption and enhancing the Conduct Authority the FCA, formerly the FSA monitoring, screening and testing that will and the US Federal Reserve Board FRB in 2012, allow us to manage financial crime risk more including the five-year Deferred Prosecution effectively: and designing a new, annual HSBCAgreement US DPA, it was agreed that an wide risk assessment to better understand the independent compliance monitor the Monitor financial crime risk we carry in the business and would be appointed to evaluate our progress in fully determine the best approach to managing it.
implementing our obligations and produce regular financial intelligence: establishing a new global assessments of the effectiveness of our Compliance network of Financial Intelligence Units that function.
use cutting edge technology to identify and Michael Cherkasky began his work as the investigate significant cases, trends and strategic Monitor on 22 July 2013, charged with evaluating issues related to financial crime risks.
and reporting upon the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, policies and procedures as they Changes in day-to-day activities relate to ongoing compliance with applicable AML, Risk appetite sanctions, terrorist financing and proliferation financing obligations, over a five-year period.
Our global Financial Crime Risk Appetite statement was approved by the Board in October 2013 on the The Monitors work is proceeding as recommendation of the Risk Management Meeting anticipated, consistent with the timelines and of the GMB, the Group Risk Committee and the requirements set forth in the relevant agreements.
It was HSBC is taking concerted action to remediate incorporated into the Risk Management Meetings AML and sanctions compliance deficiencies and to process monitoring from November 2013.
We recognise we are statement sets the Global Standard for financial only at the start of a long journey, being crime compliance across HSBC, and is expected to one year into our US DPA.
We look forward to evolve and be refined over time.
maintaining a strong, collaborative relationship with the Monitor and his team.
Enterprise-wide risk assessment We completed enterprise-wide assessments of our 24
