HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Liquidity and funding In 2013 Liquidity regulation Management of liquidity and funding risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does Customer deposit markets not have sufficient financial resources to Customer accounts increased by 11% in 2013.
After meet its obligations as they fall due, or will excluding repo balances, the year-on-year increase have to do so at an excessive cost.
arises from mismatches in the timing of cash flows.
Retail Banking and Wealth Management There were no material changes to our policies and RBWM customer account balances grew by 3% with practices for the management of liquidity and funding significant growth in our home markets partly offset risks in 2013. by reductions in deposit balances in certain markets either due to surplus funding requirements or disposal A summary of our current policies and practices of our operations.
regarding liquidity and funding is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 276.
Commercial Banking Our liquidity and funding risk management framework Customer accounts rose by 5% in 2013, mainly The objective of our liquidity framework is to allow us to from increases in Payments and Cash Management withstand very severe liquidity stresses.
It is designed to be accounts.
The growth in these customer accounts and adaptable to changing business models, markets and the strong growth in payment volumes was evidence regulations.
of the correlation between this funding source and the Our liquidity and funding risk management framework requires: operational services that HSBC provides to the CMB liquidity to be managed by operating entities on a stand-alone customer base.
basis with no implicit reliance on the Group or central banks: all operating entities to comply with their limits for the Global Banking and Markets advances to core funding ratio: and Customer accounts increased by 36% in 2013. all operating entities to maintain a positive stressed cash flow position out to three months under prescribed Group stress After excluding repo balances with customers, scenarios.
GB&M deposits rose by 8% year on year, with the majority resulting from increases in Payments Liquidity and funding in 2013 and Cash Management accounts.
Unaudited Global Private Banking The liquidity position of the Group strengthened in 2013, and we continued to enjoy strong inflows GPB customer account balances decreased by 9% as of customer deposits and maintained good access we continued to reposition our business from offshore to wholesale markets.
During 2013, customer to domestic banking and refocus our client base accounts grew by 11% US$143bn while loans towards higher net worth relationships.
Outflows and advances to customers increased by 8% from the adoption of stricter compliance and tax US$83bn, leading to a small decrease in our transparency standards also contributed to the overall advances to deposits ratio to 73% 2012: 74%.
HSBC UK recorded a decrease in its advances to Wholesale funding markets core funding ACF ratio to 100% at 31 December 2013 2012: 106% mainly because core deposits Conditions in the bank wholesale debt markets were increased more than advances.
generally positive in 2013, supported by strong investor demand and improvements in the economic The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking outlook in developed markets, although there was Corporation recorded a decrease in its ACF ratio some volatility caused by interest rate uncertainty.
to 72% at 31 December 2013 2012: 73% mainly Subordinated debt issuance volumes increased as because core deposits increased more than advances.
investor confidence grew and further regulatory HSBC USA recorded an increase in its ACF ratio clarity emerged.
While there was some regional to 85% at 31 December 2013 2012: 78%.
This variation, the overall volume of term debt issued increase was mainly because surplus core deposits by banks globally decreased from previous years, were deployed into loans and advances to customers.
primarily due to reduced issuance in the UK and Europe.
HSBC UK, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation and HSBC USA are defined in footnotes 41 to 43 on pages 264 In 2013, we issued the equivalent of US$15.6bn and 265.
The ACF ratio is discussed on page 215.
2012: US$10.5bn of term debt securities in the 214 public capital markets in a range of currencies and ACF limits set for principal operating entities at maturities from a number of Group entities.
Liquidity regulation 40 Advances to core funding ratios Unaudited Audited At 31 December The European adoption of the Basel Committee 2013 2012 framework via CRD IV was published in June 2013.
The regulatory LCR outlined in the Minimum 100 100 regulation document has been initially set at 60% from Average... 104 103 January 2015, increasing to 100% by January 2018, The Hongkong and Shanghai 42 although individual member states are able to set a Banking Corporation Year-end. 72 73 higher standard.
During 2013, Minimum 70 71 additional guidance was given on the definition of Average... 74 73 the LCR, much of which takes the form of an impact 43 HSBC USA assessment and recommendations that have been Year-end. 85 78 submitted to the European Commission by the EBA.
Regarding the 44 principal entities finalisation of the NSFR metric, in January 2014 the Year-end 93 91 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision issued a Maximum 93 92 Minimum. 89 85 consultation document on a revised framework.
This is Average 91 88 intended to be implemented as a minimum standard at the beginning of January 2018.
Management of liquidity and funding risk Core funding represents the core component of Audited customer deposits and any term professional funding with a residual contractual maturity beyond one year.
Our liquidity and funding risk management Capital is excluded from our definition of core framework LFRF employs two key measures to funding.
define, monitor and control the liquidity and funding risk of each of our operating entities.
The advances to Stressed coverage ratios core funding ratio is used to monitor the structural long-term funding position, and the stressed coverage The ratios tabulated below express stressed cash ratio, incorporating Group-defined stress scenarios, inflows as a percentage of stressed cash outflows is used to monitor the resilience to severe liquidity over both one-month and three-month time horizons.
Operating entities are required to maintain a ratio of 100% or greater out to three months.
The three principal entities listed in the tables below represented 66% 2012: 62% of the Groups Inflows included in the numerator of the stressed customer accounts excluding repos.
Including the coverage ratio are generated from liquid assets net of other principal entities, the percentage was 94% assumed haircuts, and cash inflows related to assets 2012: 94%.
contractually maturing within the time period.
In general, customer advances are assumed to be Advances to core funding ratio renewed and as a result do not generate a cash inflow.
The table below shows the extent to which loans and advances to customers in our principal banking entities were financed by reliable and stable sources of funding.
The one-month stressed coverage ratio for HSBC three-month stressed coverage ratios, as defined UK decreased due to higher contractual repos on under the LFRF.
level 3 assets maturing beyond one month and higher Unencumbered assets held as a consequence of cash outflows modelled for non-core deposits.
The a reverse repo transaction with a residual contractual three-month stressed coverage ratio increased due to maturity within the stressed coverage ratio time the reclassification of equities that qualify as level 3 period and unsecured interbank loans maturing within liquid assets under LFRF.
three months are not included in liquid assets, but The stressed coverage ratios for The Hongkong are treated as contractual cash inflows.
and Shanghai Banking Corporation decreased as a Liquid assets are held and managed on a result of a methodology change with regards to stand-alone operating entity basis.
Most of the liquid intraday liquidity requirements.
assets shown are held directly by each operating The stressed coverage ratios for HSBC USA entitys Balance Sheet Management function, decreased as the surplus liquidity was deployed primarily for the purpose of managing liquidity into loans and advances to customers.
risk, in line with the LFRF.
The stressed coverage ratios for the total of Liquid assets also include any unencumbered HSBCs other principal entities remained broadly liquid assets held outside Balance Sheet Management unchanged.
The LFRF gives ultimate control of all unencumbered assets and sources of Liquid assets of HSBCs principal operating liquidity to Balance Sheet Management.
All assets held within the liquid asset portfolio Net contractual cash flows are unencumbered.
The following table quantifies the contractual cash Liquid assets held by HSBC UK increased as flows from interbank and intra-Group loans and a result of a rise in customer accounts, which led to deposits, and reverse repo, repo including an increase in the level of non-core deposits and, intra-Group transactions and short positions for the consequently, liquid assets.
Liquid assets also principal entities shown.
These contractual cash increased due to the reclassification of equities inflows and outflows are reflected gross in the qualifying as liquid assets under LFRF.
numerator and denominator, respectively, of the one and three-month stressed coverage ratios and should Liquid assets held by The Hongkong and be considered alongside the level of liquid assets.
Shanghai Banking Corporation remained broadly unchanged.
Outflows included in the denominator of the stressed coverage ratios include the principal Liquid assets held by HSBC USA decreased outflows associated with the contractual maturity as a result of the increase in loans and advances to of wholesale debt securities reported in the table customers.
headed Wholesale funding cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities on page 222.
Net cash flow arising from interbank and Contingent liquidity risk arising from intragroup loans and deposits committed lending facilities Audited Under the LFRF, a net cash inflow within three The Groups operating entities provide commitments months arising from interbank and intragroup loans to various counterparties.
In terms of liquidity risk, and deposits will give rise to a lower liquid asset the most significant risk relates to committed lending requirement.
Conversely, a net cash outflow within facilities which, whilst undrawn, give rise to three months arising from interbank and intra-Group contingent liquidity risk as they could be drawn loans and deposits will give rise to a higher liquid during a period of liquidity stress.
given to customers and committed lending facilities are provided to consolidated multi-seller conduits Net cash flow arising from reverse repo, repo, established to enable clients to access flexible stock borrowing, stock lending and outright short market-based sources of finance see page 550, positions including intra-Group consolidated securities investment conduits and A net cash inflow represents liquid resources in third-party sponsored conduits.
addition to liquid assets because any unencumbered The consolidated securities investment conduits asset held as a consequence of a reverse repo includes Solitaire and Mazarin Funding Limited transaction with a residual contractual maturity Mazarin see page 551.
They issue asset-backed within the stressed coverage ratio time period is commercial paper secured against the portfolio of not reflected as a liquid asset.
At 31 December 2013, The impact of net cash outflow depends on HSBC UK had undrawn committed lending facilities whether the underlying collateral encumbered as a to these conduits of US$15bn 2012: US$18bn, of result will qualify as a liquid asset when released at which Solitaire represented US$11bn 2012: the maturity of the repo.
The majority of the Groups US$13bn and the remaining US$4bn 2012: repo transactions are collateralised by liquid assets US$5.1bn pertained to Mazarin.
Although HSBC and, as such, any net cash outflow shown is offset by UK provides a liquidity facility, Solitaire and the return of liquid assets, which are excluded from Mazarin have no need to draw on it so long as HSBC the liquid asset table above.
purchases the CP issued, which it intends to do for the foreseeable future.
At 31 December 2013, the commercial paper issued by Solitaire and Mazarin was entirely held by HSBC UK.
Since HSBC controls the size of the portfolio of securities held by these conduits, no contingent liquidity risk exposure arises as a result of these undrawn committed lending facilities.
218 The table below shows the level of undrawn largest single facilities and the largest market sector, commitments to customers outstanding for the five and the extent to which they are undrawn.
The Groups contractual undrawn exposures at 31 December monitored under the contingent liquidity risk limit structure Audited The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 41 43 42 HSBC UK HSBC USA HSBC Canada Corporation 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn Commitments to conduits Consolidated multi-seller conduits total lines 10.1 7.8 2.5 2.3 1.0 1.0 largest individual lines...... 0.7 0.7 0.5 0.5 0.7 0.8 Consolidated securities investment conduits total lines. 14.8 18.1 Third party conduits total lines. 0.7 0.8 Commitments to customers 46 five largest 4.4 6.0 6.3 6.0 1.5 1.7 2.4 2.1 47 largest market sector....... 9.5 11.0 8.2 7.5 3.4 4.5 2.7 2.4 For footnotes, see page 264.
Sources of funding Loans and other receivables due from banks Audited continued to exceed deposits taken from banks.
The Group remained a net unsecured lender to the Our primary sources of funding are customer current banking sector.
accounts and customer savings deposits payable on demand or at short notice.
We issue wholesale Repos and stock lending securities secured and unsecured to supplement our customer deposits and change the currency GB&M provides collateralised security financing mix, maturity profile or location of our liabilities.
services to its clients, providing them with cash financing or specific securities.
When cash is The Funding sources and uses table below, provided to clients against collateral in the form of which provides a consolidated view of how our securities, the cash provided is recognised on the balance sheet is funded, should be read in the light balance sheet as a reverse repo.
When securities are of the LFRF, which requires operating entities to provided to clients against cash collateral the cash manage liquidity and funding risk on a stand-alone received is recognised on the balance sheet as a repo basis.
or, if the securities are equity securities, as stock The table analyses our consolidated balance lending.
sheet according to the assets that primarily arise Each operating entity manages its collateral from operating activities and the sources of funding through a central collateral pool, in line with the primarily supporting these activities.
When specific securities need to be delivered liabilities that do not arise from operating activities and the entity does not have them currently available are presented as a net balancing source or deployment within the central collateral pool, the securities are of funds.
When securities The level of customer accounts continued to are borrowed against cash collateral the cash exceed the level of loans and advances to customers.
provided is recognised on the balance sheet as a Excluding the effect of repos from customer accounts reverse repo or, if the securities are equity securities, and reverse repos from loans and advances to as stock borrowing.
customers, the advances to deposits ratio at Operating entities may also borrow cash against 31 December 2013 was 73% 2012: 73%.
The collateral in the form of securities, using the securities positive funding gap was predominantly deployed in available in the central collateral pool.
Repos and liquid assets: cash and balances with central banks stock lending can be used in this way to fund the cash and financial investments, as required by the LFRF.
requirement arising from securities owned outright by 219 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Liquidity and funding Sources of funding Markets to facilitate client business, and the net cash Any security accepted as collateral for a reverse requirement arising from financing client securities repo or stock borrowing transaction must be of very activity.
high quality and its value subject to an appropriate haircut.
Securities borrowed under reverse repo or Reverse repos, stock borrowing, repos and stock stock borrowing transactions can only be recognised lending are reported net when the IFRSs offsetting as part of the liquidity asset buffer for the duration of criteria are met.
In some cases transactions to borrow the transactions and only if the security received is or lend securities are collateralised using securities.
eligible under the liquid asset policy within the LFRF.
These transactions are off-balance sheet.
Credit controls are in place to ensure that the fair Securities reflected on the balance sheet that are value of any collateral received remains appropriate to pledged as collateral against an existing liability or collateralise the cash or fair value of securities given.
lent are reflected as encumbered for the duration of the transaction.
When securities are received as In 2013, GB&M changed the way it manages repo collateral or borrowed, and when we have the right and reverse repo activities in the Credit and Rates to sell or re-pledge these securities, they are reflected businesses, which were previously being managed in as available and unencumbered for the duration of a trading environment.
During the year, the repo and the transaction, unless re-pledged or sold.
Further reverse repo business activities were organised into analysis regarding the encumbrance of securities trading and non-trading portfolios, with separate risk resulting from repos and stock lending and available management procedures.
As demonstrated in the unencumbered assets arising from reverse repos and Funding sources and uses table below, this resulted in stock borrowing is provided under the heading an increase in the amount of reverse repos classified as Encumbered and unencumbered assets starting Loans and advances to customers and Loans and on page 223. advances to banks, and a decline in the amount classified as Trading assets at 31 December 2013, In the normal course of business we do not seek compared with previous year-ends.
Similarly, at to utilise repo financing as a source of funding to 31 December 2013 there was an increase in the amount finance customer assets, beyond the collateralised of repos classified as Customer accounts and security financing activities within Global Markets Deposits by banks with a decline in the amount described above.
classified as Trading liabilities, compared with The original contractual maturity of reverse repo, previous year-ends.
stock borrowing, repo and stock lending is short term with the vast majority of transactions being for less than 90 days.
The residual contractual maturity profile of the balance sheet is set out on in Note 33 on the Financial Statements.
In addition, intra-Group large exposure cross-currency liquidity and funding risk limits are applied by national regulators to individual Unaudited legal entities locally, which restricts the unsecured exposures of legal entities to the rest of the Group The stand-alone operating entity approach to liquidity to a percentage of the lenders regulatory capital.
and funding mandated by the LFRF restricts the exposure of our operating entities to the risks that can Our LFRF also considers the ability of each entity arise from extensive reliance on cross-border funding.
to continue to access foreign exchange markets under Operating entities manage their funding sources locally, stress when a surplus in one currency is used to meet focusing predominantly on the local customer deposit a deficit in another currency, for example, by using the base.
The RBWM, CMB and GPB customer foreign currency swap markets.
Where appropriate, relationships that give rise to core deposits within an operating entities are required to monitor stressed operating entity generally reflect a local customer coverage ratios and ACF ratios for non-local currencies relationship with that operating entity.
Access to public and set limits for them.
Foreign currency swap markets debt markets is co-ordinated globally by the Global in currency pairs settled through the Continuous Link Head of Balance Sheet Management and the Group Settlement Bank are considered to be extremely deep Treasurer with Group ALCO monitoring all planned and liquid and it is assumed that capacity to access these public debt issuance on a monthly basis.
As a general markets is not exposed to idiosyncratic risks.
principle, operating entities are only permitted to issue For the majority of operating entities within in their local currency and are encouraged to focus on the Group, the only material non-local currency local private placements.
The public issuance of debt exceeding 10% of balance sheet liabilities is the US instruments in foreign currency is tightly controlled and dollar.
The euro is in an additional material non-local generally restricted to HSBC Holdings and HSBC currency for HSBC UK and offshore renminbi is Bank.
material for The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking A central principle of our stand-alone approach to Corporation.
Singapore dollars and Indian rupees LFRM is that operating entities place no future reliance are also material currencies for The Hongkong and on other Group entities.
However, operating entities Shanghai Banking Corporation, but these currencies may, at their discretion, utilise their respective are managed onshore within the local country branch committed facilities from other Group entities if operations on a stand-alone branch basis.
sterling, euro and Hong Kong dollar represent more The objective of this disclosure is to facilitate than 5% of total liabilities.
an understanding of available and unrestricted assets that are valued on a liquidity and funding risk basis Wholesale term debt maturity profile and could be used to support potential future funding Unaudited and collateral needs.
The maturity profile of our wholesale term debt The disclosure is not designed to identify assets obligations is set out above in the table headed which would be available to meet the claims of Wholesale funding principal cash flows payable creditors or to predict assets that would be available by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining to creditors in the event of a resolution or bankruptcy.
An asset is defined as encumbered if it has been The balances in the table do not agree directly pledged as collateral against an existing liability, with those in the consolidated balance sheet as the and as a result is no longer available to the Group table presents gross cash flows relating to principal to secure funding, satisfy collateral needs or be payments and not the balance sheet carrying value, sold to reduce the funding requirement.
An asset which includes debt securities and subordinated is therefore categorised as unencumbered if it liabilities measured at fair value.
has not been pledged against an existing liability.
Unencumbered assets are further analysed into four The basis of preparation of this table has changed separate sub-categories: readily realisable assets, from that presented in the Annual Report and other realisable assets, reverse repo stock Accounts 2012, which included future coupon borrowing receivables and derivative assets and payments in addition to the principal amounts.
The cannot be pledged as collateral.
disclosure of principal amounts only is consistent with how we manage the associated liquidity and At 31 December 2013, the Group held funding risk.
US$1,824bn of unencumbered assets that could be used to support potential future funding and Encumbered and unencumbered assets collateral needs, representing 83% of the total assets Unaudited that can support funding and collateral needs on and off-balance sheet.
Of this amount, US$754bn The table on page 225, Analysis of on-balance sheet US$723bn on-balance sheet were assessed to be encumbered and unencumbered assets, summarises readily realisable.
The fair value of any such Collateral is managed on an operating entity basis, collateral sold or repledged was US$186bn consistent with the approach adopted in managing 2012: US$203bn.
We are obliged to return liquidity and funding.
Available collateral held by equivalent securities.
These transactions are each operating entity is managed as a single collateral conducted under terms that are usual and customary pool.
In deciding which collateral to pledge, each to standard reverse repo and stock borrowing operating entity seeks to optimise the use of the transactions.
available collateral pool within the confines of the LFRF, irrespective of whether the collateral pledged The fair value of collateral received and is recognised on-balance sheet or was received in repledged in relation to reverse repos and stock respect of reverse repo, stock borrowing or derivative borrowing is reported on a gross basis.
balance sheet receivables and payables are reported on a net basis where required under IFRSs netting Managing collateral in this manner affects criteria.
the presentation of asset encumbrance in that we may encumber on-balance sheet holdings while As a consequence of reverse repo and stock maintaining available unencumbered off-balance borrowing transactions where the collateral received sheet holdings, even though we are not seeking to could be but had not been sold or re-pledged, we directly finance the on-balance sheet holdings held US$74bn 2012: US$93bn of unencumbered pledged.
collateral available to support potential future funding and collateral needs at 31 December 2013.
In quantifying the level of encumbrance of negotiable securities, the encumbrance is analysed Off-balance sheet non-cash collateral by individual security.
When a particular security is received and pledged for derivative encumbered and we hold the security both on-balance transactions sheet and off-balance sheet with the right to repledge, we assume for the purpose of this disclosure that the The fair value of assets accepted as collateral related off-balance sheet holding is encumbered ahead of the to derivative transactions that we are permitted to sell on-balance sheet holding.
or repledge in the absence of default was US$5bn 2012: US$6bn.
The fair value of any such collateral An on-balance sheet encumbered and off-balance sold or repledged was US$1bn 2012: US$1bn.
sheet unencumbered asset will occur, for example, if We are obliged to return equivalent securities.
we receive a specific security as a result of a reverse These transactions are conducted under terms that repo stock borrowing transaction, but finance the are usual and customary to derivative transactions.
cash lent by pledging a generic collateral basket, even if the security received is eligible for the collateral Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered basket pledged.
It will also occur if we receive a and unencumbered assets generic collateral basket as a result of a reverse repo transaction but finance the cash lent by pledging The table below presents an analysis of on-balance specific securities, even if the securities pledged sheet holdings only, and shows the amounts of are eligible for the collateral basket.
balance sheet assets on a liquidity and funding basis that are encumbered.
The table therefore excludes Off-balance sheet collateral received and any available off-balance sheet holdings received pledged for reverse repo and stock in respect of reverse repos, stock borrowing or borrowing transactions derivatives.
It also includes those pledged in relation to 31 December 2013, we estimate that we could any other form of secured borrowing.
be required to post additional collateral of up to In total, the Group pledged US$150bn 2012: US$0.7bn 2012: US$1.5bn in the event of a US$152bn of negotiable securities, predominantly one-notch downgrade in credit ratings, which would as a result of market-making in securities financing increase to US$1.2bn 2012: US$2.5bn in the event to our clients.
226 Definitions of the categories included in the table Analysis  is lower than the book of on-balance sheet encumbered and unencumbered assets: value of assets pledged to the pool.
Any Encumbered assets are assets on our balance sheet which difference is categorised in the table above have been pledged as collateral against an existing liability, as Unencumbered readily realisable assets: and as a result are assets which are unavailable to the bank to secure funding, satisfy collateral needs or be sold to reduce negotiable securities held by custodians or potential future funding requirements.
settlement agents, where a floating charge has Unencumbered readily realisable assets are assets regarded been given over the entire holding to secure by the bank to be readily realisable in the normal course of business to secure funding, meet collateral needs, or be sold intra-day settlement liabilities, are only reported to reduce potential future funding requirements, and are not as encumbered to the extent that we have a subject to any restrictions on their use for these purposes.
liability to the custodian or settlement agent at Unencumbered other realisable assets are assets where the reporting date, with the balance reported as there are no restrictions on their use to secure funding, meet Unencumbered readily realisable assets: and collateral needs, or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements, but they are not readily realisable in the normal assets pre-positioned with central banks or course of business in their current form.
government agencies are only reported as Unencumbered reverse repo stock borrow receivables and derivative assets are assets related specifically to reverse encumbered to the extent that we have secured repo, stock borrowing and derivative transactions.
They are funding with the collateral.
The unutilised shown separately as these on-balance sheet assets cannot be pre-positioned collateral is reported as pledged but often give rise to the receipt of non-cash assets which are not recognised on the balance sheet, and can Unencumbered readily realisable assets.
additionally be used to raise secured funding, meet additional collateral requirements or be sold.
Contractual maturity of financial liabilities Unencumbered cannot be pledged as collateral are assets Audited that have not been pledged and which we have assessed could not be pledged and therefore could not be used to secure The balances in the table below do not agree directly funding, meet collateral needs, or be sold to reduce potential with those in our consolidated balance sheet as the future funding requirements.
An example is assets held by table incorporates, on an undiscounted basis, all the Groups insurance subsidiaries that back liabilities to policyholders and support the solvency of these entities.
cash flows relating to principal and future Historically, the Group has not recognised any contingent coupon payments except for trading liabilities liquidity value for assets other than those assets defined under and derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives.
the LFRF as being liquid assets, and any other negotiable Undiscounted cash flows payable in relation to instruments that under stress are assumed to be realisable after three months, even though they may currently be realisable.
hedging derivative liabilities are classified according This approach has generally been driven by our risk appetite not to their contractual maturities.
Trading liabilities and to place any reliance on central banks.
In a few cases, we have derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives are recognised the contingent value of discrete pools of assets, but included in the On demand time bucket and not the amounts involved are insignificant.
As a result, we have reported the majority of our loans and advances to customers by contractual maturity.
and banks in the category Other realisable assets as management would need to perform additional actions in A maturity analysis of repos and debt securities in issue order to make the assets transferable and readily realisable.
included in trading liabilities is presented in Note 33 on the Financial Statements.
Additional information In addition, loan and other credit-related The amount of assets pledged to secure liabilities commitments and financial guarantees and similar reported in Note 36 on the Financial Statements may contracts are generally not recognised on our balance be greater than the book value of assets reported as sheet.
The undiscounted cash flows potentially being encumbered in the table on page 225.
Examples payable under financial guarantees and similar of where such differences occur are: contracts are classified on the basis of the earliest date they can be called.
HSBC Holdings Asset and Liability Committee Undiscounted cash flows payable in relation to HALCO.
Liquidity Risk arises because of HSBC hedging derivative liabilities are classified according Holdings obligation to make payments to debt to their contractual maturities.
Derivatives not treated holders as they fall due.
The liquidity risk related to as hedging derivatives are included in the On these cashflows is managed by matching debt demand time bucket.
obligations with internal loan cashflows and by maintaining an appropriate liquidity buffer that is In addition, loan commitments and financial monitored by HALCO.
During 2013, HSBC guarantees and similar contracts are generally not Holdings issued US$2bn 2012: nil of debt securities recognised on our balance sheet.
The undiscounted that qualify as capital in the UK but did not issue any cash flows potentially payable under financial senior debt 2012: US$2bn.
guarantees and similar contracts are classified on the basis of the earliest date on which they can The balances in the table below do not be called.
