Detailed list of disclosures in this report arising from EDTF recommendations Type of risk Recommendation Disclosure Page General 1 The risks to which the business is exposed.
135 to 139 2 Our risk appetite and stress testing.
139 to 141 3 Top and emerging risks, and the changes during the reporting period.
141 to 147 4 Discussion of future regulatory developments affecting our business model and Group profitability, and its implementation in Europe.
142 and 309 to 317 Risk governance, risk 5 Group Risk Committee, and their activities.
352 to 358 management and 6 Risk culture and risk governance and ownership.
134 business model 7 Diagram of the risk exposure by global business segment.
37 8 Stress testing and the underlying assumptions.
139 to 141 Capital adequacy and 9 Pillar 1 capital requirements.
320 to 322 risk-weighted assets For calculation of Pillar 1 capital requirements, see pages 10 to 14 of Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012.
10 Reconciliation of the accounting balance sheet to the regulatory 307 balance sheet.
11 Flow statement of the movements in regulatory capital since the 304 previous reporting period, including changes in core tier 1, tier 1 and tier 2 capital.
12 Discussion of targeted level of capital, and the plans on how to 299 and 314 to 320 establish this.
13 Analysis of risk-weighted assets by risk type, global business and 299 to 300 geographical region, and market risk RWAs.
14 For analysis of the capital requirements for each Basel asset class, see pages 10 to 14, 23, 58 and 61 of Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012.
15 For analysis of credit risk for each Basel asset class, see pages 23 to 28 and 32 to 38 of Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012.
16 Flow statements reconciling the movements in risk-weighted assets for 302 to 303 each risk-weighted asset type.
17 For discussion of Basel credit risk model performance, see pages 39 to 41 of the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012 document.
Liquidity 18 Analysis of the Groups liquid asset buffer.
215 to 216 Funding 19 Encumbered and unencumbered assets analysed by balance sheet 224 to 226 category.
20 Consolidated total assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments 533 to 541 analysed by remaining contractual maturity at the balance sheet date.
21 Analysis of the Groups sources of funding and a description of our 219 to 211 funding strategy.
Market risk 22 Relationship between the market risk measures for trading and 236 to 237 non-trading portfolios and the balance sheet, by business segment.
23 Discussion of significant trading and non-trading market risk factors.
232 to 235 24 VaR assumptions, limitations and validation.
282 to 284 25 Discussion of stress tests, reverse stress tests and stressed VaR.
284 Credit risk 26 Analysis of the aggregate credit risk exposures, including details of 152 to 154 both personal and wholesale lending.
27 Discussion of the policies for identifying impaired loans, defining 185 and 268 to 273 impairments and renegotiated loans, and explaining loan forbearance policies.
28 Reconciliations of the opening and closing balances of impaired loans 186 and 191 and impairment allowances during the year.
29 Analysis of counterparty credit risk that arises from derivative 158 transactions.
30 Discussion of credit risk mitigation, including collateral held for all 179 to 184 sources of credit risk.
Other risks 31 Quantified measures of the management of operational risk.
245 to 248 32 Discussion of publicly known risk events.
141 to 147 The 32 recommendations listed above were made in the report Enhancing the Risk Disclosures of Banks issued by the Enhanced Disclosure Task Force of the Financial Stability Board in October 2012.
131 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Footnotes Footnotes to pages 47 to 131 Reconciliations of reported and underlying profit loss before tax 1 Currency translation adjustment is the effect of translating the results of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year at the average rates of exchange applicable in the current year.
2 Positive numbers are favourable: negative numbers are unfavourable.
3 Changes in fair value due to movements in own credit spread on long-term debt issued.
This does not include the fair value changes due to own credit risk in respect of trading liabilities or derivative liabilities.
4 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as revenue.
5 The operating results of these disposals were removed from underlying results in addition to disposal gains and losses.
6 The operating results of these disposals and acquisitions were not removed from underlying results as they were not significant.
7 Other income in this context comprises where applicable net trading income, net income expense from other financial instruments designated at fair value, gains less losses from financial investments, dividend income, net earned insurance premiums and other operating income less net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders.
Financial summary 8 The effect of the bonus element of the rights issue in 2009 has been included within the basic and diluted earnings per share.
9 Dividends recorded in the financial statements are dividends per ordinary share declared in a year and are not dividends in respect of, or for, that year.
For further information, see footnote 3 on page 46.
10 Dividends per ordinary share expressed as a percentage of basic earnings per share.
11 The accounting for the disposal of our interest in Ping An is described on page 521.
In the first half of 2013, we recognised a net gain on the completion of the Ping An disposal of US$553m which offset the US$553m loss on the contingent forward sale contract recognised in the second half of 2012.
The gain of US$553m represented the net effect of the US$1,235m gain on derecognition of the Ping An equity securities classified as available-for-sale investments and recorded in Gains less losses from financial investments, offset by the US$682m adverse change in fair value of the contingent forward sale contract in the period to the point of delivery of the equity securities recorded in Net trading income.
12 Net interest income includes the cost of internally funding trading assets, while the related external revenues are reported in Trading income.
In our global business results, the cost of funding trading assets is included with Global Banking and Markets net trading income as interest expense.
13 Gross interest yield is the average annualised interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets AIEA.
14 Net interest spread is the difference between the average annualised interest rate earned on AIEA, net of amortised premiums and loan fees, and the average annualised interest rate paid on average interest-bearing funds.
15 Net interest margin is net interest income expressed as an annualised percentage of AIEA.
16 Interest income on trading assets is reported as Net trading income in the consolidated income statement.
17 Interest income on financial assets designated at fair value is reported as Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value in the consolidated income statement.
18 Including interest-bearing bank deposits only.
19 Interest expense on financial liabilities designated at fair value is reported as Net income on financial instruments designated at fair value in the consolidated income statement, other than interest on own debt which is reported in Interest expense.
20 Including interest-bearing customer accounts only.
21 Trading income also includes movements on non-qualifying hedges.
These hedges are derivatives entered into as part of a documented interest rate management strategy for which hedge accounting was not, nor could be, applied.
They are principally cross-currency and interest rate swaps used to economically hedge fixed rate debt issued by HSBC Holdings and floating rate debt issued by HSBC Finance.
The size and direction of the changes in the fair value of non-qualifying hedges that are recognised in the income statement can be volatile from year-to-year, but do not alter the cash flows expected as part of the documented interest rate management strategy for both the instruments and the underlying economically hedged assets and liabilities if the derivative is held to maturity.
22 Net trading income includes an unfavourable movement of US$66m 2012: unfavourable movement of US$629m: 2011: favourable movement of US$458m, associated with changes in the fair value of issued structured notes and other hybrid instrument liabilities arising from movements in HSBC issuance spreads.
23 Other changes in fair value include gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are managed in conjunction with HSBCs long-term debt issued.
25 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders arise from both life and non-life insurance business.
For non-life business, amounts reported represent the cost of claims paid during the year and the estimated cost of incurred claims.
For life business, the main element of claims is the liability to policyholders created on the initial underwriting of the policy and any subsequent movement in the liability that arises, primarily from the attribution of investment performance to savings-related policies.
Consequently, claims rise in line with increases in sales of savings-related business and with investment market growth.
26 The cost efficiency ratio is defined as total operating expenses divided by net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
Consolidated balance sheet 27 Net of impairment allowances.
28 The calculation of capital resources, capital ratios and risk-weighted assets on a Basel 2.5 basis.
29 Capital resources are total regulatory capital, the calculation of which is set out on page 305.
30 Including perpetual preferred securities, details of which can be found in Note 32 on the Financial Statements.
132 31 The definition of net asset value per share is total shareholders equity, less non-cumulative preference shares and capital securities, divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
32 Currency translation adjustment is the effect of translating the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year-end at the rates of exchange applicable at the current year-end.
33 Balance included in disposal groups, per note 25 on the Financial Statements.
34 In 2013, GB&M changed the way it manages repo and reverse repo activities in the Credit and Rates businesses as set out on page 68.
This led to an increase in the amount of reverse repo and repo agreements classified as Loans and advances to customers at amortised cost and Customer accounts at amortised cost in the balance sheet, respectively.
The increase in amortised cost balances primarily occurred in Europe and North America, specifically in the UK and the US and the Global Banking and Markets global business.
35 France primarily comprises the domestic operations of HSBC France, HSBC Assurances Vie and the Paris branch of HSBC Bank plc.
Reconciliation of RoRWA measures 36 Risk-weighted assets RWAs and pre-tax return on average risk-weighted assets RoRWA.
37 Underlying RoRWA is calculated using underlying pre-tax return and reported average RWAs at constant currency and adjusted for the effects of business disposals.
38 Other includes treasury services related to the US Consumer and Mortgage Lending business and commercial operations in run-off.
US CML includes loan portfolios within the run-off business that are designated held for sale.
Global businesses and geographical regions 39 The main items reported under Other are the results of HSBCs holding company and financing operations, which includes net interest earned on free capital held centrally, operating costs incurred by the head office operations in providing stewardship and central management services to HSBC, along with the costs incurred by the Group Service Centres and Shared Service Organisations and associated recoveries.
The results also include fines and penalties as part of the settlement of investigations into past inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering and sanctions laws, the UK bank levy together with unallocated investment activities, centrally held investment companies, gains arising from the dilution of interests in associates and joint ventures and certain property transactions.
In addition, Other also includes part of the movement in the fair value of long-term debt designated at fair value the remainder of the Groups movement on own debt is included in GB&M.
40 Assets by geographical region and global businesses include intra-HSBC items.
These items are eliminated, where appropriate, under the heading Intra-HSBC items or inter-segment elimination, as appropriate.
41 For divested businesses, this includes the gain or loss on disposal and material results of operations as described on page 47.
42 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
43 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures.
44 In the analysis of global businesses, net trading income expense comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities classified as held for trading, related external and internal interest income and interest expense, and dividends received: in the statutory presentation internal interest income and expense are eliminated.
45 In 2013, funding costs that had previously been reported within Other were allocated to their respective business lines.
For comparative purposes, 2012 data have been represented to reflect this change.
46 In 2013, Markets included an adverse fair value movement of US$66m on the widening of credit spreads on structured liabilities 2012: adverse fair value movement of US$629m: 2011: favourable fair value movement of US$458m.
47 Other in GB&M includes net interest earned on free capital held in the global business not assigned to products, allocated funding costs and gains resulting from business disposals.
Within the management view of total operating income, notional tax credits are allocated to the businesses to reflect the economic benefit generated by certain activities which is not reflected within operating income, for example notional credits on income earned from tax-exempt investments where the economic benefit of the activity is reflected in tax expense.
In order to reflect the total operating income on an IFRS basis, the offset to these tax credits are included within Other.
48 Client assets are translated at the rates of exchange applicable for their respective period-ends, with the effects of currency translation reported separately.
The main components of client assets are funds under management, which are not reported on the Groups balance sheet, and customer deposits, which are reported on the Groups balance sheet.
49 Inter-segment elimination comprises i the costs of shared services and Group Service Centres included within Other which are recovered from global businesses, and ii the intra-segment funding costs of trading activities undertaken within GB&M.
HSBCs Balance Sheet Management business, reported within GB&M, provides funding to the trading businesses.
To report GB&Ms Net trading income on a fully funded basis, Net interest income and Net interest income expense on trading activities are grossed up to reflect internal funding transactions prior to their elimination in the inter-segment column.
50 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders.
51 Employee expenses comprise costs directly incurred by each global business.
The reallocation and recharging of employee and other expenses directly incurred in the Other category are shown in Other operating expenses.
52 RWAs are non-additive across geographical regions due to market risk diversification effects within the Group.
53 In 2012 CMB results include US$128m of net operating income and US$43m of profit before tax, related to low income housing tax credit investments in the US which are offset within the Other segment.
54 Funds under management and assets held in custody are not reported on the Groups balance sheet, except where it is deemed that we are acting as principal rather than agent in our role as investment manager, and these assets are consolidated as Structured entities see Note 42 on the Financial Statements.
133 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
