doing so, takes into account the pay and conditions business, risk and capital management and supports across the Group.
No Directors are involved in achievement of the Groups objectives.
The Group deciding their own remuneration.
Chief Risk Officer regularly updates the Committee on the Groups performance against the Risk Membership Appetite Statement.
The members of the Group Remuneration The Committee uses these updates when Committee during 2013 were Sir Simon Robertson considering remuneration to ensure that return, risk Chairman, appointed 24 May 2013, John Thornton and remuneration are aligned.
retired as a Director on 24 May 2013, John Coombe, Renato Fassbind appointed 1 March 2013 Counter-cyclical funding methodology and Sam Laidlaw.
We use a counter-cyclical funding methodology There were 12 meetings of the Committee which is categorised by both a floor and a ceiling during 2013.
The table on page 360 gives details of and the payout ratio reduces as performance Directors attendance at these meetings.
increases to avoid pro-cyclicality risk.
The floor recognises that competitive protection is typically Advisers required irrespective of performance levels.
The ceiling recognises that at higher levels of In 2013, the Committee decided not to use external performance it is possible to limit reward as it is not advisers, and in future will only seek external necessary to continue to increase the variable pay support on remuneration policy as and when pool, thereby limiting the risk of inappropriate necessary.
behaviour to drive financial performance.
During the year, the Group Chief Executive provided regular briefings to the Committee and Distribution of profits the Committee received advice from the Group In addition, our funding methodology considers the Managing Director, Group Head of Human relationship between capital, dividends and variable Resources and Corporate Sustainability, Ann pay to ensure that the distribution of post-tax profits Almeida, the Head of Group Performance and between these three elements is considered Reward, Alexander Lowen and his predecessor, appropriate see page 394 for the 2012, 2013 and Tristram Roberts, the Group Chief Risk Officer, target split.
Marc Moses, and the Global Head of Financial Crime Compliance and Group Money Laundering Commerciality and affordability Reporting Officer, Robert Werner, all of whom provided advice as part of their executive role as Finally, the commercial requirement to remain employees of HSBC.
The Committee also received competitive in the market and overall affordability advice and feedback from the Group Risk are considered.
Both the annual incentive and GPSP Committee on risk and compliance-related matters are funded from a single annual variable pay pool relevant to remuneration and the alignment of from which individual awards are considered.
Funding of the Groups annual variable pay pool is determined in the context of Group profitability, Group variable pay pool capital strength, and shareholder returns.
This approach ensures that performance-related awards Variable pay pool determination for individual global businesses, global functions, The Committee considers many factors in geographical regions and levels of staff are determining the Groups variable pay pool funding.
This years variable pay pool was established by Performance and Risk Appetite Statement reference to the Groups underlying profit before tax The variable pay pool takes into account the which excludes movements in the fair value of own performance of the Group which is considered debt attributable to credit spread and the gains and within the context of our Risk Appetite Statement.
losses from disposals, and includes the costs of fines, This helps to ensure that the variable pay pool is penalties and other items of redress.
For the purposes shaped by risk considerations and any Group-wide of considering the variable pay pool, the normal notable events.
The Risk Appetite Statement profits from disposed of businesses up to their actual describes and measures the amount and types of risk disposal are included in the calculation.
that HSBC is prepared to take in executing its strategy.
It shapes the integrated approach to 393 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
