Customers from a possible 100 by our customers rating us on seven key relationship criteria.
We have seen Our purpose is to connect customers to consistent positive performance, and in 2012 our opportunities, enabling businesses to thrive score for the Corporate Banking segment was and economies to prosper, helping people to 84, rising slightly to 85 in 2013 with strong fulfil their hopes and realise their ambitions.
performances in mainland China, the US, Brazil and Germany.
In our Business Banking segment our Our dealings with customers are conditioned by score was 81 in 2012 and 82 in 2013, with strong our understanding of their needs, the quality of the performances in a number of priority markets service we provide and the standards which govern notably our home markets of Hong Kong and UK.
With over 54 million personal and Given the complex and competitive environment we business customers around the world, we know that have seen in many of the markets surveyed, we only by putting customers at the centre of what we believe this to be a very good, consistent, do can we achieve our purpose.
performance and shows a positive relationship for HSBC with these valuable customers.
Customer service and satisfaction Throughout 2013 we concentrated on enhancing Retail Banking and Wealth Management the customer service we provide through our global Standardising our propositions to make it businesses.
easier for customers to do business In RBWM, we measure customer satisfaction We continue to make significant progress in through an independent market research survey of executing our customer strategy in RBWM.
retail banking customers in selected countries and calculate a Customer Recommendation Index In HSBC Premier, we are focusing on meeting CRI to score performance.
This CRI score is the wealth management needs of our customers benchmarked against average scores of a peer group in five respects: protection, education, retirement, of banks in each market and we set targets for our managing and growing wealth, and legacy planning.
business relative to our competitive set of banks.
The We have improved the platforms used by both Group target is for 75% of all the markets based on customers and relationship managers, helping us to their weighted revenue to meet their CRI targets.
enhance customer experience and raise the standards This year, RBWM met its target of 75% with a score of our financial planning.
of 85% through strong performances in our home We intend to refresh HSBC Advance in all our markets of Hong Kong and the UK and significant priority markets in 2014, putting digital functionality improvements in other major markets such as Brazil at the heart of the updated proposition.
Historically, our strongest performance focusing on the day-to-day banking needs of our markets have been in Asia and this continued in customers and improving their access to personal 2013 with excellent results recorded in Taiwan, lending.
In 2013, we deployed service enhancements for In CMB, we continued to measure our client customers in all segments Premier, Advance and engagement through a survey of key customers, the personal banking using mobile phones and saw Client Engagement Programme CEP.
This survey 2.5m downloads of our global mobile banking app is conducted by an independent third party.
We have in 25 countries, with over 1.1m downloads in the gained valuable insights from this work which help fourth quarter of 2013 alone.
We also selectively us tailor solutions and service offerings to meet our piloted Twitter and Facebook-based services for customers individual needs.
customers and were voted the top social media bank in the UK in 2013 by IMGroup, the digital The survey was conducted in the following management consultancy.
markets: UK, Germany, France, Turkey, US, Canada, UAE, mainland China, Hong Kong, India, We have undertaken a full review of all our Australia, Singapore, Mexico, Argentina and Brazil, products in RBWM, and are standardising our and provides aggregate scores for each of our offering across all categories.
Products are assessed Business Banking and Corporate Banking on grounds of fairness and transparency before being businesses.
For example, in the UK, we made money management easier by simplifying automated teller We have conducted over 2,500 interviews with machine ATM withdrawals, we improved our our Corporate Banking customers and over 6,000 branch infrastructure to enable customers to reset interviews in our Business Banking customers.
their telephone security at the branches and we These interviews allow us to build an overall score 31 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Strategic Report continued Strategic priority 3 Streamline processes and procedures Customers updated our on-line avatar, Ask Olivia, so that award for Best Bank Mortgage Provider for the fifth customers can easily get online answers to questions year running.
about error codes on their secure key.
In Vietnam, In mainland China, where we have achieved an SMS Alert message will now be sent to a double digit growth in balances in each of the last customers registered mobile phone number as soon three years, we re-engineered our processes to as they complete a credit card transaction, preventing accommodate increased volumes and to speed up fraud and helping to protect our credit cardholders.
We have reduced overall We are also continuing to develop new turnaround times from 12 days to six days.
We have extended our range of renminbi our Decision in Principle service we can now give offerings and improved our foreign exchange customers the results of their initial screening within services, particularly online.
Through our Asset one hour.
Management Group, we have now launched In the UAE, we launched a tracker rate Managed Solutions in eight of our priority markets.
mortgage linked to a public benchmark, along with other initiatives including assisting customers with Interacting with customers the registry process.
Customer feedback was very In 2013, we took a major step to align our staffs positive and RBWM continued to grow strongly remuneration with customer interests by introducing even as the overall market fell slightly.
a new incentive programme for our Wealth In the US, we continued to work with the Management relationship managers.
The programme Federal Home Loan Bank of New York in offering removed all formulaic links to sales volumes and First Home Club, a savings and education focused on assessing how well we are meeting our programme that assists low income families generate customers needs.
We developed a similar incentive the down payment required to buy their first home.
programme covering the rest of the RBWM front line staff and all our retail products.
This was Supporting customers in financial difficulty partially implemented in the UK and France in 2013 and will be effective in most markets from the We recognise that some of our customers are facing beginning of 2014. challenging financial situations, and we have looked to support them during difficult times.
We continue to invest in all the channels that customers use to enhance ease of use and improve Across Europe, frontline specialists were the overall customer experience.
Upgrades to our trained to offer an income and expenditure review physical estate included increasing physical access for customers who are likely to face difficulty in for disabled customers to branches in the UK and making repayments to HSBC in the near future.
In Canada, the upgraded ATMs now also eliminated certain current account charges in feature paperless bill payments and voice guidance the UK unpaid transaction fees.
We updated our in English, French, Cantonese and Mandarin.
On restructure and payment programme suites in the digital channels, we launched new mobile Middle East and Mexico while collaborating with applications and increased the functionality of charities, associations and government loan relief our internet banking platforms.
In Brazil, we were programmes in the US, Canada and France.
In the recognised as best internet bank in the market for Philippines, we offer a General Restructuring the second year running, and launched bill payment Facility as a restructuring programme for both nonby digital picture on mobiles.
We are working on delinquent and delinquent customers, and responded improving our international account opening to Typhoon Haiyan with targeted payment holidays processes while also raising the standards we to credit card customers affected by the catastrophe.
employ for combating financial crime risk.
In Australia, we offered hardship relief on mortgage repayments to customers affected by bushfires in Supporting home ownership New South Wales.
Mortgages are a key product for our customers in Commercial Banking enabling home ownership, and we continue to improve our products and processes.
Supporting small and medium sized entities In the UK, we granted over 30,000 first time To help our customers find the right financial buyer loans, and started selectively offering 95% solutions to succeed in the global economy, we loan-to-value mortgages as part of the governments launched a series of funds to support SMEs that Help to Buy scheme.
We won the Moneyfacts trade or aspire to trade internationally.
We launched SME funds in the UK, France and Mexico in the first 32 half of 2013 and in the US and Canada in the second Significant training is being provided for staff, half of the year.
The latter two were of US$1bn each.
including around the use of tools to help them We also launched our fourth SME fund in the UAE support customers in completing required of AED1bn US$272m for international trade customer due diligence information.
New renminbi products and services Our International Exchange programme continued to be a cornerstone of our client retention The growing use of Chinas currency worldwide is activity.
In 2013, we hosted four events, in creating new opportunities for our customers Singapore, Guangzhou, Mexico City and Istanbul, engaging in trade, capital transactions and financing and provided leadership content and networking business in or with mainland China.
We continued to opportunities for over 300 corporate clients from strengthen our ability to meet these customers needs around the world.
We work closely with local by playing a major part in a number of innovative government, trade bodies and central banks to transactions for the currency, including being the provide the best possible insights and information first international bank to: for these customers.
The client feedback confirmed offer an automated foreign currency crossthat customers derive huge value from connecting border sweeping structure in mainland China to with like-minded businesses, and there are multiple help multinationals optimise the use of internal examples of new business relationships formed as a funding by consolidating their liquidity result of these conferences.
positions onshore and offshore: Interacting with customers pilot foreign currency cross-border netting in mainland China, enabling multinationals to In 2013, our CEP undertook over 10,000 offset foreign currency payables and receivables customer interviews in 15 of CMBs priority between Chinese subsidiaries and netting markets.
The programme gives customers the centres overseas.
The product allows companies opportunity to share their views, and to reduce inter-company transactions while demonstrates that HSBC is listening and lowering processing costs and currency risk actively working to improve our ability to exposure: and support customers with global operations.
implement a tailor-made renminbi cross-border We are enhancing our customers account centralised payments and collections settlement opening experience, enabling it to take place product in mainland China.
This eliminates anytime anywhere, provided we can fulfil foreign exchange exposure and optimises regulatory and Group KYC requirements.
At working capital management for companies.
the end of 2013, we launched a multi-channel business account opening tool in the UK for For further information on the products and services we offer, customers who wish to open accounts using see page 79. online channels or call centres without visiting a branch.
Client selection In Hong Kong, in the fourth quarter of 2013, Client selection is core to our growth strategy as we made iPads available in Business Banking we seek to generate long-term relationships and centres to enable customers to register for sustainable revenue streams within acceptable risk internet banking at the time of account opening.
In 2013, we initiated a comprehensive programme to reposition our portfolios and better We are expanding the servicing and transaction manage our business.
This involves reviewing our options available on our international online customer base and establishing robust client platform, HSBCnet, to better cater for the selection filters designed to ensure that our controls requirements of businesses of different sizes and information flows are such that we can be and needs.
In addition to our payments and confident that we only do business with customers cash management HSBCnet package, which is who meet our criteria.
available in all markets, we launched domestic and international HSBCnet packages in our top We are also undertaking a review of business 12 markets during 2013. policies and controls as part of our implementation of Global Standards to further guard against money Relationship managers now update and validate laundering and sanctions risks.
customer information through regular routine discussions.
Our risk profile is described on page 134.
33 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
