We have invested significantly in addressing We continue to address these risks through this risk through increased training to raise staff enhanced model development, independent awareness of the requirements and enhanced review and model oversight to ensure our multi-layered controls protecting our models remain fit for purpose.
Areas of special interest Data management Unaudited T We have received feedback from external Financial crime compliance and regulatory stakeholders that we need a clear data strategy to compliance meet the volume, granularity, frequency and scale In recent years, we have experienced increasing of regulatory reporting requirements as well as levels of compliance risk as regulators and other other internal and external information demands.
agencies pursued investigations into historical In addition, we are required to comply with the activities and we continued to work with them in principles for effective risk data aggregation and relation to existing issues.
This has included the risk reporting as set out by the Basel Committee on matters giving rise to the DPAs reached with US Banking Supervision BCBS by the end of 2015. authorities in relation to investigations regarding inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering Potential impact on HSBC and sanctions law, and the related undertaking Financial institutions that fail to meet their with the FSA revised as the FCA Direction BCBS data obligations by the required deadline following the UK regulatory restructuring in April may face supervisory measures.
The work of the Monitor, who has been management recognise the importance of data appointed to assess our progress against our various management and therefore established a Data obligations, including the DPAs, is discussed on Strategy Board in 2012 to define our data page 24. strategy and ensure consistent data aggregation, We have also responded to a number of reporting and mananagement across the Group.
investigations by the FCA into the possible misKey initiatives and projects to deliver our selling in the UK of certain products, including PPI strategy and work towards meeting our data and interest rate hedging products sold to SMEs.
obligations are now in progress.
In addition, we have been involved in investigations Regulators are evaluating the industry on its and reviews by various regulators and competition ability to provide accurate information and may enforcement authorities relating to certain past use the industry-developed data maturity model submissions made by panel banks and the process to assess financial services firms.
for making submissions in connection with the setting of Libor, Euribor and other benchmark Model risk E interest and foreign exchange rates.
Increasingly stringent regulatory requirements It is clear from both our own and wider industry governing the development of parameters applied experience that the level of activity among regulators to models used for measuring risk and controls and law enforcement agencies in investigating over the models can have implications for the possible breaches of regulations has increased, and modelled outcomes, including increases in capital that the direct and indirect costs of such breaches requirements.
This risk extends more broadly to can be significant.
Coupled with a substantial rise the use of models across HSBC, for example those in the volume of new regulation, much of which used in financial reporting, stress testing or pricing.
has some element of extra-territorial reach, and the The evolving external economic and legislative geographical spread of our businesses, we believe environment and changes in customer behaviour that the level of inherent compliance risk that we can lead also to the assumptions in our models face as a Group will continue to remain high for the becoming invalid.
Potential impact on HSBC Commercial real estate These model risks have the potential to Details of our exposure to commercial real estate increase our capital requirement and or lending are set out on page 168. make our capital requirement more volatile 147 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Areas of special interest Risk management and contingency planning Eurozone crisis We have a well-developed framework for dealing Eurozone countries are members of the EU and with counterparty and systemic crisis situations, both part of the euro single currency bloc.
The peripheral regionally and globally, which is complemented by eurozone countries are those which exhibited levels regular specific and enterprise-wide stress testing of market volatility that exceeded other eurozone and scenario planning.
The framework functions countries, demonstrating persistent fiscal or political before, during and after crises and ensures that we uncertainty in 2013.
In spite of austerity measures have detailed and evolving operational plans in and structural reform throughout 2012 and 2013, the event of an adverse situation materialising.
It the peripheral eurozone countries of Greece, Ireland, was applied throughout 2013 to ensure that pre-crisis Italy, Portugal, Spain and Cyprus continued to preparation remained apposite and robust.
A Cyprus exhibit a high ratio of sovereign debt to GDP or Major Incident Group was effective in dealing with short to medium-term maturity concentration of the Groups response to the Cyprus sovereign debt their liabilities.
However, some of these peripheral crisis.
eurozone countries showed improvements with Ireland able to access the long-term bond markets and Spain experiencing lower borrowing costs.
In Exposures to Egypt March 2013, Cyprus sought assistance from the Since the onset of the Arab Spring we have actively Troika the European Commission, European managed our exposure within Egypt.
During 2013, Central Bank and International Monetary Fund, our systemic crisis management processes which ultimately agreed a bailout under conditions were reinstigated in response to the unfolding requiring a consolidation of banking assets and constitutional crisis, and we continued to monitor the bail-in of larger depositors monies.
The most material risk to our controls led to some minor disruption of payments overall portfolio in Egypt is the economic instability from Cyprus.
However, HSBC has limited exposure that could be caused by a further significant to the country and no impairments were recorded.
deterioration in the security situation.
The European Central Bank brought interest At 31 December 2013, our total net lending rates to record low levels in order to support growth exposure to Egypt was US$10.9bn.
Just under half in the eurozone but the very low level of inflation in of our exposure was to other financial institutions the region is limiting the impact of such measures.
and corporates US$5.4bn, almost all of which These measures are putting additional stress on the was onshore lending by HSBC in Egypt to corporate profitability of the European banking sector.
Of this exposure, US$3.4bn was off-balance sheet, principally undrawn committed facilities.
Net exposure This corporate exposure was diversified with nearly At 31 December 2013, our net exposure to the half spread across a broad range of manufacturing peripheral eurozone countries was US$37.5bn activities and the remainder covering a range of 2012: US$38.8bn, including net exposure to other industry sectors.
sovereign borrowers, agencies and banks of The sovereign and agencies exposure, including US$10.1bn 2012: US$11.6bn.
exposure to the central bank, was US$4.1bn.
This Our businesses in peripheral eurozone countries exposure was almost wholly in the form of local are funded from a mix of local deposits, local currency denominated treasury bills and central wholesale sources and intra-Group loans extended bank deposits.
from HSBC operations with surplus funds.
IntraExposure to banks was US$0.4bn, largely Group funding carries the risk that a member comprising off-balance sheet commitments country might exit the eurozone and redenominate consisting of trade lines to Egyptian banks for its national currency, which could result in a the confirmation of their letters of credit.
A description of redenomination risk in the event of the exit of Personal lending US lending a eurozone member is provided on page 211.
Economic conditions in the US continued to improve Our exposure to eurozone countries is analysed in the table on in 2013, supported by improvements in the housing page 210. sector and increases in consumer spending.
The unemployment rate declined during the year amid signs that the labour market is becoming more stable.
148 We remained focused on managing the run-off CML portfolio are declining continues to be affected of balances in our HSBC Finance portfolio and by the lack of refinancing opportunities available to completed the sale within our CML portfolio customers.
By 31 December 2013, we had resumed of US$3.7bn of personal unsecured loans and processing suspended foreclosure activities in US$5.7bn of real estate loans.
We transferred a substantially all states and had referred the majority further US$0.1bn of real estate loans to Assets of the backlog of loans for foreclosure.
We also held for sale during 2013.
The sale of these assets began initiating new foreclosure activities in all will accelerate portfolio wind-down, reduce risk, states.
Our loan modification programmes, which and alleviate some of the operational burden given are designed to improve cash collections and avoid that these receivables are demanding to service and foreclosures, continued to slow the rate of subject to foreclosure delays.
Total lending balances within HSBC Finance Total mortgage lending in the US was US$47bn were US$30bn at 31 December 2013 including loans at 31 December 2013, a decline of 15% compared held for sale, a decline of US$13bn compared with with the end of 2012, mainly due to the continued the end of 2012.
The rate at which balances in the run-off of the CML portfolio.
149 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
