Our strategy our strong ability to add to our capital base while also providing competitive rewards to our Long-term trends staff and good returns to our shareholders: Our strategy is aligned to two long-term trends: our stable funding base, with about US$1.5 trillion of customer accounts of which The world economy is becoming ever more 73% has been advanced to customers: connected, with growth in world trade and cross-border capital flows continuing to outstrip our business network, which covers over 90% growth in average gross domestic product.
Over of global trade and capital flows: and the next decade we expect 35 markets to our local balance sheet strength and trading generate 90% of world trade growth with a capabilities in the most relevant financial hubs.
similar degree of concentration in cross-border capital flows.
A two-part strategy Of the worlds top 30 economies, we expect Based on these long-term trends and our competitive those of Asia-Pacific, Latin America, the advantages, we have developed a two-part strategy: Middle East and Africa to have increased by around four-fold in size by 2050, benefiting A network of businesses connecting the world.
By this HSBC is well positioned to capture growing time they will be larger than those of Europe international trade and capital flows.
Our global and North America combined.
By 2050, we reach and range of services place us in a strong expect 18 of the 30 largest economies will be position to serve clients as they grow from small from Asia-Pacific, Latin America or the Middle enterprises into large multi-nationals through East and Africa.
our Commercial Banking and Global Banking & Markets businesses.
Competitive advantages Wealth management and retail with local scale.
What matters in this environment are: We will capture opportunities arising from social mobility and wealth creation in our having an international network and global priority growth markets across Asia-Pacific, product capabilities to capture international Latin America and the Middle East, through our trade and movements in capital: and Premier proposition and Global Private Banking being able to take advantage of organic business.
We will invest in full scale retail investment opportunities in the most attractive businesses only in markets where we can growth markets and maintaining the capacity achieve profitable scale, namely in our home to invest.
markets of the United Kingdom and Hong Kong.
HSBCs competitive advantages come from: our meaningful presence in and long-term commitment to our key strategic markets: 11 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
