Director Contract date Notice period in 2017, Kathleen Casey and Sir Jonathan Evans.
rolling Director & HSBC 1 Not seeking re-election.
Douglas Flint....... 14 February 2011 12 months Stuart Gulliver..... 10 February 2011 12 months Other directorships Iain Mackay......... 4 February 2011 12 months Executive Directors, if so authorised by either the Marc Moses was appointed as an executive Nomination Committee or the Board, may accept Director with effect from 1 January 2014.
He will appointments as non-executive directors of suitable receive a new service agreement in line with the companies which are not part of HSBC.
remuneration policy table for executive Directors after Approval will not be given for an executive the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2014.
Director to accept a non-executive directorship of Other than as set out in the Directors more than one FTSE 100 company or the remuneration policy section on page 381 and the chairmanship of such a company.
In addition, with Policy on payments for loss of office table below, effect from 1 July 2014, Directors will be subject to there are no further obligations which could give rise the following limits on the number of directorships to remuneration payments or payments for loss of that they may hold under CRD IV.
CRD IV states that office.
members of the management body, which includes both executive and non-executive Directors, may not Non-executive Directors hold more than: Non-executive Directors are appointed for fixed terms one executive directorship with two nonnot exceeding three years, which may be renewed executive directorships: or subject to their election or re-election by shareholders four non-executive directorships.
Non-executive Directors have no service contracts, but are bound by their With the consent of the PRA one additional nonrespective letters of appointment issued for and on executive directorship may be held.
behalf of HSBC Holdings plc.
Other than as set out in When considering a request to accept a nonthe Remuneration policy table on page 387, there are executive appointment, the Nomination Committee or no obligations in any and all of the non-executive Board will take into account, amongst other things, Directors letters of appointment which could give rise the expected time commitment of such appointment.
to remuneration payments or payments for loss of The time commitment for Directors external office.
Non-executive Directors current terms of appointments will be reviewed as part of the annual appointment will expire as follows: Board review.
1 in 2014, Safra Catz, Laura Cha, John Coombe, 1 Any remuneration receivable in respect of an Rona Fairhead, James Hughes-Hallett and external appointment of an executive Director is Sam Laidlaw: normally paid to the Group, unless otherwise in 2015, Marvin Cheung, Joachim Faber, John approved by the Nomination Committee or the Board.
Lipsky, Rachel Lomax and Sir Simon Robertson: in 2016, Renato Fassbind: and Policy on payments for loss of office Component of remuneration Approach taken Fixed pay and benefits In the event of redundancy, executive Directors employed on service agreements with HSBC Holdings would be entitled to a severance payment which is calculated using a multiplier of a number of weeks pay based on their full years service.
The calculation of a weeks pay in the context of this severance payment is a pro rata proportion of the individuals base salary, the last paid annual incentive and any ongoing special allowances.
This would only be applicable for Douglas Flint, Iain Mackay and Marc Moses.
Stuart Gulliver is not entitled to a severance payment under his service agreement.
Executive Directors may also be entitled to payments in lieu of: 1 notice, which shall consist of base salary, pension entitlements and other contractual benefits or an amount in lieu of : and or accrued but untaken holiday entitlement.
391 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
