HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Strategic Report continued Rewarding performance Employee remuneration Directors remuneration Rewarding performance Our remuneration strategy rewards commercial Employee remuneration 42 success and compliance with our risk Directors remuneration. 43 management framework.
Remuneration policy going forward............... 44 External reporting 45 The quality of our people and their long-term commitment to the Group are fundamental to our success.
We therefore aim to attract, retain and motivate the very best people who are committed to maintaining a long-term career with HSBC, and who will perform their role in the long-term interests of shareholders.
Employee remuneration significant number of our material risk takers are based outside the EU.
HSBCs reward package comprises four key This situation has necessitated a review of our elements of remuneration: remuneration policy, especially the balance between fixed pay: fixed and variable pay, to ensure we can remain benefits: competitive on a total compensation basis and retain our key talent.
Bearing in mind the interests of our annual incentive: and shareholders, the Board believes it is necessary to the Group Performance Share Plan GPSP.
increase the variable pay cap to the 200% of fixed These elements support the achievement of our pay for material risk takers that is permitted under objectives through balancing reward for both shortCRD IV with shareholder approval.
This will enable term and long-term sustainable performance.
Our us to hold back a larger proportion of variable pay, strategy is designed to reward only success, and subject to malus, than would be the case if we were aligns employees remuneration with our risk not to take advantage of this provision.
It will require framework and risk outcomes.
For our most senior shareholder approval at the AGM on 23 May 2014. employees the greater part of their reward is deferred Overall, a representative number of our major and thereby subject to malus, that is, it can be institutional shareholders have been supportive of cancelled if warranted by events.
the proposed changes to our remuneration policy and In order to ensure alignment between what we recognise the importance of ensuring we can retain pay our people and our business strategy, we assess our key talent.
individual performance against annual and long-term financial and non-financial objectives which are Variable pay pool determination summarised in performance scorecards.
This Determining the quantum of variable pay requires assessment also takes into account adherence to the consideration of affordability, the equitable HSBC Values of being open, connected and distribution between shareholders and employees dependable and acting with courageous integrity.
and market-based judgements around peer Altogether, performance is therefore judged not only comparisons and retention risk.
The Group on what is achieved over the short and long-term but Remuneration Committee considers many factors also importantly on how it is achieved, as we believe in determining HSBCs variable pay pool funding.
the latter is essential to the long-term sustainability The total variable pay pool for 2013 was US$3.9bn, of the business.
increased from US$3.7bn in 2012, as shown in the table below: Industry changes and key challenges The main drivers of change in remuneration policy Variable pay pool and practice within the financial services industry Group are the new regulations under CRD IV which apply 2013 2012 US$m US$m globally to all employees of EU headquartered Variable pay pool banks.
The key change is the application of a cap on total 3,920 3,689 variable pay that can be paid to any material risk as a percentage of taker being employees who have been identified as underlying profit 15% 17% 28 having a material impact on the institutions risk percentage of pool deferred.
This presents significant challenges for For footnote, see page 46.
HSBC given the fact that as a worldwide business, a 42
