HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors remuneration policy our employees and senior executives is considered by gather views on our current and developing the Committee.
remuneration practices to ensure that our reward strategy continues to be aligned with the long-term The Committee invites the Head of Group interests of our shareholders.
Performance and Reward to present proposals for remuneration for the wider employee population and These shareholders were consulted on the on any other changes in remuneration policy within proposed changes to our remuneration policy to be the company.
The Head of Group Performance and operated from 2014 as a result of the introduction of Reward also consults the Committee on the extent to the cap on variable pay awards under CRD IV.
In which the different elements of remuneration should these meetings we discussed the challenges this cap be cascaded to other employees.
on variable pay presents to HSBC in retaining talent.
We presented and discussed our proposal to increase Feedback from employee engagement surveys and the fixed pay of affected individuals through the HSBC Exchange meetings are taken into account in payment of a fixed pay allowance.
determining the Groups remuneration policy.
Overall, the shareholders we met appreciated the External factors importance of retaining talent and acknowledged the competitive disadvantage the variable pay cap in CRD Regulation IV has on HSBC relative to a number of our There is still a wide divergence in local regulations international peers and domestic competitors.
Overall, governing remuneration structures globally.
This the shareholders were supportive of our need to presents significant challenges to HSBC which address the imbalance and our approach to doing so operates worldwide.
In order to deliver long-term through the use of a fixed pay allowance.
In response sustainable performance, it is important that we have to feedback received from shareholders, the increase market-competitive remuneration and which is to the fixed pay of all executive Directors, General broadly equivalent across geographic boundaries in Managing Directors and Group General Managers order to attract, motivate and retain talented and will be delivered in shares which will be subject to a committed employees around the world.
We aim to retention period to ensure a strong alignment with the ensure that our remuneration policy is aligned with long-term interests of our shareholders.
Other regulatory practices and the interests of shareholders.
employees will receive the fixed pay allowance in HSBC is fully compliant with the Financial Stability cash when it is below a specified threshold.
The target Board FSB, FCA, PRA and Hong Kong Monetary and maximum total compensation for the executive Authority HKMA guidance and rules on Directors has been reduced given the increase in fixed remuneration which apply at the date of this report.
Comparator group Adjustments, malus and clawback The Committee considers market data for executive In order solely to reward genuine performance, Directors remuneration packages from a defined individual awards are made on the basis of a riskremuneration comparator group.
This group consists adjusted view of both financial and non-financial of nine global financial services companies, namely performance.
In light of this, the Committee has Banco Santander, Bank of America, Barclays, BNP discretion to reduce an employees current year Paribas, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan Chase variable pay to reflect detrimental conduct or & Co, Standard Chartered and UBS.
These companies involvement in Group-wide notable events.
were selected on the basis of their broadly similar Further, the Committee can, in appropriate business coverage, size and international scope, and circumstances, reduce or cancel all or part of any are subject to annual review for continuing relevance.
unvested awards under the applicable malus The Committee can also review other companies provision.
Appropriate circumstances include but are where relevant in determining the remuneration not limited to conduct detrimental to the business: policy.
past performance being materially worse than originally understood: restatement, correction or Shareholder views amendment of any financial statements: or improper The Chairman of the Committee, the Head of Group or inadequate risk management.
Performance and Reward and the Group Company The Committee can also suspend the vesting of Secretary met with a representative number of key unvested deferred awards granted in prior years where institutional shareholders in October and November the awards are scheduled to vest before the outcome 2013.
We consider these types of meetings vital to of a review of a Group-wide notable event is known.
