Strategic priority 1 Grow the business and dividends Business model 13 Our targets are to: 1. grow risk-weighted assets RWAs in line Operating model 14 with our organic investment criteria: Financial performance 16 2. progressively grow dividends and introduce share buy-backs as appropriate: and Our success in meeting our targets is described on page 20.
3. reduce the effect of legacy and non-strategic activities on our profit before tax and RWAs.
Business model complement our international spread, operating mainly through Commercial Banking and Global Our business model is based on an Banking and Markets.
Our combination of home, international network connecting and priority growth and network markets covers around serving a cohesive portfolio of markets.
85-90% of all international trade and financial flows.
Our comprehensive range of banking and related The final category, small markets, includes financial services is provided by operating those where our operations are of sufficient scale to subsidiaries and associates.
Services are primarily operate profitably, or markets where we maintain delivered by domestic banks, typically with local representative offices.
Our legal entities are regulated by their local The UK and Hong Kong are our home markets, regulators and on a Group-wide basis we are and a further 20 countries form our priority growth regulated from the UK by the Prudential Regulation markets see table below.
These 22 markets Authority PRA for prudential matters safety and accounted for over 90% of our profit before tax soundness and by the Financial Conduct Authority in 2013, and are the primary focus of capital FCA for conduct consumer and market deployment.
Network markets are markets with protection.
strong international relevance which serve to HSBCs market Hong Kong Middle East North Latin and Rest of Europe and North America America Asia-Pacific Africa Home Hong Kong UK markets Australia France Egypt Canada Argentina Mainland China Germany Saudi Arabia USA Brazil India Switzerland UAE Mexico Priority Indonesia Turkey growth Malaysia markets Singapore Taiwan Vietnam Operations primarily focused on international clients and businesses of Commercial Banking and Global Banking Network and Markets markets Together with home and priority markets these cover 85-90% of international trade and capital flows Markets where HSBC has profitable scale and focused operations Small markets Representative Offices 13 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
