Variable pay outcomes Audited Summary of pay outcomes Stuart Gulliver Iain Mackay PrePostdiscretion discretion  formance Multiple discretion mittee discretion Maximum formance Multiple multiple outcome awarded value discretion value multiple outcome awarded Value 000 000 000 000 Salary........... 1.00 100% 1.00 1,250 n a 1,250 1.00 100% 1.00 700 Annual incentive... 3.00 60% 1.80 2,250 417 1,833 3.00 51% 1.53 1,074 GPSP............. 6.00 60% 3.60 4,500 833 3,667 5.10 60% 3.07 2,148 Total.............. 8,000 1,250 6,750 3,922 Determining executive Directors annual strategic priorities determined by the Board to be performance appropriate for 2013.
Audited In order for any award of annual incentive to be Stuart Gulliver made under the above performance scorecard, the Committee had to satisfy itself that Stuart Gulliver The annual incentive award made to Stuart Gulliver had personally met and shown leadership in in respect of 2013 reflected the Committees promoting HSBC Values.
This overriding test assessment of the extent to which he had achieved assessed behaviour around the HSBC Values the personal and corporate objectives set for him principles of being open, connected and within his performance scorecard as agreed by the dependable and acting with courageous integrity.
Board at the beginning of the year.
This measurement took into account his performance A summary of the assessment against specific against both the financial and non-financial measures performance measures is provided in the following which had been set to reflect the risk appetite and table.
2 Capital strength is defined as core tier 1 capital.
3 Specific target not disclosed as deemed to be commercially sensitive.
Rationale observation, the Committee concluded that Stuart Gulliver had exhibited strong leadership and On HSBC values, independent feedback was taken personal behaviour in this area and so met the from the Group Chairman, his executive colleagues required standard.
and other employees in the organisation.
Taking this into account as well as its own experience and 397 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual report on remuneration In aggregate, in assessing the calibration of Non-financial 40% weighting achieved 27.5% Stuart Gullivers 2013 annual incentive against his An opportunity of 25% in this area related to theoretical maximum opportunity of three times base strategy execution and 80% was judged to have been salary, an overall score of 60% 2012: 52% of that achieved 20% awarded.
Overall, there was maximum opportunity was judged to have been significant progress in strategy execution, reflected achieved.
A summary of the assessment and through growing global business collaboration, rationale for the conclusions is set out below.
Unless maintained leadership in key products and markets, otherwise indicated, the figures in parentheses and progress towards HSBCs digital strategy.
There denote the opportunity within the scorecard.
was also progress on effective streamlining and business simplification strategies, which resulted in Financial 60% weighting achieved 32.5% further disposals and closures, and the run-off of An opportunity of 17.5% was available in respect of legacy portfolios in the global businesses.
The Group delivering pre-tax profit improvement against the CEO led the drive for restructuring and fide-risking, Board approved target and this was judged to have including progress towards global implementation of been fully met with the Committee awarding 100% Global Standards and exiting non-core elements of of the available opportunity 17.5% award.
Committee noted that the Group CEO led the The final opportunity under non-financial restructuring and reshaping of the Group measures 15% related to compliance and aggressively to meet the imperative of implementing reputation.
Minimising the long term impact of Global Standards, notwithstanding that in the short regulatory and compliance issues remains a top to medium term this would hold back attainment of priority and significant progress was made during the financial metrics against which he was judged.
Recognising the extensive work during the Additionally, the Group CEO promoted a cautious year to restructure the Global Compliance function, risk appetite as the Group worked through legacy including an increase in headcount of 54%, and the issues that have impacted the Group in terms of launch of the Driving a Values-led high customer redress and impairment charges in prior performance culture programme, 50% was judged years.
to have been achieved 7.5% awarded : a full award Return on equity weighting of 10% did not was not made to reflect the significant work still to meet the target return.
The cost efficiency ratio be delivered.
weighting of 17.5% also fell outside the target This performance assessment resulted in an range, in large part attributable to notable items, overall score of 60%.
including customer redress provisions, restructuring costs and other regulatory provisions.
Notwithstanding this, the Committee subsequently used their discretion to reduce overall Capital strength weighting of 5% and dividend variable pay by 1.25m equivalent to 18.5% of the payout weighting of 10% remain critically total annual incentive and GPSP.
This adjustment important reflections of financial performance as was considered appropriate in the context of overall they encapsulate a number of key factors of Group-wide year-over-year profitability and importance to shareholders.
In essence these incentive pool funding, Group-wide risk and elements demonstrate a combination of profit compliance, market remuneration benchmarks and generation, control of capital usage, cash availability the remuneration recommendations for the Group at the holding company and regulatory satisfaction CEOs direct reports.
The exercise of discretion by with the preceding factors sufficient to support the Committee discretion resulted in a final HSBCs progressive dividend policy.
These performance outcome for 2013 of 49%.
elements are therefore important indicators of the sustainability of shareholder reward.
Reflecting an Iain Mackay increased dividend per share, a dividend payout ratio within the target range in 2013 and a strengthened The same deliberations and assessments with regard capital position with an improvement in the core tier to performance and adherence to HSBC Values were 1 ratio, the Committee awarded full weighting of undertaken by the Committee with regard to the these elements of the scorecard.
A summary of the assessment is provided in the following table.
