Remuneration policy - non-executive Directors Principles, parameters and protocol for the determination of fees In accordance with our Articles of Association, Directors are entitled to receive fees for their services as Directors as determined from time to time by HSBC Holdings plc in general meeting.
Non-executive Directors, who are not employees, receive such fees but are not entitled to receive a base salary, fixed pay allowance, benefits, pension or any variable pay.
The executive Group Chairman and other executive Directors are not eligible to receive fees for their services as Directors.
The fee levels payable reflect the time commitment and responsibilities required of a non-executive Director of HSBC Holdings plc.
Fees are determined by benchmark against other UK companies and banks in the FTSE 30, and with reference to the fees paid by other non-UK international banks.
The Board will review the amount of each component of the fees periodically to assess whether, individually and in aggregate, they remain competitive and appropriate in light of changes in roles, responsibilities, and or time commitment of the non-executive Directors and to ensure that individuals of the appropriate calibre are able to be retained or appointed.
The Board excluding the non-executive Directors has discretion to approve changes to the fees.
The Board may also introduce any new component of fee for non-executive Directors subject to the principles, parameters and other requirements set out in this remuneration policy.
In addition to fees payable by HSBC Holdings plc, certain of the non-executive Directors may be entitled to receive fees for their services as directors of subsidiary companies of HSBC Holdings plc.
Such additional remuneration is determined by the board of directors of each relevant subsidiary and the relevant subsidiary is entitled to make or continue to make such payments to the relevant non-executive Director as the board of directors of each relevant subsidiary, in its discretion, may determine.
It is common practice for non-executive Directors to be reimbursed expenses incurred in performing their role and any related tax.
Component Approach to the determination of each component of fees Base fee The current base fee for a non-executive Director is 95,000 per annum.
The base fee may be reviewed and adjusted in line with the Principles, parameters and protocol for the determination of fees, provided that the aggregate of any increases in base fee effected over the duration of this remuneration policy shall not exceed 20% of the current fee level.
Fee for the senior The current fee for the senior independent non-executive Director is 45,000 per annum.
independent nonThe additional fee may be reviewed and adjusted in line with the Principles, parameters and protocol for the executive determination of fees, provided that the aggregate of any increases in additional fee effected over the duration of this Director remuneration policy shall not exceed 20% of the current fee level.
Committee fees The current fees for non-executive Directors serving on Board committees are as follows: Group Audit, Group Risk, Group Remuneration, Financial System Vulnerabilities, Conduct & Values Committees: - Chairman: 50,000 per annum: Member: 30,000 per annum Nomination Committee: - Chairman: 40,000 per annum: Member: 25,000 per annum The committee fees may be reviewed and adjusted in line with the Principles, parameters and protocol for the determination of fees, provided that the aggregate of any increases in committee fees effected over the duration of this remuneration policy shall not exceed 20% of the respective current fee levels.
If a new Board committee is established or there is a substantial change in the nature or responsibility of an existing Board committee, the fees for such a committee will be determined in line with the Principles, parameters and protocol for the determination of fees, provided that the committee fees shall not exceed the then fee levels of the Group Audit Committee.
Material factors taken into account when The dilution limits set out in the HSBC share setting pay policy plans comply with the Association of British Insurers guidelines.
Prior to 2012, all equity-settled awards of The Committee takes into account a variety of factors Performance Shares and Restricted Shares vesting when determining the remuneration policy for under the HSBC Share Plans were satisfied by the Directors.
transfer of existing shares held under a trust.
To create additional core tier 1 capital and retain funds within Internal factors HSBC, vestings of Restricted Share awards are now Funding satisfied by a mixture of existing shares from the trust and newly issued shares.
Both the annual incentive and GPSP awards are funded from a single annual variable pay pool from Pay and employment conditions in the Group which individual awards are considered.
Funding of the Groups annual variable pay pool is determined in HSBC considers pay across the Group when the context of Group profitability, capital strength, and determining remuneration levels for its executive shareholder returns.
Details on the calculation of this Directors.
In considering individual awards, a years variable pay pool can be found on page 393. comparison of the pay and employment conditions of 387 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
