Retail Banking and Wealth Management 81 Commercial Banking....... 84 Basis of preparation Global Banking and Markets................... 87 The results of global businesses are presented in accordance Global Private Banking... 90 with the accounting policies used in the preparation of HSBCs consolidated financial statements.
Our operations are closely Other 92 integrated and, accordingly, the presentation of global business Analysis by global business 94 data includes internal allocations of certain items of income and expense.
These allocations include the costs of certain support services and global functions, to the extent that these Summary can be meaningfully attributed to operational business lines.
While such allocations have been made on a systematic and HSBC reviews operating activity on a number of consistent basis, they necessarily involve some subjectivity.
bases, including by geographical region and by Where relevant, income and expense amounts presented include the results of inter-segment funding as well as interglobal business.
company and inter-business line transactions.
All such transactions are undertaken on arms length terms.
The commentaries below present global The expense of the UK bank levy is included in the businesses followed by geographical regions Europe geographical region as HSBC regards the levy as a page 96.
Performance is discussed in this order cost of being headquartered in the UK.
For the purposes of because certain strategic themes, business initiatives the segmentation by global business, the cost of the levy is and trends affect more than one geographical region.
Principal RBWM business year-to-year in the ongoing business and to assess the factors and trends in the business which are The Principal RBWM business measure excludes the anticipated to have a material effect in future years.
effects of the US run-off portfolio and the disposed Tables which reconcile reported RBWM financial of US CRS business.
We believe that looking at the measures to Principal RBWM financial measures are Principal RBWM business without the run-off and provided in the Form 20-F filed with the SEC, which disposed of businesses allows management to more is available on www.
clearly discuss the cause of material changes from 78
