230 Market risk is the risk that movements in Market risk in 2013 Audited market factors, including foreign exchange rates and commodity prices, interest rates, Global financial markets generally continued to be credit spreads and equity prices, will reduce supported by the accommodative monetary policies our income or the value of our portfolios.
followed by leading central banks in 2013.
However, the year was dominated by discussions around when There were no material changes to our policies and how quickly the US Federal Reserve would taper and practices for the management of market risk off its asset purchase programme.
In addition, market in 2013 other than the introduction of Model sentiment worsened due to fears of negative Oversight Committees.
These govern model risk at spillovers for some emerging markets that had the regional and global levels of wholesale credit experienced slower economic growth and continued and market risk and are described in more detail on external imbalances.
This led to interest rates page 282. climbing rapidly and volatile markets across most asset classes.
A summary of our current policies and practices regarding market risk is provided in the Appendix The delay by the US Federal Reserve in to Risk on page 281. implementing the tapering process, coupled with the resolution of concerns around the US fiscal policy Exposure to market risk and the improving economic outlook in some Exposure to market risk is separated into two portfolios: developed countries, provided support for major Trading portfolios comprise positions arising from equity markets reaching recent highs, credit spreads market-making and warehousing of customer-derived narrowing further and lower interest rates.
Non-trading portfolios comprise positions that primarily Against this backdrop, the defensive risk profile arise from the interest rate management of our retail and of the equity and foreign exchange businesses lead to commercial banking assets and liabilities, financial lower trading VaR.
Non-trading VaR increased during investments designated as available for sale and held to maturity, and exposures arising from our insurance the period mainly as a result of an extension of the operations see page 234. asset profile in the non-trading book.
Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures Trading and non-trading portfolios while maintaining a market profile consistent with our risk Audited appetite.
The following table provides an overview of the types We use a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk exposures, including: of risks within our different global businesses.
sensitivity analysis measures the impact of individual market factor movements on specific instruments or portfolios Types of risk by global business including interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices for example the impact of a one basis point change in Risk types Global businesses yield: Trading risk GB&M including Balance value at risk VaR is a technique that estimates the Foreign exchange Sheet Management BSM potential losses that could occur on risk positions as a result and commodities of movements in market rates and prices over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence: and Interest rate Equities in recognition of VaRs limitations we augment it with stress Credit spread testing to evaluate the potential impact on portfolio values of more extreme, though plausible, events or movements in a Non-trading risk GB&M including BSM, set of financial variables.
Examples of scenarios reflecting Foreign exchange structural RBWM, CMB and GPB current market concerns are the slowdown of mainland China and the potential effects of a sovereign debt default, Interest rate including its wider contagion effects.
Credit spread The vast majority of trading risk arises from GB&M businesses.
The market risk for insurance operations is reported separately on page 254.
231 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Market risk Trading and non-trading portfolios Market risk reporting measures The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC Holdings is not included in the The following table provides an overview of the Group VaR.
The management of this risk is described reporting of risks within this section: on page 286.
Overview of risk reporting For a description of the parameters used in calculating VaR, see the Appendix to Risk on Portfolio page 282.
Trading Non-trading Risk type Foreign exchange and Trading portfolios commodity VaR VaR Audited Interest rate... VaR VaR Sensitivity Value at risk of the trading portfolios Equity............ VaR Sensitivity Credit spread. VaR VaR Our Group trading VaR for the year is shown in the Structural foreign exchange.... n a Sensitivity graph below.
The use of VaR is integrated into market risk Trading value at risk management and is calculated for all trading positions 2013 2012 regardless of how we capitalise those exposures.
US$m US$m Where there is not an approved internal model, we At 31 December 52.1 78.8 use the appropriate local rules to capitalise exposures.
Maximum 81.3 130.9 Our models are predominantly based on historical simulation.
VaR is calculated at a 99% confidence The daily levels of total trading VaR and trading level for a one-day holding period.
VaR by risk type over the course of 2013 are set out in the graph below.
The corresponding period-end levels Where we do not calculate VaR explicitly, we and statistics for 2013 are illustrated in the table VaR use alternative tools as described in the table above.
by risk type for trading activities below.
Structural foreign exchange risk is monitored using sensitivity analysis see page 285.
Daily VaR trading portfolios US$m Unaudited 90 70 Trading VaR 50 IR trading 30 FX trading CS trading 10 Equity trading -10 Diversification -30 -50 Dec-12 Feb-13 Apr-13 Jun-13 Jul-13 Sep-13 Nov-13 Dec-13 232 Almost all trading VaR resides within Markets.
to VaR trending lower during the year, even though The VaR for trading activity at 31 December 2013 a less defensive profile towards the end of the year was lower than at 31 December 2012 due primarily resulted in a rising VaR.
The spike observed during to the defensive risk profile of the equity and foreign September was due to a syndicated underwriting exchange businesses.
These contributions and a undertaken by the Rates business and the risk was higher diversification benefit across asset classes led placed with investors.
We routinely validate the accuracy of our VaR We back-test our Group VaR at various levels models by back-testing them against the hypothetical which reflect a full legal entity scope of HSBC, profit and loss that excludes non-modelled items including entities that do not have local permission such as fees, commissions and revenues of intra-day to use VaR for regulatory purposes.
In 2013, there transactions from the actual reported profit and loss.
were no loss exceptions for HSBC Holdings and The VaR and hypothetical profit and loss presented major entities within the Group, including the here is used for internal management purposes and Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, differs from that used for managing our regulatory HSBC Bank and HNAH.
However, there was one exposures.
profit exception for HSBC Holdings.
There is no evidence of model errors or control failures.
The We would expect on average to see two to three exception was due primarily to gains from exposures profits, and two or three losses, in excess of VaR at to major interest rates and some emerging markets, the 99% confidence level over a one-year period.
The positions on peripheral European sovereigns and actual number of profits or losses in excess of VaR client-driven trading positions in currency options.
over this period can therefore be used to gauge how well the models are performing.
To ensure a The graph below shows the daily trading VaR conservative approach to calculating our risk against hypothetical profit and loss for HSBC exposures, it is important to note that profits in excess Holdings during 2013.
On a case by case basis, the of VaR are only considered when back-testing the PRA may allow loss exceptions to be exempted for accuracy of our models and are not used to calculate regulatory capital purposes.
the VaR numbers used for risk management or capital purposes.
233 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Market risk Trading portfolios Non-trading portfolios Backtesting of trading VaR against hypothetical profit and loss for HSBC Holdings US$m Unaudited 150 100 50 0 -50 -100 -150 02-Jan-13 11-Feb-13 21-Mar-13 02-May-13 13-Jun-13 23-Jul-13 02-Sep-13 10-Oct-13 19-Nov-13 31-Dec-13 Hypothetical profit and loss VaR 99% Backtesting exception Stressed value at risk of the trading portfolios a result, the overall risk profile minimised the losses Unaudited from highly volatile periods and led to a relatively low stressed VaR compared with trading VaR.
Stressed VaR is primarily used for regulatory capital Stressed VaR increased towards the end of the year purposes and is integrated into the risk management due to a less defensive profile in these businesses.
process to facilitate efficient capital management and to highlight potentially risky positions based Non-trading portfolios on previous market volatility.
Stressed VaR Audited complements other risk measures by providing Value at risk of the non-trading portfolios the potential losses arising from market turmoil.
Calculations are based on a continuous one-year Non-trading value at risk period of stress for the trading portfolio, based on 2013 2012 the assessment at the Group level of the most volatile US$m US$m period in recent history.
The corresponding Stressed VaR reduced significantly, mainly period-end levels and statistics for 2013 are due to defensive positions taken by the Equity and illustrated in the table VaR by risk type for Foreign Exchange businesses at the start of 2013.
Daily VaR non-trading portfolios US$m Unaudited 280 240 200 160 Non-trading VaR IR non-trading 120 80 CS non-trading 40 0 -40 Diversification -80 -120 Dec-12 Feb-13 Apr-13 Jun-13 Jul-13 Sep-13 Nov-13 Dec-13 234 VaR by risk type for non-trading activities Credit spread risk for available-for-sale Unaudited debt securities At 31 December Portfolio Credit spread VaR for available-for-sale debt Interest Credit diverssecurities, excluding those held in insurance rate spread ification Total operations, is included in the Group non-trading US$m US$m US$m US$m VaR.
However, SICs are not included.
At 2012................. 89.6 113.4 83.7 119.2 31 December 2013, the sensitivity of equity capital Average............ 103.7 179.9 85.7 197.9 to the effect of movements in credit spreads on our Minimum......... 81.1 111.3 118.1 available-for-sale debt securities, including the Maximum......... 122.8 322.1 322.5 gross exposure for the SICs consolidated within our balance sheet, based on credit spread VaR, was Most of the Group non-trading VaR relates to US$113m 2012: US$150m.
This sensitivity was Balance Sheet Management BSM or local treasury calculated before taking into account losses which management functions.
Contributions to Group would have been absorbed by the capital note holders.
non-trading VaR are driven by interest rates and Excluding the gross exposure for SICs consolidated credit spread risks arising from all global businesses, in our balance sheet, this exposure reduced to as illustrated on page 234.
non-trading VAR during 2013 was due primarily to the extension of the asset profile in the non-trading The decrease in this sensitivity at 31 December book.
This was partially offset by the reduced 2013 compared with 31 December 2012 was due contribution of credit spread risks, as a result of lower mainly to the effect of lower volatilities and credit volatilities and credit spread baselines utilised in spread baselines observed during the year.
This movement included the At 31 December 2013, the capital note holders reduction in credit spread risks relating to the Groups would absorb the first US$2.3bn 2012: US$2.3bn of holdings of available-for-sale debt securities any losses incurred by the SICs before we incur any excluding those held in insurance operations, equity losses.
which is discussed further in the following section.
Non-trading VaR also includes the interest Equity securities classified as available rate risk of non-trading financial instruments held for sale by the global businesses and transferred into The fair value of the constituents of equity securities portfolios managed by BSM or local treasury classified as available for sale can fluctuate functions.
In measuring, monitoring and managing considerably.
The table below sets out the maximum risk in our non-trading portfolios, VaR is just one of possible loss on shareholders equity from the tools used.
The management of interest rate risk in available-for-sale equity securities.
The increase the banking book is described further in Non-trading in other strategic investments is largely due to the interest rate risk below, including the role of BSM.
reclassification of our investment in Industrial Bank.
Non-trading VaR excludes equity risk on available-for-sale securities, structural foreign Fair value of equity securities Audited exchange risk, and interest rate risk on fixed 2013 2012 rate securities issued by HSBC Holdings, the scope US$bn US$bn and management of which are described in the 51 Private equity holdings............. 2.7 2.9 relevant sections below.
Funds invested for short-term cash management................... 0.2 Investment to facilitate 52 ongoing business.................. 1.2 1.1 Other strategic investments........ 5.2 1.6 9.1 5.8 For footnotes, see page 265.
235 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Market risk Balance sheet linkages Structured FX exposures Non-trading interest rate risk Market risk balance sheet linkages balance sheet and positions included in our market Unaudited risk disclosures, in line with recommendations made by the Enhanced Disclosure Task Force.
The information below aims to facilitate the understanding of linkages between line items in the Market risk linkages to the accounting balance sheet hedge our own risks.
Most of our derivative exposures arise from Trading assets and liabilities sales and trading activities within GB&M and are treated as traded The Groups trading assets and liabilities are in substantially all risk for market risk management purposes.
The assets and liabilities are classified as held for trading if they have been acquired or incurred Within derivative assets and liabilities there are portfolios of principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near derivatives which are not risk managed on a trading intent basis term, or form part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments and are treated as non-traded risk for VaR measurement purposes.
that are managed together and for which there is evidence of a These arise when the derivative was entered into in order to recent pattern of short-term profit-taking.
These assets and manage risk arising from non-traded exposures.
They include liabilities are treated as traded risk for the purposes of market risk non-qualifying hedging derivatives and derivatives qualifying management, other than a limited number of exceptions, primarily for fair value and cash flow hedge accounting.
The use of in Global Banking where the short-term acquisition and disposal of non-qualifying hedges whose primary risks relate to interest rate the assets are linked to other non-trading related activities such as and foreign exchange exposure is described on page 285.
of derivatives in fair value and cash flow hedge accounting relationships are given in Note 18 on the Financial Statements.
Financial assets designated at fair value Our primary risks in respect of these instruments relate to interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
Financial assets designated at fair value within HSBC are predominantly held within the Insurance entities.
The majority Loans and advances to customers of these assets are linked to policyholder liabilities for either unit-linked or insurance and investment contracts with DPF.
The The primary risk on assets within loans and advances to customers risks of these assets largely offset the market risk on the liabilities is the credit risk of the borrower.
The risk of these assets is treated under the policyholder contracts, and are risk managed on as non-trading risk for market risk management purposes.
Financial investments Financial liabilities designated at fair value Financial investments include assets held on an available-for-sale Financial liabilities designated at fair value within HSBC are and held-to-maturity basis.
An analysis of the Groups holdings primarily fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC entities for of these securities by accounting classification and issuer type is funding purposes.
An accounting mismatch would arise if the provided in Note 19 on the Financial Statements and by business debt securities were accounted for at amortised cost because activity on page 69.
The majority of these securities are mainly the derivatives which economically hedge market risks on the held within Balance Sheet Management in GB&M.
The positions securities would be accounted for at fair value with changes which are originated in order to manage structural interest rate and recognised in the income statement.
The market risks of these liquidity risk are treated as non-trading risk for the purposes of liabilities are treated as non-traded risk, the principal risks being market risk management.
Available-for-sale security holdings interest rate and or foreign exchange risks.
We also incur liabilities within insurance entities are treated as non-trading risk and are to customers under investment contracts, where the liabilities on largely held to back non-linked insurance policyholder liabilities.
unit-linked contracts are based on the fair value of assets within the The other main holdings of available-for-sale assets are the unit-linked funds.
The exposures on these funds are treated as ABSs within GB&Ms legacy credit business, which are treated non-traded risk and the principal risks are those of the underlying as non-trading risk for market risk management purposes, the assets in the funds.
principal risk being the credit risk of the obligor.
Derivative assets and liabilities The Groups held-to-maturity securities are principally held within the Insurance business.
Risks of held-to-maturity assets We undertake derivative activity for three primary purposes: to are treated as non-trading for risk management purposes.
create risk management solutions for clients, to manage the portfolio risks arising from client business and to manage and For information on the accounting policies applied to financial instruments at fair value, see Note 2l on the Financial Statements.
Market risk for insurance operations is discussed on page 254.
B Foreign exchange and interest rate.
C Foreign exchange, interest rate and credit spread.
The table above splits the assets and liabilities Non-trading interest rate risk Unaudited into two categories: For our policies regarding the funds transfer those that are included in the trading book and pricing process for non-traded interest rate risk measured by VaR: and and liquidity and funding risk, see page 280 and page 276, respectively, of the Appendix to Risk.
those that are not in the trading book and or measured by VaR.
Asset, Liability and Capital Management ALCM The breakdown of financial instruments included is responsible for measuring and controlling and not included in trading VaR provides a linkage non-trading interest rate risk under the supervision with market risk to the extent that it is reflected in our of the Risk Management Meeting.
However, it is important to highlight responsibilities are: that the table does not reflect how we manage market to define the rules governing the transfer of risk, since we do not discriminate between assets and non-traded interest rate risk from the global liabilities in our VaR model.
businesses to BSM: The assets and liabilities included in trading VaR to define the rules governing the interest rate risk give rise to a large proportion of the income included behaviouralisation applied to non-trading in net trading income.
As disclosed in the income assets liabilities see below : statement on page 51, HSBCs net trading income in 2013 was US$8,690m 2012: US$7,091m.
to ensure that all market interest rate risk that Adjustments to trading income such as valuation can be neutralised is transferred from the global adjustments do not feed the trading VaR model.
businesses to BSM: and to define the rules and metrics for monitoring the Structural foreign exchange exposures Unaudited residual interest rate risk in the global businesses, including any market risk that can be neutralised.
For our policies and procedures for managing structural foreign exchange exposures, see The different types of non-trading interest rate page 285 of the Appendix to Risk.
risk and the controls which we use to quantify and limit exposure to these risks can be categorised as For details of structural foreign exchange exposures see follows: Note 35 on the Financial Statements.
237 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Market risk Non-trading interest rate risk BSM Sensitivity of NII risk which is transferred to BSM and managed the assessed duration of non-interest bearing by BSM within a defined market risk mandate, balances, typically capital and current accounts: predominantly through the use of fixed rate and liquid assets government bonds held in the base case expected prepayment behaviour or available-for-sale portfolios and or interest rate pipeline take-up rate for fixed rate balances with derivatives which are part of fair value hedging embedded optionality.
or cash flow hedging relationships.
This nontraded interest rate risk is reflected in non-traded Interest rate behaviouralisation policies have to be VaR, as well as in our net interest income or formulated in line with the Groups behaviouralisation economic value of equity EVE sensitivity policies and approved at least annually by local ALCO, see below : regional ALCM and Group ALCM, in conjunction with local, regional and Group market risk monitoring risk which remains outside BSM because it teams.
cannot be hedged or which arises due to our behaviouralised transfer pricing assumptions.
The extent to which balances can be This risk is not reflected in non-traded VaR, but behaviouralised is driven by: is captured by our net interest income or EVE the amount of the current balance that can be sensitivity and corresponding limits are part of assessed as stable under business-as-usual our global and regional risk appetite statements conditions: and for non-trading interest rate risk.
A typical example would be margin compression created for managed rate balances the historic market by unusually low rates in key currencies: interest rate re-pricing behaviour observed: or basis risk which is transferred to BSM when it for non-interest bearing balances the duration for can be hedged.
Any residual basis risk remaining which the balance is expected to remain under in the global businesses is reported to ALCO.
This assessment is This risk is not reflected in non-traded VaR, but often driven by the re-investment tenors is captured by our net interest income or EVE available to BSM to neutralise the risk through sensitivity.
A typical example would be a the use of fixed rate government bonds or interest managed rate savings product transfer-priced rate derivatives, and for derivatives the using a Libor-based interest rate curve: and availability of cash flow hedging capacity.
model risks which cannot be captured by Balance Sheet Management non-traded VaR, net interest income or EVE Unaudited sensitivity, but are controlled by our stress Effective governance across BSM is supported by the testing framework.
A typical example would dual reporting lines it has to the CEO of GB&M and be prepayment risk on residential mortgages to the Group Treasurer.
In each operating entity, BSM or pipeline risk.
is responsible for managing liquidity and funding under the supervision of the local ALCO.
It also Interest rate risk behaviouralisation manages the non-trading interest rate positions Unlike liquidity risk which is assessed on the basis transferred to it within a Global Markets limit of a very severe stress scenario, non-traded market structure.
interest rate risk is assessed and managed on the basis In executing the management of the liquidity risk of business-as-usual.
In many cases the contractual on behalf of ALCO, and managing the non-trading profile of non-traded assets liabilities arising from interest rate positions transferred to it, BSM invests assets liabilities created outside Markets or BSM in highly-rated liquid assets in line with the Groups does not reflect the behaviour observed under liquid asset policy.
The majority of the liquidity is business-as-usual conditions.
Behaviouralisation is invested in central bank deposits and government, therefore used to assess the market interest rate risk of supranational and agency securities with most of the non-traded assets liabilities and this assessed market remainder held in short-term interbank and central risk is transferred to BSM, in accordance with the bank loans.
rules governing the transfer of interest rate risk from the global businesses to BSM.
Behaviouralisation is applied in three key areas: the assessed re-pricing frequency of managed rate balances: 238 Analysis of third-party assets in Balance Sheet BSM is permitted to enter into single name and Management index credit derivatives activity, but it does so to Unaudited manage credit risk on the exposure specific to its At 31 December securities portfolio in limited circumstances only.
2013 2012 US$m US$m The risk limits are extremely limited and closely Cash and balances at central monitored.
Trading assets 5,547 8,724 Financial assets designated VaR is calculated on both trading and at fair value 72 74 non-trading positions held in BSM.
It is calculated Loans and advances: by applying the same methodology used for the to banks 86,406 72,771 to customers 34,063 22,052 Markets business and utilised as a tool for market Financial investments.............. 314,427 293,421 risk control purposes.
Positions and the associated VaR were not significant during 2013 Withdrawable central bank deposits are and 2012. accounted for as cash balances.
Interbank loans, statutory central bank reserves and loans to central Sensitivity of net interest income banks are accounted for as loans and advances to Unaudited banks.
BSMs holdings of securities are accounted for The table below sets out the effect on our future net as available-for-sale or, to a lesser extent, held-tointerest income of an incremental 25 basis points maturity assets.
parallel rise or fall in all yield curves worldwide at the Statutory central bank reserves are not recognised beginning of each quarter during the 12 months from as liquid assets.
The statutory reserves that would be 1 January 2014.
The sensitivities shown represent the released in line with the Groups stressed customer change in the base case projected net interest income deposit outflow assumptions are reflected as stressed that would be expected under the two rate scenarios inflows.
assuming that all other non-interest rate risk variables remain constant, and there are no management Third-party assets in BSM increased by 17% actions.
In deriving our base case net interest income during 2013, reflecting an increase in commercial projections the re-pricing rate of assets and liabilities surplus which is reinvested by BSM.
Deposits with used is derived from current yield curves.
central banks grew by US$40bn, driven by the placement of surplus funds in Europe and North A sequence of four parallel 25bps rises at the America.
Financial investments rose by 7% with an beginning of each quarter during the 12 months from increase in Hong Kong due to the deployment of funds, 1 January 2014 up-shock would increase planned partially offset by a reduction in North America due to net interest income for 2014 by US$938m 2013: net sales and maturities of government debt securities.
US$1,403m, while a sequence of four 25bps declines Loans and advances to banks increased with higher down-shock would decrease planned net interest levels of placements in Hong Kong and Rest of income by US$1,734m 2013: US$1,550m.
Asia-Pacific along with an increase in reverse repos in The up-shock sensitivity declined in 2013, Europe.
mostly as a result of a partial reversal of the margin BSM is permitted to use derivatives as part of compression experienced as rates dropped near to its mandate to manage interest rate risk.
This was partly due to the steepening of the activity is predominantly through the use of vanilla yield curves in 2013 reflected in a higher base case interest rate swaps which are part of cash flow net interest income projection, and partly due to an hedging and fair value hedging relationships.
enhancement in our up-shock assumptions around customer managed rate re-pricing in the UK.
Credit risk in BSM is predominantly limited to short-term bank exposure created by interbank Net interest income and its associated sensitivity lending, exposure to central banks and high quality include the expense of funding trading assets, while sovereigns, supranationals or agencies which related revenue is reported in Net trading income.
constitute the majority of BSMs liquidity portfolio.
The asymmetry observed between the BSM does not manage the structural credit risk of any year-on-year change in the up-shock and the Group entity balance sheets.
239 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Risk Market risk Sensitivity of NII DBS Scheme Parent company down-shock is driven to some extent by the increase These figures incorporate the effect of any option in repos recognised at amortised cost used to fund features in the underlying exposures.
trading assets, following the change in the way The interest rate sensitivities set out below GB&M manage repo and reverse repo activities.
are indicative and based on simplified scenarios.
These repos were previously recognised as trading The limitations of this analysis are discussed in liabilities.
the Appendix to Risk on page 286.
53 Sensitivity of projected net interest income Unaudited Rest of Hong Kong Rest of US dollar Americas dollar Asia Sterling Euro bloc bloc bloc bloc bloc bloc Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Change in 2014 projected net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter..... 107 12 327 236 598 128 938 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter..... 291 23 412 233 761 14 1,734 Change in 2013 projected net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter..... 133 64 246 237 679 44 1,403 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter..... 366 52 305 168 602 57 1,550 For footnote, see page 265.
We monitor the sensitivity of reported reserves in all yield curves.
The table below describes to interest rate movements on a monthly basis by the sensitivity of our reported reserves to these assessing the expected reduction in valuation of movements and the maximum and minimum available-for-sale portfolios and cash flow hedges month-end figures during the year.
The table shows the potential Total foreign exchange VaR arising within HSBC sensitivity of reported reserves to valuation changes Holdings in 2013 was as follows: in available-for-sale portfolios and from cash flow hedges following the specified shifts in yield curves.
HSBC Holdings foreign exchange VaR These particular exposures form only a part of our Audited overall interest rate exposures.
The accounting 2013 2012 treatment of our remaining interest rate exposures, US$m US$m while economically largely offsetting the exposures At 31 December 54.1 69.9 shown in the above table, does not require revaluation Average............. 51.1 51.4 Minimum.......... 46.7 39.2 movements to go to reserves.
Maximum 64.1 69.9 Defined benefit pension schemes The foreign exchange risk largely arises from Audited loans to subsidiaries of a capital nature that are not Market risk arises within our defined benefit pension denominated in the functional currency of either the schemes to the extent that the obligations of the provider or the recipient and which are accounted schemes are not fully matched by assets with for as financial assets.
Changes in the carrying determinable cash flows.
amount of these loans due to foreign exchange rate differences are taken directly to HSBC Holdings HSBCs defined benefit pension schemes income statement.
These loans, and most of the Audited associated foreign exchange exposures, are 2013 2012 eliminated on a Group consolidated basis.
US$bn US$bn Liabilities present value........ 40.5 38.1 Sensitivity of net interest income % % Audited Assets: Equities 18 18 HSBC Holdings monitors net interest income Debt securities 70 71 sensitivity over a 5-year time horizon reflecting Other including property....... 12 11 the longer-term perspective on interest rate risk 100 100 management appropriate to a financial services holding company.
The table below sets out the effect For details of our defined benefit schemes, see Note 7 on the on HSBC Holdings future net interest income over Financial Statements, and for pension risk management see page 295. a 5-year time horizon of incremental 25 basis point parallel falls or rises in all yield curves worldwide at Additional market risk measures applicable the beginning of each quarter during the 12 months only to the parent company from 1 January 2014.
Audited Assuming no management actions, a sequence The principal tools used in the management of market of such rises would increase planned net interest risk are VaR for foreign exchange rate risk and the income for the next five years by US$602m 2012: projected sensitivity of HSBC Holdings net interest increase of US$532m, while a sequence of such income to future changes in yield curves and interest falls would decrease planned net interest income rate gap re-pricing tables for interest rate risk.
These figures incorporate the effect of any option features in the underlying exposures.
The interest rate sensitivities tabulated above account the effect of actions that could be taken to are indicative and based on simplified scenarios.
The mitigate this interest rate risk.
figures represent hypothetical movements in net interest income based on our projected yield curve Interest rate repricing gap table scenarios, HSBC Holdings current interest rate risk The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities profile and assumed changes to that profile during the issued by HSBC Holdings is not included within the next five years.
Changes to assumptions concerning Group VaR but is managed on a repricing gap basis.
the risk profile over the next five years can have a The interest rate repricing gap table below analyses significant impact on the net interest income sensitivity the full-term structure of interest rate mismatches for that period.
However, the figures do not take into within HSBC Holdings balance sheet.
