Since 2013, following advice from Freshfields Annual General Meeting, subject to shareholders Bruckhaus Deringer, the Committees legal adviser approval.
on the malus framework, the Committee has implemented a formal policy, with supporting Stuart Gulliver procedures, which will be continuously updated.
The Committee may also decide to introduce and operate clawback, in appropriate circumstances and subject to compliance with applicable local laws and regulations, in respect of incentive awards whether paid in cash or shares that have vested and been paid out.
Risk Risk including in particular, compliance is a critical part of the assessment process in determining the Iain Mackay performance of senior executives and risk-takers defined as HSBC Code Staff, which includes executive Directors and in ensuring that their individual remuneration has been appropriately assessed with regard to risk.
The Global Risk function carries out annual reviews for HSBC Code Staff, which determine whether there are any instances of non-compliance with Risk procedures and expected behaviour.
Instances of non-compliance are escalated to senior management and the Committee for consideration in variable pay decisions.
Consideration is given to Marc Moses whether adjustments, malus and or clawback should Marc Moses was promoted to executive Director with effect apply and in certain circumstances, whether from 1 January 2014. employment should be continued.
Group-wide thematic reviews of risk are also carried out to determine if there are any transgressions which could affect the amount of current year variable pay or any instances where malus of previously awarded variable pay is required.
Remuneration scenarios As a result of rebalancing fixed and variable remuneration to meet the requirements of CRD IV, Douglas Flint total remuneration for target and maximum performance has been reduced for those executive Douglas Flint is not eligible for annual incentive awards but is eligible for GPSP awards.
Directors currently eligible for annual incentive and GPSP awards in order to offset any benefit arising from increases in fixed pay.
As noted above and subject to approval of the remuneration policy, the Group Chairman will be eligible for a GPSP award from 2014.
The following charts show how the total value of remuneration and its composition would vary under three performance scenarios for executive Directors.
The current scenario models the 2013 policy for executive Directors and the policy scenario models the policy, which will be effective from the date of the 389 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
