Strategic priority 2 Implement Global Standards HSBC Values 25 Our target is to make significant progress in implementing Global Standards for the benefit Governance.. 25 of HSBC and the financial system as a whole.
Employees 27 Our Values, good governance and commitment to operating sustainably guide the way we manage our business and help us create value for our stakeholders.
We have committed to develop Global as a source of competitive advantage.
Global Standards shaped by the highest or Standards allow us to: most effective standards of financial crime strengthen our response to the ongoing threat compliance available in any jurisdiction of financial crime: where HSBC operates and to deploy them globally on a consistent basis.
make consistent and therefore simplify the ways by which we monitor and enforce high By definition, the impact of Global Standards is standards at HSBC: organisation-wide, and the principal means by which we drive consistently high standards is through strengthen policies and processes that govern universal application of our HSBC Values, strong how we do business and with whom: and systems of governance and the behaviours, ensure that we consistently apply our HSBC performance and recognition of all our people in Values.
managing high quality customer relationships.
In line with our ambition to be recognised as the Implementing Global Standards worlds leading international bank, we aspire to set We expect our Global Standards programme to the industry standard for knowing our customers and underpin our business practices in the future.
detecting, deterring and protecting against financial Initially, we are concentrating on transforming how crime.
As international markets become more we detect, deter and protect against financial crime.
interconnected and complex and as threats to the We are implementing a more consistent, global financial system grow, we are strengthening comprehensive approach to assessing financial crime further the policies and practices which govern how risk in order to help protect our customers, our we do business and with whom.
employees and the financial system as a whole.
We greatly value our reputation.
Our success over the years is due in no small part to our Governance framework reputation for trustworthiness and integrity.
In areas The Global Standards Execution Committee where we have fallen short in recent years in the provides execution control based on direction and application of our standards and in our ability to priorities set by the Global Standards Steering identify and so prevent misuse and abuse of the Meeting a meeting of the GMB, details of which financial system through our networks we have may be found in the Directors Report on page 354. moved immediately to strengthen our governance The Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee and processes and have committed to adopt and enforce the Board receive regular reports on the Global the highest or most effective financial crime Standards programme.
Under this governance structure, a sequenced We continue to reinforce the status and approach to global implementation was designed, significance of compliance and adherence to our tested and deployed during 2013 following detailed Global Standards by building strong internal planning, to closely identify and manage execution controls, developing world class capabilities through risk, ensure that our Global Standards are delivered communication, training and assurance programmes in a globally consistent and coherent way, and to make sure employees understand and can meet embed sustained ways of working.
their responsibilities, and redesigning core elements of how we assess and reward senior executives.
The process of embedding Global Standards and the supporting controls and capabilities that allow We see the implementation of Global Standards the business to identify and mitigate financial crime 23 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
