2 Award levels for fixed pay allowances and maximum variable pay awards are based on obtaining shareholder approval to increase the maximum variable pay award as a percentage of fixed pay under CRD IV from 100% to 200% at the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2014.
If approval is not obtained the fixed pay allowance for 2014 will increase to 3,488,000 for Stuart Gulliver, 1,950,000 for Iain Mackay, and 1,950,000 for Marc Moses.
The maximum variable pay award level will be revised to 100% of fixed pay and the annual incentive and GPSP awards will accordingly be reduced to 1 3 and 2 3 of this amount i. e. 33% and 67% of fixed pay, respectively.
The requested increase in the cap to 200% would give us the ability to minimise the increase in fixed remuneration costs and so help to maintain greater flexibility on total pay.
Annual bonus scorecards The measures and weightings of the performance The Committee is of the opinion that the measures to apply to the 2014 annual incentive for performance targets for the annual incentive are Stuart Gulliver, Iain Mackay and Marc Moses are commercially sensitive and that it would be given below.
Douglas Flint is not included as he will detrimental to the interests of the company to not be eligible for an annual incentive award in the disclose them before the start of the financial year.
Subject to commercial sensitivity, the targets will be disclosed after the end of the relevant financial year in that years remuneration report.
2014 annual incentive scorecards Stuart Gulliver Iain Mackay Marc Moses Functional measures Functional measures Measures Weighting linked to Weighting linked to Weighting Grow both business and Grow both business and Underlying pre-tax profit...... 17.5% dividends 15% dividends.. 20% Risk and compliance including Risk and compliance including 10% Global Standards............... 50% Global Standards............... 50% Return on equity...................
improvement in the Groups compliance, conduct and GPSP awards for the Group Chairman will be behaviour with a view to becoming over time one of determined by reference to non-financial and the most reliably compliant financial institutions.
qualitative measures including: monitoring and improving HSBCs reputation with all stakeholders, and providing leadership and tone to drive 405 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
