Board committees HSBC Holdings plc Board of Directors Group Risk Group Audit Group Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Committee Non-executive responsibility Non-executive responsibility Non-executive responsibility Non-executive responsibility for oversight of, and advice for oversight of, and advice for setting the overarching for leading the process for to the Board on, high level to the Board on, matters principles, parameters and Board appointments and risk-related matters and relating to financial reporting.
governance framework of for identifying and nominating, risk governance.
the Groups remuneration for approval by the Board, policy and the remuneration candidates for appointment of senior executives.
Group Management Financial System Conduct & Values Chairmans 1 2 Board Vulnerabilities Committee Committee Committee Executive management Non-executive responsibility for Non-executive responsibility Acts on behalf of the Board committee which is oversight of i controls and for oversight of, and advice to between scheduled Board responsible for management procedures to identify areas the Board on, HSBC policies, meetings to facilitate ad hoc and day-to-day running where HSBC and the financial procedures and standards unforeseen business requiring of HSBC under the direct system more broadly may to ensure that the Group urgent Board approval.
become exposed to financial conducts business responsibly crime or system abuse, and consistently adheres and ii HSBC policies and to HSBC Values.
procedures sufficient to ensure the continuing obligations to regulatory and law enforcement agencies are met.
The Board has established a number of committees Group Management Board consisting of Directors, Group Managing Directors Role and members and, in the case of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, co-opted non-director The GMB is responsible for the day-to-day members.
The key roles of the Board committees are management of HSBC Holdings.
The Chairman of each nonexecutive Board committee reports to each meeting Members Stuart Gulliver Chairman, Iain Mackay and of the Board on the activities of the committee since Marc Moses who are executive Directors, and Ann Almeida, Samir Assaf, Peter Boyles, the previous Board meeting.
Simon Cooper, Irene Dorner, John Flint, Pam Kaur, Alan Keir, Stuart Levey, Antonio The terms of reference of the principal nonLosada, Sean OSullivan and Peter Wong, executive Board committees are available at all of whom are Group Managing Directors.
Each nonexecutive Board committee reviews its terms The Group Chief Executive Officer chairs the GMB.
The head of each global business and global function and the chief executive of each region attend GMB meetings, either as members or by invitation.
347 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
