HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual report on remuneration Annual incentive Annual incentive awarded including deferred amounts as a result of achievement of performance measures for the relevant financial year.
50% of both the deferred and non-deferred component of the award is payable in cash and the remaining 50% in shares, subject to a six month retention period on vesting.
The deferred element of the 2013 award pays out over a period of three years, subject to service and malus conditions: 33% vests on the first and second anniversary of grant and 34% on the third anniversary of grant.
In 2012, there was a one-time change where the deferred element of the 2012 award was extended to pay out 100% cliff vesting subject to the satisfactory completion of the DPA as per footnote 1 of the Addendum to the single figure of remuneration.
During the vesting period the Committee has the authority to cancel all or part of the unvested award.
For the 2013 award the performance measures and the outcomes of the performance conditions can be found on page 397.
Outcomes for the 2012 award can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report in the Annual Report and Accounts 2012.
The deferred share awards also include a right to receive dividend equivalents.
Dividend equivalents on deferred share awards are delivered in the form of additional shares, in the same time and in the same manner and in such proportion as the original deferred award that vests.
The expected value of these dividend equivalents are included in the value of deferred share awards.
The deferred cash awards also include a right to receive notional returns for the period between grant date and vesting date and determined by reference to the dividend yield on HSBC shares.
A payment of notional return is made in the same proportion as the vesting of the deferred awards on each vesting date.
GPSP GPSP awards where final vesting is determined as a result of achievement of performance conditions over more than one financial year that end in the respective year.
Figures shown reflect the face value of awards granted in 2014 and 2013 respectively.
Award levels are determined by considering performance against enduring performance measures set out in the long-term performance scorecard.
There are no post-grant performance conditions.
The award is subject to a five-year vesting period during which the Committee has the authority to cancel all or part of the award.
On vesting, the shares net of tax must be retained for the duration of the participants employment.
For the 2013 award the outcomes of the performance conditions can be found in the section titled Awards under the GPSP on page 399.
The GPSP awards also include a right to receive dividend equivalents for the period between the grant and the vesting date.
Dividend equivalents on the GPSP awards will be delivered when the GPSP awards vest.
There was no vesting of GPSP awards in 2013.
The expected value of these dividend equivalents are included in the value of GPSP awards included in the table above.
2 Includes fees as Director, Chairman of the risk committee and member of the audit committee of Hang Seng Bank Limited.
5 Excludes fees and benefits for Jim Comey and John Thornton who were not Directors at 31 December 2013.
Jim Comey was appointed 6 a Director on 4 March 2013 and resigned on 4 September 2013.
Fees and benefits for 2013 were 63,000 and 10,000 respectively.
John Thornton retired as a Director on 24 May 2013.
Fees including fees as Chairman of HSBC North America Holdings Inc for 2013 6 were 472,000 1,092,000 for 2012.
6 Benefits include travel-related expenses relating to the attendance at Board and other meetings at HSBC Holdings registered office.
Amounts disclosed are estimated and have been grossed up using a tax rate of 45%, where relevant.
