HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Capital Appendix to Capital CRD IV end point shown in this statement.
If the treatment of a credit risk exposure changes from RWA to capital deduction in the period, then only the reduction in RWAs would appear in the RWA movement by key driver tables.
In this instance, a reduction in RWAs does not necessarily indicate an improvement in the capital position.
Counterparty risk drivers definitions and quantification The RWA movement by key driver for counterparty credit risk calculates the credit risk drivers 5 and 6 at a more granular level, by using transaction level details provided by regional sites.
Foreign exchange movement is not a reported layer for counterparty risk drivers, as there is cross currency netting across the portfolio.
Market risk drivers definitions and quantification The RWA movement by key driver for market risk combines the credit risk drivers 5 and 6 into a single driver called Movements in risk levels.
The market risk RWA driver called Foreign exchange movements and other includes foreign exchange movements and additional items which cannot be reasonably assigned to any of the other drivers.
Basis of preparation of the estimated effect of the CRD IV end point applied to the 31 December 2013 position Unaudited The table on page 311 presents a reconciliation of our reported core tier 1 and RWA position at 31 December 2013 to the pro forma estimated CET1 and estimated RWAs based on the Groups interpretation of the final CRD IV legislation and final rules issued by the PRA, supplemented by ongoing regulatory guidance, as applicable.
At 31 December 2012, we estimated the impact based on the July 2011 draft CRD IV text.
CRD IV was finalised in June 2013 and came into effect on 1 January 2014.
The final text of the legislation contains significant provisions for national discretion and in December 2013 the PRA published Policy Statement PS7 13 containing the final rules and supervisory statements implementing CRD IV in the UK.
Notwithstanding, there remains considerable areas of uncertainty in the legislation, with numerous formal regulatory technical standards RTS and implementing technical standards due for issue by the EBA still to be drafted and finalised by the European Commission, leaving the CRD IV rules subject to significant uncertainty.
We have not incorporated the impact of those draft standards in our estimates.
Furthermore, PRA consultations on capital buffers and Pillar 2 have been delayed to 2014.
As the transposition of the CRD IV rules in the UK was only published in late December, we are still in the process of upgrading our models and systems used to calculate capital numbers in a CRD IV environment.
As a consequence, the estimates include manual adjustments and are subject to change.
Given the above, the final CRD IV impact on the Groups CET1 and RWAs may differ from our current estimates.
The detailed basis of preparation is described below for items that are different from the rules in application as at 31 December 2013 Basel II PRA old regime.
We have also outlined where the basis of preparation has changed from our 31 December 2012 disclosures, principally as a result of publication of PRAs final rules and ongoing regulatory clarification of the rules as understanding evolves.
At 31 December 2013, our estimate of individual non-significant holdings in financial sector entities that are, in aggregate, above 10% of the Groups CET1 capital translates into a net long position amount that is below the threshold for deduction, as a result of management actions executed to optimise our maturity profile and make best use of matching opportunities.
Our estimates are based on the CRD IV final rules and ongoing regulatory guidance.
The EBAs publication of their final draft RTS on Own Funds Part III on 13 December 2013 elaborates on the capital calculation of holdings of capital instruments of financial sector entities.
The draft contains significant change from initial consultation and still due for consideration and adoption by the European Commission.
This is currently under review and depending upon the final standard we will consider what, if any, further management actions will be possible to mitigate any impact.
To effect the deduction of significant investments in insurance companies from CET1, we have removed from the Group consolidated reserves the contribution of our insurance business and calculated the amount of the insurance holding deduction, subject to threshold calculations, at cost.
The regulatory treatment of insurance holdings was clarified in the final PRA rules as set out in PS 7 13.
324 Following regulatory guidance, our CET1 capital ratio as at 31 December 2013 reflects our prospective fourth interim dividend declared, net of projected scrip dividend, which will be paid in 2014.
This represents a change in our basis of preparation.
Key regulatory adjustments applied to core tier 1 in respect of amounts subject to CRD IV treatment Fourth interim dividend: we have deducted the prospective fourth interim dividend from our CET1 capital at 31 December 2013, following our interpretation of the final rules and regulatory clarification.
The amount deducted corresponds to the declared dividend, net of the scrip amount estimated based on our historic planning assumptions.
This follows CRD IV final rules and represents a change in the basis of preparation compared with 31 December 2012 as well as the current disclosed capital position under Basel II.
Deconsolidation of insurance undertakings in reserves: under the Basel II PRA old regime, the Group consolidated reserves include the post-acquisition reserves of our unconsolidated insurance businesses, which is then reflected in the value of the Basel II deduction from tier 1 and tier 2 capital.
The CRD IV rules do not consider such a treatment.
However, the PRA stated in PS 7 13 that the treatment contemplated under the PRA old regime was no longer considered appropriate.
In accordance with the PRAs final rules, we have therefore excluded the postacquisition reserves from our CET1 reserves, leaving the investment to be deducted from CET1 subject to thresholds valued at cost.
Investments in own shares through the holding of composite products of which HSBC is a component exchange traded funds, derivatives, and index stock : the value of our holdings of own CET1 instruments, where it is not already deducted under IFRSs, is deducted from CET1.
Under CRD IV, this deduction comprises not only direct but also indirect and synthetic, actual and contingent, banking and trading book gross long positions.
Trading book positions are calculated net of short positions only where there is no counterparty credit risk on these short positions this restriction does not apply to short index positions being offset against other index positions.
This is currently under review and may change our estimates.
Depending upon the final standard we will consider what, if any, management actions will be possible to mitigate any impact.
Under Basel II PRA old regime, there is no regulatory adjustment made to the amounts already deducted under IFRS rules.
Surplus non-controlling interest disallowed in CET1: non-controlling interests arising from the issue of common shares by our banking subsidiaries receive limited recognition.
The excess over the minimum capital requirements of the relevant subsidiary, calculated on the basis of its local reporting as well as its contribution to the parent consolidated requirements, is not allowable in the Groups CET1 capital to the extent it is attributable to minority shareholders.
The final rules require a calculation of the surplus to be undertaken at the sub-consolidated level for each relevant subsidiary.
In addition, the calculation of the minimum requirements of the subsidiary includes any additional capital requirements imposed by the local regulations, to the extent those are to be met by CET1 capital.
Under the Basel II PRA old regime, there is no regulatory restriction applied to minority interests.
Unrealised gains losses on available-for-sale debt securities: under CRD IV, there is no adjustment to remove from CET1 capital unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale debt securities.
The final CRD IV text includes a national discretion for competent authorities to retain a prudential filter for those unrealised gains or losses on exposures to central governments.
In PS 7 13, the PRA clarified that they were unlikely to apply such a filter and as a consequence we have not applied such a filter in our estimates.
Under Basel II, both unrealised gains and losses are removed from capital net of tax.
Unrealised gains on available-for-sale equities and reserves arising from revaluation of property: there is no adjustment for unrealised gains and losses on reserves arising from the revaluation of property and on available-forsale equities.
Under the Basel II PRA old regime, unrealised net gains on these items are included in tier 2 capital net of deferred tax and net losses are deducted from tier 1 capital.
325 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Capital Appendix to Capital CRD IV end point Defined benefit pension fund assets and liabilities: in line with the Basel II PRA old regime, the amount of retirement benefit assets as reported on the balance sheet is to be deducted from CET1.
At 31 December 2013, the amount of retirement benefit liabilities as reported on the balance sheet was fully recognised in CET1 rather than being replaced by any commitment funding plans as allowed under the Basel II PRA old regime.
Excess of expected losses over impairment allowances deducted 100% from CET1: the amount of excess of expected losses over impairment allowances is deducted 100% from CET1.
Under the Basel II PRA old regime, this amount is deducted 50% from core tier 1 and 50% from total capital.
Removal of 50% of tax credit adjustment for expected losses: the amount of expected losses in excess of impairment allowances that is deducted from CET1 capital is not reduced for any related tax effects.
Under the Basel II PRA old regime, any related tax credit offset is recognised 50% in core tier 1 and 50% in tier 1 capital.
Securitisation positions risk-weighted under CRD IV: securitisation positions that were deducted from core tier 1 under the Basel II PRA old regime have been included in RWAs at 1,250%.
Deferred tax liabilities on intangibles: the amount of intangible assets deducted from CET1 has been reduced by the related deferred tax liability.
Under Basel II, the goodwill and intangible assets are deducted at their accounting value.
Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability excluding those arising from temporary differences : the deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability and do not arise from temporary differences are deducted 100% from CET1.
The deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability and arise from temporary differences are subject to the separate threshold deduction approach detailed separately.
Under Basel II, these items receive a risk weighting of 100%.
Additional valuation adjustment referred to as prudent valuation adjustment or PVA : under Basel II, banks are required to comply with requirements for prudent and reliable valuation of any balance sheet position measured at market or fair value.
Under CRD IV, all assets and derivatives measured at fair value are subject to specified standards for prudent valuation, covering uncertainty around the input factors into the fair value valuation models namely, uncertainty around the mark-to-market of positions, model risk, valuation of less liquid positions and credit valuation adjustments.
Where the accounting fair value calculated under IFRSs is higher than the valuation amount resulting from the application of the prudential adjustments, this would result in an additional valuation adjustment or PVA deduction from CET1 capital.
Following PRA direction, we have included an estimate of the impact of PVA, on a tax-effected basis, based on our current methodology.
However, there is guidance outstanding following ongoing EBA consultation.
A new consultation paper was issued by the EBA in July 2013 and a Quantitative Impact Study was launched on 22 July 2013 to assess the effect of the proposals.
Further clarity on the requirements following finalisation of the EBA process and discussions with our regulator could potentially change this figure.
Debit valuation adjustment DVA : the amount of all fair value gains and losses on OTC derivative liabilities that results from changes to our own credit spread are derecognised from CET1.
Individually non-significant holdings in CET1 capital of financial sector entities in aggregate above 10% of HSBC CET1: under CRD IV, the investments in CET1 instruments of financial sector entities, where we have a holding of not more than 10% of the CET1 instruments issued by those entities, are deducted from CET1 to the extent the aggregate amount of such holdings exceeds 10% of our CET1 capital calculated before any threshold deductions.
At 31 December 2012 we had quantified the effect of management actions estimated to be necessary to negate a capital deduction against this item.
This followed an interpretation of the draft July 2011 CRD IV rules around the restriction in the rules for netting of long and short positions held in the trading book, whereby the maturity of the short position has to match the maturity of the long position, or have a residual maturity of no less than a year.
Consistent with our interim disclosures, we have changed the basis of presentation of the CRD IV estimated capital position as at 31 December 2012 in the table on page 311 to reflect the effect of the management actions deemed necessary at the time.
At 31 December 2013, following publication of CRD IV and evolving regulatory discussions, as well as systems enhancements, we have been able to more effectively match our long and short positions under one year maturity.
In 326 addition, we have now executed selected management actions to optimise our maturity profile and make best use of matching opportunities which bring our net long position below the deduction threshold.
The EBAs publication of their final draft RTS on Own Funds Part III on 13 December 2013 offers clarification on the extent to which we are required to look through holdings in intermediate entities to identify indirect financial sector exposures.
This is currently under review and depending upon the final standard we will consider the impact and what, if any, further management actions will be taken.
Deductions under threshold approach: under CRD IV, where we have a holding of more than 10% of the CET1 instruments issued by banks, financial institutions and insurance entities which is not part of our regulatory consolidation, that holding is subject to a threshold deduction approach.
Under the Basel II PRA old regime, these exposures are deducted 50% from tier 1 capital and 50% from total capital, except for certain insurance holdings that met the requirements under the transitional provision of the current rules and until 31 December 2012 that were allowed to be deducted 100% from total capital.
Deferred tax assets that rely on the future profitability of the bank to be realised and which arise from temporary differences are also subject to this threshold deduction approach.
Under the Basel II PRA old regime, these assets would be subject to 100% risk weighting.
Under CRD IV, the amount of such deferred tax assets and significant investments which individually and in aggregate exceed 10% and 15% respectively of our CET1, are fully deducted from CET1 capital.
Amounts falling below the 10% and 15% thresholds are risk-weighted at 250%.
Key changes to capital requirements introduced by CRD IV Credit valuation adjustment CVA risk: introduced as a new requirement under CRD IV rules, this is a capital charge to cover the risk of mark-to-market losses on expected counterparty risk, and is referred to as a regulatory CVA risk capital charge.
Where we have both specific risk VAR approval and internal model method approval for a product, the CVA VAR approach has been used to calculate the CVA capital charge.
Where we do not hold both approvals, the standardised approach has been applied.
We have estimated our regulatory CVA risk capital charge calculated on a full range of derivative counterparties on the basis of the final CRD IV text, which exempts from the calculation of the CVA risk capital charge certain corporates, retirement benefits pension funds and specific sovereign bodies.
We have identified the counterparties falling under the corporates exemption in a manner consistent with their categorisation for the purposes of related EU regulation concerning mandatory clearing of derivatives.
We have also exempted applicable sovereigns.
At 31 December 2012, we had estimated our regulatory CVA risk capital charge based on the draft July 2011 CRD IV text, without any exemptions.
Amounts in aggregate below 15% threshold and therefore subject to 250% risk weight: as explained above, items that fall under the threshold approach treatment under CRD IV, and which are below the 10% and 15% thresholds, are risk-weighted at 250%.
Securitisation positions and free deliveries risk-weighted under CRD IV: securitisation positions which were deducted 50% from core tier 1 and 50% from total capital, and free deliveries i. e. transactions where payment has been made for securities, foreign currencies or commodities, before receiving them, or where these have been delivered before receiving payment that were deducted from total capital under current rules, are now included in RWAs at 1,250%.
Other movements: includes residual items following the finalisation of the rules and our continued systems implementation of these.
Notable items relate to changes in counterparty credit risk, such as the increase in the asset value correlation multiplier for financial counterparties, additional requirements for collateralised counterparties, margin period of risk and new requirements for exposures to central counterparties.
Similarly for credit risk, this includes key items such as the increase in the multiplier for financial counterparties, the change in the treatment of deferred tax assets and the confirmation of risk weights for immovable property following PRA final rules.
327 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
