Appendix to Capital Capital management, capital measurement and RWA movement Capital management Audited Approach and policy Our approach to capital management is driven by our strategic and organisational requirements, taking into account the regulatory, economic and commercial environment in which we operate.
Pre-tax return on risk-weighted assets RoRWA is an operational metric by which the global businesses are managed on a day-to-day basis.
The metric combines return on equity and regulatory capital efficiency objectives.
It is our objective to maintain a strong capital base to support the risks inherent in our business and invest in accordance with our six filters framework, exceeding both consolidated and local regulatory capital requirements at all times.
Our policy on capital management is underpinned by a capital management framework which enables us to manage our capital in a consistent manner.
The framework, which is approved by the GMB annually, incorporates a number of different capital measures including market capitalisation, invested capital, economic capital and regulatory capital.
Whilst also monitoring capital at a Group level on a Basel II basis, we set our internal target on an end point Basel III CET1 basis.
Capital measures market capitalisation is the stock market value of HSBC: invested capital is the equity capital invested in HSBC by our shareholders, adjusted for certain reserves and goodwill previously amortised or written off: economic capital is the internally calculated capital requirement which we deem necessary to support the risks to which we are exposed: and regulatory capital is the capital which we are required to hold in accordance with the rules established by the PRA for the consolidated Group and by our local regulators for individual Group companies.
Our assessment of capital adequacy is aligned to our assessment of risks, including: credit, market, operational, interest rate risk in the banking book, pension fund, insurance, structural foreign exchange risk and residual risks.
Stress testing In addition to our internal stress tests, the Group is subject to supervisory stress testing in many jurisdictions.
Supervisory requirements are increasing in frequency and in the granularity with which the results are required.
These exercises include the programmes of the PRA, the Federal Reserve Board, The EBA, the ECB and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, as well as stress tests undertaken in many other jurisdictions.
We take into account the results of all such regulatory stress testing when assessing our internal capital requirements.
Risks to capital Outside the stress-testing framework, a list of top and emerging risks is regularly evaluated for their effect on both the core tier 1 and CET1 capital ratios.
In addition, other risks may be identified which have the potential to affect our RWAs and or capital position.
These risks are also included in the evaluation of risks to capital.
The downside or upside scenarios are assessed against our capital management objectives and mitigating actions are assigned as necessary.
The responsibility for global capital allocation principles and decisions rests with the GMB.
Through our internal governance processes, we seek to maintain discipline over our investment and capital allocation decisions and seek to ensure that returns on investment are adequate after taking into account capital costs.
Our strategy is to allocate capital to businesses and entities on the basis of their ability to achieve established RoRWA objectives and their regulatory and economic capital requirements.
Risk-weighted asset targets RWA targets for our global businesses are established in accordance with the Groups strategic direction and risk appetite, and approved through the Groups annual planning process.
As these targets are deployed to lower levels of management, action plans for implementation are developed.
These may include growth strategies: active portfolio management: restructuring: business and or customer-level reviews: RWA efficiency and optimisation initiatives and 319 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
