HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Letter from the Group Chairman Directors The emphasis we place on adhering to high Directors behavioural standards and doing the right thing has led us to establish a further new Board Committee, Douglas Flint, CBE, 58 the Conduct & Values Committee CVC, which Group Chairman will be chaired by Rachel Lomax.
The CVC, which incorporates much of what was previously done in Skills and experience: Member of the Institute the Corporate Sustainability Committee, will, with a of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and the much expanded role, oversee the design and Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Fellow of The application of our policies, procedures and standards Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
to ensure that we conduct business responsibly Extensive governance experience gained through and consistently adheres to HSBC Values.
The membership of the Boards of HSBC and BP p. l. c. : CVC will focus on the key themes that underpin our considerable knowledge of finance and risk commitment to meeting societal expectations of the management in banking, multinational financial banking sector: treating customers fairly and openly, reporting, treasury and securities trading operations: doing business with the right clients, doing business honoured with a CBE in recognition of his services the right way, being a responsible employer, acting to the finance industry.
Joined HSBC in 1995 as responsibly towards the communities in which Group Finance Director.
HSBC operates and treating all stakeholders fairly.
Appointed Group Chairman: 2010 We recognise, and are preparing for, the specific Appointed to the Board: 1995 challenges resulting from continuing regulatory and legislative changes, such as the corporate Current appointments include: A director of governance aspects of the EUs Capital The Hong Kong Association and Chairman of the Requirements Directive IV, proposals for a senior Institute of International Finance.
A member of persons regime now contained in the 2014 Banking the Mayor of Beijings International Business Reform Act and support for the establishment of a Leaders Advisory Council as well as the Mayor of professional standards body for banking in the UK.
Shanghais International Business Leaders Advisory Council: a member of the International Advisory Ensuring we have a diverse balance of skills, Board of the China Europe International Business knowledge and experience on the Board is a School, Shanghai: an independent external member fundamental aspect of successful corporate of the UK Governments Financial Services Trade governance.
In my statement to shareholders on and Investment Board since 20 September 2013, pages 3 to 5, I welcomed Kathleen Casey, who will and by invitation from the Prime Minister a British join the Board on 1 March 2014, bringing extensive Business Ambassador from January 2014. experience of financial services regulation.
Sir Jonathan Evans, who joined the Board on 6 August Former appointments include: Group Finance 2013, has added considerable insight on emerging Director: Chief Financial Officer and Executive risks and threats and will take over the chairmanship Director, Risk and Regulation.
Co-Chairman of the of the FSVC during the second quarter of this year.
Counterparty Risk Management Policy Group III: The Board has also been strengthened by the Chairman of the Financial Reporting Councils appointment of Marc Moses, Group Chief Risk review of the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control: Officer, as an executive Director with effect from member of the Accounting Standards Board and 1 January 2014.
This reflects the criticality of the the Standards Advisory Council of the International Risk function.
Accounting Standards Board: served on the Large Business Forum on Tax and Competitiveness and On behalf of the Board and with the very the Consultative Committee of the Large Business capable leadership of its new and existing Advisory Board of HM Revenue and Customs: committees, I can assure you that your Directors partner in KPMG: and non-executive director and remain committed to establishing and maintaining Chairman of the Audit Committee of BP p. l. c.. the highest standards of corporate governance wherever we operate.
This is key to the Groups ability to capitalise on the opportunities arising from Stuart Gulliver, 54 successful implementation of our strategic priorities.
Group Chief Executive Chairman of the Group Management Board D J Flint, Group Chairman 24 February 2014 Skills and experience: A career banker with over 30 years international experience with HSBC: has held a number of key roles in the Groups operations 330 worldwide, including in London, Hong Kong, Safra Catz, 52 Tokyo, Kuala Lumpur and the United Arab Emirates: played a leading role in developing and expanding Skills and experience: A background in Global Banking and Markets.
Joined HSBC in 1980 international business leadership, having helped as International Officer Trainee.
transform Oracle into the largest producer of Appointed Group Chief Executive: 2011 business management software and the worlds leading supplier of software for information Appointed to the Board: 2008 management.
Current appointments include: Chairman of The Appointed to the Board: 2008 Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and Chairman of the Group Management Current appointments include: President and Board.
A member of the Monetary Authority of Chief Financial Officer of Oracle Corporation.
Singapore International Advisory Panel and the Joined Oracle in 1999 and appointed to the board International Advisory Council of the China Banking of directors in 2001.
Former appointments include: Managing Director Former appointments include: Chairman, Europe, of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
Middle East and Global Businesses and Chairman of HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited Laura Cha, GBS, 64 and HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA.
Head of Global Banking and Markets: Co-Head Chairman of the Corporate Sustainability Committee of Global Banking and Markets: Head of Global from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013.
Member Markets: Head of Treasury and Capital Markets in of the Conduct & Values Committee since Asia-Pacific: Deputy Chairman of HSBC Trinkaus 17 January 2014 and, with effect from the conclusion & Burkhardt AG and a member of its Supervisory of the 2014 Annual General Meeting, member of the Board: and Chairman of HSBC France.
Skills and experience: Extensive regulatory and Kathleen Casey, 47 policy making experience in the finance and securities sector in Hong Kong and mainland China: formerly Member of the Group Audit Committee and Vice Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee with Commission, being the first person outside mainland effect from 1 March 2014.
China to join the Central Government of the Peoples Skills and experience: Extensive financial Republic of China at vice-ministerial rank: awarded regulatory policy experience.
Formerly Gold and Silver Bauhinia Stars by the Hong Kong Commissioner of the US Securities and Exchange Government for public service: formerly Deputy Commission, acting as the regulators principal Chairman of the Securities and Futures Commission representative in multilateral and bilateral regulatory in Hong Kong: and has worked in the US and Asia.
dialogues, the G-20 Financial Stability Board and the Appointed to the Board: 2011 International Organisation of Securities Commissions.
Current appointments include: Non-executive Deputy Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Appointed to the Board: 1 March 2014 Banking Corporation Limited: non-official member Current appointments include: Chairman of the of the Executive Council of Hong Kong SAR: a Alternative Investment Management Association, Hong Kong Deputy to the 12th National Peoples Senior Advisor of Patomak Global Partners, member Congress of China: non-executive director of China of the Board of Trustees of Pennsylvania State Telecom Corporation Limited: Senior International University, the Trust Fund Board of the Library of Advisor for Foundation Asset Management Sweden Congress and the Advisory Council of the Public AB: member of the State Bar of California and Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Chairman of the Financial Services Development Council of Hong Kong SAR since 17 January 2013.
Former appointments include: Staff Director and A non-executive director of Unilever PLC and Counsel of the United States Senate Committee on Unilever N. V. since 14 May 2013.
Vice Chairman Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and of the China Securities Regulatory Commissions Legislative Director and Chief of Staff for a US International Advisory Council since July 2004 Senator.
331 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Directors Secretary and a member of the China Banking Regulatory John Coombe, 68 Commissions International Advisory Council since 12 July 2013.
Hong Kong delegate for the 12th Chairman of the Group Audit Committee and National Peoples Congress, Peoples Republic of member of the Group Risk Committee and Group China, since 5 March 2013.
Former appointments include: A non-executive Skills and experience: A background in director of Bank of Communications Co. Ltd. international business, financial accounting and the Baoshan Iron and Steel Co. Limited, Johnson pharmaceutical industry.
Formerly Chief Financial Electric Holdings Limited and Chairman of the Officer of GlaxoSmithKline plc with responsibility University Grants Committee in Hong Kong.
Nonfor the groups financial operations globally.
Fellow executive director of Hong Kong Exchanges and of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England Clearing Limited and Tata Consultancy Services and Wales.
Limited: and Chairman of the ICAC Advisory Committee on Corruption.
Ceased to be a member Appointed to the Board: 2005.
Due to retire at the of the Advisory Board of the Yale School of conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Current appointments include: Non-executive Chairman of Hogg Robinson Group plc and Home Marvin Cheung, GBS, OBE, 66 Retail Group plc.
Former appointments include: An executive Member of the Group Audit Committee.
director and Chief Financial Officer of Skills and experience: A background in GlaxoSmithKline plc: non-executive director of international business and financial accounting, GUS plc: member of the supervisory board of particularly in Greater China and the wider Asian Siemens AG: Chairman of The Hundred Group economy: retired from KPMG Hong Kong in 2003 of Finance Directors: member of the Accounting after more than 30 years: awarded the Gold Bauhinia Standards Board: and a council member of The Star by the Hong Kong Government.
Fellow of the Royal Academy of Arts.
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Sir Jonathan Evans, 56 Appointed to the Board: 2009 Member of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Current appointments include: A non-executive Committee since 6 August 2013 and, with effect from director of Hang Seng Bank Limited and HKR the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting, International Limited: non-executive Chairman of Chairman.
Member of the Conduct & Values the Airport Authority Hong Kong and the Council Committee since 17 January 2014. of the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology: director of The Association of Former Skills and experience: Extensive experience in Council Members of The Stock Exchange of Hong national security policy and operations.
Formerly Kong Limited and The Hong Kong International Director General of MI5 with responsibility for Film Festival Society Ltd: Member of the Working the leadership, policy and strategy of the Security Group on Transportation under the Economic Service, including international and domestic Development Commission of the Hong Kong SAR counter-terrorism, counter-espionage and counterGovernment since 17 January 2013 and member of proliferation activities and cyber security.
the court of The Open University of Hong Kong Responsibility for the oversight of the Joint Terrorist since 1 November 2013.
Analysis Centre and the Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure and attended the National Former appointments include: A non-executive Security Council.
director of Sun Hung Kai Properties Limited and Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited: Appointed to the Board: 6 August 2013.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of KPMG Current appointments include: Senior Associate Hong Kong: council member of the Open University of Accenture plc since 24 October 2013, a member of Hong Kong: and non-official member of the of the advisory board of Darktrace Limited since Executive Council of the Hong Kong SAR.
16 September 2013 and a non-executive Director of the UK National Crime Agency since 2 December 2013.
332 Former appointments include: Various positions Skills and experience: A background in international in the UK Security Service over a 30-year career, industry, publishing, finance and general management.
including: Director General: Deputy Director Formerly Chairman and CEO of the Financial General: Director of International Counter-Terrorism: Times Group Limited responsible for the strategy, and Head of the Security Services Secretariat.
management and operations of a global media and information business and Finance Director of Pearson plc with responsibility for overseeing the day-to-day Joachim Faber, 63 running of the finance function and direct responsibility for global financial reporting and Member and, since 24 May 2013, Chairman of the control, tax and treasury.
Has a Masters in Business Group Risk Committee.
Administration from the Harvard Business School.
Skills and experience: A background in banking Appointed to the Board: 2004. and asset management with significant international experience, having worked in Germany, Tokyo, New Current appointments include: Chairman of York and London.
Former Chief Executive Officer HSBC North America Holdings Inc. since 1 January of Allianz Global Investors AG and member of 2014.
A non-executive member of the board of the the management board of Allianz SE: 14 years UK Governments Cabinet Office, a non-executive experience with Citigroup Inc. holding positions in director of The Economist Newspaper Limited and Trading and Project Finance and as Head of Capital by invitation from the Prime Minister a British Markets for Europe, North America and Japan.
Has Business Ambassador from January 2014.
Appointed a doctorate from the University of Administrative as a non-executive Director of PepsiCo Inc. with Sciences in Speyer.
Appointed to the Board: 2012 Former appointments include: Executive Vice President, Strategy and Group Control of Imperial Current appointments include: Chairman of the Chemical Industries plc: Finance Director of Pearson supervisory board of Deutsche Brse AG: Chairman plc and Chairman and director of Interactive Data of the Shareholder Committee of Joh A. Benckiser Corporation.
Ceased to be Chairman and CEO SARL: independent director of Coty Inc. : director of Financial Times Group Limited and director of of Allianz France S. A. Allianz Investment Pearson plc on 27 April 2013.
Management GmbH and Allianz Climate Solutions GmbH: member of the advisory boards of the Siemens Group Pension Board, the European School Renato Fassbind, 58 for Management and Technology: member of the supervisory board and Chairman of the audit and risk Member and, with effect from the conclusion of the committee of OSRAM Licht AG since 5 July 2013: 2014 Annual General Meeting, Chairman of the and council member of The Hongkong Europe Group Audit Committee subject to regulatory Business Council since 1 June 2013. approval.
Member of the Group Remuneration Committee since 1 March 2013.
Former appointments include: Chairman of Allianz Global Investors  Skills and experience: A background in financial and Allianz Global Investors Deutschland GmbH: accounting and international business.
Formerly Chairman of the board of Allianz Global Investors Chief Financial Officer of Credit Suisse Group SGR: and member of the board of Allianz SpA and AG and ABB Group.
Has a Masters in Business of the supervisory board of Bayerische Brse AG.
Administration and a PhD in Economics from the Ceased to be a member of the German Council for University of Zurich.
Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2013 Current appointments include: Vice Chairman of Rona Fairhead, CBE, 52 the supervisory board and member of the audit and compensation committees of Swiss Reinsurance Chairman of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Company: member of the supervisory board and Committee since 18 January 2013.
Will cease to be audit committee of Khne Nagel International Chairman with effect from the conclusion of AG: independent director of Oanda Corporation: the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Ceased to be and member of the supervisory board of the Swiss Chairman of the Group Risk Committee and member Federal Audit Oversight Authority.
of the Nomination Committee and the Group Audit Committee on 24 May 2013.
Former appointments include: Chief Financial 333 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Directors Secretary Officer of Credit Suisse Group AG: Senior Advisor director of Hanson PLC: Chief Executive Officer to the Chief Executive, Credit Suisse Group AG: of Enterprise Oil plc: President and Chief Operating Chief Executive Officer of Diethelm Keller Group: Officer of Amerada Hess Corporation: and a member Chief Financial Officer of ABB Group: Chairman of the UK Prime Ministers Business Advisory of ABB Switzerland AG and DKSH AG: and a Group.
member of the supervisory board of Winterthur Insurance Company.
John Lipsky, 67 James Hughes-Hallett, CMG, SBS, 64 Member of the Group Risk Committee, the Nomination Committee and, with effect from the Member of the Nomination Committee and, since conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting, 1 January 2013, member of the Corporate member of the Group Remuneration Committee.
Skills and experience: International experience Skills and experience: A background in financial having worked in Chile, New York, Washington and accounting and experience of management of London and interacted with financial institutions, a broad range of international businesses, central banks and governments in many countries.
including aviation, insurance, property, shipping, Served at the International Monetary Fund as First manufacturing and trading in the Far East, UK, US Deputy Managing Director, Acting Managing and Australia.
Awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star by Director and as Special Advisor.
Has a PhD in the Hong Kong Government.
Fellow of the Institute Economics from Stanford University.
of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Appointed to the Board: 2012 Appointed to the Board: 2005.
Due to retire at the Current appointments include: Senior Fellow, conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Foreign Policy Institute at the Paul H. Nitze School Current appointments include: Chairman of of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins John Swire & Sons Limited: non-executive director University.
Co-chairman of the Aspen Institute of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited and Swire Program on the World Economy: director of the Pacific Limited: Chairman of the Esme Fairbairn National Bureau of Economic Research and the Foundation: member of The Hong Kong Center for Global Development: and member of Association: and Chairman of the Governing the advisory board of the Stanford Institute for Board of the Courtauld Institute of Art.
Economic Policy Research and the Council on Foreign Relations.
Global Policy Advisor for Former appointments include: A non-executive Anderson Global Macro, LLC since 4 February 2013 director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking and Chairman of World Economic Forums Global Corporation Limited and a trustee of the Dulwich Agenda Council on the International Monetary Picture Gallery.
Former appointments include: Vice Chairman Sam Laidlaw, 58 J P Morgan Investment Bank: director of the American Council on Germany and the Japan Member of the Group Remuneration Committee and Society: and a trustee of the Economic Club of with effect from the conclusion of the 2014 Annual New York.
General Meeting, member of the Nomination Committee.
Rachel Lomax, 68 Skills and experience: Significant international experience, particularly in the energy sector, having Chairman of the Conduct & Values Committee since had responsibility for businesses in four continents.
Member of the Group Audit Qualified solicitor and Masters in Business Committee and Group Risk Committee.
Skills and experience: Experience in both the Appointed to the Board: 2008 public and private sectors and a deep knowledge of Current appointments include: Chief Executive the operation of the UK government and financial Officer of Centrica plc: and Lead Non-executive system.
Board Member of the UK Department for Transport.
Appointed to the Board: 2008 Former appointments include: Executive Vice Current appointments include: Chairman of the President of Chevron Corporation: non-executive 334
