HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Capital Appendix to Capital CRD IV end point risk-mitigation.
Our capital management process is articulated in the annual Group capital plan which is approved by the Board.
Business performance against RWA targets is monitored through regular reporting to the Group ALCO.
The management of capital deductions is also addressed in the RWA monitoring framework through additional notional charges for these items.
Analysis is undertaken in the RWA monitoring framework to identify the key drivers of movements in the position, such as book size and book quality.
Particular attention is paid to identifying and segmenting items within the day-today control of the business and those items that are driven by changes in risk models or regulatory methodology.
Capital generation HSBC Holdings is the primary provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries and also provides them with non-equity capital where necessary.
These investments are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings own capital issuance and profit retention.
As part of its capital management process, HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a prudent balance between the composition of its capital and its investment in subsidiaries.
Capital measurement and allocation Unaudited The PRA supervises HSBC on a consolidated basis and therefore receives information on the capital adequacy of, and sets capital requirements for, the Group as a whole.
Individual banking subsidiaries are directly regulated by their local banking supervisors, who set and monitor their capital adequacy requirements.
In 2013, we calculated capital at a Group level using the Basel II framework as amended for CRD III, commonly known as Basel 2.5, and on an end point Basel III basis.
Our policy and practice in capital measurement and allocation at Group level is underpinned by the Basel II rules and Basel III rules.
However, local regulators are at different stages of implementation.
In most jurisdictions, nonbanking financial subsidiaries are also subject to the supervision and capital requirements of local regulatory authorities.
Basel II is structured around three pillars: minimum capital requirements, supervisory review process and market discipline.
The CRD implemented Basel II in the EU and, in the UK, the predecessor to the PRA then gave effect to the CRD by including the latters requirements in its own rulebooks.
Regulatory capital For regulatory purposes, our capital base is divided into three main categories, namely core tier 1, other tier 1 and tier 2, depending on the degree of permanency and loss absorbency exhibited.
core tier 1 capital comprises shareholders equity and related non-controlling interests.
The book values of goodwill and intangible assets are deducted from core tier 1 capital and other regulatory adjustments are made for items reflected in shareholders equity which are treated differently for the purposes of capital adequacy: qualifying capital instruments such as non-cumulative perpetual preference shares and hybrid capital securities are included in other tier 1 capital: and tier 2 capital comprises qualifying subordinated loan capital, related non-controlling interests, allowable collective impairment allowances and unrealised gains arising on the fair valuation of equity instruments held as available for sale.
Tier 2 capital also includes reserves arising from the revaluation of properties.
To ensure the overall quality of the capital base, the PRAs rules set restrictions on the amount of hybrid capital instruments that can be included in tier 1 capital relative to core tier 1 capital, and limits overall tier 2 capital to no more than tier 1 capital.
Pillar 1 capital requirements Pillar 1 covers the capital resources requirements for credit risk, market risk and operational risk.
Credit risk includes counterparty credit risk and securitisation requirements.
These requirements are expressed in terms of RWAs.
320 Credit risk capital requirements Basel II applies three approaches of increasing sophistication to the calculation of Pillar 1 credit risk capital requirements.
The most basic, the standardised approach, requires banks to use external credit ratings to determine the risk weightings applied to rated counterparties.
Other counterparties are grouped into broad categories and standardised risk weightings are applied to these categories.
The next level, the internal ratings-based IRB foundation approach, allows banks to calculate their credit risk capital requirements on the basis of their internal assessment of a counterpartys probability of default PD, but their estimates of exposure at default EAD and loss given default LGD are subject to standard supervisory parameters.
Finally, the IRB advanced approach allows banks to use their own internal assessment in both determining PD and quantifying EAD and LGD.
The capital resources requirement, which is intended to cover unexpected losses, is derived from a formula specified in the regulatory rules which incorporates PD, LGD, EAD and other variables such as maturity and correlation.
Expected losses under the IRB approaches are calculated by multiplying PD by EAD and LGD.
Expected losses are deducted from capital to the extent that they exceed total accounting impairment allowances.
For credit risk we have adopted the IRB advanced approach for the majority of our portfolios, with the remainder on either IRB foundation or standardised approaches.
Under our Basel II rollout plans, a number of our Group companies and portfolios are in transition to advanced IRB approaches.
At the end of 2013, the majority of our portfolios in Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and North America were on advanced IRB approaches.
Others remain on the standardised or foundation approaches under Basel II, pending definition of local regulations or model approval, or under exemptions from IRB treatment.
Counterparty credit risk CCR arises for OTC derivatives and securities financing transactions.
It is calculated in both the trading and nontrading books and is the risk that the counterparty to a transaction may default before completing the satisfactory settlement of the transaction.
Three approaches to calculating CCR and determining exposure values are defined by Basel II: standardised, mark-to-market and internal model method.
These exposure values are used to determine capital requirements under one of the credit risk approaches: standardised, IRB foundation and IRB advanced.
We use the mark-to-market and internal model method approaches for CCR.
Our longer-term aim is to migrate more positions from the mark-to-market to the internal model method approach.
Securitisation Securitisation positions are held in both the trading and non-trading books.
For non-trading book securitisation positions, Basel II specifies two methods for calculating credit risk requirements, the standardised and the IRB approaches.
Both rely on the mapping of rating agency credit ratings to risk weights, which range from 7% to 1,250%.
Positions that would otherwise be weighted at 1,250% are deducted from capital.
Within the IRB approach, we use the ratings-based method for the majority of our non-trading book securitisation positions, and the internal assessment approach for unrated liquidity facilities and programme-wide enhancements for asset-backed securitisations.
The majority of securitisation positions in the trading book are treated for capital purposes as if they are held in the non-trading book under the standardised or IRB approaches.
Other traded securitisation positions, known as correlation trading, are treated under an internal model approach approved by the PRA.
Market risk capital requirement The market risk capital requirement is measured using internal market risk models where approved by the PRA, or the PRAs standard rules.
Our internal market risk models comprise VaR, stressed VaR, incremental risk charge and correlation trading under the comprehensive risk measure.
Operational risk capital requirement Basel II includes a capital requirement for operational risk, again utilising three levels of sophistication.
The capital required under the basic indicator approach is a simple percentage of gross revenues, whereas under the standardised approach it is one of three different percentages of total operating income less insurance premiums allocated to each of eight defined business lines.
Both these approaches use an average of the last three financial years revenues.
321 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
