HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual report on remuneration Rationale Similarly, under the cost efficiency ratio element of the scorecard the Committee judged that no award Financial 60% weighting achieved 30% could be made under this opportunity 15%.
This was The opportunity of 60% was equally split in 2013 despite strong delivery of further sustainable cost between capital strength, progressive dividend payout, savings.
The Committee noted that the ratio remained return on equity and cost efficiency ratio.
above the target range of 48-52%, and further noted that a notable element of the underperformance related While the annual assessment also looked at to continuing legal and regulatory fines and penalties achievement of the same performance elements in and customer redress costs, none of which it could 2013, consideration under the long-term plan looked view for the time being as non-recurring.
at the sustainability of short-term performance and reflected on whether to recognise progress made Non-financial 40% weighting achieved 30% towards stated targets where these had not been met in the current year.
With regard to the execution of strategic priorities laid down by the Board, the Committee reviewed delivery The Committee considered favourably the under the programmes for restructuring and fide-risking strengthened capital position shown both by the the Groups businesses.
This included, inter alia, the improvement in the year-end core tier 1 ratio and implementation of Global Standards, plans to the increase in the estimated end-point position under maintain product leadership and improve digital CRD IV.
Having reviewed these factors the strategy and steps to enhance global business coCommittee awarded the full opportunity 15%.
The Committee concluded The Committee noted favourably the projected that it would be an appropriate reflection of capacity to maintain a progressive dividend policy management achievement to award 80% of the which was underpinned by the Groups strong capital available opportunity, namely 16%.
position, its distributable reserves, its cash position With regard to compliance and reputation 10%, and its planning assumptions around future minimising the long-term impact of regulatory and performance.
The Committee also reflected upon compliance issues on the Groups reputation remains independent research which included forecasts of a top priority and the Committee noted further dividend paying capacity and discussed with progress made in 2013.
The continuing work on management regulatory interactions around the restructuring the Global Compliance function, Groups capital position.
Having considered these investment in greater compliance and financial crime factors, it awarded the full opportunity 15%.
resources and capabilities, the launch of the Driving a Noting that the Group has not yet reached its Values-led high performance culture programme and target return on equity of 12-15%, the Committee continued strengthening of governance were all deliberated whether to recognise in the GPSP the favourably assessed.
Reflecting, however, that there cumulative progress that has been made in was still much to deliver, the Committee concluded to restructuring and reshaping the Group and the make a 50% achievement against long-term goals, achievement of sustainable cost savings ahead of which resulted in a 5% award in the scorecard.
The Committee further considered the onBrand equity 5% scored 100% of the available going redeployment of capital from under-performing opportunity as independent research recorded that the and exit portfolios to targeted areas of investment value of the HSBC brand had increased.
The which will enhance future returns.
There was also Committee noted that HSBC had retained its status as debate around the extent to which account should be one of the worlds strongest banking brands, ranking taken at this stage of the more sustainable revenue second in The Brand Finance Banking 500 2014 streams that are projected to arise through enhanced survey.
controls around compliance and financial crime risk.
The Committee concluded that while good progress In relation to the people aspect of long-term had been made there was still a great deal to do to strategy delivery, the Committee looked, inter alia, at embed the improvements underway.
The Committee progress made in talent development, succession also took into account that shareholders still faced planning and diversity.
Recognising the continued continuing uncertainties from an incomplete progress, the Committee awarded 80% of the regulatory reform agenda, from contingent legal risks available opportunity of 5%, which was 4%.
This from on-going matters of note and from continuing performance assessment resulted in an overall score of significant customer redress costs.
the Committee decided not to make any award under this opportunity 15%.
