HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board of Directors Directors and monitor the Groups risk profile and the Board of Directors reporting of performance.
The non-executive The Board of Directors of HSBC Holdings the Directors bring a wide variety of experience from the Board exists to promote the long-term success public and private sectors, including the leadership of the Company and deliver sustainable value to of large complex multinational enterprises.
Led by the Group Chairman, it sets the strategy and risk appetite for the Group and Non-executive Directors terms of approves capital and operating plans presented by appointment management for the achievement of the strategic The Board has determined the time commitment objectives.
Implementation of the strategy is expected of non-executive Directors to be 30 to 36 delegated to the Group Management Board GMB days per annum.
Time devoted to the Company which, in turn, is led by the Group Chief Executive.
could be considerably more, particularly if serving on Board committees.
Directors Non-executive Directors are appointed for an HSBC Holdings has a unitary Board.
The authority initial three-year term and, subject to re-election of the Directors is exercised in Board meetings by shareholders at Annual General Meetings, are where the Board acts collectively.
The Directors who typically expected to serve two three-year terms.
served during the year were Safra Catz, Laura Cha, The Board may invite a director to serve additional Marvin Cheung, Jim Comey appointed 4 March periods.
All Directors are subject to annual election 2013 and retired 4 September 2013, John Coombe, by shareholders.
Sir Jonathan Evans appointed 6 August 2013, Joachim Faber, Rona Fairhead, Renato Fassbind Letters setting out the terms of appointment of appointed 1 January 2013, Douglas Flint, Stuart each of the non-executive Directors, including the Gulliver, James Hughes-Hallett, Sam Laidlaw, John time commitment expected of each of them, are Lipsky, Rachel Lomax, Iain Mackay, Sir Simon available for inspection at 8 Canada Square, London Robertson and John Thornton retired 24 May 2013.
E14 5HQ and will be made available for 15 minutes before the Annual General Meeting and during the Marc Moses, Group Chief Risk Officer, was meeting itself.
appointed a Director with effect from 1 January 2014.
Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive At the time of approval of the Annual Report The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief and Accounts 2013 on 24 February 2014, the Board Executive are separate and a clear division of comprised the Group Chairman, Group Chief responsibilities has been approved by the Board Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Chief to distinguish between the running of the Board Risk Officer and 13 non-executive Directors.
and the executive responsibility for running Kathleen Casey has been appointed a non-executive HSBCs business.
Descriptions of the roles Director with effect from 1 March 2014. and responsibilities of the Group Chairman The names and brief biographical details of and the Group Chief Executive are available at the Directors are included on pages 330 to 335. www.
Their key responsibilities are set Executive Directors out below.
The Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Key responsibilities Group Finance Director and Group Chief Risk Officer are HSBC employees.
Group Chairman Douglas Flint Leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness.
Non-executive Directors Develops relationships with governments, regulators and investors.
Non-executive Directors are not HSBC employees Leads the Groups interactions on matters of public policy and and do not participate in the daily management regulatory reform with regard to the banking and financial of HSBC: they bring an independent perspective, services industry.
constructively challenge and help develop proposals Maintains corporate reputation and character.
on strategy, scrutinise the performance of Undertakes performance management of the Group Chief Executive.
management in meeting agreed goals and objectives 338 Group Chief Executive Stuart Gulliver General Meeting and offer themselves for election or re-election, with the exception of John Coombe Develops, and delivers performance against, business plans.
and James Hughes-Hallett who will retire and will Develops Group strategy, in agreement with the Group Chairman, for recommendation to the Board.
not offer themselves for re-election.
Each of the As Chairman of the GMB, drives performance within strategic executive Directors is employed, on a rolling goals and commercial objectives agreed by the Board.
contract which requires 12 months notice to be given by either party.
None of the non-executive Deputy Chairman and senior independent Directors has a service contract with HSBC.
non-executive Director Powers of the Board A description of the roles and responsibilities of the Deputy Chairman and senior independent nonThe Board is responsible for overseeing the executive Director, which has been approved by management of HSBC globally and, in so doing, the Board, is available at http: www.
com may exercise its powers, subject to any relevant laws investor-relations governance board-committees.
and regulations and to the Articles.
The Board has His key responsibilities are set out below.
adopted terms of reference which are available at www.
The Key responsibilities Board reviews its terms of reference annually.
In particular, the Board may exercise all the Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive Director Sir Simon Robertson powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge all or any part of the Deputises for the Group Chairman at meetings of the Board or shareholders.
undertaking, property or assets present or future Supports the Group Chairman in his role.
of HSBC Holdings and may also exercise any of the Acts as an intermediary for other non-executive Directors powers conferred on it by the Companies Act 2006 when necessary.
The Board is able to delegate Leads the non-executive Directors in the oversight of the and confer on an executive Director any of its Group Chairman.
powers, authorities and discretions including the Ensures there is a clear division of responsibility between the power to sub-delegate for such time and on such Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
In addition, the Board may Is available to shareholders should they have concerns which contact through the normal channels cannot resolve or for establish any local or divisional boards or agencies which such contact would be inappropriate.
for managing the business of HSBC Holdings in any specified locality and delegate and confer on Appointment, retirement and re-election of any local or divisional board, manager or agent Directors so appointed any of its powers, authorities and discretions including the power to sub-delegate The Board may at any time appoint any person who for such time and on such terms as it thinks fit.
The is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy Board may also, by power of attorney or otherwise, or as an addition to the existing Board, but the total appoint any person or persons to be the agent of number of Directors shall not exceed twenty-five.
HSBC Holdings and may delegate to any such Any Director so appointed by the Board shall retire person or persons any of its powers, authorities at the Annual General Meeting following his or her and discretions including the power to sub-delegate appointment and shall be eligible for election but for such time and on such terms as it thinks fit.
would not be taken into account in determining the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation The Board delegates the day to day management at such meeting in accordance with the Articles of of HSBC Holdings to the GMB but reserves to itself Association.
The Board may appoint any Director approval of certain matters including operating to hold any employment or executive office and plans, risk appetite and performance targets, may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
procedures for monitoring and controlling operations, Shareholders may, by ordinary resolution, appoint credit, market risk limits, acquisitions, disposals, a person a Director or remove any Director before investments, capital expenditure or realisation or the expiration of his period of office.
On the creation of a new venture, specified senior recommendation of the Nomination Committee appointments and any substantial change in balance and in compliance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK sheet management policy.
Corporate Governance Code, the Board has decided HSBC Holdings was registered in Hong Kong that all of the Directors should be subject to annual under part XI of the Companies Ordinance on re-election by shareholders.
Accordingly, all of the 17 January 1991.
Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual 339 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board of Directors Directors Board meetings Attendance at committee meetings Seven Board meetings and two one-day strategy Meetings Attended meetings were held in 2013.
At least one Board meeting each year is held in a key strategic location Executive Directors Douglas Flint 11 outside the UK.
Rachel Lomax 1 Sir Simon Robertson 2 Board attendance record Board balance and independence of Meetings Directors eligible to Meetings attend as The Board comprises a majority of independent nonattended a Director executive Directors to ensure that no individual or Safra Catz 7 7 small group can dominate its decision making.
The Laura Cha 7 7 size of the Board is considered to be appropriate Marvin Cheung 7 7 1,2 given the complexity and geographical spread of our Jim Comey.... 2 3 business and the significant time demands placed on John Coombe... 7 7 2,3 Sir Jonathan Evans.............. 2 2 the Directors.
Joachim Faber 7 7 The Nomination Committee regularly reviews Rona Fairhead 7 7 4 Renato Fassbind 7 7 the structure, size and composition of the Board Douglas Flint.. 7 7 including skills, knowledge, experience, Stuart Gulliver 7 7 independence and diversity and makes James Hughes-Hallett............. 7 7 recommendations to the Board with regard to Sam Laidlaw... 7 7 any changes.
John Lipsky 7 7 Rachel Lomax 7 7 The Board has adopted a policy on Board Iain Mackay... 7 7 diversity which is consistent with the Groups Sir Simon Robertson............... 7 7 5 John Thornton 3 4 strategic focus on ethnicity, age and gender diversity for the employee base.
Further information on the Meetings held in 2013........... 7 Board diversity policy can be found on page 362.
1 Appointed a Director on 4 March 2013 and retired on 4 September 2013.
The Board considers all of the non-executive 2 Also attended one meeting by invitation before becoming a Directors to be independent.
served on the Board for more than nine years and, 3 Appointed a Director on 6 August 2013.
4 Appointed a Director on 1 January 2013. in that respect only, does not meet the usual criteria 5 Retired as a Director on 24 May 2013. for independence set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
She will stand for re-election at Attendance of committee meetings to the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
The Board has discharge specific business determined Rona Fairhead to be independent in character and judgement, notwithstanding her length Eleven meetings of committees of the Board of service, taking into account her continuing level appointed to discharge specific business were held of constructive challenge of management and strong during 2013.
The Directors who attended these contribution to Board discussions.
The Board will meetings are shown in the table below.
continue to consider Rona Fairheads independence annually.
340 When determining independence the Board all applicable rules and regulations are complied considers that calculation of the length of service with.
of a non-executive Director begins on the date of Under the direction of the Group Chairman, the his or her election by shareholders following their Group Company Secretarys responsibilities include appointment as a Director of HSBC Holdings.
ensuring good information flows within the Board The experience of previous service on an HSBC and its committees and between senior management subsidiary company board can be a considerable and non-executive Directors, as well as facilitating benefit and does not detract from a Directors induction and assisting with professional independence.
In reaching its determination of each development as required.
non-executive Directors independence, the Board has concluded that there are no relationships or The Group Company Secretary is responsible circumstances which are likely to affect a Directors for advising the Board through the Group Chairman judgement and any relationships or circumstances on corporate governance matters.
which could appear to do so were considered not The agenda and supporting papers are to be material.
distributed in advance of all Board and Board In accordance with the Rules Governing the committee meetings to allow time for appropriate Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of review and to facilitate full discussion at the Hong Kong Limited, each non-executive Director meetings.
All Directors have full and timely access determined by the Board to be independent has to all relevant information and may take independent provided an annual confirmation of his or her professional advice if necessary at the Companys independence to HSBC Holdings.
Information and support Induction The Board regularly reviews reports on performance Full, formal and tailored induction programmes, against financial and other strategic objectives, with particular emphasis on risk management and business developments and investor and external internal controls systems, are arranged for newly relations.
The chairmen of Board committees and appointed Directors.
The programmes consist of a the Group Chief Executive report to each meeting of series of meetings with other Directors and senior the Board on the activities of the committees since executives to enable new Directors to familiarise the previous Board meeting.
The Board receives themselves with the business.
Directors also receive regular reports and presentations on strategy and comprehensive guidance from the Group Company developments in the global businesses and principal Secretary on directors duties and liabilities.
Regular reports are also provided of their induction, the Group Company Secretary on the Groups risk appetite, top and emerging risks, will develop a programme based on an individual risk management, credit exposures and the Groups Directors needs.
Induction programmes are also loan portfolio, asset and liability management, arranged for newly appointed members of liquidity, litigation, compliance and reputational committees.
Training and development The Directors have free and open contact with management at all levels.
When attending Board Focused in-house training sessions are arranged offsite meetings and when travelling for other in conjunction with scheduled Board meetings.
reasons, non-executive Directors are encouraged Directors attended Board and strategy meetings in to take opportunities to see business operations at 2013 at which briefings on the following topics were first hand and to meet management.
given: 1 Non-executive Directors have an open invitation RBWM strategy and business update 1 to attend meetings of the GMB to further enhance GB&M strategy and business update 1 GPB strategy and business update their understanding and awareness of our businesses 1 CMB strategy and business update and the senior leadership team.
1 Information technology Macroeconomic outlook Role of the Group Company Secretary Regulatory development All Directors have access to the advice and services Global geopolitics of the Group Company Secretary, who is responsible Recommendations from the Independent 1 to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures and Commission of Banking 341 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board of Directors Directors Central Clearing Counterparties and Collateral discussions at the World Economic Forum in Davos.
1 Management Attended the Global Investment Conference with 1 Financial intelligence systems representatives of the UK Government to discuss 1 Shanghai free trade zone how the UK can pursue global growth.
Hosted the 1 Balance Sheet Management annual forum for HSBC Group non-executive 1 Industry outlook Directors.
Attended regulatory meetings with the PRA and FCA.
Except: 1 Jim Comey was not a Director at the time of the briefings.
Stuart Gulliver A number of Directors attended a forum for Participated in a panel discussion at the Singapore chairmen of HSBC Group audit and risk committees, Summit, on China in transition.
Participated in which included briefings on the following topics: the China Banking Regulatory Commissions International Advisory Council on changes in the cyber security: international banking environment, influence on the changing financial and regulatory reporting regulation, banking services for the real economy, landscape: financial support for small and medium-sized developments in regulatory capital enterprises and consumer protection and education.
requirements: and Attended regulatory meetings with the PRA and technical accounting issues FCA and the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago.
A number of Directors attended a forum for Chaired the Groups update for investors in London.
HSBC Group non-executive Directors, which included briefings on the following topics: Iain Mackay US strategy: Spoke at a conference sponsored by Bank of Mexico strategy: America Merrill Lynch on making finance work in public policy and financial crime: a higher capital world and the European Conference international co-operation against tax evasion: run by UBS for policymakers and industry experts and to share insights into the crucial issues affecting the regulatory expectations.
Chaired meetings of the European Chief Financial Officers network.
Attended Executive Directors regulatory meetings with the PRA and FCA and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority.
Presented at the In the performance of their roles as Group Chairman, Groups update for investors in London and hosted Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, regular meetings with investors in the UK, the rest respectively, Douglas Flint, Stuart Gulliver and of Europe, US and Hong Kong.
Participated in the Iain Mackay develop and refresh their skills and annual forum for the chairmen of HSBC Group audit knowledge of the Groups businesses and operations and risk committees.
through day-to-day interactions and briefings with senior management of the Groups businesses and Non-executive Directors functions: and presenting on the Groups businesses to investors and analysts.
They remain abreast of A personalised approach to training and developments affecting the financial services sector, development of non-executive Directors is applied.
and banking in particular, by representing HSBCs Non-executive Directors are given opportunities interests at conferences, advisory groups and other to update and develop their skills and knowledge events and meetings with regulators and other through briefings by senior executives and externally authorities.
During 2013, this included the activities run seminars.
Non-executive Directors have access set out below: to internal training and development resources.
Development plans and records of training and Douglas Flint development activities are maintained by the Group Company Secretary to facilitate the Group Chaired meetings of and gave key note speeches to Chairmans annual review of each non-executive the International Institute of Finance.
in panel discussions and gave key note speeches on economic growth and financial regulation at In addition to the briefings given at Board a number of leading events including the Eurofi meetings of HSBC Holdings, the following nonHigh Level Seminar, Asian Leadership Conference, executive Directors undertook bespoke training 43rd St. Gallen Symposium and The Salzburg sessions and other activities, including attending Global Seminar.
Attended and participated in panel 342 Board and committee meetings at which briefings remuneration-related aspects of CRD IV: the were given during 2013 to develop and refresh their Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards knowledge and skills as set out below: report: and the remuneration reporting regulations issued by the Department for Business, Innovation Safra Catz and Skills.
Co-chaired the annual forum for the chairmen of HSBC Group audit and risk committees.
Attended a briefing on HSBCs IT strategy, risk and Participated in the annual forum for HSBC Group governance framework which was given at a non-executive Directors.
meeting of the Group Risk Committee.
Sir Jonathan Evans Laura Cha Attended a regulatory meeting with the FCA.
Undertook a personal induction programme Gave keynote speeches on financial services at a comprising bespoke briefings on the four global number of Hong Kong institutions.
Participated in businesses: the Groups regional operations: the the Bloomberg 20th Anniversary panel discussion on structure and responsibilities of a number of the women and the economy in Hong Kong.
Attended Groups global functions, including: Strategy and meetings of the Corporate Sustainability Committee Planning: Corporate Sustainability: Risk including at which briefings were given on sustainability in Regulatory and Financial Crime Compliance, HSBCs operations in Europe and Asia.
As a security and fraud risk, financial intelligence director and Vice Chairman of The Hongkong and and client intelligence : Finance: Legal: IT and Shanghai Banking Corporation attended bespoke operations: Human Resources: Internal Audit and briefings or board meetings at which briefings were corporate governance including Directors duties given on: specific aspects of the Groups operations and obligations, HSBCs governance structure, in Hong Kong, Singapore, India and other countries Global Standards and Business Principles, in Asia Pacific: the four global businesses: IT and international corporate governance codes and operations including real estate issues and the listing obligations.
organisational effectiveness programme : finance and risk-related issues including Basel III, FATCA, Joachim Faber stress testing and recovery and resolution planning : and succession planning.
Attended and spoke at conferences on corporate governance.
As a member of the German Corporate Marvin Cheung Governance Codex Commission received regular briefings on corporate governance.
Attended a Attended events for independent non-executive regulatory meeting with the PRA and FCA.
Regular directors organised by KPMG.
As a director of interactions with, and receipt of briefings from, the Hang Seng Bank attended bespoke briefings on the Group Chief Risk Officer.
Attended meetings of statutory obligation to disclose inside information the Group Risk Committee at which briefings were and disclosure of interests.
Attended meetings of the given on: the risk control frameworks for the global Group Audit Committee at which briefings were businesses: Group recovery and resolution planning: given on developments in regulatory and accounting risk modelling: stress testing: risk data aggregation requirements and the regulatory environment.
John Coombe Rona Fairhead Attended events for non-executive directors run Attended a regulatory meeting with the FCA.
As by Tapestry Networks and by Ernst & Young on Chairman of the Financial System Vulnerabilities emerging issues in financial services.
Participated Committee received a bespoke overview of the US in a meeting of audit committee chairmen with the business including strategy, CMB, compliance PRA and Bank of England to discuss emerging including anti-money laundering, Bank Secrecy issues.
Attended regulatory meetings with the PRA Act, country risk rating and assessment.
Attended meetings of Board committees meetings of the Group Risk Committee at which at which briefings were given on: developments briefings were given on: the risk control frameworks in regulatory and accounting requirements: the for CMB and GPB: risk modelling and stress testing.
regulatory environment: the risk control frameworks Co-chaired the annual forum for the chairmen of for the global businesses: Group recovery and HSBC Group audit and risk committees.
Participated resolution planning: risk modelling: stress testing: in the annual forum for HSBC Group non-executive risk data aggregation: competition law: the Directors.
343 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board of Directors Directors Renato Fassbind respectively.
Attended regulatory meetings with the PRA and the FCA.
Undertook a site visit and Attended an event for non-executive directors run by received bespoke briefings giving an overview Tapestry Networks.
Received bespoke briefings on of the Groups US business.
Attended meetings internal audit issues and RBWM.
Attended meetings of committees of the Board at which briefings of committees of the Board at which briefings were were given on: the regulatory environment and given on: developments in regulatory and accounting developments in regulatory and accounting requirements: the regulatory environment: the requirements: the risk control frameworks for the remuneration-related aspects of CRD IV: the global businesses: Group recovery and resolution Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards planning: risk modelling: stress testing: risk data report: and the remuneration reporting regulations aggregation: and competition law.
Participated in the issued by the Department for Business, Innovation annual fora for the chairmen of HSBC Group audit and Skills.
Participated in the annual forum for and risk committees and for HSBC Group nonHSBC Group non-executive Directors.
James Hughes-Hallett Sir Simon Robertson Attended meetings of the Corporate Sustainability Attended regulatory meetings with the PRA and Committee at which briefings were given on FCA and the Federal Reserve Board.
Develops and sustainability in HSBCs operations in Europe and refreshes knowledge of the Groups businesses and Asia.
operations through regular interactions with, and receipt of briefings from, the Group Chairman and Sam Laidlaw Group Chief Executive as well as other senior Attended a regulatory meeting with the PRA and executives including the Heads of Financial Crime FCA.
Attended meetings of the Group Remuneration Compliance and Global Banking and Markets.
Committee at which briefings were given on the Attended meetings of the Group Remuneration remuneration-related aspects of CRD IV, the Committee at which briefings were given on the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards remuneration-related aspects of CRD IV, the report and the remuneration reporting regulations Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards issued by the Department for Business, Innovation report and the remuneration reporting regulations and Skills.
issued by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.
Participated in the annual fora for the John Lipsky chairmen of HSBC Group audit and risk committees and for HSBC Group non-executive Directors.
Attended and participated in panel discussions at the World Economic Forum in Davos, the Performance evaluation European Commission conference in Brussels on competitiveness, structural reform and growth in an The Board strongly supports the principle of regular international context and the HSBC conference in evaluation of its own effectiveness and that of its Brussels on European trade and investment as committees and individual Directors.
Attended the annual meeting externally facilitated process brings with it added 1 of the International Monetary Fund.
In October 2013, Bvalco Ltd was bespoke briefing on the UK economy.
Attended commissioned for a second year to facilitate and meetings of the Group Risk Committee at which report on the review of effectiveness of the Board, in briefings were given on: the risk control frameworks particular building upon the review undertaken in for the global businesses: Group recovery and 2012.
The review considered the level and nature of resolution planning: risk meetings: stress testing: risk debate at Board meetings, engagement between nondata aggregation: and competition law.
Participated executive Directors and executive management, the in the annual forum for HSBC Group non-executive relationship and information flows between Directors.
subsidiaries and the Board and progress made against the actions identified and agreed since the Rachel Lomax review undertaken in 2012.
Bvalcos report was prepared following interviews with Directors and Attended an event for non-executive Directors run senior members of management and a review of by Tapestry Networks.
Attended conferences run by relevant documents.
the Ditchley Foundation and the Ditchley Canadian Foundation on European developments and the Bvalco presented their report at a full meeting of regulatory aftermath of the financial crisis, the Board.
It concluded that the Board is operating 344 effectively with a number of important strengths and also meet representatives of institutional that significant progress had been made during 2013 shareholders annually to discuss corporate to address recommendations made by Bvalco in its governance matters.
2012 review of the Boards effectiveness and which All executive Directors and certain other senior were agreed with the Board as part of its annual executives hold regular meetings with institutional performance evaluation.
This process also enables investors.
The Board receives a regular investor additional feedback to be provided for the annual relations activity report which provides feedback evaluation of the effectiveness of the principal Board from meetings with institutional shareholders and committees.
brokers, analysts forecasts, information from Evaluation of the individual performance of research reports and share price performance data.
each non-executive Director is undertaken annually Twice each year the Board also receives a report by the Group Chairman.
During this evaluation, from one of our corporate brokers.
the Group Chairman discusses the individual The Groups shareholder communication contribution of the Director, explores training and policy is available on www.
development needs, seeks input on areas where the Director feels he or she could make a greater On several occasions during 2013, noncontribution and discusses whether the time executive Directors, including the Deputy Chairman commitment required of the Director can continue and senior independent non-executive Director, met to be delivered.
Based upon their individual or corresponded with institutional investors and their evaluation, the Group Chairman has confirmed representatives to discuss corporate governance that all of the non-executive Directors continue and executive remuneration.
to perform effectively, contribute positively to As Deputy Chairman and senior independent the governance of HSBC and demonstrate full non-executive Director, Sir Simon Robertson is commitment to their roles.
available to shareholders should they have concerns Evaluation of the individual performance of which contact through the normal channels of Group each executive director is undertaken as part of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance performance management process for all employees, Director, Group Chief Risk Officer, or other the results of which are considered by the Group executives cannot resolve or for which such contact Remuneration Committee when determining variable would be inappropriate.
He may be contacted pay awards each year.
through the Group Company Secretary at 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ.
The non-executive Directors, led by the Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive Conflicts of interest, indemnification of Director, are responsible for the evaluation of the Directors and contracts of significance performance of the Group Chairman.
The Board has adopted a policy and procedures The Board will monitor the implementation relating to Directors conflicts and potential of actions arising from its 2013 performance conflicts of interest and can determine the terms evaluation.
of authorisation for such situations.
The Boards It is the intention of the Board to continue to powers to authorise conflicts are operating undertake an evaluation of its performance and that effectively and the procedures are being followed.
of its committees and individual Directors annually, A review of situational conflicts which have been with independent external input to the process, as authorised from time to time and the terms of those appropriate, at least every third year.
authorisations are undertaken by the Board annually.
The Articles provide that Directors are entitled 1 A legal firm which is engaged from time to time by the to be indemnified out of the assets of HSBC Company to provide legal services holds a 20% shareholding in Bvalco Ltd. Bvalco Ltd has confirmed that Holdings against claims from third parties in respect it does not have any other connection with the Company.
Such provisions have been in place during the financial year but have not been Relations with shareholders utilised by the Directors.
All Directors have the benefit of directors and officers liability insurance.
All Directors are encouraged to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
None of the Directors had, during the year or Non-executive Directors are invited to attend analyst at the end of the year, a material interest, directly presentations and other meetings with institutional or indirectly, in any contract of significance with investors and their representative bodies.
345 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
