emerging risks and considers whether the mitigating Employees actions put in place are appropriate.
In addition, At 31 December 2013 we had a total workforce when unexpected losses have arisen or when of 263,000 full-time and part-time employees incidents have occurred which indicate gaps in the compared with 270,000 at the end of 2012 and control framework or in adherence to Group policies, 298,000 at the end of 2011.
Our main centres of the GRC and the GAC review special reports, employment are the UK with approximately 46,000 prepared at the instigation of management, which employees, India 31,000, Hong Kong 29,000, Brazil analyse the cause of the issue, the lessons learned 22,000, mainland China 19,000, Mexico 18,000, the and the actions proposed by management to address US 16,000 and France 9,000. the issue.
In the context of the current global financial Effectiveness of internal controls services operating environment, a high performance and values-led work force is critical.
We encourage The Directors, through the GRC and the GAC, have open and honest communication in decision making.
conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of Employment issues and financial, economic, our system of risk management and internal control regulatory and competitive factors affecting covering all material controls, including financial, HSBCs performance are regularly shared with operational and compliance controls, risk our employees.
management systems, the adequacy of resources, qualifications and experience of staff of the Reward accounting and financial reporting function and the risk function, and their training programmes and Our approach to reward is meritocratic and market budget.
The review does not extend to joint ventures competitive, underpinned by an ethical and values or associates.
based performance culture which aligns the interests of our employees, shareholders, regulators and The GRC and the GAC have received customers.
confirmation that executive management has taken or is taking the necessary actions to remedy any Employee relations failings or weaknesses identified through the operation of our framework of controls.
We negotiate and consult with recognised unions as appropriate.
The five highest concentrations of union Statement on going concern membership are in Argentina, Brazil, mainland China, Malta and Mexico.
It is our policy to The financial statements are prepared on a going maintain well-developed communications and concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the consultation programmes with all employee Group and parent company have the resources to representative bodies and there have been no continue in business for the foreseeable future.
material disruptions to our operations from labour In making this assessment, the Directors have disputes during the past five years.
considered a wide range of information relating to present and future conditions, including future Diversity and inclusion projections of profitability, cash flows and capital HSBC is committed to building a values-driven high resources.
performance culture where all employees are valued, HSBCs principal activities, business and respected and where their opinions count.
We remain operating models, strategic direction and top committed to meritocracy, which requires a diverse and emerging risks are described in the Strategic and inclusive culture where employees believe that Report: a financial summary, including a review of their views are heard, their concerns are attended the consolidated income statement and consolidated to and they work in an environment where bias, balance sheet, is provided in the Financial Review discrimination and harassment on any matter, section: HSBCs objectives, policies and processes including gender, age, ethnicity, religion, sexuality for managing credit, liquidity and market risk are and disability are not tolerated and where described in the Risk section: and HSBCs advancement is based on objective criteria.
Our approach to capital management and allocation inclusive culture helps us respond to our diverse is described in the Capital section.
customer base, while developing and retaining a secure supply of skilled, committed employees.
Our culture will be strengthened by employing the best 367 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
