British American Tobacco 04 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Our global business British American Tobacco is a global tobacco group, Our heritage with brands sold in more than 200 markets.
We employ Founded in 1902, our Group of companies traded through the turbulence of the 20th century, including wars, revolutions more than 57,000 people and, with over 200 brands and nationalisations.
inour portfolio, we make the cigarette chosen by one ineight of the worlds one billion adult smokers.
The Group was first listed in 1912, and in 2013 the Company was one of the top 10 listed on the London Stock Exchange.
We also With our geographic diversity, strong brands, talented have a secondary listing on the JSE Limited in South Africa.
people and proven strategy, the Group is well placed to achieve further success.
In particular, we are confident that our investments in both high growth markets and new product categories will help us drive growth and build shareholder value in the years ahead.
Our business model: page 12 Dunhill Kent Our international brands Dunhills roots date back to 1907, when Kent symbolises progress through Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike and Pall Mall are Dunhill Tobacco of London Limited technology in the cigarette category and our Global Drive Brands GDBs.
They are was established on Gentlemens Row.
stands out as the most innovative and recognised as our leading brands globally.
More than a century later, Dunhill is our forward-looking brand in the industry.
premium international brand, embodying A pioneering brand, leading the way We review our brands from time to time to the perfect taste, always.
since 1952. assess performance and increase focus for investment.
As a result, from 2014 we have added Rothmans to our GDBs.
We have many other famous international Number of markets Number of markets brands, including State Express 555, where Dunhill is sold where Kent is sold Vogue, Viceroy, Kool, Peter Stuyvesant, Craven A, Benson & Hedges and John Player Gold Leaf.
110 80 Rothmans Lucky Strike Pall Mall Rothmans dates back to 1890, when it was Based on its rich legacy dating back Pall Mall is the third biggest cigarette established in London by its founder, Louis to 1871 when the brand was created brand in the world.
It has now been repositioned by its founder RA Patterson, Lucky years its core proposition has been centred as a contemporary brand with a strong Strike stands for the true and original on rewarding smokers globally with real, heritage, and is finding increasing appeal American cigarette.
with consumers around the world.
Number of markets Number of markets Number of markets where Rothmans is sold where Lucky Strike is sold where Pall Mall is sold 60 70 100 Growth: page 15 British American Tobacco 05 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Our sustainable approach to business Our products We manage our supply chain and the environment responsibly, Traditional tobacco products leading in product expertise and working directly with over 100,000 We continue to deliver good growth across our core tobacco independent farmers worldwide.
Our approach to marketing product range.
This includes cigarettes, Fine Cut roll-your-own and leads our industry, in brand building, innovation and responsibility.
make-your-own tobacco, cigars, cigarillos, pipe tobacco and snus.
Our companies adhere strictly to the high standards of our voluntary marketing principles.
We are also proud of our Research Next-generation products & Development facilities, where our people are endeavouring to We are also investing in building a portfolio of innovative new reduce the harm associated with tobacco products.
tobacco and nicotine-based products alongside ourtraditional tobacco business.
These next-generation product lines include We play a significant role in local communities around the world.
nicotine inhalation, heat-not-burn devices and electronic cigarettes.
In many countries we are a top employer and the company of choice for people in all areas of our business.
In 2013, our Quality assured subsidiaries enabled governments worldwide to gather more than Our market-leading innovations help to differentiate our products.
33 billion in duty, excise and other taxes on our products, which is We rely on a fully integrated global supply chain and use our eight times the Groups profit after tax.
expertise in leaf to secure supply and improve product quality.
Sustainability: Productivity: page 22 page 18 Asia-Pacific Americas Geographic diversity Key markets Key markets Were a diverse business and our people Australia Malaysia South Korea Argentina Colombia operate in a huge range of environments, Bangladesh New Zealand Taiwan Brazil Mexico from city offices to remote farms.
Indonesia Pakistan Vietnam Canada Venezuela Japan Philippines Chile We have strong market positions in each of our four regions.
Our key markets, shown here, account for around 80% of our total volume and around 85% of Group profit.
We also have two principal associate companies Reynolds American Inc. in the US and ITC Ltd. in India and have a joint operation, CTBAT, with subsidiaries of China National Tobacco Corporation.
Regional Review: Western Europe Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa page 30 Key markets Key markets Belgium Italy Sweden Algeria Morocco South Africa Czech Republic Netherlands Switzerland Egypt Nigeria Turkey Denmark Poland UK The GCC Russia Ukraine France Romania Kazakhstan Germany Spain Winning organisation: page 20 62 46 Markets where we Cigarette factories are leader in41 countries
