British American Tobacco 30 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Regional Review Overview British American Tobacco performed well during the year with strongpricing and continued growth in Global Drive Brands.
Wemetor exceeded all our long-term financial strategic objectives, on a constant currency basis.
These excellent business results were, however, impacted by the weakness against sterling of some key currencies, notably the Brazilian real, South African rand, Japanese yenand Australian dollar.
This was slightly offset by a stronger euro.
The business performance was delivered against a backdrop of excise-driven price increases, industry contraction in some parts oftheworld and the fragile economic conditions in many countries.
Driven by a price-mix of 7%, revenue was up 4% at constant rates Our international brands grew by 2.1%, of which the four Global ofexchange.
At current rates, revenue was slightly higher.
Drive Brands achieved good volume growth of 1.9%.
Reported profit from operations was 3% higher at 5,526 million Dunhill increased volume by 9.7% with growth in Indonesia, South with a 3% increase in adjusted profit from operations, as explained Korea and the GCC, partially offset by declines in Malaysia, due to on page 42.
Adjusted profit from operations, at constant rates of market contraction, and West Africa.
Kent volume was down 2.9% exchange, grew by 7%.
on last year as declines, driven by market contractions in Russia, Japan and Romania, were partially offset by growth in the Middle Group cigarette volume from subsidiaries was 676 billion, down East and Uzbekistan.
2.7% from 694 billion in the previous year.
Total tobacco volume was 2.6% lower.
This was mainly the result of contracting industry Lucky Strike volume was down by 6.5%, mainly driven by the volume in Western Europe and some key Group markets, such as market contraction in Spain, partially offset by higher volume in the Brazil, Russia, Ukraine, Turkey and South Africa, partially offset by Philippines and Russia.
Pall Mall volume rose by 4.4% with strong strong performances in Bangladesh, Pakistan, Indonesia, Vietnam growth in Chile, Pakistan and Argentina, partially offset by lower and the Middle East.
volume in Russia, Serbia, Italy and Hungary.
The Groups cigarette market share in its key markets was higher Brands are reviewed from time to time to assess performance and with growth of 20 basis points, while the share in the premium increasing focus for investment.
This review resulted in the decision segment grew by an excellent 80 basis points.
to include Rothmans from 2014 as one of the Global Drive Brands.
Rothmans performed well with strong growth in Russia, Ukraine, Other tobacco products continued to perform well.
Fine Cut volume Algeria and Italy.
in Western Europe grew by 1.3% to 21 billion sticks equivalent as a result of good growth in Italy, Belgium, Germany and Poland, partially offset by declines in the Netherlands and Greece.
British American Tobacco 31 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Our regional Western Europe performance 24% Share of Group revenue Americas 22% EEMEA Asia-Pacific Share of Group revenue 27% 27% Share of Group Share of Group revenue revenue Asia-Pacific Americas Volume Revenue Volume Revenue bn m bn m 197 4,203 134 3,317 5% 0% -6% -4% 2012: 188 2012: 4,214 2012: 142 2012: 3,460 Adjusted profit Share of Group Adjusted profit Share of Group m revenue % m revenue % 1,693 27 1,364 22 2% -2% 2012: 1,663 2012: 27 2012: 1,391 2012: 23 Western Europe Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa EEMEA Volume Revenue Volume Revenue bn m bn m 119 3,635 226 4,105 -8% 6% -4% 1% 2012: 129 2012: 3,442 2012: 235 2012: 4,074 Adjusted profit Share of Group Adjusted profit Share of Group m revenue % m revenue % 1,273 24 1,490 27 8% 6% 2012: 1,175 2012: 23 2012: 1,412 2012: 27 Notes: 1.
Adjusted profit from operations is derived after excluding the adjusting items from the profit from operations.
These items include restructuring andintegrationcosts, amortisation and impairment of trademarks and similar intangibles and a gain on deemed partial disposal of a trademark.
Constant currency provides the information based on a re-translation, at prior year exchange rates, of the current year information.
British American Tobacco 32 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Regional Review continued Share of Group Adjusted profit was up 30 million to 1,693 million Asia-Pacific revenue as a result of strong performances in Australia, New Zealand, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Taiwan, partially 27% offset by South Korea and Japan, as well as continued investment in Indonesia and unfavourable exchange rate movements.
At constant rates of exchange, profit 2012: 27% would have increased by 124 million or 7%.
Volume at 197 billion was 5% higher than last year, with increases Adjusted profit from in Pakistan, Bangladesh, Vietnam, Indonesia and the operations m Philippines, partially offset by lower volumes in Japan and Malaysia.
1,693 2% 2012: 1,663 Australia Jack Bowles Director, Asia-Pacific Profit was up strongly as a result of higher pricing and cost saving initiatives, partially offset by lower volume.
Illicit trade increased following the introduction of plain packaging.
New Zealand Market share was higher, however, volume was impacted by the industry contraction.
Profit grew strongly due to price increases and cost savings.
Japan I am very pleased that Despite significant competitor activity, there was good market share AsiaPacific achieved very momentum exiting the year, driven by the introduction of innovations.
Profit was adversely affected by a decrease in volume as a result of strong results in 2013. industry contraction, as well as exchange rate movements.
We have a positive growth Malaysia momentum, driven by Market share grew strongly, driven by the excellent performance of Dunhill, strengthening the Groups leadership position.
Profit was higher excellent performance in key as the adverse impact of lower volume due to market contraction was markets, successful brand offset by higher pricing.
Vietnam building, and productivity The increase in volume and market share continued, driven by the savings.
In 2014, we will strong performance of State Express 555.
Profit increased as a result of continue to improve the growth in the premium segment, higher pricing and increased volume.
South Korea execution of our strategy, Volume grew despite intense competitor activities resulting in market invest in brand innovation share slightly lower than last year.
Dunhill held share and grew volume.
and maintain our record of Higher marketing investment, partially offset by cost savings, resulted in a decrease in profit.
We Taiwan have the right plans, proven Strong performances by Pall Mall and Lucky Strike contributed to a record high market share.
An increase in volume, coupled with higher capabilities and passionate pricing, led to a strong increase in profit.
I look Pakistan forward to another year Impressive performances by Pall Mall and John Player Gold Leaf drove market share to a record high, strengthening the Groups leadership of good growth.
Profit increased significantly as a result of the higher volume, cost savings and increased pricing.
Bangladesh An outstanding growth in profit was the result of a strong increase in market share and higher volume.
Indonesia Significant increase in volume driven by Dunhill, the fastest growing brand in one of the largest tobacco markets in the world.
Profitability was impacted by higher marketing investment, lower volume in low-priced brands and higher clove prices.
Philippines As a result of the recent market entry following the removal of the discriminatory excise structure, Lucky Strike made good gains in volume and market share.
British American Tobacco 33 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Share of Group Adjusted profit declined by 27 million to 1,364 Americas revenue million, mainly due to exchange rate movements in Brazil and Venezuela.
At constant rates of exchange, 22% profit rose by 62 million or 4%.
Good performances from Brazil, Canada and Mexico were partially offset by adverse exchange rate movements and lower 2012: 23% contributions from Chile and Colombia.
Volume was down 6% at 134 billion, mainly as a result of market Adjusted profit from contractions in Brazil, Argentina and Chile, partially operations m offset by increases in Mexico and Venezuela.
1,364 -2% 2012: 1,391 Brazil Ricardo Oberlander Director, Americas Profit growth was driven by higher pricing and cost savings.
This good result was more than offset by adverse exchange rate movements.
Market share rose strongly but volume was down due to market contraction after significant excise increases and a subsequent rise in illicit trade.
Canada Profit grew, benefiting from the stronger performance in the premium segment, price increases and a lower cost base.
Volume and market Despite tough conditions share were lower.
Mexico driven by market contraction Impressive market share growth was led by the excellent performance and an increase in illicit of Pall Mall and the capsules innovation.
A significant increase in profit trade, we delivered another was the result of higher volume and improved pricing, while illicit trade volume reduced.
year of strong results, Argentina strengthening our overall The strong performance of Lucky Strike led to a higher market share and leadership position across the also to an increased share of the premium segment.
Profit was lower as a result of reduced volume and inflation-driven cost pressures which were Americas.
We successfully not fully recovered through higher pricing.
grew market share across Chile the region, led by strong Although Dunhill and Pall Mall performed very well, profit was lower, impacted by a decrease in volume, while market share was performances in Brazil, slightly down.
Mexico and the Caribbean Venezuela & Central America.
We Market share was higher, boosted by Viceroy and Lucky Strike, and overall volume increased.
Profit was significantly down, driven by the delivered outstanding GDB transactional impact of the currency devaluation.
Challenges Colombia Volume grew, however, market share was slightly lower.
Profit was remain for 2014, but I am adversely impacted by one-off costs.
confident that we are well positioned to continue to win in the Americas.
British American Tobacco 34 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Regional Review continued Share of Group Adjusted profit was up by 98 million to 1,273 million Western Europe revenue but at constant rates of exchange, the increase would have been 47 million or 4%.
Industry volume declined 24% sharply, affecting profit growth.
There were strong profit performances in Germany, Switzerland, Belgium, Denmark, Sweden, the United Kingdom and Romania, 2012: 23% partially offset by declines in Italy, the Netherlands and Spain.
Cigarette volume was 8% lower at 119 billion, Adjusted profit from following market contractions in Italy, Spain, Poland, the operations m Netherlands, Germany and France.
Fine Cut volume at 21 billion sticks equivalent was up 1.3% as a result of 1,273 increases in Italy, Germany, Poland and Belgium, partly 8% offset by decreases in the Netherlands and Greece.
2012: 1,175 Italy Naresh Sethi Director, After its successful re-launch, Rothmans had good share growth and Western Europe exited the year with continued momentum.
Despite this, difficult trading conditions persist, which resulted in a profit decline.
Share and volume in the Fine Cut segment grew.
Germany Profit was up strongly.
Cigarette volume was lower, in line with industry decline.
Good share growth by Lucky Strike resulted in a stable overall market share.
In the Fine Cut segment, share and volume grew due to E uropean consumers the performance of Pall Mall.
France remained under pressure Market share was stable with a good performance from Lucky Strike, in 2013.
The industry has although volume was lower, in line with the industry volume decline.
been affected by consumers Profit was stable, benefiting from exchange rate movements.
Switzerland looking for cheaper Profit grew as a result of higher pricing and lower costs, partially offset alternatives through downby volume and market share decline.
The Netherlands However, strong pricing, a Significant market contraction and declining market share resulted in lower volume, adversely impacting profit.
focus on costs and continued Belgium investment have delivered Profit grew due to price increases, lower costs and strong growth in Fine strong profit and margin Cut as a result of the good performance by Pall Mall.
Cigarette volume and market share declined despite a strong growth by Lucky Strike.
growth, ahead of industry Spain trends.
We also delivered Industry volume continued to fall sharply.
Profit was adversely affected share growth in our GDBs by volume decline and lower market share, partially offset by a lower cost base.
in both cigarettes and Fine Romania Cut tobacco.
In 2014 I believe Excellent increase in market share was the result of the good we are set to deliver further performances of Dunhill and Pall Mall, although volume was lower.
Profit was up, benefiting from price increases.
growth through focused Poland investment and innovation.
Decline in industry volume continued, adversely impacting volume and profit.
Our market share was down, however, Lucky Strike performed well and Fine Cut volume grew.
United Kingdom Good performances from Pall Mall and Rothmans led to increased market share although volume was lower.
Profit grew strongly due to price increases, cost management and increased Fine Cut volume.
Denmark Significant profit and volume growth was due to higher sales in December in anticipation of an excise duty increase in January 2014.
British American Tobacco 35 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Share of Group Adjusted profit increased by 78 million to 1,490 Eastern Europe, Middle East revenue million.
This was principally due to strong performances and Africa EEMEA in Russia, the GCC and Ukraine and price increases, 27% partially offset by a decrease in profit from Nigeria and the adverse impact of exchange rate movements.
At constant rates of exchange, profit would have increased 2012: 27% by 167 million or 12%.
Volume at 226 billion was 4% lower than last year with the declines in Russia, Ukraine, Adjusted profit from Turkey, Egypt and South Africa, partially offset by an operations m increase in the GCC.
1,490 6% 2012: 1,412 Russia Andrew Gray Director, Strong share growth driven by the impressive performance of Rothmans Eastern Europe, and the encouraging launch of Lucky Strike.
Kent maintained its Middle East and Africa EEMEA leadership position of the premium segment, contributing to the good profit growth.
Ukraine A substantial profit increase was the result of pricing and an improved product mix, while strong market share growth was driven by excellent performances from Kent and Rothmans.
Sharp industry volume decline We performed well in and increased illicit trade led to lower volume.
Turkey 2013 despite political and Continued volume decline adversely impacted profit and market share, economic instability in despite growth by Viceroy and Kent.
We grew The GCC market share driven by An impressive increase in profit was due to higher volume and price increases.
The growth in market share was mainly due to the strong performances in performance of Dunhill.
Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan Egypt and GCC.
The successful Despite a good performance from Viceroy, market instability led to lower volume, adversely impacting profit.
launch of Rothmans in Nigeria Russia and Ukraine was Increased instability and competitor activities in the north and southparticularly rewarding.
We eastern parts of the country resulted in lower volume, adversely affecting profits.
have seen very good results South Africa in the Middle East and East Profit grew as a result of price increases but this was more than offset by Africa where volumes grew the adverse exchange rate movement.
Volume was lower and market share was slightly down as a result of price competition.
2014 is set to be very competitive but we are well placed to deliver continued growth.
