British American Tobacco 60 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Governance Appointments to the Board Key activities in 2013 We continue to ensure the balance of skills reviewing succession planning for the Executive Directors and experience on the Board is aligned to and for the Management Board: our Group strategy and creates a strong reviewing the creation of bespoke Development Plans for high leadership team for the business.
potential candidates for Executive Director and Management Board roles covering the key experience required for further progression, mentoring, and education opportunities : Nominations Committee considering the retirement of John Daly from the role of COO on Current members Ann Godbehere 31 December 2013, and his resignation from the Board of the Richard Burrows Chairman Dr Gerry Murphy Company on 6 April 2014.
The Committee agreed, based upon Christine Morin-Postel Kieran Poynter its review of succession planning, that it would not appoint a Karen fide Segundo Anthony Ruys replacement COO at this stage and recommended to the Board Dr Richard Tubb that the Groups current Regional Directors and Operations Savio Kwan Director report directly to the CEO: and the recruitment of Savio Kwan as a Non-Executive Director.
Terms of appointment to the Board The Executive Directors have rolling contracts of one year.
Details of Attendance at meetings in 2013 the Companys policy on Executive Directors service contracts and Name Attended Eligible to attend Richard Burrows 4 4 the terms of appointment for Non-Executive Directors are set out in 1 Karen fide Segundo 3 4 the Remuneration report on pages 7679.
Ann Godbehere 4 4 1 Christine Morin-Postel 3 4 The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with Dr Gerry Murphy 4 4 Kieran Poynter 4 4 the Company but instead have letters of appointment for one year Anthony Ruys 4 4 only, which include their expected time commitment of 2530 days Dr Richard Tubb 4 4 per year, and which are considered for renewal around the time of 2 2 2 Sir Nicholas Scheele 2 the Companys AGM when each Director is subject to election or Robert Lerwill 2 2 re-election by the shareholders see below.
The Board takes into Notes: account the need for it to refresh its membership progressively over 1.
Karen fide Segundo was unable to attend one meeting, as it was ad-hoc and organised on short notice see note 4.
Christine Morin-Postel was unable to attend one of the scheduled time.
Non-Executive Directors are normally expected to serve for six meetings due to a family bereavement.
They may be invited to serve for longer, but additional service 2.
Sir Nicholas Scheele and Robert Lerwill ceased to be members upon their retirement as beyond six years is subject to rigorous review, and service beyond Non-Executive Directors at the AGM on 25 April 2013. nine years is unlikely.
The Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director regularly attend meetings by invitation but are not members.
The Committee is responsible for identifying candidates for positions 4.
The Committee held four meetings in 2013, three of which were scheduled and one of which was convened at short notice to consider a Board appointment.
This process includes an evaluation of the skills and 5.
Savio Kwan became a member on his appointment to the Board in January 2014. experience to be looked for in candidates to ensure continuing Board balance and relevant experience.
The selection process will Role generally involve interviews with several candidates, using the services of specialist external search firms to identify and shortlist The Nominations Committee is responsible for: appropriate candidates.
A balanced list including both genders is reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and a requirement of any shortlist.
This process was followed for the Management Board to ensure both have an appropriate balance recruitment of Savio Kwan, who was shortlisted by an independent of skills, expertise, knowledge and for the Board independence: external consultancy, Odgers Berndtson, and interviewed by the Chairman, Executive Directors, and members of the Committee, reviewing the succession plans for the Executive Directors and which then recommended his appointment to the Board.
members of the Management Board: ensuring that the procedure for appointing Directors is rigorous, Annual General Meeting 2014 transparent, objective, merit-based and has regard for diversity: At this years AGM on 30 April 2014, the Company will be submitting all eligible Directors for re-election all Directors, with the making recommendations to the Board on suitable candidates exception of Anthony Ruys and, in the case of Savio Kwan, election forappointments to the Board and Management Board: and for the first time.
Anthony Ruys, having served on the Board for eight years, will retire at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
assessing the time needed to fulfil the roles of Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Director, and ensuring The Chairmans letter accompanying the AGM Notice confirms Non-Executive Directors have sufficient time to fulfil their duties.
thatthe performance of the Directors being proposed for re-election continues to be effective and that they continue to demonstrate For the Committees terms of reference visit commitment to their roles as Non-Executive Directors, including www.
com governance commitment of the necessary time for Board and Committee meetings and other duties.
Biographical details are also provided.
