British American Tobacco 54 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Governance Audit and accountability Key activities in 2013 Our Audit Committee receives detailed Standing items of business considered by the Committee: reports and presentations throughout the the 2014 Internal Audit Plan: year that enable it to monitor the integrity periodic reports from the Groups regional Audit and CSR  Committees and Corporate Audit Committee: management of business risks.
periodic reports from the Group Head of Audit and Business Risk on international audits and the management responses and action plans being put in place to address any concerns raised: Audit Committee deep dives into specific risk topics see further below : Current members Christine Morin-Postel a report from the Head of Group Security on security risks and Kieran Poynter Chairman Anthony Ruys frauds and losses arising during the preceding year: Ann Godbehere quarterly reports on compliance with the Groups Standards ofBusiness Conduct: the Groups 2012 results, 2013 half-year results, the external auditors reports for these, and interim management statements: the steps taken to validate the Going Concern assessment at halfyear and year-end see Going Concern in the Financial review : the results of the annual goodwill impairment assessment: Attendance at meetings in 2013 Name Attended Eligible to attend an annual review of the external auditors independence: and Kieran Poynter 5 5 Ann Godbehere 5 5 a report from the Group Chief Accountant on the information 1 Anthony Ruys 5 5 flows, and drafting and approval processes for the preparation of 2 Robert Lerwill 2 2 the annual report, facilitating the Committees advice to the Board Notes: that the 2013 annual report is fair, balanced and understandable.
Anthony Ruys will cease to be a member upon his retirement as a Non-Executive Director atthe AGM on 30 April 2014.
Further specific matters considered by the Committee: 2.
Robert Lerwill ceased to be a member upon his retirement as a Non-Executive Director at theAGM on 25 April 2013 after which Kieran Poynter became Chairman of the Committee.
commissioning an external quality review of internal audit, 3.
The Finance Director attends all meetings of the Committee but is not a member.
Other which will be completed and reported on in 2014.
Directors may attend by invitation.
The Head of Audit and Business Risk, the General Counsel, and the external auditors, also attend meetings on a regular basis.
Risk topics considered by the Committee: 4.
The Committee meets alone with the external auditors and, separately, the Group Head ofAudit and Business Risk, at the end of every meeting.
IT functional readiness relating to the risk of the IT function not 5.
The Committee held five meetings in 2013.
All of these were scheduled.
being fully enabled to support implementation, and sustain the 6.
Christine Morin-Postel became a member of the Committee on 6 January 2014, upon integrity of, the Groups single IT operating system: standing down from the CSR Committee.
Kieran Poynter and Ann Godbehere have recent and relevant financial experience.
Foreign exchange and restricted cash which led to the significant accounting judgement described further below: Role contingency sourcing processes for the Groups manufacturing The Audit Committee monitors and reviews: operations: and the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal changes to the status of risk management activities in a number announcements relating to the Companys performance, of areas in the course of the year, and changes to the Groups top considering any significant issues and judgements reflected in ten risks over the last three years, providing the Committee with a them, before their submission to the Board: high-level view of the Groups risk assessment processes and more focus on the Groups non-combustible business.
the consistency of the Groups accounting policies: the effectiveness of, and makes recommendations to the Board Significant accounting judgements considered by the on, the Groups accounting, risk and internal control systems: Committee in relation to the 2013 accounts: the continuing roll-out of the Groups revised operating model the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: and and single IT operating system: Given the level of investment, complexity, and strategic importance to the Group, the Committee the performance, independence and objectivity of the received updates from management, internal audit and the Companys external auditors, making recommendations as to external auditors on progress with the roll-out throughout the year their reappointment or for a re-tender of audit services, and including programme governance, risk and compliance activities.
approving their terms of engagement and the level of audit fees.
The Committee examined the proposed capitalisation of intangible assets see Note 9 in the Notes on the accounts, amortisation of For the Committees terms of reference visit www.
com governance IT assets generated as part of the programme, and adjusting items in relation to implementation costs see Note 3 e in the Notes on the accounts, and was satisfied that the accounting treatment and disclosure of these matters was appropriate: British American Tobacco 55 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials the Groups significant corporate tax exposures, and related Such services must be put to tender if expected spend exceeds provisions: The Committee was updated periodically on corporate specified limits, unless a waiver of this requirement is agreed by the tax issues throughout the year.
In December, the Committee Finance Director and notified to the Committee.
considered a report from the Group Head of Tax on the current The policy also requires the submission to the Committee, typically status of issues in various markets, including Brazil and Canada prior to the year end, of a work plan identifying the total fees where potential tax disputes are more significant, and agreed with for all audit-related services, tax services and other non-audit managements proposed provisions and extended disclosures services which it is expected will be undertaken by the external in respect of them see Note 30 in the Notes on the accounts : auditors in the following year.
Specific itemisation is required for contingent liabilities in connection with on-going litigation: tax services and other non-audit services in excess of the tender The Committee requested an update from management on recent thresholds referred to above.
Updated work plans must then be developments in on-going cases see Note 30 in the Notes on submitted to the Committee at the mid-year and year end.
In this the accounts and reassessed the need for provisions in respect of way, the Committee has full visibility of the Group spend on them.
As it was too early to assess any impact the developments non-audit services throughout the year, enabling it to discharge may have on the Groups potential liability, the Committee its responsibility for keeping such fees under review and ensuring agreed with management that the current provision for the Fox that neither their level, nor their nature, risk impairing the external River matter remained appropriate, and no provision should be auditors independence and objectivity.
recognised in respect of the Kalamazoo River matter: and A breakdown of audit, audit-related and non-audit fees paid to foreign exchange and restricted cash: As the Group has operations  firms and associates in 2013 is provided in certain territories with severe currency restrictions, where foreign in Note 3 d in the Notes on the accounts and is summarised currency is not readily available, the Committee satisfied itself that as follows: the methodologies used to determine appropriate exchange rates Services provided by  and associates for accounting purposes remained appropriate for restricted cash, 2013 2012 see the footnote to Note 19 in the Notes on the accounts.
m m Audit services 9.4 9.5 External auditors Audit-related assurance services 0.3 1.0  LLP has been the Companys auditors Total audit and audit-related services 9.7 10.5 since it listed on the London Stock Exchange in September 1998.
The Committee considers that the relationship with the auditors is Other assurance services 0.1 0.2 working well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
Tax advisory services 2.9 2.5 Tax compliance 1.0 0.9 As the Group implements its revised Operating Model and single IT operating system, consistency of approach in the audit was Other non-audit services 0.6 0.5 considered to be of particular importance.
The Company will Total non-audit services 4.6 4.1 not, therefore, be putting its audit out to tender in 2014, but Note: the Committee will review this position annually.
There are no In 2013 non-audit fees paid to  amounted to 47% of the audit and auditcontractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of auditors.
related assurance fees paid to them 2012: 39%.
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partner Annual assessment responsible for the Group audit at least every five years, and those The Committee assesses annually the qualification, expertise and responsible for the subsidiary audits at least every seven years.
resources, and independence of the Groups external auditors and The current lead audit partner has been in position for four years.
the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Committees assessment is informed by an external audit satisfaction survey completed Auditor independence by members of senior management, which it reviews in detail.
The Committee has an established policy aimed at safeguarding and 94 surveys were completed this year and no material issues were supporting the independence and objectivity of the Groups external identified.
In addition, the Finance Director, Legal Director, Head auditors, which is regularly reviewed and updated.
The basic ofInternal Audit, Company Secretary and the Committee chairman principle of the policy is that the Groups external auditors may be all meet with the external auditors throughout the year to discuss engaged to provide services only in cases where those services do relevant issues as well as the progress of the audit.
Any significant not impair their independence and objectivity, and provided that issues are included on the Committees agenda.
the total annual fees for non-audit services do not exceed the sum ofannual fees for audit and audit-related services.
The Committee completed its assessment of the external auditors for the financial period under review.
It has satisfied itself as to their The external auditors may not be engaged to provide services if the qualification, expertise and resources and remains confident that provision of such services would result in the external auditors: their objectivity and independence are not in any way impaired by reason of the non-audit services which they provide to the Group having a mutual or conflicting interest with any Group company: orby other factors.
being placed in the position of auditing their own work: The Committee recognises that certain projects on which they are engaged necessarily span several years and that they will continue to acting as a manager or employee of any Group company: or provide those services for the length of the project.
Projects linked to the Groups long-term IT strategy fall into this category.
being placed in the position of advocate for any Group company.
Subject to the above, the external auditors may provide certain tax and other non-audit services.
The Committee recognises that using the external auditors to provide such services is often of benefit due to their detailed knowledge of our business.
British American Tobacco 56 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Governance Audit and accountability continued Risk management and internal control Risk management Risk registers, based on a standardised methodology, are used at Overview Group, regional, area and individual market level to identify, assess The Company maintains its system of risk management and internal and monitor the key risks both financial and non-financial faced control with a view to safeguarding shareholders investment by the business at each level.
Information on prevailing trends, for and the Companys assets.
It is designed to identify, evaluate and example whether a risk is considered to be increasing or decreasing manage risks that may impede the Companys objectives.
It cannot, over time, is provided in relation to each risk and all identified risks and is not designed to, eliminate them entirely.
The system therefore are assessed at three levels high medium low by reference to their provides a reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material impact and likelihood.
Mitigation plans are required to be in place misstatement or loss.
A description of the key risk factors that may to manage the risks identified.
The risk registers and mitigation plans affect the Groups business is provided in our Strategic Report on are reviewed on a regular basis.
Regional and above-market risk pages 2429. registers are reviewed regularly by the relevant regional audit and CSR committee or the Corporate Audit Committee, as appropriate.
The main features of the risk management processes and system of internal control operated within the Group are described below, and At Group level, specific responsibility for managing each identified have been in place throughout the year under review and remain in risk is allocated to a member of the Management Board.
They do not cover the Groups associate undertakings.
The responsible Management Board member is identified in relation to each of the Key Group risk factors set out in our Strategic Report.
Board oversight The Group risk register is reviewed regularly by a committee of The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of senior managers, chaired by the Finance Director, and twice yearly the significant risks that the Group is willing to take to achieve its by the Corporate Committee.
In addition, it is reviewed annually strategic objectives and for maintaining sound risk management and by the Board and twice yearly by the Audit Committee.
The Board internal control systems.
With the support of the Audit Committee, and each such committee reviews changes in the status of identified it carries out a review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk risks, assessing the changes in impact and likelihood, and the Audit management and internal control systems annually and reports Committee also spends time focusing on selected key risks in detail.
toshareholders that it has done so.
For more information on risk factors see the Key Group risk factors section in our Strategic Report on pages 2429 This review covers all material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
As part of its review in 2013, the Board noted that despite a number Internal control of changes to the Group Risk Register, which demonstrated its Group companies and other business units are required annually to dynamic nature, the Groups risk profile remained stable.
complete a checklist, called Control Navigator, of the key controls that they are expected to have in place.
Its purpose is to enable Audit and CSR committee framework them to self-assess their internal control environment, assist them in The Groups Audit and CSR committee framework underpins the identifying any controls which may need strengthening, and support Boards Audit and CSR Committees.
It provides a flexible channel them in implementing and monitoring action plans to address for the structured flow of information through the Group, with control weaknesses.
The Control Navigator checklist is reviewed committees covering locally listed Group entities in certain markets, annually to ensure that it remains relevant to the business and covers and covering the Groups regions, each referring matters to the next all applicable key controls.
In addition, at each year end, Group level as appropriate.
This framework ensures that significant financial, companies and other business units are required to: social, environmental and reputational risks faced by the Company and its subsidiaries are appropriately managed and that any failings review their system of internal control, confirm whether it remains or weaknesses are identified so that remedial action may be taken.
effective and report on any material weaknesses and the action being taken to address them: and The Groups regional audit and CSR committees which are all review and confirm compliance with the Standards of Business chaired by an Executive Director and attended by one or more Conduct and identify any material instances of non-compliance Non-Executive Directors focus on risks and the control environment orconflicts of interest.
within each region and are in turn supported by area and or local audit and CSR committees.
The Corporate Audit Committee focuses The results of these reviews are reported to the relevant regional on the Groups risks and control environment that falls outside audit and CSR committee or to the Corporate Audit Committee and, the regional committees remit, for example head office central where appropriate, to the Committee to ensure that appropriate functions, global programmes and projects.
It comprises members remedial action has been, or will be, taken wherenecessary.
of the Management Board, is chaired by a Regional Director, and is attended by one or more Non-Executive Directors.
Internal audit function The Groups internal audit function provides advice and guidance External and internal auditors attend meetings of these committees to the Groups businesses on best practice in risk management and and have private audiences with members of the committees after control systems.
It is also responsible for carrying out audit checks every meeting.
Additionally, central, regional and individual market on Group companies and other business units, and does so against management, along with internal audit, supports the Board in its an audit plan presented annually to the Audit Committee, which role of ensuring a sound control environment.
focuses in particular on higher risk areas of the Groups business.
British American Tobacco 57 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Financial reporting controls Whistleblowing The Group has in place a series of policies, practices and controls in The Standards also set out the Groups whistleblowing policy, relation to the financial reporting and consolidation process, which enabling staff, in confidence, to raise concerns without fear of are designed to address key financial reporting risks, including reprisal.
The policy is supplemented by local procedures throughout risks arising from changes in the business or accounting standards.
the Group and at the Groups London headquarters, providing staff The Group Manual of Accounting Policies and Procedures sets out with further guidance and enabling them to report matters in a the Group accounting policies, its treatment of transactions and its language with which they are comfortable.
The Committee receives internal reporting requirements.
The internal reporting of financial quarterly reports on whistleblowing incidents.
It remains satisfied information in order to prepare the Groups financial statements that the Groups policy and procedures enable proportionate and quarterly, half-yearly and at the year-end is signed off by the heads independent investigation of matters raised and ensure appropriate of finance responsible for the Groups markets and business units.
The heads of finance responsible for the Groups markets and all senior managers must also confirm annually that all information Of the total number of business conduct incidents reported in 2013, relevant to the Group audit has been provided to the Directors and set out above, 18 were brought to managements attention through that reasonable steps have been taken to ensure full disclosure in whistleblowing reports from employees, ex-employees, third parties response to requests for information from the external auditors.
or unknown individuals reporting anonymously 2012: 39.
The effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting controls are Political contributions assessed as part of the Control Navigator exercise described above The Committee is responsible for reviewing donations made for and evaluated by internal audit in the context of the annual audit political purposes throughout the Group.
The integrity of the Groups public financial reporting is were made in 2013 in any part of the world 2012: 5,583. further supported by a number of processes and steps to provide assurance of the completeness and accuracy of the content, Annual review including review by the Chairman, Executive Directors and members The Turnbull Guidance the Guidance sets out best practice on of the Management Board, review and recommendation by the internal control for UK-listed companies to assist them in assessing Committee, and review and approval by the Board.
the application of the Codes Principles and compliance with the Standards of Business Conduct Codes Provisions with regard to risk management and internal control.
The processes described above, and the reports that they The Committee is responsible for monitoring compliance with the give rise to, enable the Board and the Committee to monitor the risk Companys Standards of Business Conduct the Standards, which management and internal control framework on a continuing basis underpin the Groups commitment to good corporate behaviour.
throughout the year and to review its effectiveness at the year-end.
The Standards require all staff to act with high standards of business The Board, with advice from the Committee, has completed its integrity, comply with applicable laws and regulations, and ensure annual review of the effectiveness of the system of risk management that standards are never compromised for the sake of results.
Every Group company and all staff worldwide, including senior No significant failings or weaknesses were identified and the Board management and the Board, are expected to live up to the is satisfied that, where areas for improvement were identified, Standards.
Guidance on them is provided across the Group, processes are in place to ensure that remedial action is taken and including through training and awareness programmes.
All Group progress is monitored.
The Board is satisfied that the system of risk companies have adopted the Standards or local equivalents.
management and internal control accords with theGuidance.
Information on compliance with the Standards is gathered at a regional and global level and reported to the regional audit and CSR committees and to the Committee.
The Standards, and information on the total number of incidents reported under them in 2013 including established breaches, is available at www.
The number of incidents is reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP as part of their process for providing assurance of our annual Sustainability Report.
Their full assurance statement is available at www.
In 2013, 22 instances of suspected improper conduct contrary to the Standards excluding non-material employee fraud and theft against Group companies were reported to the Committee 2012: 45.
Nine were established as breaches and appropriate action taken 2012: 16.
In 10 cases, an investigation found no wrongdoing 2012: 24.
In three cases, the investigation continued at the yearend 2012: five.
No instances involved sums or matters considered material to the Group.
