Sustainability Produce People and relationships British American Tobacco 12 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Our business model Creating value over the long term Our business model and strategy delivering value Our business model describes what we do and, more importantly, how we use our uniquestrengths and employ our resources and relationships to deliver sustainable growth inearnings for our shareholders.
It is built around meeting our consumers evolving needs andisdriven by our strategy to ensure that we are delivering great results today and investing inourlong-term future.
What we do Growth Essentially, we make and market cigarettes globally, but theres alot more to it than that.
Markets Investment Delivering value Our sustainable approach tosourcing, production and distribution helps us tocreate value for a wide group of stakeholders from crop to consumer.
These include farmers Consumers and their communities, other suppliers, retail and wholesale trade partners, NGOs, governments and regulators.
Distribute Winning organisation Source Produce Distribute Consumers We have a significant interest Manufacturing tobacco Our well-developed distribution We place consumers at the in tobacco growing and we products is a large-scale channels are critical enablers of heart of our business.
We invest have expert technicians out operation and we have state-ofour growth strategy, allowing in world-class research to in the field who support over the-art manufacturing facilities us to roll out innovations on a understand changing consumer 100,000 directly contracted all over the world.
We continuously needs and buying behaviour.
We manage our whole ensure that our costs are globally review our route to market, This drives our supply chain, supply chain responsibly, competitive and that we use including our relationships with product development, including the sourcing of leaf our resources as effectively wholesalers, distributors and innovations, brands and trade and other materials, and work as possible.
We aim to satisfy with suppliers to create a longfacilities are designed to meet of our global volume is sold by consumers while addressing term shared understanding of the needs of an agile and flexible retailers supplied through our stakeholder expectations our social, environmental and supply chain providing a direct distribution capability or about how we should market economic impacts.
world-class operational base that exclusive distributors.
Working with farmers: Global scale: Raising standards: Developing solutions: pages 1819 pages 0405 pages 2223 pages 1517 Without tobacco leaf and other Ensuring leaf and products are We are helping to raise We are developing innovative raw materials we would have in the right place at the right standards by supporting solutions to evolve our brand no products.
We aim to secure time in our manufacturing regulation of conventional portfolio and create more our long-term supply chain process is a formidable logistical cigarettes and a new generation differentiated products.
and bring real benefits to local exercise.
The nature of our of products.
That means fighting This supports our aim to communities, from promoting business allows us to pool the illegal tobacco market and champion consumer choice good agricultural practices to resources on a global scale and supporting legitimate retailers and provide a range of products investing in community projects.
Productivity Source British American Tobacco 13 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials What guides us Our Guiding Principles define how we behave and how we govern our business: Enterprising spirit What makes us different Open minded Our business operates on a set of core strengths and qualities Freedom through responsibility Strength from diversity that makes us unique and ensures we can generate value over the long term.
The quality of our people is a crucial factor in delivering this and our global presence enables us to leverage Read about our Guiding Principles in the value they create on a worldwide scale.
Our vision and strategy pages 1011 Markets Investment People and relationships Brands Innovation Our people We have a successful brand marketing strategy We make significant investment in research We employ more than 57,000 people based on sound consumer insights.
It is driven and development to deliver innovations that worldwide from securing our leaf supply by our Global Drive Brands Dunhill, Kent, satisfy or anticipate consumer needs and through production and distribution, to our Lucky Strike and Pall Mall which account for generate growth for the business.
This involves efforts to develop reduced-risk products.
more than a third of the total cigarettes we sell.
innovations such as capsule products, all Our workforce is strongly multicultural and Our portfolio of more than 200 international, natural products and Reloc, our resealable pack we have a devolved structure, with each local regional and local brands is designed to meet a technology.
We also look outside the traditional company having responsibility for its operations.
broad array of consumer preferences around the cigarette market and research, develop We encourage a culture of personal ownership world.
We also launched Vype in 2013, our first and test new products to meet changing and value our employees talents.
Their diverse brand in the emerging e-cigarette market.
perspectives help us to succeed and we recognise their critical role in achieving the goalswe set for our business.
Products Selected investments Our suppliers We offer adult consumers a range of products Strategically and financially attractive We dont own tobacco farms, but we provide to choose from, including: traditional cigarettes, acquisitions and specific targeted investments agronomy support through our extension cigars and cigarillos: Fine Cut tobacco, as used in new ventures, R&D, projects, equipment services.
Our Social Responsibility in Tobacco in roll-your-own and make-your-own cigarettes: and services all play a role in our short-term Production programme encourages continual Swedish-style snus: and e-cigarettes.
Our range success and in the long-term development of improvement of the social and environmental of high-quality products covers all segments, our organisation.
They support our strategic performance of the suppliers we buy tobacco from value-for-money to premium.
We are also ambitions of achieving sustainable growth and leaf from.
Through our relationship with leaf developing other next-generation tobacco and working more productively by opening up new suppliers and tobacco farmers we are mitigating nicotine products.
ways of working, helping to define new product the negative social and environmental impacts areas and providing new opportunities for that tobacco growing can have and helping to our people.
provide a reliable source of income that can help support food security.
Global presence World-class science Our wholesalers, With over 110 years of operating globally We have an extensive scientific research distributorsand retailers behind us, today we are one of the worlds programme.
We have been focusing research Trade marketing is a large part of our activity leading tobacco groups.
Our brands are sold on innovative less risky tobacco and nicotine managing business-to-business relationships in around 180 markets and our geographic products for adult smokers who want a safer with the retailers our consumers buy from.
diversity and strong positions in emerging alternative to cigarettes.
Our work with scientists We place a strong emphasis on being a markets are key strengths and continue to and public health professionals aims to secure high-quality supplier to the trade.
We work provide opportunities for growth.
We hold widespread support for tobacco harm reduction, to operate in the most efficient and effective robust market positions in each of our regions including the regulatory changes needed to way so that retailers can offer the products and are leaders in more than 60 markets.
bring reduced-risk products to market.
ourconsumers want to buy, where they want them, when they want.
Fighting the illegal trade in tobacco: Investing in our long-term future: Supporting people and communities: pages 09 and 25 pages 3643 pages 2021 We work with other tobacco companies and Access to cash and other sources of finance is We are committed to safeguarding the health, enforcement agencies to combat the threat that essential forfunding our local operations.
We have safety and welfare of the people who work for the trafficking faked or smuggled tobacco goods the controls in place and manage our cash Group or alongside it as contractors of partners presents toour business, to governments and to resources effectively to ensure that we can also in our operations.
We also play a full role in the our consumers.
