British American Tobacco 15 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Delivering our strategy Kent is our most innovative and forward-looking brand, and Growth innovations now account for 77% of the brands global volume.
Overall volume in 2013 was 65 billion, down by 2.9% due to We provide high quality, relevant tobacco declines in Russia, Japan and Romania, partially offset by growth in and nicotine-based products that meet the Middle East and Uzbekistan.
However, we continue to expand consumer needs.
We do this by being our offerings in Kent Convertibles and 2014 has already seen more brand focused and excelling at bringing launches in the Kent HD range, featuring new filter technology that superior, differentiated offers to market.
will further enhance the brand.
Lucky Strike, our original American brand, saw volume fall by 6.5% to 31 billion cigarettes.
The fall was driven by an industry decline in Spain, although the brand grew significantly in the Philippines and Russia in 2013.
Innovations now account for 29% of this volume, including our all natural offer, which continues to provide opportunities for growth.
Lucky Strike Fine Cut also had a successful year, with volume up by 7.3%, driven by gains in Italy, Belgium, Spain and France.
Pall Mall, our leading brand in terms of volume, grew by 4.4% What we do in 2013, delivering a record volume of 87 billion cigarettes, due Understanding consumers is at the core of Group strategy and our to increases in Chile, Pakistan and Argentina.
This was partially success depends on delivering high-quality tobacco and nicotine offset by lower volumes in Russia, Serbia, Italy and Hungary.
products that meet their evolving needs.
We aim to achieve Innovations accounted for 16% of Pall Malls cigarette volume, responsible leadership in consumer and trade partner engagement, while Pall Mall Fine Cut volume was up by 7.5% in Western including through new retail channels.
Europe, mainly driven by growth in Germany, Belgium, Spain, the Netherlands and France.
Pall Mall is the biggest Fine Cut brand in We delivered in 2013 Western Europe.
Our well-balanced brand portfolio delivered good profit growth in 2013, led by another great contribution from our Global We are investing in our brand portfolio Drive Brands GDBs Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike and Pall Mall.
In addition to our existing GDBs, we continue to invest in a strong Pricing remained strong despite a challenging trading environment.
portfolio of international brands such as Rothmans, Peter Stuyvesant, State Express 555, Kool, Benson & Hedges, Craven A and John We saw volume growth in many markets, including Bangladesh, Player Gold Leaf.
Pakistan, Indonesia, the Middle East, Vietnam and the Philippines.
However, volume was lower in Brazil, Russia, Turkey, Ukraine, Egypt Rothmans volume was up by 21.7% in 2013, reaching a total of and Western Europe.
Overall cigarette volume from subsidiaries was 26 billion cigarettes adding 3.9 billion cigarettes in Russia alone 676 billion, down by 2.7%, largely as a result of industry volume and building on the brands very successful launch there in 2012. declines.
Total tobacco volume including cigarettes and other The brand also increased its footprint with volume growth in tobacco products was also 2.6% lower than last year.
Rothmans became part of our portfolio of GDBs at the start of 2014, recognising the brands strategic value to Our GDBs and innovations are delivering growth the Group.
The investments we have made in our GDBs have seen their share of our global volume more than double to 35% since 2003.
Gains in Vietnam helped drive volume growth of 26.8% to 6 billion GDB volume growth of 1.9% in 2013 was driven by consumercigarettes for State Express 555.
This brand was further boosted in relevant innovations and our GDB market share grew strongly in the 2013 when CTBAT International Limited, our joint operation with Groups key markets.
GDB Fine Cut products performed well, too, subsidiaries of China National Tobacco Corporation, commenced with volume increasing by 7.5% in 2013. business operations.
CTBAT now owns and manages the worldwide international rights to State Express 555.
It also owns the worldwide Innovations, such as capsules, resealable packaging and new filter rights outside China to the leading Chinese brand Shuang Xi.
technologies, accounted for almost one-fifth of our total cigarette John Player Gold Leaf continues to be a very important regional volume and grew by 19.7% in 2013.
We continue to be the market brand in Asia-Pacific and the Middle East, growing by 7.4% in its leader for capsule products, with a segment share of 46% in our key markets of Pakistan, Bangladesh and the GCC.
volume fell in Japan and Peter Stuyvesant volume was down in Dunhill, our most prestigious brand, delivered volume growth of South Africa and Greece.
This excellent result was driven by very strong performances in Indonesia, South Korea and the Gulf Benson & Hedges grew in several markets, but overall volume Cooperation Council GCC countries, partially offset by declines fell slightly due to market declines in Bangladesh and Australia.
in Malaysia and West Africa.
Innovations accounted for 81% of Craven A, another important brand in our Asia-Pacific and Eastern Dunhills 2013 volume, with 76% of all Dunhill cigarettes now sold Europe, Middle East and Africa EEMEA regions, grew by 1%.
in our innovative resealable Reloc packaging.
In 2013, the Group launched its first next-generation product, an e-cigarette called Vype, which is intended to offer smokers a less risky alternative to traditional cigarettes.
A rechargeable version of Vype has already been launched to enhance the range.
indd 15 13 03 2014 11:40 British American Tobacco 16 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Delivering our strategy Growth continued Were building partnerships Were investing in our future Building partnerships with retailers is a key part of our trade Our well-balanced brand portfolio, clear consumer understanding marketing activities.
Globally, we have around 20,000 Trade and strong trade marketing capabilities have provided us with a Marketing & Distribution TM&D employees responsible for the firm foundation for growth for many years.
We are committed to selling and delivery of our products, managing our brands at the investing further in our brands and capabilities, in new and existing point of sale and developing mutually beneficial partnerships with markets in tobacco and beyond.
We continue to invest in our high growth markets, while supporting We work closely with our retail partners to provide support and our GDBs and focusing on innovations, and we see a very strong ensure that at all times they can profitably meet the expectations of future for our tobacco business.
adult smokers with regards to availability, pricing and brand quality.
This includes the development of effective trading terms, which are It is also our intention to bring to market a much wider selection a key foundation of a successful partnership.
of next-generation tobacco and nicotine-based products to complement our existing tobacco brands, broadening consumer It also involves engagement in the prevention of youth smoking and choice with a range of high-quality products that they can trust.
We expect retailers and wholesalers to take their responsibilities very seriously in these areas and work hard with them Supporting our brands and innovations in a fast-paced and to try and eradicate both of these problems.
rapidly changing retail environment continues to be a key focus.
A programme we rolled out in 2013 called Positive provides Where appropriate, we use direct-to-store sales DSS in our training for our people, better equipping them to meet the needs distribution network.
DSS gives us visibility and control over the oftheir trade customers and our consumers.
sales and distribution process, allowing us access to both the market and consumer information.
It also provides a direct commercial link to our most strategic retail accounts.
We also work with exclusive distributors to ensure our products are effectively sold and delivered to retailers, and almost half of our global volume is sold to retailers through these distributors and through our own distribution capability.
Group share of key Global Drive Brand subsidiary markets GDB volumes Key performance increase in % share 0.2% 237bn indicators KPIs 1.9% Definition: This is our retail market share in the 2013 237bn Groups key markets, which cover around 80% 2012 232bn ofthe volumes of subsidiaries.
2011 226bn Target: To continue to grow market share.
Definition: GDB volumes are calculated as the total Note: Share figures are rebased annually to reflect volumes of the four GDBs Dunhill, Kent, Lucky market and segment size changes.
We do not Strike and Pall Mall sold by our subsidiaries.
show comparators here, as previous years figures Target: To increase our GDB share faster than the are not calculated on the same basis.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share pence 6% 2013 216.6 2012 205.2 2011 191.9 Definition: This is our adjusted diluted earnings per share EPS the detail of the calculation and the adjustments made are explained in Note 7 on the Financial Statements.
Target: To grow adjusted diluted EPS at the rate ofhigh single figures per annum, on average, over the medium to long term.
British American Tobacco 17 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Total shareholder return annual % compound annual growth rate CAGR Key performance indicators KPIs Definition: Total shareholder return TSR is measured according to the return index calculated by Datastream, on the basis of all companies dividends being reinvested in their shares.
The return is the percentage increase in eachcompanys index over a three-year period.
Objective: The Group is focused on increasing shareholder value, which is measured using TSRcompared to the FTSE 100 Index and also to a fast-moving consumer goods FMCG peer group.
The FMCG comparator group is reviewed annually toensure it remains both relevant andrepresentative.
FMCG group 1 Jan 2011 to 31 Dec 2013 The FMCG group comparison is based on three months average values annual % Median 13.2% British American Tobacco 15.6% 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 Upper quartile 0 Lower quartile FTSE 100 1 Jan 2011 to 31 Dec 2013 The FTSE 100 comparison is based on three months average values annual % Median 11.3% British American Tobacco 15.6% 50 40 30 20 10 0 -10 -20 -30 -40 Upper quartile -50 Lower quartile Net turnover NTO Business at constant 15,822m exchange rates measures 4% 2013 15,822 2012 15,190 Definition: Gross turnover net of duty, excise and other taxes.
Objective: To grow NTO by 25% per year.
indd 17 13 03 2014 11:40 British American Tobacco 18 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Delivering our strategy Were delivering operating margin improvements Productivity Better cost management helped to deliver an improved operating margin of 38.1% in 2013.
We continue to improve our By effectively deploying our resources we marketing efficiency and capital effectiveness, including reducing can increase profits, improve our operating unnecessary complexity to save costs and using our cash and assets margin and generate funds to invest in our more effectively.
business, helping us to grow market share and achieve higher returns for shareholders.
Were investing in our supply chain Our proven expertise in tobacco leaf means we are ideally placed to address evolving consumer needs, while factoring in the implications of changes in product-based regulation.
By managing our leaf footprint carefully, we can ensure sustainability of supply and guarantee our access to quality sources of leaf.
We invest in the quality of our leaf, through our people on the ground and their relationships with local farmers.
However, our above-market planning and the global visibility of our leaf pool further drives cost efficiencies and helps to provide us with a What we do competitive advantage.
We rely on a highly integrated global supply chain and use our expertise in leaf to secure supply, improve product quality and We support farmers differentiate our products.
Our environmental management We dont own tobacco farms or directly employ farmers: instead, systems and business controls help us and our suppliers to increase we work as partners with over 100,000 smallholder farmers effectiveness and efficiency.
We are also implementing a new worldwide, who supply over 60% of the tobacco leaf we buy.
global operating model with common systems, processes and Our leaf technicians work in the field with them, agreeing contracts, waysof working.
supplying seed and offering advice on propagation, the safe use of agrochemicals and integrated pest management.
We made further progress in 2013 Were also helping farmers to farm more sustainably by developing Productivity is a vital enabler in our business and remains a very new methods that suit them and their environments.
For example, important aspect of our strategy.
Our integrated supply chain the farmers we work with have reduced their use of natural forest enables the group to deliver growth.
Improving efficiency and for curing fuels down to only 1.3% of total wood used.
We aim effectiveness in 2013 has also allowed us to roll out innovations faster to reduce this further.
To compensate for those trees that have and implement machine technology standards enhancing our been felled, we have planted over 170 million trees through our sourcing flexibility, contingency planning and capital effectiveness.
afforestation programmes in the last six years.
The transparency of demand and supply at a global level through Our Social Responsibility in Tobacco Production SRTP programme sales and operational planning ensures we are able to move quicker sets out the minimum standards we expect of our leaf suppliers.
and make better decisions when allocating resources.
It covers good agricultural practices, occupational health and other social issues such as human rights, labour standards and eliminating Were better, faster and more effective child labour, as well as the protection of biodiversity.
It has proved The Groups ambitious programme to implement a new operating sosuccessful that its now been adopted as the industry standard.
The programme includes revised organisational structures, standardised processes and shared backWere driving efficiency in our manufacturing office services, underpinned by a global SAP system.
We continue to optimise our manufacturing footprint and now run 46 cigarette factories in 41 countries.
This compares to the 87 New structures and processes are being implemented in phases factories we operated around a decade ago, if you include those we throughout the organisation and the deployment of the new SAP have taken over due to acquisitions.
system, which began in late 2012, was ongoing throughout 2013.
The first market implementation was in Malaysia, followed by Consolidation and restructuring of factories around the Group Australasia, while South Asia Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Pakistan continues to be undertaken responsibly and with care for affected went live with the new system on 1 January 2014. employees and local communities.
Our leading factories now serve multiple markets and produce wider ranges of products The programme will take a further three years to fully roll out across our brand portfolio.
They are managed through our worldwide, but the new model is already delivering benefits, above-market operations.
bringing with it a clear focus on how to do things better, faster and more effectively.
The next big milestone in the programme Were serious about supply chain security is planned for mid-2014 when the new operating model will be implemented across the rest of our Asia-Pacific region, with the Working alongside other international tobacco companies, we are exception of Indonesia.
developing new industry-wide supply chain security systems to guard against theft and the risk of our products falling into the hands of tobacco traffickers.
Digital coding technology helps governments ensure that all taxes and duties are paid on our products, while sophisticated identifiers on packs allow consumers and authorities tovalidate a products authenticity.
British American Tobacco 19 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Track and trace technology allows us to track the forward movement Investing in productivity of our products through our supply chain.
If a product is seized Still in its initial phase in 2013, our new global operating model by customs or enquired about by the authorities, we can trace it has already started to deliver benefits around cash and cost backwards and determine the point at which the product may have efficiencies.
As the roll-out continues in 2014 and 2015, we expect left the legitimate supply chain.
The successful implementation to see improvements in the way our people and business units of track and trace technology means that we can comply with a work globally.
Cooperation Agreement to fight illicit trade that the Group signed with the European Union in July 2010.
By realising further productivity savings from our supply chain, including indirect material procurement and overhead savings, Track and trace was implemented by our companies in Germany we can continue to release funds that the Group can invest in and Romania in 2013.
The system has now been implemented ourbrands, our product innovations and our key growth markets.
across our global travel retail business, five markets and four factories We can also invest in our people and their capabilities to ensure in three other countries.
We have a well-structured plan in place to theycan drive growth by enhancing the consumer experience.
deploy the system further, with the support and cooperation of our logistics suppliers.
Adjusted profit Cash generated from operations from operations Key performance at constant 6,041m 2,982m exchange rates indicators KPIs 7% 2013 6,041 2013 2,982 2012 5,641 2012 2,739 2011 2,996 Definition: This is the adjusted profit from Definition: Cash generated from operations operations of the Groups subsidiaries profit from is defined as the free cash flow excluding operations at constant rates adjusted for the items restructuring costs and dividends and other shown as memorandum information on the Group appropriations from associates, per the alternative Income Statement.
Target: The Groups medium to long-term target is Target: A specific target is set each year for the to grow adjusted profit from operations on average cashflow from operations.
The target for 2013 by 57% per year.
Note: Comparator has been restated.
Operating margin Free cash ow as a percentage of adjusted earnings Business 38.1% 82% measures 2013 38.1% 2013 82% 2012 37.1% 2012 81% 2011 35.5% 2011 86% Definition: This is the percentage of adjusted Definition: This measures our free cash flow per profit from operations divided by revenue.
share as aratio of the adjusted diluted earnings per share.
Objective: To increase operating margin by 50100 basis points per annum.
Objective: To convert around 80% of our adjusted earnings per share to free cash flow.
Note: Comparators have been restated.
British American Tobacco 20 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Delivering our strategy Local staff account for around 60% of employees on top teams Winning organisation around the world and diverse nationalities are widely represented across the business: Our reputation as a leading business helps us stand out in an increasingly competitive Nationalities represented Total international employment market.
Board level 7 We value the diversity of our employees and encourage enterprising behaviour.
Global headquarters 69 Management level 142 Our approach to diversity is important to our reputation as a business, too.
Societal and regulatory expectations are increasing especially around gender diversity.
In 2013, the proportion of women in all management roles across the organisation was 32%.
The table below sets out the gender breakdown within the British American Tobacco Group as at 31 December 2013, comparing numbers for all employees, our most senior managers and the Main Board: What we do Our aim is to maintain a high-performing organisation that % % can attract, develop and retain the next generation of leaders.
Total Male Female Male Female British American Tobacco is a great place to work, with great people Main Board 11 8 3 73% 27% and great teams who share this view.
They embrace our culture of Senior Managers 244 198 46 81% 19% personal ownership and value the opportunity to be entrepreneurial in a challenging business environment.
Total Group employees 57,730 43,875 13,855 76% 24% Our organisation in 2013 Senior Managers are defined here as the members of the Management Board excluding the Executive Directors and the directors of the Groups principal subsidiary undertakings.
We ran a major programme in 2013 to embed our updated vision The principal subsidiary undertakings, as set out in the Financial Statements, represented and strategy and this has seen our people embrace our Guiding approximately 84% of the Groups employees and contributed over 80% of Group revenue and profit from operations as at 31 December 2013.
These provide clarity about what we stand for and act as a compass to guide our behaviour.
Our Guiding Principles are Our progress on diversity in 2013 Enterprising Spirit, Freedom Through Responsibility, Open Minded and Strength From Diversity see page 11 for more information.
We made good progress towards our diversity ambition in 2013.
All of our leadership programmes now include diversity and Were committed to diversity we piloted a diversity workshop with our Management Board.
This workshop is being rolled out across our leadership teams.
For us, progress on diversity starts from the top and is driven by the Management Board.
Our leadership teams are committed We agreed diversity plans with our companies, and all functions and to fostering diversity and each of our business units is required regions now have diversity leads.
We have set expectations with to develop specific diversity plans, aligned to their priorities.
executive search firms to provide diverse candidate lists, and we Their progress against these plans is then reported back to the have actively sought and hired senior talent from diversity segments Management Board.
Our diversity ambition is to achieve by 2020 a sustainable We have established a womens network in some of our markets, improvement in senior representation of women and nationalities and in 2013 we also launched our Women in Leadership that are key to our success based on merit, and thereby better reflect programme, which focuses on career progression coaching the diversity of our consumers and customers in our employees, our forhigh-potential female employees.
culture and the way we operate.
We lead our industry on corporate behaviour We are committed to providing equal opportunities.
We do not discriminate when making decisions on hiring, promotion or We have clear policies that set the standard for the way we do retirement and we provide training and development for employees business.
They cover everything including employment, health and with disabilities.
safety, environment, fighting child labour and tobacco trafficking.
Our Business Principles and our Standards of Business Conduct set out what we require of our companies and our employees in terms Our diversity policies and approach are built around the following of responsible corporate behaviour and personal integrity.
key principles: We engage openly on regulatory issues and supporting evidenceWe make merit-based decisions our aim is to narrow the gap based regulation, and work with global partners to fight tobacco between the current situation and our diversity aspirations, without trafficking.
We support sound regulation that: compromising on talent and capabilities.
is consultative and shaped in collaboration with all stakeholders, We aim to build a diverse workforce, including but not limited to including the tobacco industry: gender and nationality diversity.
is based on robust evidence and thorough research: and We are committed to an inclusive culture that will tackle prejudice and promote understanding.
delivers its policy aims and recognises unintended consequences.
We ensure that there is a level playing field so that our people have equal opportunities to succeed and to advance their careers.
British American Tobacco 21 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Our approach to human rights Ongoing programmes to address the risks to our employees and contractors in the most challenging operating environments saw We recognise that we have a role in addressing human rights fatalities across our business reduced to six, from 12 in 2012. issues and we use our influence with our suppliers to improve We deeply regret this loss of life and the suffering caused to friends, conditions in our supply chain.
Our approach draws on the UN family and colleagues.
We have carried out detailed reviews Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Organisation for of each fatality to learn lessons and identify actions to prevent Economic Co-operation and Developments OECDs Guidelines similar incidents.
Employee engagement Human rights criteria are incorporated into our supply chain management programmes, in particular our SRTP programme.
British American Tobacco is committed to employee engagement Our suppliers are required to meet criteria on issues including throughout the business.
Employees are kept well informed of workers rights and child labour, and we incorporate human rights the strategy, performance and objectives of the Group through criteria into our framework agreements with global suppliers.
communication cascades at key points in the year, which involve We also require compliance with Group policy and local laws from video broadcasts from the Chief Executive, face-to-face presentations all of our companies.
Global, regional and local intranets, web-based meetings and presentations also provide important Weve always been industry leaders when it comes to addressing information, while feedback is encouraged through open forums exploitative child labour and were continually looking at new ways and Q&A sessions.
to help our suppliers prevent unethical work practices from taking hold.
We were also founding members of the Eliminating Child We carry out an employee opinion survey every two years to Labour in Tobacco Growing ECLT Foundation.
measure employee satisfaction and engagement.
The latest survey, in 2012, was translated into 48 languages and completed by We invest in the communities we work in 42,932 employees.
Our functions, regions and local companies around the world used feedback from the survey to address areas Our corporate social investment CSI activities include a range of forimprovement in 2013. community and charitable projects: providing people with training, education and opportunities to help them develop: promoting The survey also allows us to determine our overall employee activities that aim to enrich public and community life: and making engagement index score.
Broadly, this score combines employee meaningful contributions to local agriculture.
satisfaction with our employees attitudes towards recommending British American Tobacco as a place to work, their desire to stay Our global CSI expenditure in 2013 was 8.7 million with the organisation and their pride in working for us.
Our current 2012: 11.5 million as defined by the London Benchmarking employee engagement index score of 72% is ahead of the FMCG Groups criteria for charitable donations.
Were committed to health and safety Our Sharesave Scheme, our Partnership Share Scheme and our Were a diverse company, operating across a huge range of different Share Reward Scheme are open to all UK employees.
We also environments, from city offices to remote farms.
Our goal of zero operate several similar schemes for senior management in our accidents reflects our commitment to providing a safe place to work Group companies.
for all employees and contractors.
We achieved zero accidents at 72% of our reporting sites in 2013, up from 60% in 2012.
Developing our organisation We achieved a 15% reduction in the number of injuries in our We believe that a key factor in embedding our Guiding Principles factory operations as a result of an ongoing focus on safer working and fostering an inclusive culture will be driving ownership and conditions and behaviour.
However, there was an 11% increase in accountability across the organisation.
We want our people to act the total number of reported injuries across the Group, as a result of like owners in everything they do and take responsibility for their employing a higher number of sales and distribution personnel who actions and for the future success of the business.
are out on the road and so are exposed to more risks.
Managing diversity successfully means developing an inclusive environment, which values and harnesses the contributions of people with different backgrounds, experiences and perspectives.
We are committed to providing our employees with a wide range ofexperiences and skills to develop to their full potential.
Employee engagement index Business 72% measures BAT 72% FMCG Comparator Group 68% Definition: Results from our biennial Your Voice employee opinion survey, last carried out in 2012, enable us to calculate our employee engagement index a measure that reflects employee satisfaction, advocacy and pride in the organisation.
Objective: To achieve a more positive score than the norm for the fast moving consumer goods companies in our comparator benchmark group.
British American Tobacco 22 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Delivering our strategy Were investing in R&D Sustainability Our Group Research & Development R&D activities are focused on harm reduction, but they also develop new tobacco products Creating shared value is a priority for and innovative technologies.
They provide guidance on the use of us.
We do this by acting with integrity ingredients, too, to ensure our products comply with all countries throughout our supply chain and wherever legal requirements and our own Group standards.
our products are sold, as well as through our investment in harm reduction.
In 2013 we invested 161 million in Group R&D 2012: 171m, including marketing innovations and the tests and trials to create a new generation of tobacco and nicotine products.
Our principal R&D facilities are located in Southampton and Cambridge in the UKand at Cachoeirinha in Brazil.
Over the last five years weve published more than 100 peer reviewed research papers covering the science of harm reduction.
We also contributed to over 28 leading scientific conferences, workshops and events in 2013, and have contributed extensively to the work of the US Food and Drug Administration on tobacco What we do and nicotine product regulation.
We also publish details of our scientific research programmes on our science website, Our commitment to sustainability underpins our strategy and our www.
Our priority continues to be working towards reducing the health risks posed by tobacco products and making available a Were addressing our environmental impacts range of less risky tobacco and nicotine-based alternatives.
We work to ensure our supply chain is sustainable and we uphold the highest Reducing our environmental impacts is a key priority.
We monitor standards of corporate conduct and integrity in everything we do.
and reduce our direct impacts by making our operations more efficient.
We also seek to address our indirect impacts by choosing suppliers with strong environmental credentials and encouraging Creating shared value in 2013 our existing suppliers to improve their environmental performance.
In our industry it is particularly important that we act responsibly, demonstrate openness and build trust.
We do this by managing the We put particular effort into minimising our energy consumption impact of our operations and products responsibly.
This is backed and reducing our carbon footprint, and were proud that a number up by transparent and independently assured reporting, regular of our sites in the UK, Italy, Poland, Germany and the Netherlands, stakeholder engagement and sound governance procedures.
now meet 100% of their electricity needs from renewable sources.
We focus on the material issues for our business Greenhouse gas emissions We decide which issues are most material, or most important to Our long-term targets to cut gross carbon dioxide equivalent the business, by talking to our many different stakeholders, from CO e emissions by 50% by 2030 and by 80% by 2050 from our 2 shareholders and employees to consumers and suppliers.
year 2000 baseline are in line with UK Government targets and we have continued to make good progress.
We also have a five-year The issues raised are then used to develop a list of the topics that are milestone to reduce our gross CO e emissions by 46% by 2017.
2 most important to our stakeholders and have the greatest potential to impact the business.
They are grouped into three main areas: In 2013, we reviewed our CO e emissions factors, in line with best 2 practice and to meet new UK statutory reporting requirements harm reduction e-cigarettes, other nicotine inhalation devices, on greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
We also updated our 2000 safer cigarettes, heat-not-burn products, smokeless tobacco and baseline to take account of changes in reporting business travel.
our scientific research : sustainable agriculture supporting farmers, environmental Tonnes CO e per million cigarettes equivalent produced 2 impacts, human rights, labour standards and child labour : and corporate behaviour good corporate conduct, regulatory 2000 baseline 1.52 1.38 engagement, environment, health and safety, marketing practices, 2009 0.88 0.86 youth smoking prevention and tobacco trafficking.
2010 0.88 0.85 2011 0.84 0.81 Were serious about harm reduction 2012 0.84 0.81 Scientists agree its the toxicants in tobacco smoke that cause the 2013 0.83 overwhelming majority of smoking-related diseases, not the nicotine.
2017 target 0.82 0.78 So having a range of less risky nicotine-based alternatives for smokers 2030 target 0.76 0.69 can make a major contribution to public health.
2050 target 0.30 0.28 Note: Were recognised leaders when it comes to developing new To track performance consistently, our 2000 baseline, usage in previous years and our targets for products and in 2013 we became the first international tobacco 2017, 2030 and 2050 have been restated.
Previously reported gures are provided in brackets.
company to launch an e-cigarette, Vype, in the UK.
We are also at the forefront of developing a portfolio of less risky next-generation products, including new types of inhaled nicotine products and innovative heat-not-burn tobacco products.
Were working with scientists and regulators to promote this next generation of products and we would like to see tobacco harm reduction accepted as an important public heath objective.
British American Tobacco 23 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials We use the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard in defining our We market our products responsibly CO e reporting methodology, adopting an equity share approach 2 Our International Marketing Principles reflect current thinking to defining, consolidating and reporting our Scope 1 and Scope 2 in terms of marketing, technology, regulation and stakeholder CO e emissions.
They are standards that we place upon ourselves and often go far beyond what local laws require, especially around Emissions 2012 2013 underage smoking.
Scope 1 CO e emissions tonnes 362,779 358,723 2 We monitor compliance with our International Marketing Principles Scope 2 CO e emissions tonnes 408,290 389,242 2 through market audits and annual self-assessments, and we are Scope 3 CO e emissions tonnes 209,332 213,711 2 committed to 100% compliance across the Group.
Total tonnes 980,401 961,677 Our marketing of Vype, our e-cigarette brand, is aimed at adult Intensity per million cigarettes equivalent 0.84 0.83 consumers of nicotine products only.
All our e-cigarette packs, inserts and e-liquid refills have appropriate warnings, and are clearly labelled See www.
com sustainability data for further detail on our as being for those aged 18 or over.
reporting scope and reporting rules.
A sustainable future We protect biodiversity When we updated our Group strategy in 2013, we put a much Since 2001, we have been working in the BAT Biodiversity greater emphasis on sustainability.
Its about creating shared value Partnership with three major international conservation NGOs and making sure that what we do benefits not only our shareholders Fauna & Flora International, the Earthwatch Institute and the but also a wide group of stakeholders.
Tropical Biology Association to help protect the biodiversity in thelandscapes where we work.
We continue to tighten and refine our policies.
In 2014 we will publish our revised Standards of Business Conduct that will include Together, weve developed a biodiversity risk and opportunity clearer statements on human rights and anti-child labour.
We will assessment BROA, which we use to identify potential issues and also publish our consolidated policy on transparent lobbying on our impacts in tobacco farming landscapes, before working with other website, www.
The tool has been recognised by the UN Food and Agriculture Organization and the World Business Our transparent approach to scientific research will continue to Council for Sustainable Development as an approach that is help us develop new partnerships and collaborations between comprehensive enough to be used by any organisation operating scientists and the tobacco industry.
We hope this will lead to further inan agricultural landscape.
breakthroughs in the science of tobacco harm reduction.
Carbon dioxide equivalent Group energy use CO2e tonnes CO2e gigajoules per Business per million cigarettes million cigarettes 0.83 10.17 equivalent produced equivalent produced measures 45% 14% lower than 2000 baseline lower than 2007 baseline 2013 0.83 2013 10.17 2012 0.84 2012 10.29 2011 0.84 2011 10.31 Definition: We track Group CO2e in tonnes per Definition: We track Group energy use in gigajoules million cigarettes equivalent produced.
per million cigarettes equivalent produced.
Target: To reduce Group CO e by 50% by 2030 2 Target: To reduce energy use to 9.82 by 2017, from our restated 2000 baseline of 1.52 and by 17% lower than our 2007 baseline.
Note: Group energy use is the energy used by the Note: 2011 and 2012 figures have been restated, Group in its own operations, business travel and as we reviewed our CO e emissions factors in 2 freight.
We do not include energy used to produce 2013.
We also updated our 2000 baseline.
Water use cubic metres Recycling percentage per million cigarettes of waste recycled 3.65 equivalent produced 89.1% 25% lower than 2007 baseline 2013 3.65 2013 89.1 2012 3.76 2012 92.5 2011 3.89 2011 85.4 Definition: We track Group water use in cubic Definition: We track the total percentage of metres per million cigarettes equivalent produced.
Group waste re-used or recycled against total waste generated.
Objective: To reduce water use to 3.6 by 2017, 26% lower than our 2007 baseline.
Objective: To recycle more than 85% of waste generated in each year.
