British American Tobacco 105 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Other disclosures preliminary announcement until the close of business on 14 March Strategic report disclosures 2014, no removal requests between the UK main register and the Section 414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006 allows the Board to South Africa branch register in either direction are permitted.
include in the Strategic Report information that it considers to be Further, from the close of business on 7 March 2014 until the close of strategic importance that would otherwise need to be disclosed of business on 14 March 2014, no transfers between the UK main in the Directors Report.
The Board has chosen to take advantage register and the South Africa branch register are permitted and no of this provision and accordingly, the information set out below, shares may be dematerialised or rematerialised between 10 and which would otherwise be required to be contained in the Directors 14 March 2014, both days inclusive.
Report, has been included in the Strategic Report.
South Africa branch register: Dividends Taxinformation Information required Section in the in the Directors Report Strategic Report South Africa Dividends Tax of 261.47079 SA cents per ordinary share will be withheld from the gross final dividend paid to shareholders Certain risk information about the use of Financial review on the South Africa branch register at the rate of 15% unless a financial instruments shareholder qualifies for an exemption.
After Dividends Tax has An indication of likely future developments Delivering our strategy been withheld, the net dividend will be 1,481.66779 SA cents per in the business ofthe Group ordinary share.
An indication of the activities of the Group Delivering our in the field of research and development strategy: Sustainability The Company, as a South Africa non-resident, was not subject to the secondary tax on companies STC regime which used to A statement describing the Groups policy Delivering our operate before the introduction of Dividends Tax.
No STC credits regarding the hiring, continuing strategy: Winning are available for set-off against the Dividends Tax liability on the final employment and training, career organisation dividend which is regarded as a foreign dividend for the purposes development and promotion of of the South Africa Dividends Tax.
British American Tobacco p. l. c. disabled persons is registered with the South African Revenue Service SARS with tax Details of employee engagement: Delivering our reference number 9378193172. information, consultation, share scheme strategy: Winning participation and the achievement of a organisation Dividends Tax and the information provided above is only of direct common awareness of the financial and application to shareholders on the South Africa branch register.
economic factors affecting the Shareholders on the South Africa branch register should refer to performance ofthe Group Shareholder and contact information for the contact details of Computershare Investor Services Pty Ltd, the Companys registrar Disclosures concerning greenhouse Delivering our for the branch register.
gasemissions strategy: Sustainability Dividend information Dividends Further details of the total amounts of dividends paid in 2013 with2012 comparatives are given in note 8 on the accounts.
Final dividend recommendation The Board recommends to shareholders for approval at the Annual Annual General Meeting AGM General Meeting on 30 April 2014, a final dividend of 97.4p per ordinary share of 25p for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The AGM will be held at The Banqueting House, Whitehall, London SW1A 2ER at 11.30am on 30 April 2014.
Details of the business to Final dividend key dates and South Africa branch register be proposed at the meeting are contained in the Notice of AGM In compliance with the requirements of the London Stock Exchange which is sent to all shareholders and published on www.
LSE and Strate, the electronic settlement and custody system used The Company provides for the vote on each resolution to be by poll by the JSE Limited JSE, the following are the salient dates for the rather than by show of hands.
This provides for greater transparency payment of the final dividend: and allows the votes of all shareholders to be counted, including Event Date 2014 those cast by proxy.
The voting results are announced on the same day through the Regulatory News Service and on www.
Last day to trade LDT cum-dividend JSE 7 March Shares commence trading ex-dividend JSE 10 March Share capital Shares commence trading ex-dividend LSE 12 March As at 31 December 2013, the Company had an allotted and fully Record date JSE and LSE 14 March paid share capital of 2,026,456,406 ordinary shares of 25p each with Payment date 8 May an aggregate nominal value of 506.6 million including treasury shares and shares owned by the employee share trusts.
As the Group reports in sterling, dividends are declared and payable At the close of business on 25 February 2014 the latest practicable in sterling except for shareholders on the branch register in South date prior to the recommendation of the final dividend for the Africa whose dividends are payable in rand.
A rate of exchange year ended 31 December 2013, the Company had a total of of :R 17.89670 as at 25 February 2014 the closing rate for 1,887,026,281 ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares.
that date as quoted on Bloomberg, results in an equivalent final The Company held 139,516,345 ordinary shares in treasury giving dividend of 1,743.13858 SA cents per ordinary share.
From the atotal issued share capital of 2,026,542,626 ordinary shares.
commencement of trading on 27 February 2014 the date of the British American Tobacco 106 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Other disclosures continued Significant shareholders Purchase of own shares At 31 December 2013, the following substantial interests 3% or Share buy-back programme 2013 more in the Companys ordinary share capital voting securities The Board reinstated its on-market share buy-back programme on had been notified to the Company in accordance with section 5.1.
2 1 March 2013 following the Companys Preliminary Announcement of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules.
As at 26 February on 28 February 2013 and under the authority granted by 2014, the Company had not received notification either of any shareholders in 2012.
At the 2013 AGM, the Company was given change in the interests below or that any other person holds 3% authority to purchase up to 192,800,000 of its ordinary shares.
ormore of its ordinary shares.
The minimum price that may be paid for such shares is 25p and the maximum price is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the Number of % of issued middle market prices shown in the quotation for an ordinary share Name ordinary shares share capital as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for BlackRock, Inc. 132,891,526 7.04 the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Reinet Investments S. C. A.
76,518,264 4.06 ordinary share is contracted to be purchased.
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 67,664,399 3.59 During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Company made onmarket repurchases totalling 43,623,858 of its own ordinary shares, Note: representing 2.31% of the issued share capital excluding treasury The percentage of issued share capital excludes treasury shares.
shares as at 31 December 2013 and at a value of 1,500 million, excluding transaction costs.
In accordance with the Companys Stock market listings policy, all of these repurchased shares are held as treasury shares Premium listing and as at 31 December 2013 the number of treasury shares was The ordinary shares of the Company as British American Tobacco 139,516,345.
While treasury shares are held, no dividends are paid p. l. c. have been listed on the Official List and traded on the main on them and they have no voting rights.
Treasury shares may be market of the London Stock Exchange for listed securities since resold at a later date.
8 September 1998 Share Code: BATS and ISIN: GB0002875804.
Renewal of authority to purchase shares This is classified as a premium listing.
The share registrar is Computershare Investor Services plc.
The present authority for the Company to purchase its own shares will expire at the 2014 AGM, where it is proposed that the Secondary listing Companys authority to purchase its own shares is renewed.
This will The Companys ordinary shares have a secondary listing on the enable the share buy-back programme to continue for a further year.
JSE Limited in South Africa JSE, under the abbreviated name BATS In the opinion of the Directors, the exercise of this authority is likely and the trading code BTI.
As at 31 December 2013, 313,075,671 to result in an increase in the Companys earnings per share and will ordinary shares of the Company being 16.59% of the Companys be in the interests of its shareholders generally.
Further details are issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares were on contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which is sent to its South Africa branch register for which Computershare Investor all shareholders and is also published on www.
Services Pty Ltd are share registrars.
Significant agreements change of control American Depositary Receipts The following significant agreement contains certain termination The Companys ordinary shares are also traded on NYSE MKT in the and other rights for our counterparties upon a change of control form of American Depositary Receipts ADRs under the symbol BTI ofthe Company.
Each ADR represents two of the Companys ordinary shares and at 31 December 2013, 39,536,451 On 25 November 2010, the Company, B.
A. T. International Finance ADRs were outstanding, represented by 79,072,902 ordinary p. l. c. and British American Tobacco Holdings The Netherlands shares.
Citibank, N. A. continues to act as depositary for the ADR B. V. as borrowers and, in the case of the Company, as a borrower programme following a review of the ADR supplier and a renewal and guarantor entered into a revolving credit facility agreement oftheir agreement, negotiated in 2013. with HSBC Bank plc as agent and certain financial institutions as lenders pursuant to which the lenders agreed to make available The Company has unlisted trading privileges for the ADR to the borrowers 2 billion for general corporate purposes the programme and none of its securities are listed on any United States Facility.
Pursuant to the Facility, should a borrower other than securities exchange or registered pursuant to the securities laws of the Company cease to be a direct or indirect subsidiary of the the United States.
As a result, the Company is subject to neither Company, such borrower shall immediately repay any outstanding the NYSE MKT listing standards nor the corporate governance rules advances made to it.
Where there is a change of control in respect under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Nevertheless, the Board has of the Company, the lenders can require all amounts outstanding chosen, in the interests of good governance, to make a voluntary under the Facility to be repaid.
statement explaining the principal differences and common areas between the Companys corporate governance practices and those LTIP change of control that would be required if the Company were subject to those rules.
The rules of the 2007 LTIP provide that in the event of a change of The statement is available at www.
control of the Company as a result of a takeover, reconstruction or winding up of the Company not being an internal reorganisation, LTIP awards will become exercisable for a limited period based on British American Tobacco 107 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials the period of time which has elapsed since the date of the award Objects and purposes and the achievement of the performance conditions at that date, The Company is incorporated under the name of British American unless the Remuneration Committee determines this not to be Tobacco p. l. c. and is registered in England and Wales under appropriate in the circumstances.
In addition, the 2007 LTIP allows registered number 3407696.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the as an alternative to early release that participants may, if permitted, Companys objects are unrestricted.
exchange their LTIP awards for new awards of shares in the acquiring company on a comparable basis.
Directors: appointment and retirement The Companys Articles of Association provide for a Board of Directors interests and indemnities Directors, consisting unless otherwise determined by ordinary Further details of Directors contracts and letters of appointment, resolution of the shareholders of not fewer than five Directors, remuneration and emoluments, and their interests in the and not subject to any maximum.
Companys shares including share options and deferred shares The Directors and the Company by ordinary resolution may as at 31 December 2013 are given in the Remuneration Report.
appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a No Director had any material interest in a contract of significance vacancy or as an additional Director.
A Director appointed by the other than a service contract with the Company or any subsidiary Directors shall retire at the next AGM and will put himself herself company during the year.
forward to be reappointed by the shareholders.
Such a Director shall The Company has arranged appropriate insurance to provide cover not be taken into account in determining the number or identity of in the event of legal action against its Directors and also provides the Directors to retire by rotation at that next AGM.
indemnities to its Directors in accordance with the Companys At each AGM, all Directors shall retire from office by rotation who: Articles of Association and to the maximum extent permitted by law.
1 held office at the time of each of the two preceding AGMs As at the date of this report, such indemnities are in force covering and who did not retire at either of them: and 2 if the number of any costs, charges, expenses or liabilities that they may incur in or Directors retiring in 1 above is less than one-third of the Directors about the execution of their duties to the Company or to any entity who are subject to retirement by rotation or, if their number is not which is an associated company as defined in Section 256 of the three or a multiple of three, is less than the number which is nearest Companies Act 2006, or as a result of duties performed by them on to but does not exceed one-third of the Directors, such additional behalf of the Company or any such associated company.
number of Directors as shall, together with the Directors retiring under 1 above, equal one-third of the Directors or, if their number Information and advice is not three or a multiple of three, the number which is nearest to The Board and its Committees receive papers for review in good but does not exceed one-third of the Directors.
time ahead of each meeting.
The Company Secretary ensures good information flow within the Board and its Committees, and between Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act and the Articles the Non-Executive Directors and senior management.
She also of Association, the Directors to retire at an AGM under 2 above advises the Board on all governance matters.
will be those who have been in office the longest since their appointment or last reappointment.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, and a procedure is in place for them to take independent Notwithstanding these provisions contained in the Articles of professional advice at the Companys expense if required.
Each of Association, the Company is not restricted to the number of the four principal Committees of the Board may obtain independent Directors who may retire and seek re-election each year.
The Articles legal or other professional advice, at the Companys expense, and of Association merely set a minimum number of Directors who must secure attendance at meetings of outsiders if needed.
be subject to retirement by rotation each year.
As a result, since the introduction of the provision in the UK Corporate Governance Articles of Association Code in 2011 that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual re-election by shareholders, all of the Directors of The following description summarises certain provisions of the the Company will be subject to either election i. e. those Directors Companys current Articles of Association as adopted by special appointed by the Board of Directors during the year or re-election resolution at the AGM on 28 April 2010, applicable English law and at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 30 April 2014. the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act and the A Director who retires at an AGM and is not reappointed shall retain Companys Articles of Association, available on www.
office until the meeting elects someone in his place or, if it does not do so, until the conclusion of the meeting.
In addition to any power Share capital of removal under the Companies Act, the Company may, by special All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid and, accordingly, resolution, remove a Director before the expiration of his period of no further contribution of capital may be required by the Company office and, subject to the Articles of Association, may by ordinary from the holders of such shares.
resolution, appoint another person who is willing to act as a Director, and is permitted by law to do so, to be a Director instead of him.
A person so appointed shall be subject to retirement as if he had become a Director on the day on which the Director in whose place he is appointed was last appointed or reappointed a Director.
British American Tobacco 108 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Other disclosures continued Fees for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman shall be disregarding, for the purposes of this proviso: i any shares held determined by the Directors but shall not exceed in aggregate an by a Director as bare or custodian trustee and in which he has annual sum of 2,500,000, unless determined otherwise by ordinary no beneficial interest: ii any shares comprised in an authorised resolution of the shareholders.
The remuneration of the Executive unit trust scheme in which the Director is interested only as a unit Directors is determined by the Remuneration Committee which is holder: and iii any shares of that class held as treasury shares.
comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Company may by ordinary resolution suspend or relax to any Directors: meetings and voting extent, either generally or in respect of any particular matter, any provision of the Articles prohibiting a Director from voting at a The quorum for meetings of Directors is two Directors.
The Directors meeting of the Directors or of a committee of the Directors.
may delegate any of their powers that are conferred upon them under the Articles of Association to such person or committee as Directors: borrowing powers they consider appropriate.
Without prejudice to their general powers, the Directors may The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a Director exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to voting at a meeting of the Directors on any resolution concerning a mortgage or charge its undertaking, property, assets present and matter in which he has an interest other than by virtue of his interest future and uncalled capital or any part thereof, and subject to in shares in the Company.
However, in the absence of some other the provisions of the Articles of Association to issue debentures, interest not indicated below, a Director is entitled to vote and to debenture stock and other securities whether outright or as security be counted in a quorum for the purpose of any vote relating to a for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or a third party.
resolution concerning the following matters: Directors: interests 1. the giving to him of a guarantee, security or indemnity in respect Provided that the Director has disclosed to the other Directors of money lent to, or an obligation incurred by him for the benefit the nature and extent of any material interest of his, a Director, of, the Company or any of its subsidiaries: notwithstanding his office: 2. the giving to a third party of a guarantee, security or indemnity in 1. may be a party to, or otherwise interested in, any transaction or respect of an obligation of the Company or any of its subsidiaries arrangement with the Company or in which the Company is for which the Director has assumed responsibility in whole or otherwise interested: part and whether alone or jointly with others under a guarantee or indemnity or by the giving of security: 2. may be a Director or other officer of, or employed by or may be a party to, or otherwise interested in, any transaction 3. the giving to him of any other indemnity which is on substantially or arrangement with anybody corporate promoted by the the same terms as indemnities given, or to be given, to all of Company or in which the Company is otherwise interested: the other Directors and or to the funding by the Company of his expenditure on defending proceedings of the doing by the 3. shall not, by reason of his office, be accountable to the Company Company of anything to enable him to avoid incurring such for any benefit which he derives from any such office or expenditure where all other Directors have been given, or are to employment or from any such transaction or arrangement or be given, substantially the same arrangements: from any interest in any such body corporate: 4. any proposal concerning the purchase of Directors and officers 4. shall not infringe his duty to avoid a situation in which he has, liability insurance: or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company as a result of 5. any proposal concerning his being, or intending to become, a any such office or employment or from any such transaction or participant in the underwriting or sub-underwriting of an offer of arrangement or from any interest in any such body corporate: any such shares, debentures or other securities for subscription, purchase or exchange: 5. shall not be required to disclose to the Company, or use in performing his duties as a Director of the Company, any 6. any arrangements which relate in any way to a retirement confidential information relating to such office or employment benefits scheme or any arrangement for the benefit of the if to make such a disclosure or use would result in a breach of employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries including duty or obligation of confidence owed by him in relation to or in but without being limited to an employees share scheme, which connection with that office or employment: does not accord to any Director any privilege or advantage not generally accorded to the employees and or former employees to 6. may absent himself from discussions and exclude himself from whom the arrangement relates: and information, which will or may relate to that office, employment, transaction, arrangement or interest: and 7. any transaction or arrangement with any other company, being a company in which the Director is interested only as an officer, 7. no such transaction or arrangement will be liable to be avoided creditor or shareholder, provided that he is not the holder of or because of any such interest or benefit.
beneficially interested in 1% or more of the equity share capital of that company or of any other company through which his For the purposes of the Articles, a general notice given to the interest is derived and not entitled to exercise 1% or more of Directors that he is to be regarded as having an interest of the nature the voting rights available to members of the relevant company and extent specified in the notice in any transaction or arrangement British American Tobacco 109 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials in which a specified person or class of persons is interested is 3. a Director shall not, by reason of his office as a Director of the deemed to be a disclosure that the Director has an interest in any Company, be accountable to the Company for any benefit which such transaction of the nature and extent so specified.
he derives from such matter, office, employment or position.
An interest of which a Director has no knowledge and of which it is Dividend rights unreasonable to expect him to have knowledge is not treated as an Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may, by ordinary interest: an interest which consists of a Director being a Director or resolution, declare dividends but may not declare dividends in other officer of, or employed by any subsidiary of the Company is excess of the amount recommended by the Directors.
The Directors not deemed to be a material interest: a Director need not disclose may also pay interim dividends if it appears that such dividends are aninterest if it cannot be reasonably regarded as likely to give rise to justified by the profits available for distribution.
No dividend shall be a conflict of interest: and a Director need not disclose an interest if, paid otherwise than out of profits available as specified under the or to the extent that, the other Directors are already aware of it.
provisions of the Companies Act.
A Director will no longer be regarded as having an interest in a The Directors may, with the sanction of an ordinary resolution of transaction by virtue of a person connected to the Director having a the shareholders, offer any holders of ordinary shares the right to relevant interest.
However, the Director and the Company must still elect to receive ordinary shares credited as fully paid instead of take a view each time a matter is being considered as to whether the cash in respect of the whole or part of all such dividends as may interests of the Directors connected persons mean that a Director be specified by the resolution.
Any general meeting declaring a should be treated as interested in a transaction.
dividend may, upon the recommendation of the Directors, direct payment or satisfaction of such dividend to be wholly or partly by The Directors may subject to such terms and conditions, if any, as the distribution of specific assets.
Where difficulty arises in regard they may think fit to impose from time to time, and subject always to distribution, the Directors may ignore fractions or issue fractional to their right to vary or terminate such authorisation authorise, to certificates, fix the value for distribution of any assets and may the fullest extent permitted by law: determine that cash shall be paid to any shareholder in order to adjust the rights of such members.
1. any matter which would otherwise result in a Director infringing his duty to avoid a situation in which he has, or can have, a direct Any dividend which has been unclaimed for 12 years from the or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with date it became due for payment shall, if the Directors so resolve, be theinterests of the Company and which may reasonably be forfeited and cease to be owed by the Company.
The Company can regarded as likely to give rise to a conflict of interest including cease sending dividend warrants and cheques by post or otherwise aconflict of interest and duty or conflict of duties : if these have been returned undelivered to, or left uncashed by, the shareholder on at least two consecutive occasions, or, if following 2. a Director to accept or continue in any office, employment or one such occasion, reasonable enquiries have failed to establish the position in addition to his office as a Director of the Company members new address.
No dividend shall bear interest against the and may authorise the manner in which a conflict of interest Company, unless provided by the rights attached to the share.
arising out of such office, employment or position may be dealt with, either before or at the time that such a conflict of interest The Directors may elect to pay dividends to shareholders by bank or arises, provided that the authorisation is only effective if: a electronic transfer only.
Amounts due to shareholders who provide any requirement as to the quorum at the meeting at which the no, or invalid, account details may be held in an account in the matter is considered is met without counting the Director in Companys name until such shareholders nominate a valid account.
question or any other interested Director: and b the matter was The Company shall not be a trustee of any such monies, shall be agreed to without their voting or would have been agreed to if deemed to have discharged its payment obligations by paying the their votes had not been counted.
relevant monies into such account and interest will not accrue for shareholders on any such monies pending payment to such persons.
If a matter, or office, employment or position, has been authorised by the Directors then subject to such terms and conditions, if any, Voting rights as the Directors think fit to impose, and subject to their right to vary or terminate such authorisation or the permissions set out below : Voting at any general meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands unless a poll is demanded.
On a show of hands, every shareholder 1. the Director shall not be required to disclose any confidential who is present in person at a general meeting has one vote information relating to such matter, or such office, employment regardless of the number of shares held by the shareholder.
or position, to the Company if to make such a disclosure would result in a breach of a duty or obligation of confidence owed by Every proxy appointed by a shareholder and present at a general him in relation to or in connection with that matter, or that office, meeting has one vote, except that if the proxy has been duly employment or position: appointed by more than one shareholder entitled to vote on the resolution and is instructed by one or more of those shareholders to 2. the Director may absent himself from discussions, whether in vote for the resolution and by one or more others to vote against it, meetings of the Directors or otherwise, and exclude himself from or is instructed by one or more of those shareholders to vote in one information which will or may relate to that matter, or that office, way and is given discretion as to how to vote by one or more others employment or position: and and wishes to use that discretion to vote in the other way he has one vote for and one vote against the resolution.
British American Tobacco 110 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Other disclosures continued On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy a share in certificated form which is not fully paid, provided that has one vote for every share held by the shareholder.
A shareholder such a refusal would not prevent dealings in shares in certificated or his duly appointed proxy entitled to more than one vote need form which are not fully paid from taking place on a proper basis.
not use all his votes or cast all the votes he uses in the same way.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in A poll may be demanded by any of the following: certificated form whether fully paid or not unless the instrument of transfer: 1. the Chairman of the meeting: 1. is lodged, duly stamped, and is deposited at the registered office of the Company or such other place as the Directors may appoint 2. the Directors: and is accompanied by a certificate for the shares to which it 3. not less than five shareholders having the right to vote at relates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably the meeting: require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: 4. a shareholder or shareholders representing not less than one- 2. is in respect of only one class of share: and tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders having the right 3. is in favour of not more than four transferees.
to vote at the meeting excluding any voting rights attached to treasury shares : or For uncertificated shares, transfers shall be registered only in accordance with the terms of the Uncertificated Securities 5. a shareholder or shareholders holding shares which confer a right Regulations 2001 so that Directors may refuse to register a transfer to vote on the resolution at the meeting being shares on which which would require shares to be held jointly by more than an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than onefour persons.
tenth of the total sum paid up on all shares conferring that right excluding any voting rights attached to treasury shares.
If the Directors refuse to register a share transfer, they must give the transferee notice of this refusal as soon as practicable and in Matters are transacted at general meetings of the Company by the any event within two months of the instrument of transfer being proposing and passing of two kinds of resolutions: lodged with the Company.
No fees may be charged for registering 1. ordinary resolutions, which can include resolutions for the a transfer.
appointment, reappointment and removal of Directors, the Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares receiving of the Annual Report, the declaration of final dividends, the appointment and reappointment of the external auditor, the While holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under authority for the Company to purchase its own shares and the the Articles of Association, the ability of the Directors to cause grant of authority to allot shares: and the Company to issue shares, securities convertible into shares or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an employee share 2. special resolutions, which can include resolutions amending the scheme, is restricted.
Under the Companies Act, the Directors of a Companys Articles of Association and resolutions relating to company are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity certain matters concerning a winding-up of the Company.
securities without express authorisation, which may be contained in a companys Articles of Association or given by its shareholders in An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a simple a general meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more majority of the votes cast at a meeting at which there is a quorum in than five years.
Under the Companies Act, a company may also not order to be passed.
Special resolutions require the affirmative vote of allot shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to an employee share not less than three-quarters of the votes cast at a meeting at which scheme without first making an offer to existing shareholders to there is a quorum in order to be passed.
The necessary quorum for a allot such shares to them on the same or more favourable terms in meeting of the Company is a minimum of two shareholders present proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement in person or by proxy or by a duly authorised representative s of a is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders.
corporation which is a shareholder and entitled to vote.
Alteration of share capital When convening a meeting the Company may specify a time not The Company may, from time to time, by ordinary resolution: more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting excluding any part of a day that is not a working day by which a person must be 1. consolidate and divide all or any of its shares into shares of a entered on the register of members in order to have the right to larger amount than its existing shares: attend or vote at the meeting.
2. sub-divide any of its shares into shares of smaller amount than Winding-up itsexisting shares: and If the Company is wound up, the liquidator may, with the sanction 3. determine that, as between the shares resulting from such a of a special resolution and any other sanction required by law, sub-division, any of them may have any preference or advantage subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, divide among the as compared with the others.
shareholders the whole or any part of the assets of the Company, and may, for that purpose, value any assets and determine how the Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act: division is to take place as between the shareholders or different classes of shareholders.
Alternatively, with the same sanction, the 1. the Company may reduce its share capital, its capital redemption liquidator may vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees reserve and any share premium account in any way: and upon trusts for the benefit of the shareholders, but no shareholder will be compelled to accept any asset upon which there is a liability.
2. the Company may purchase its own shares, including redeemable shares, and may hold such shares as treasury shares Transfer of shares or cancel them.
Shares may be transferred by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the Directors may approve and shall be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and, where the share is not fully paid, by or on behalf of the transferee.
The Directors can, in their absolute discretion, refuse to register the transfer of British American Tobacco 111 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares Variation of rights There are no provisions in the Articles of Association whereby If the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of persons acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage shares, the rights attached to any class of shares may only be of the Companys shares are required to make disclosure of their varied, either in such a manner as provided by those rights or in ownership percentage, although there are such requirements under the absence of any provision, with the consent in writing of threestatute and regulation.
The basic disclosure requirement under quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or with Part6 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and Rule 5 the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the Disclosure Rules and the Transparency Rules made by the of holders of such shares.
At any separate meeting, the necessary Financial Conduct Authority imposes a statutory obligation on a quorum is two persons together holding or representing by proxy person to notify the Company and the Financial Conduct Authority at least one-third in nominal amount of the issued shares of the of the percentage of the voting rights in the Company he directly or class but at an adjourned meeting shall be any one person holding indirectly holds or controls, or has rights over, through his direct or shares of the class or his proxy.
Unless otherwise expressly provided indirect holding of certain financial instruments, if the percentage of by the rights attached to any shares, those rights shall be deemed those voting rights: to be varied by the reduction of the capital paid up on those shares and by the creation or issue of further shares ranking in priority for 1. reaches, exceeds or falls below 3% and or any subsequent whole payment of a dividend or in respect of capital or which confer on percentage figure as a result of an acquisition or disposal of shares the holders voting rights more favourable than those conferred by or financial instruments: or the first-mentioned shares, but shall not otherwise be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu 2. reaches, exceeds or falls below any such threshold as a result of with them or subsequent to them.
any change in the number of voting rights attached to shares in the Company.
Repurchase of shares Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company The Disclosure Rules and the Transparency Rules set out in detail the may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Act.
circumstances in which an obligation of disclosure will arise, as well Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury as certain exemptions from those obligations for specified persons.
shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Under Section 793 of the Companies Act, the Company may, by Companys issued share capital.
There is no longer a requirement for notice in writing, require a person that the Company knows or public companies to have specific authorisations in their articles of has reasonable cause to believe is or was during the three years association to undertake these actions.
preceding the date of notice interested in the Companys shares, to indicate whether or not that is the case and, if that person does The Strategic Report and the Directors Report comprised in this or did hold an interest in the Companys shares, to provide certain Annual Report have been approved and are signed by order of the information as set out in that Act.
The Disclosure Rules and the Board by: Transparency Rules further deal with the disclosure by persons of interests in shares or debentures of the companies of which they are Nicola Snook Directors and certain associated companies.
Secretary 26 February 2014 The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also imposes strict disclosure requirements with regard to dealings in the securities of British American Tobacco p. l. c. an offeror or offeree company on all parties to a takeover and also Registered in England and Wales No.
3407696 on their respective associates during the course of an offer period.
General meetings and notices An AGM and all other general meetings of the Company must be called by at least 21 clear days written notice.
However, the Companies Act allows for this period of notice for meetings other than AGMs to be reduced to 14 clear days notice provided that two conditions are met: 1 a company must allow shareholders to make proxy appointments via a website such as that hosted by its share registrars : and 2 shareholders must pass a special resolution at the AGM every year approving that shortening of the notice period to 14 days.
A special resolution enabling the Company to hold general meetings other than AGMs on 14 days notice will be proposed at the AGM to be held on 30 April 2014.
Subject to the resolution being passed, the approval of the shortening of the notice period will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that the approval be renewed.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine.
Rather the Directors will consider on a case-by-case basis whether the use of the flexibility offered by the shorter notice period is merited, taking into account the circumstances, including whether the business of the meeting is time sensitive, and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Further, the shorter notice period would not be used unless both of the conditions as stated above are met.
