British American Tobacco 08 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Industry trends Global cigarette market Tobacco litigation 1 Globally, around 6,000 billion cigarettes are sold each year.
There are a number of different types of claim that have been The four biggest international tobacco companies British American brought against the tobacco industry over the past few decades.
Tobacco, Imperial Tobacco, Japan Tobacco and Philip Morris The three most common are third-party reimbursement cases, International account for some 45% of the global market, which is class actions and individual lawsuits.
In some cases, the plaintiff or around 75% of the market outside China.
plaintiffs may seek to recover what are known as punitive damages in addition to compensatory damages.
China is the biggest single tobacco market, with some 350 million smokers who account for more than 40% of global consumption.
In the US and Canada, several special factors lead to litigation that The state-owned China National Tobacco Corporation CNTC is the are not replicated in other countries, which is why large volume worlds largest tobacco company.
and high value litigation has largely not spread to other parts of the world.
Growth in tobacco and beyond Tobacco companies worldwide continue to defend themselves The value of the global tobacco market is estimated at 1 against litigation, drawing confidence from the industrys 450500 billion.
While cigarette volumes in developed countries exceptionally good record.
continue to decline year on year, the overall value of the tobacco market continues to grow.
Longer-term trends will see fewer smokers as a percentage of the population, but we believe that global population growth, consumer The global tobacco industry demand for premium and innovative tobacco products, and emerging next-generation product categories will provide strong contributes substantially to growth opportunities in the years to come.
the economies of more than Tobaccos economic contribution The global tobacco industry contributes substantially to the 100 countries, and millions economies of more than 100 countries, and millions of people worldwide depend on it for employment.
Even in countries that do of people worldwide depend not have tobacco manufacturing or leaf growing, tobacco retail and distribution is an important source of economic activity.
Tobacco taxes are a major source of revenue for almost every government in the world and have been an especially important Regulating the tobacco market source of funds during difficult economic conditions in recent years.
It is estimated that governments worldwide collect around Much of the tobacco regulation being proposed and introduced 150 billion in excise on the sale of tobacco products each year.
around the world is driven by the World Health Organizations Framework Convention on Tobacco Control.
However, excessive British American Tobacco alone contributed more than 33 billion to regulation can have unintended consequences.
governments in excise and other taxes in 2013 thats eight times the Groups profit after tax.
Measures such as sudden increases in excise can distort competition among tobacco companies and often result in consumers switching The choice to grow tobacco to cheaper, illegally trafficked products.
Where evidence-based Less than 1% of the worlds agricultural land is used for tobacco regulation of the tobacco industry is developed with all stakeholders farming and only for part of the year, yet it is an important involved including the industry itself it can help to ensure an contributor to the agricultural economy in many countries.
orderly marketplace that serves the interests of both consumers Farmers choose to grow tobacco because its hardy, does well and governments.
in poorer soils, can cope with volatile weather and is known for Australia is the only country to have introduced plain packaging.
Since it was introduced in December 2012 there has been no To help farmers make better use of their land and to help ensure real evidence that plain packaging has achieved its aims of the long-term sustainability of our leaf supply, at British American reducing consumption or been effective in preventing youth Tobacco weve built up a skilled network of local field technicians.
What we have seen is an increase in the illegal market.
They visit farmers and show them how to improve their tobacco Plain packaging also breaches intellectual property rights and yields from small plots, while using the rest of their land to grow international trade agreements.
The governments of Ukraine, Cuba, other crops such as maize, cereals, fruit and vegetables.
Honduras, the Dominican Republic and Indonesia are challenging Australias plain packaging laws at the World Trade Organization.
British American Tobacco 09 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Tobacco trafficking The case for next-generation products The illegal market in tobacco products accounts for up to Scientists widely agree that it is the toxicants in tobacco smoke, 2 660 billion cigarettes every year globally, depriving governments of notthe nicotine, that causes the overwhelming majority of around 30 billion in legitimate taxes.
This illegal trade is also a huge smoking-related diseases.
Conventional cigarettes carry the competitor for the legal tobacco industry itself, and takes away a mostrisks to health, while some forms of low-toxicant smokeless significant amount of legitimate business each year.
The profits often tobacco products, although not risk-free, are much less risky.
end up in the hands of criminals who dont pay tax and sell their Regulatory-approved nicotine products that contain no tobacco products to anyone, including children.
orsmoke toxicants are almost risk-free.
Tobacco trafficking also has a negative impact on consumers, The development and bringing to market of a range of products retailers and regulators.
Counterfeit cigarettes mean no quality that meet the needs of adult smokers seeking safer alternatives to controls and no health warnings, while smuggled genuine cigarettes, would help to meet the objectives of many leading public products are unlikely to carry health warnings that meet local health professionals.
It would also make good commercial sense to government regulations.
The industry has worked together on initiatives across the whole At British American Tobacco, our aim is to improve e-cigarettes supply chain that are designed to stop criminals.
These include and other nicotine products to make them more satisfying for technological developments such as digital coding and tax consumers.
Our experience and capabilities also mean we can make verification, which help governments ensure taxes and duties are improvements in areas such as product quality.
While for regulators paid, and a track and trace system, which means we can monitor and governments, endorsing less risky, alternative products could the movement of our products.
be a positive move towards making tobacco harm reduction a key public health policy objective.
These measures will be most effective if the industry, regulators and enforcement authorities work together, supported by appropriate excise policies, sound regulation and effective enforcement.
The choice between the legal tobacco industry and the illegal market Harm reduction Responsible Products highly We paid more Fair treatment of Our world is core to our marketing aimed regulated and than 33 billion farmers, suppliers responsible, open business strategy only at existing we have strict to governments and employees.
andtransparent and we invested adult smokers and quality and globally in excise We also provide 161 million in a global approach safetystandards.
andother taxes direct agronomy 2013 in research to youth smoking in2013.
support to over and development.
18 The world of the No contribution to Active marketing Poor quality Large-scale Poor working illegal tobacco market harm reduction.
and selling of products with taxevasion.
standards, tobacco products no regulation or financial security tochildren.
standards and and negotiating potentially higher powers for farmers health risks than and workers legal cigarettes.
Source: Euromonitor International and our internal estimates.
