British American Tobacco 10 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Our vision and strategy Delivering shareholder value We adopted a new vision in 2013 and enhanced our strategy to better reflect the evolving needs of consumers.
These have been embedded across our business and they help us create long-term value for our shareholders and a wide group of stakeholders.
Our strategy Our strategy enables our business to deliver growth today, while ensuring we generate the funds to invest in our future.
Tobacco remains at the core of our business and will continue to provide us with opportunities for growth.
Our vision lies at the heart of our strategy and underlines the importance of grasping new opportunities intobacco and beyond.
Our strategy defines our mission and, through our Guiding Principles, it also guides our behaviours and activities, helping usto maintain a sustainable approach that will guarantee our future as a 21st century tobacco business.
Satisfying consumer moments In tobacco and beyond Our vision We believe that by being the worlds The second part of our vision tobacco Worlds best at satisfying best at satisfying consumer moments, and beyond recognises the strength consumer moments in well become the leader in our industry.
of our traditional tobacco business and Consumers are at the core of everything addresses the emerging opportunities we tobacco and beyond.
we do and our success depends on see in next-generation products.
There is a addressing their evolving concerns, great potential business opportunity here needsand behaviours.
with emerging product categories in which we are uniquely placedto succeed.
British American Tobacco 11 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Champion informed consumer choice Deliver our commitments to society Our mission We need to continue to ensure that As society changes, and peoples priorities Delivering our commitments our consumers are fully informed about and needs shift, we need to be ready to to society, while championing the choices they are making when meet new challenges and take advantage they purchase our tobacco products.
We are a major informed consumer choice.
We recognise that we have a responsibility international business and with this to offer a choice of products across status comes responsibilities, from being the risk spectrum, but we will also defend open about the risks of our products, their rights to choose and provide them to supporting rural communities in the with the products they want.
Growth Winning organisation Strategic focus areas Understanding and delivering Great people, great teams, The foundations upon which our strategy enjoyableconsumer moments.
is built have been in place for many years, but we continue to refocus our activities Productivity Sustainability in all four areas and constantly review Effectively deploying resources to Ensuring a sustainable business that ourways of working.
See Delivering our strategy on pages 1523 Enterprising spirit Freedom through responsibility Guiding Principles We value enterprise from all of our We give our people the freedom to operate Our Guiding Principles provide clarity employees across the world, giving us a in their local environment, providing them about what we stand for.
They form the great breadth of ideas and viewpoints to with the benefits of our scale but the ability core of our culture and guide the delivery enhance the way we do business.
We have to succeed locally.
We always strive to do of our strategy.
the confidence to passionately pursue the right thing, exercising our responsibility growth and new opportunities while to society and other stakeholders.
We use accepting the considered entrepreneurial our freedom to take decisions and act in risk that comes with it.
We are bold and the best interest of consumers.
This is the cornerstone of our success.
Open minded Strength from diversity Our corporate culture is a great strength We employ people from more than of the business and one of the reasons 150nations, giving us unique insights into we have been and will continue to be local markets and enhancing our ability successful.
We are forward looking and to compete across the world.
We respect anticipate consumer needs, winning and celebrate each others differences with innovative, high-quality products.
We harness We listen to and genuinely consider diversity of our people, cultures, other perspectives and changing social viewpoints, brands, markets and ideas expectations.
We are open to new ways tostrengthen our business.
whatmakes each of us unique.
