Business review Regulatory landscape and market trends Regulatory reforms are being implemented Well positioned across the globe and the competitive landscape is changing in response.
New trends are to benefit from emerging as banks adjust to meet more stringent capital and liquidity requirements, standardised derivatives are pushed towards the changing electronic trading and the role of post trade and risk mitigation services becomes more crucial.
market landscape ICAP has the scale and diversity to succeed in this new environment.
Much of ICAPs business is unaffected by the forthcoming regulatory reform and in some areas, for example bank deleveraging, the impact of regulatory reform has already been felt.
In our post trade and risk mitigation businesses we are confident there are significant opportunities for growth.
Basel III Higher regulatory capital requirements and tighter liquidity constraints are driving banks to restructure their balance sheets.
This deleveraging has already had an impact with US bank holdings of corporate bonds 80% below peak levels.
The revenue from Global Broking, excluding commodities, has fallen by approximately 35% since 2008 09.
Although there may be further bank deleveraging ahead of Basel III, we believe this has now largely taken place and going forward there will be an increase in the size of the broker exchange intermediated part of the derivatives markets as the level of internalisation of ows by banks declines signicantly.
Our strategy in action ICAP launches i-Swap in the US Driven by the new regulatory landscape, trading in IRS is moving progressively electronic.
In February 2013, ICAP launched i-Swap in the US for the electronic trading of US dollar IRS, building on the success of the award winning i-Swap euro platform.
i-Swap is becoming an increasingly important part of the market infrastructure, providing a cost-efficient and transparent electronic trading venue for customers.
The i-Swap US dollar platform provides new levels of transparency with a full audit trail and marks a significant milestone in the development of the wholesale financial markets.
Market participants will benefit from using i-Swap in the US through reduced operational risk, lower costs and greater execution options.
ICAP plc 14 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information solutions of specic durations.
We expect an increase in electronic Electronic markets trading in the benchmark points with a relatively large off-the-run ICAP is the leading provider of spot FX and xed income electronic brokered market in other durations where there is insufficient markets through EBS and BrokerTec and these cash products remain liquidity to support screen trading.
US Treasuries is a prime example largely outside the scope of the Dodd-Frank Act.
of a major financial product which has longstanding electronic The regulatory push towards more transparent, automated markets but where ICAP also has an extremely successful broker execution and clearing in derivatives markets is a positive driver for franchise in off-the-run issues.
By innovating and leveraging our existing electronic As an executing broker, ICAP has recently signicantly expanded platforms and connectivity we are better positioned than our its financial futures broking business and, in markets such as US traditional competitors.
The move to electronic trading is likely to energy where business has shifted from swaps towards futures, result in new competitors in many asset classes.
We believe, however, it has transitioned to being a block futures broker.
that the requirement under US regulation that certain derivatives must be traded on SEFs or exchanges will result in a fall in the level ICAPs ISDX is one of only six RIEs in the UK.
ISDX is currently of internalisation by banks in these markets.
This could result in a focused on strengthening its Growth Market for small and mid-cap greater share of overall ows going through market infrastructure companies.
In the future it could be used to launch new derivatives providers such as ICAP.
contracts leveraging off ICAPs substantial existing electronic and derivatives expertise.
In interest rate derivatives ICAPs market-leading electronic i-Swap platform has already gained traction in euro IRS.
We have recently Risk mitigation launched electronic trading of US dollar IRS with a planned roll-out in Regulators are increasingly focused on the need for rms to improve additional currencies over the coming months.
In FX we are able to their management of risk measures such as portfolio reconciliation leverage the unique distribution of EBS as NDF and forwards markets and OTC derivative trade compression.
ICAP is the leading provider of move increasingly electronic.
Our equities and energy businesses post trade risk and information services and we have seen increasing already exist in an exchange-traded environment servicing customers demand from customers who are seeking to comply with these new in block futures and less liquid bespoke swaps.
We expect the demand for risk mitigation services to grow across a broader range of financial institutions.
Swaps versus futures In October 2012, the US energy markets saw a shift from swaps into Financial transactions tax futures.
We believe, however, that the primary driver of futurisation In the EU, eleven Member States have provisionally agreed to in the energy swaps market was the stricter reporting requirement introduce a financial transactions tax FTT.
As proposed, this would for Major Swap Participants MSP under CFTC rules.
Many energy have a very damaging effect on the cost of funding for governments companies were reluctant to register as MSPs, while uncertainty and corporates, particularly those in the FTT zone.
There could also remains around the cross-border application of many of the be negative consequences for financial stability.
As part of ongoing efforts to contribute to the regulatory debate, in Given the lower margin requirement that US regulation has prescribed April 2013 ICAP published an analysis of the potential impact of the for futures versus swaps, there is the possibility that other asset FTT.
This concluded that the FTT as proposed would increase funding classes will move to futures.
For ICAP, the futurisation debate is most costs for government and corporates, in particular those in the FTT relevant to IRS.
The European IRS market is larger than its US zone, and have a negative effect on financial stability.
Read the paper counterpart and European regulation is more nuanced in its approach at www.
We therefore expect less divergence in margin requirements in Europe across swaps and futures.
i-Swap has already Negotiations are ongoing and, while at this stage the outcome is gained significant traction in euro IRS and has a shareholder base uncertain, we are hopeful that, if introduced, the FTT would be which includes leading banks.
Moreover IRS markets also have a designed in such a way as to mitigate any detrimental impact.
higher proportion of end-user customers that need bespoke hedging ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 15
