Governance Directors proles Charles Gregson Non-executive Chairman, A highly appointed in 2001.
Chairman of the Governance and experienced Nomination Committees.
team Skills and experience Between 1978 and 1998 Charles Gregson was responsible for the Garban businesses The Group is led by an experienced board that demerged from United Business Media plc in 1998 and then merged with Intercapital in 1999 to form ICAP.
He was previously chief executive of PR Newswire of directors consisting of a non-executive Association Inc and served on the boards of United Business Media plc, Provident Financial plc, MAI plc and International Personal Finance plc.
Charles holds a degree Chairman, the Group Chief Executive Officer, in History and Law from Cambridge University and qualied as a solicitor.
two further executive directors and four Other appointments Charles is the non-executive chairman of CPP Group Plc and St Jamess Place plc.
He is a non-executive director of Caledonia Investments plc.
Michael Spencer Group Chief Executive Officer, appointed in 1999.
Member of the Governance and Nomination Committees.
Skills and experience Michael Spencer was the founder of Intercapital in 1986 and became Chairman and Chief Executive in October 1998, following the Exco Intercapital merger.
Michael, together with IPGL and its subsidiary companies, is a substantial shareholder in the Company.
He is chairman of the GEMG.
He holds a degree in Physics from Oxford University.
Other appointments Michael is chairman of IPGL and he is on the boards of many of IPGLs investments.
He is the senior independent director of Tungsten Corporation plc and a director of Bordeaux Index Ltd. Michael is the chairman of The Conservative Party Foundation Ltd. John Nixon Group Executive Director, Americas, appointed in 2008.
Skills and experience John Nixon represents the ICAP Americas businesses to the board.
He has joint management oversight and responsibility for ICAPs xed income Electronic Broking business and is chairman of the i-Swap business.
Prior to his appointment to the board in 2008, John had served from 1998 to 2002 as a non-executive director.
He has been a member of the GEMG since 2003 when he had responsibility for strategic acquisitions.
John was previously the Chief Executive Officer of Tullett and Tokyo Forex, now part of Tullett Prebon, where he worked from 1978 to 1997 in Toronto, London and New York.
John holds a degree in Commerce from Queens University, Ontario.
ICAP plc 48 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Iain Torrens John Sievwright Group Finance Director, Senior independent direc cto tor r, appointed in 2010. appointed to the board Member of the in 2009.
Chairman of the Audit an n n nd R d d Riisk sk Committees and a memb b b be er o r of f the Governance and Nomination Committees.
s. Skills and experience Skills and experience Iain Torrens joined ICAP in 2006 as Group treasurer and became Group financial John Sievwright was Chief Operating Officer, International, for Bank of America Merrill controller in 2008.
Before joining ICAP, he worked in a number of senior financial roles Lynch formerly Merrill Lynch, based in New York, Tokyo and London.
He has also held for CP Ships Limited and Cookson Group plc.
Iain is responsible for the Groups finance, a number of other senior positions at Merrill Lynch, including Chief Operating Officer, company secretarial, investor relations, compliance, business services and human Global Markets and Investment Banking, Head of Global Futures and Options and Chief resources functions.
He is a member of the GEMG and the GOC and is chairman of the Administrative Officer for the Debt Markets and Global Equity Derivatives divisions.
Iain holds a degree in Banking and Finance from the University of Wales and a John holds an MA degree in Accounting and Economics from the University of postgraduate diploma from the University of Ulster.
He is a Chartered Accountant Aberdeen and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Scotland.
Other appointments John is the senior independent director of FirstGroup plc and chairman of its Other appointments Iain is a director of Totan Holdings Co Ltd. audit committee.
Hsieh Fu Hua Robert Standing n ng g Independent nonIndependent non nn-ex execut ecutiv ive e executive director, director, appointe e e e e ed d in 2 in 20 01 10 0.. appointed in 2011.
Chairman of the R Re Rem mu un ne er ra ati tio on n Member of the Committee and a m a a a me em mb ber o er of f Remuneration and the Audit, Risk an n n n nd d d N Nom omiin nati ation on Nomination Committees.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Hsieh Fu Hua served as President and a director of Temasek Holdings in Singapore Robert Standing is a principal of LDF Advisers LLP which was founded within until January 2012 and Chairman of Fullerton Fund Management until January 2013. the JPMorgan group in 1995 and spun out in 2002.
Robert joined Chemical He was formerly Chief Executive Officer and non-independent director of the Bank in 1982, spending two years developing new products before joining the Singapore Exchange from 2003 to 2009.
He is also co-founder of and advisor to Capital Markets division in 1985.
Following acquisitions by JPMorgan, he the PrimePartners group of companies, a corporate and investment advisory business worked in a range of roles before becoming Head of Fixed Income and Foreign based in Singapore, and served as the Group Managing Director of BNP Prime Exchange for EMEA in 1998.
Robert is one of the founders of the Hedge Fund Peregrine Group, the Asian investment banking arm of BNP a joint venture with Standards Board.
He holds a degree in Engineering from Cambridge University.
Before forming PrimePartners in 1993, he headed Morgan Grenfell Other appointments Asia Holdings Pte Ltd which he joined in 1974.
Fu Hua holds a degree in Business Robert is a director of London Diversied Fund Management UK Ltd. Administration from the University of Singapore.
Other appointments Fu Hua is a non-executive director of United Overseas Bank Ltd, Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd, Far Eastern Bank Limited and Government of Singapore Investment Corporation Pte Ltd. Diane Schueneman Independent non-executive director, appointed in 2010.
Member of the Audit, Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Skills and experience Diane Schueneman was previously an independent consultant to the US Internal Revenue Service Commissioner for McKinsey & Company.
She built an extensive career at Bank of America Merrill Lynch formerly Merrill Lynch and until 2008 was Senior Vice President, Head of Global Infrastructure Solutions and a member of the Executive Operating Committee.
During her career she has covered xed income sales, business management, operations, client services and technology.
Diane previously served on two not-for-profit boards, Year Up and National Cooperative Cancer Network Foundation and was on the advisory board of United Bank of Africa New York Branch.
Other appointments Diane is an independent director of Penson Worldwide Inc. ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 49
