Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Directors statement of responsibilities The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Auditors and the disclosure of information the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the to auditors preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ So far as each person who was a director at the date of approving from legislation in other jurisdictions.
this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being information needed by the auditors in connection with preparing Directors statement pursuant to the their report, of which the auditors are unaware.
Each director has Disclosure and Transparency Rules taken all the steps that he is obliged to take as a director in order The directors are also required by the Disclosure and Transparency to make him aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Rules of the FCA to include a management report containing a fair that the auditors are aware of that information.
review of the business and a description of the principal risks and  LLP were re-appointed auditors to the uncertainties facing the Company and the Group.
Each of the Company at the annual general meeting in July 2012.
Resolutions directors, whose name and function is listed in the directors profiles, to re-appoint  LLP and to authorise the confirms that, to the best of their knowledge and belief: directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS forthcoming annual general meeting.
Note 5 to the financial as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, statements sets out details of the auditors remuneration.
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company Statement of directors responsibilities for and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Annual Report The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the the management report disclosures are contained in the business remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with review and include a fair review of the development and applicable law and regulations.
performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to that they face.
prepare the Company and Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by Going concern the EU.
Under company law the directors must not approve the The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true affect its future development, performance and position are set out and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group in the business review.
The financial position of the Group, its cash and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
flow, liquidity position, facilities and borrowing position are described In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: in the business review and notes 8 and 7 to the financial statements provide further detail on the Groups borrowings and management select suitable accounting policies and then apply them of financial risks.
The business review includes an analysis of the key consistently: risks facing the Group and the Groups approach to risk management make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable is discussed in the directors report.
and prudent: After reviewing the Groups annual budget, liquidity requirements, state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been plans and financing arrangements, the directors are satisfied that the followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue to explained in the financial statements: and operate for the foreseeable future and confirm that the Company and the Group are going concerns.
For this reason they continue to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group statements.
By order of the board The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys and Deborah Abrehart the Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at Group Company Secretary any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and ICAP plc enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the 2 Broadgate remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as London EC2M 7UR regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of Company number 3611426 the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps 14 May 2013 for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
