Business review Our strategy Anticipating the changing marketplace and customer needs In the markets in which we operate, we Corporate goals aim to be at the forefront of product and ICAPs goal is to be the leading provider technological innovation.
We remain focused of trade execution services and market on driving the future growth of the business infrastructure to the global wholesale through the development of new products financial sector.
and services and the expansion into new We recognise that wholesale financial markets markets.
We continue to invest in all aspects are changing and regulatory developments of our business including the ongoing are redening certain aspects of our business.
development of electronic trading platforms During this period of fundamental change and post trade services.
for the financial services industry, we will We aspire to be recognised as an organisation continue to be responsive to the evolving with a strong, positive and responsible culture needs of our customers and will align our that plays an important role in the community.
Our aim continues to be to deliver sustainable long-term growth and shareholder value.
ICAP plc 16 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic priorities In pursuit of the corporate goals the following key strategic priorities have been identied: Leverage the comparative Ensure our businesses are ready advantage of our global businesses for regulatory change Progress Progress i-Swap utilises the combination of our interest Launch of i-Swap in US ahead of final SEF rate voice market ow and liquidity with market rules Dodd-Frank Act leading technology Introduction of trade-backed volume-weighted In collaboration with Global Broking and indices in response to demand from the market Electronic Markets, the development of a for more transparent auditable benchmarks combined Asian NDF offering Expansion of our global financial futures and The consolidation of product groups within options team Global Broking Continue investment in products Improve the efficiency and cost and technological innovation effectiveness of the organisation Progress Progress Development of new products and services Amalgamation of our three regionally-managed including EBS Direct, TriOptimas triBalance voice broking businesses into one Global and Traianas CreditLink Broking division Expansion of post trade risk and information Integration of Reset and ReMatch operations services into new asset classes, for example the Delivery of 60 million of cost savings in addition of exchange traded derivatives, xed 2012 13, annualised at 80 million income, cleared swaps, cash equities and equity More exible cost base through renegotiation swaps on to Traianas Harmony network of broker compensation and consolidation and Maintaining investment in technology at 13% rationalisation of infrastructure services of revenue Reinforce cultural values and best business practices Progress Ongoing commitment to employee development and graduate recruitment programme Extension and enhancement of mandatory compliance training programmes for all ICAP employees The cumulative total amount donated in 20 years of ICAP Charity Day is 100 million ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 17 Business review Key performance indicators Solid progress in difficult markets Operating profit split % Diversied revenue % 34 37 29 2013 67 12 21 2013 41 34 25 2012 69 10 21 2012 46 33 21 2011 71 10 19 2011 Global Broking Electronic Markets Post Trade Risk and Information Bank execution Subscription Non-bank execution Denition Operating profit split between ICAPs business Denition Percentage of revenue derived from bank and segments of Global Broking, Electronic Markets and Post Trade non-bank execution revenue and subscription fees.
Performance ICAP aims to reduce the volatility of earnings Performance ICAP aims to have a split of operating profit that is through growth in businesses whose revenue is less susceptible evenly distributed between its Global Broking, Electronic Markets to uctuations in market volumes.
A number of ICAPs Electronic and Post Trade Risk and Information businesses.
In 2012 13 we Markets and Post Trade Risk and Information businesses generate moved closer to this goal with the Electronic Markets and Post revenue through a combination of execution services and Trade Risk and Information businesses now representing 66% of recurring subscription fee income.
The increase in the proportion of subscription fees reects their recurring nature and the decline in execution revenue.
Adjusted basic EPS pence Conversion of profit to cash % 33.0 130 2013 2013 40.1 2012 103 2012 39.9 81 2011 2011 Denition Adjusted basic EPS is the profit after tax attributable Denition Conversion of profit to cash is calculated as cash to the equity holders of the Group divided by the weighted generated from operations before acquisition and disposal costs average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding and exceptional items less cash ows from operations relating to shares held to satisfy employee share plans and shares purchased non-controlling interests, interest, tax, capital expenditure plus by the Group and held as Treasury Shares.
dividends received from associates and investments measured as a percentage of operating profit.
Performance ICAP aims to deliver superior EPS growth for our investors.
Adjusted basic EPS fell this year to 33.0p, ending a long Performance The Groups business model efficiently converts run of consistent year-on-year growth.
The fall reected profit into cash and over the medium to longer term we expect operating profit decline in difficult trading conditions.
Given the profit and cash to converge.
Cash conversion remains strong and quality of ICAPs business we remain confident that superior EPS this year has increased to 130% primarily as a result of an growth is an achievable and realistic medium-term goal.
Before acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
ICAP plc 18 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Revenue per broker 000 Technology spend as a percentage of revenue % 439 13 2013 2013 498 13 2012 2012 542 12 2011 2011 Denition Global Broking revenue divided by the average number Denition Spend incurred in the maintenance and development of voice brokers for the year.
of all information technology systems as a percentage of total revenue.
Performance Revenue per broker provides a measurement of broker productivity.
The reduction in revenue per broker in Performance ICAP continues to invest in its market leading 2012 13 reects the decline in global broking revenue partially electronic platforms.
This enables us to anticipate and respond to offset by a 6% fall in broker headcount.
Technology spend as a percentage of revenue remains constant at 13% reecting ICAPs ongoing investment in its electronic capabilities.
Global market share % Operating profit margin % 2123 21 2013 2013 2325 22 2012 2012 2325 22 2011 2011 Denition ICAP estimates its share of the overall available market Denition Operating profit divided by revenue from continuing excluding global cash equities.
Performance Global market share is estimated at between Performance The overall operating profit margin fell by one 2123% based on a total available market of $11 billion.
percentage point reecting the decline in revenue partially offset The decline in market share during the year partly reects by 60 million of cost savings.
The operating margins of the the varying revenue performance and product mix of ICAPs Electronic Markets and Post Trade Risk and Information three business segments.
businesses were maintained at 42% and 44% respectively.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 19 Business review Results for 2012 13 Our diversied business is a key strength Review of operations Markets For the year ended 31 March 2013, the Group reported revenue of ICAP provides services in a wide range of geographies and asset 1,472 million, 12% below the prior year.
Trading activity across all classes, with the breadth of its market coverage being a key strength asset classes was negatively impacted by a combination of factors of the Group.
We report on our business segments externally in the including the depressed global economy, a low interest rate same way that we manage and report them internally.
The major environment and regulatory uncertainty.
segments are Global Broking, which we report by geographic region, Electronic Markets and Post Trade Risk and Information.
Group net operating expenses of 1,164 million were 11% lower than the previous year.
In response to the challenging market Consolidated Group revenue 2013 Change conditions, a comprehensive review of the cost base was undertaken.
by asset class m % This initially identied total cost savings of 50 million for the year, Rates 586 10 annualised at 60 million, from a reduction in overall headcount, FX and money markets 339 9 renegotiation of broker contracts and compensation rates and the consolidation and rationalisation of infrastructure support.
Excellent Commodities 190 7 progress was made and the initial targets were exceeded with total Emerging markets 142 15 cost savings of 60 million delivered during the year, annualised at Credit 108 30 80 million 20 million higher than initial estimates.
The cost saving Equities 107 20 initiatives have improved the ongoing exibility of the cost base.
Total 1,472 12 The additional annualised cost savings of 20 million are expected to be reinvested in a number of initiatives across the business.
ICAP has continued to invest for future growth including the development of EBS Direct, expansion by Traiana into new products and asset classes and ongoing product innovation within TriOptima.
By the year end the number of employees had declined from 5,123 to 4,976.
The overall net reduction of 147 employees reects the departure of 344 voice brokers partly offset by 197 new hires ICAP Energy was voted Overall principally in high growth areas.
Energy Broker of the Year The Group reported an operating profit of 308 million, down 17% for the 8th successive year on the prior year.
The Groups operating profit margin for the year in the Energy Risk 2013 ended 31 March 2013 decreased to 21%.
In the year ended 31 March 2013, the proportion of Group operating profit generated Commodity Rankings.
from Global Broking, Electronic Markets and Post Trade Risk and Information was 34%, 37% and 29% respectively.
profit before tax of 284 million was down 20% on the prior year.
profit before tax on a statutory basis fell by 151 million to ICAP has won Interdealer Broker 66 million reecting the decline in operating profit and the of the Year award for the 4th recognition of 60 million of exceptional costs of which 30 million was incurred in delivering the cost saving programme.
time in the past five years as voted by AsiaRisk magazine.
Statutory profit for the period after acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
ICAP plc 20 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Global Broking Focused on higher growth markets In September 2012, a new Global Broking division was formed uncertainty created by the US scal cliff negotiations, historically low amalgamating the three regionally-managed voice broking businesses interest rates, regulatory uncertainty around the Dodd-Frank Act and in EMEA, the Americas and Asia Pacic under the leadership of David the effect of the Basel III capital adequacy requirements.
This reorganisation mirrors the way the Electronic Markets Operating profit reduced by 31% to 105 million and the operating and Post Trade Risk and Information divisions are managed and profit margin decreased to 11%.
This reduction in margin of two enhances the divisions ability to serve its global customer base.
percentage points on the previous year reects an improvement Our Global Broking business is active in wholesale markets across all in the second half of the year as the financial results of the division asset classes with the geographic performance shown below.
Built on benefited from the implementation of the cost saving programme customer relationships, ICAPs 2,195 brokers help identify potential and the achievement of run-rate break-even in the operations in trading interest and in so doing create liquidity and facilitate price Brazil.
Given the challenging market conditions, we continue to adjust discovery in a vast array of financial instruments.
the Global Broking cost base and increase its ongoing exibility.
Broker headcount has declined from 2,347 to 2,195.
In addition, ICAPs strategy is to invest in growth markets and seize opportunities individual broker compensation has been restructured across all as they arise, to expand market share in products where it is not the regions to enhance the variable nature of broker costs.
leader, to maintain its market share where it is the leader and to extend its technological capabilities across its product set.
The table below illustrates Global Broking revenue by asset class.
Rates and FX and money markets represent 47% of total Global Operating Broking revenue.
Revenue and operating Revenue Change profit Change profit by region m % m % 2013 Change EMEA 488 13 77 27 Revenue by asset class m % The Americas 397 17 34 19 Rates 355 12 Asia Pacic 112 15 6 n m FX and money markets 111 17 Total 997 15 105 31 Commodities 190 7 Emerging markets 142 15 Before acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
Credit 93 28 For the year ended 31 March 2013 revenue decreased by 15%.
Equities 106 20 Revenue was impacted by a combination of macroeconomic, country and product specic factors including the ongoing Eurozone crisis, Total 997 15 Our strategy in action Development of a global Asian NDF offering During 2012 13 we have seen significant growth in the electronic trading of Asian NDFs on the EBS Market platform.
We are looking to build on this success by combining ICAPs Global Broking and EBSs respective Asian NDF resources and expertise to create a uniquely powerful and competitive product offering that will leverage the brokers customer relationships and EBSs extensive electronic network and capabilities.
This offering will enable us to capitalise on the growth potential of the Asian NDF market.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 21 Business review Global Broking continued The IRS teams in London and New York have worked in collaboration Rates with our electronic businesses to develop i-Swap, an electronic The rates business comprises interest rate derivatives, government platform which leverages interest rate swap voice market ow and bonds, repos and financial futures.
liquidity from the largest dealers with market-leading trading Rates products contribute the largest share of Global Brokings technology.
ICAP plans to extend this type of cross-divisional revenue.
These products experienced reduced activity levels collaboration to other products.
throughout the year reecting the historically low interest rate FX and money markets environment and at yield curves which particularly impacted interest rate derivatives and futures.
The Eurozone crisis and the uncertainty The FX and money markets business comprises spot and forwards, around the SEF rules and the impact of Basel III future capital cash products and a joint venture in FX options.
requirements on ICAPs customers have been a further drag on Market conditions were difficult throughout the year as FX volumes market confidence and risk appetite.
in spot, forwards and options all declined, largely due to reduced There was a modest improvement in the US government bonds exchange rate volatility but primarily as a result of central bank secondary market in the second half of the year following the Federal intervention.
In addition, the low interest rate environment resulted in Reserves announcement to extend the third round of quantitative less carry trade activity further depressing volumes.
This was further cemented by the Federal forwards continued to be a popular tool for managing balance sheet Open Market Committees announcement in December that low rates requirements, trading activity, particularly in EMEA, declined from the would continue into the foreseeable future.
exceptionally high levels recorded in the previous year to more normal levels.
Trading activity in money markets was subdued as interest Given the ongoing uncertainty in the Eurozone region, the European rates remained at historical lows.
government bond markets have been extremely risk averse.
Trading activity was boosted by short-term periods of volatility driven by the Commodities European Sovereign debt crisis and Central Bank actions.
The commodities business comprises energy including power and Despite lower volumes, the expanded global financial futures and electricity, oils, natural gas, coal and alternative fuels, shipping, options team gradually increased its market share over the year and metals, intellectual property and other products including cotton, is well placed for an improvement in trading conditions.
In October 2012 a significant proportion of ICAPs US electricity and natural gas customers migrated from swaps to futures as the Intercontinental Exchange converted its energy swap contracts into For the seventh consecutive regulated futures contracts.
ICAPs energy swaps and futures brokers are year, ICAP was voted first in fully registered and licensed to broker energy products as futures or swaps the interest rate broker and can execute futures and listed options on a variety of exchanges.
category in Risk Magazines ICAP has been a leading brokerage house for block-sized futures in crude, rened products, softs and agricultural futures for many years and has annual rankings.
deep pools of liquidity to execute block futures in these products.
Our strategy in action Creation of the Global Broking division ICAPs ability to innovate and adapt enables us to respond effectively to challenging market conditions and the evolving influence of technology and regulatory change.
In September 2012, ICAP created the Global Broking division, an amalgamation of ICAPs three regional voice broking businesses.
The division consists of more than 2,000 voice brokers across 20 offices.
A single, global broking division enables us to serve our existing and potential customers better.
In addition, responsibility for the development of technological solutions for our global customer base has been concentrated into a single group, allowing us to streamline our systems and resources to deliver operating efficiencies in the global marketplace.
ICAP plc 22 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Continued market volatility helped drive revenue in oils and alternative Credit fuels.
Market conditions remained challenging for shipping with little The credit business comprises corporate bonds and credit derivatives.
prospect for improved freight rates and sale and purchase continued to be impacted by a lack of trade finance.
This resulted in impairing Credit markets were extremely challenging.
A lack of risk appetite and secondary market activity, as well as increased competitive the value of goodwill in the dry chartering business to nil.
pressure, had a significant negative impact on revenue, particularly During the year a number of new initiatives were launched to develop in credit derivatives.
the commodities business including the expansion of the soft commodities group to include a full-service cotton broking team and Corporate bonds, which represent more than 75% of Global Brokings the extension of TrueQuote, ICAPs voice-electronic broking service credit revenue, saw a short-term improvement in activity in January for OTC crude, fuel oil and middle distillate swaps, to wet freight with the start of the bank customers new financial year, reecting derivatives.
ICAP expanded its metals business to provide middle new debt issuance and an increase in risk appetite.
Market conditions, office services to clients and plans to grow this service to cover other however, remained fragile and the increase in activity experienced exchanges.
The acquisition of CTI Shipbrokers India Pvt in in January was not maintained.
In response to market conditions, September 2012 strengthened ICAPs position in India with offices in ICAP reduced broker headcount within its credit businesses and New Delhi and Mumbai employing 28 people.
continues to review its cost base to identify further efficiency gains.
Emerging markets Equities ICAP is active in emerging markets across Asia Pacic, Latin America, The equities business principally comprises equity derivatives.
Central and Eastern Europe and Africa.
Emerging market revenue Equity derivatives continued to experience very difficult market includes domestic activity in local markets and cross border activity in conditions, in part arising from the significant number of active broking globally traded emerging market money and interest rates products.
rms operating in the market, leading to reduced customer trading While the revenue from emerging markets was down, a number of and further margin compression.
This resulted in an impairment in the local markets remain robust.
ICAPs operations in Brazil reached value of intangible assets relating to the Link business by 72 million run-rate break-even towards the year end.
This was achieved after a to 6 million.
modest improvement in revenue, a restructuring of its cost base and In response to these difficult market conditions, ICAP has changes to the senior management team.
In the Asia Pacic region, restructured its equities business.
In the US, the Link and ICAP trading activity was particularly robust in India, the Philippines and corporate equity businesses have been combined under one Thailand.
Other emerging market initiatives included the application to management team resulting in a single equity offering for customers.
the Securities and Exchange Board of India for a licence to set up a In Tokyo, half the equity derivatives group was relocated to Hong Kong corporate bond and xed income exchange.
Deliverable CNH and combined with the Hong Kong team, mirroring the move by its products continue to be an area of focus and growth in the region international customer base.
and, in China, ICAPs joint venture with CFETS continues to perform well.
Growth in EMEA was held back by capital adequacy issues particularly in Russia and Turkey.
Our strategy in action Increased focus on emerging markets A key facet of Global Brokings strategy is to develop its emerging markets business.
Investment in people, systems and infrastructure has delivered strong revenue growth in India and China through our CFETS joint venture over the past 12 months.
Our operations in Brazil achieved a run-rate break-even position towards the end of the financial year.
ICAP recognises that future growth in FX volumes will largely be driven by the emerging markets including Brazil, Russia, India and China.
We have focused our resources accordingly and the results are encouraging.
Following the launch in India of our EBS spot US dollar Indian rupee FX business in February 2013, we continue to see strong growth both in trading counterparties and average daily volume.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 23 Business review Electronic Markets Capturing increasing demand for electronic trading ICAP operates EBS Market platform and BrokerTec, the worlds leading EBS electronic trading platforms in spot FX and government xed income.
The award-winning EBS Market platform provides efficient and fair The platforms offer efficient and effective exchange-like trading access to global markets for spot FX, precious metals and NDF solutions to more than 2,800 customers in over 50 countries across traders around the world.
For the year ended 31 March 2013 a range of instruments including spot FX, US Treasuries, European revenue decreased by 11% reecting a decline in transaction revenue government bonds and EU and US repo.
The platforms are built on which represents approximately 65% of total EBS revenue.
ICAPs bespoke networks which connect participants in wholesale financial markets.
Average daily FX electronic broking volume on the EBS Market platform was $116 billion, a 24% decrease on the prior year.
Despite ICAPs strategy is to grow its global electronic business through the reduction in volume, EBS Market platform has maintained its increasing volumes of existing products, by developing new products market leading position in some of the worlds most actively traded and expanding into new markets.
currency pairs, including euro US dollar and US dollar Japanese yen.
Change Volume on the EBS Market platform was subdued for most of the Revenue m % year due to lower trading activity across all major currency pairs EBS 137 11 reecting the low interest rate environment, reduced exchange rate BrokerTec 121 7 volatility, in part caused by Central Bank intervention, and the scaling back of proprietary trading.
A change in Japanese monetary policy in Other electronic 10 33 early 2013 provided a short-term boost to Japanese yen volumes in Total 268 11 January and February.
Activity in NDFs continued to grow, both in average daily volume, Change which increased by 645% over the prior year, and in the average m % number of daily trading counterparties, which increased by 70% over Operating profit 113 11 the prior year.
In partnership with Global Broking, a combined Asian NDF offering is being developed that will leverage both the brokers Before acquisition, disposal costs and exceptional items.
customer relationships and EBSs unique electronic network and For the year ended 31 March 2013 revenue decreased by 11%.
In February, EBS executed the first trade in US dollar Combined average daily electronic volumes for the EBS Market for Indian rupee for onshore bank customers in India.
The rupee is already spot FX and the BrokerTec xed income platform for the year ended one of the top 20 most traded currencies globally and this position is 31 March 2013 were $702 billion, a decrease of 12% on the previous set to rise when it becomes fully convertible.
Operating profit reduced by 11% to 113 million.
The operating In March 2012, Gil Mandelzis was appointed Chief Executive Officer profit margin of the electronic businesses was maintained at 42% of EBS and subsequently restructured the business including the reecting the benefit of cost savings delivered during the year.
During the course of the year, and following consultation with the EBS customer base, new dealing rules and platform changes were implemented to improve customers trading experience and ensure that EBS remains the source of Last year EBS won Best Matching genuine, executable spot FX liquidity.
These enhancements included Platform at the profit and Loss a move to half pips and full pips in core pairs and revised quote and hit ll ratio targets.
These changes have been positively received by Readers Choice Digital Market EBSs customers.
Awards and Best Broker for In November 2012, ICAP announced the upcoming launch of EBS Spot FX at the FX Week Best Direct, a new relationship-based disclosed liquidity service which will Banks Awards.
widen the current customer base.
EBS Direct, which is now live with its ICAP plc 24 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information beta programme and four liquidity providers, delivers increased trading Lower volume on the BrokerTec platform was driven by historically opportunities by enabling the streaming of tailored prices direct to low yields, resulting in tighter trading ranges, as well as unease over liquidity consumers.
EBS Direct has already signed up more than the state of the global economy.
A number of factors from the US 200 customers in 44 countries with commitment from over 20 liquidity and Europe contributed to this, including quantitative easing, reduced providers and expects to go live in the second half of 2013 14. investor confidence due to the ongoing Eurozone crisis, scal cliff concerns, the debt ceiling and, more recently, the US budget In December 2012, EBS acquired Global Research and Consulting sequestration.
A modest improvement in the US economy and an Limited, known as ClientKnowledge, the leading advisory liquidity active new issuance programme in Eurozone markets improved optimisation rm specialising in FX.
ClientKnowledge has been volumes towards the year end.
integrated into EBSs operations under the name EBS Liquidity Optimization.
This has added a wide range of unique quantitative and Repo volumes improved in the last quarter of 2012 13 as some analysis services, alongside existing products, to support efficiency, banks returned cash to the European Central Bank under the best execution and improved profitability for EBSs customers.
long-term renancing operation and securities returned to secondary Working closely with EBS Direct, this will help extend EBSs customer markets.
Pressure on credit lines between banks, particularly in Spain base as an aggregator of FX liquidity and embed EBS more deeply and Italy, continued to drive business electronically via central within its customers value chain.
counterparties as there was an increased need to trade bilaterally and therefore to use the clearing facilities of a central counterparty BrokerTec as offered over BrokerTec.
The increase in repo volumes in the last BrokerTec is the leading electronic trading platform for the xed income quarter of 2012 13 resulted in a less pronounced improvement in markets, providing innovative technology solutions across a wide range revenue due to the relatively inelastic pricing structure.
of products to more than 500 customers round the world.
BrokerTec In November 2012, in line with its ongoing investment in technology, delivers efficient, transparent, anonymous and orderly electronic xed BrokerTec launched a new, high speed market data protocol called income trading opportunities for all market participants.
ITCH for the US Treasury market.
ITCH allows customers to track For the year ended 31 March 2013 revenue decreased by 7% the status of an order from the time it is first entered until its execution or cancellation.
compared to the prior year, partly as a consequence of a change in the product and customer mix.
Total average daily volume in US Treasury products, EU repo and US repo was $587 billion, a decrease of 9% compared to the prior year.
Following BrokerTecs migration to a new trading platform in March 2012, it benefited from an increase in market share in US actives, the key product it trades.
Our strategy in action Progress at EBS Following the appointment of Gil Mandelzis as the new Chief Executive Officer in March 2012, EBS conducted an in-depth review of its business.
After extensive consultation with customers it announced new dealing rules in July which promote transparency, fairness and executable liquidity for all participants.
This was part of a new series of initiatives for EBS that included a move away from decimalisation for most of its currency pairs.
In November EBS announced its intention to launch EBS Direct, a relationship-based platform that allows users to choose the counterparties they trade with and provide tailored pricing.
These initiatives, together with a restructuring of its operations, have strengthened the overall EBS offering which has been well received by customers.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 25 Business review Electronic Markets continued of trading in readiness for full implementation following the upcoming i-Swap regulatory reforms.
The publication of the final SEF rulebook will define i-Swap, ICAPs global electronic trading platform for IRS, has the parameters under which SEFs will operate and act as an additional continued to build on its leading market position and has brought catalyst for the utilisation of i-Swap going forward.
increased transparency and greater efficiency, as well as lower transaction costs, to the worlds largest OTC derivative market.
The next stage in the development of i-Swap will be the extension of the platform to cover other currencies, including the British pound From July 2012, volumes on i-Swap in Europe improved as volatility and the Australian dollar.
subsided and spreads narrowed following comments by the President of the European Central Bank that it was ready to intervene in the MyTreasury sovereign debt markets.
While growth in this nascent electronic MyTreasury, ICAPs electronic money market trading platform for market remains delicate, momentum is building and electronic corporate treasury investors, is the largest third-party electronic volumes in the final quarter of 2012 have trended higher.
On trading platform in offshore MMF and is steadily building its presence individual days the number of trades exceeded the highs that were in the onshore US market with both its MMF and time deposit trading reached prior to the Eurozone crisis of June 2011, representing 35% activities.
MyTreasury has experienced steady growth in the value of of ICAPs overall 130 year euro swap transactions.
assets being serviced through the platform.
In the past 12 months, In December 2012, ICAP announced that Citigroup had taken an MyTreasury operations have been extended into the US and term equity stake in iSwap Limited by diluting the other shareholding banks.
deposits and certicates of deposit have been added to the range Citigroup will support the platform with streaming prices, alongside of instruments that can be traded via the platform.
the other shareholding banks, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Barclays, ISDX Deutsche Bank and JPMorgan.
In June 2012, ICAP acquired Plus Stock Exchange plc, which was On 15 February 2013, i-Swap launched in the US with 14 banks relaunched as ISDX in October 2012.
ISDX comprises three markets, submitting credit limits and permissioned to trade electronically.
Since the ISDX Growth Market, the ISDX Main Board and the ISDX its launch, the platform has operated efficiently and customers have Secondary Market.
The core offering for ISDX is its Growth Market, taken the opportunity to familiarise themselves with the new style which is dedicated to helping entrepreneurial companies access equity capital to finance the development of their businesses, while providing investors with exciting and potentially rewarding investment opportunities.
There are 130 companies listed on ISDX.
The ISDX The i-Swap platform won the Secondary Market was relaunched on 31 October 2012 with four market makers offering an alternative venue for trading approximately OTC Trading Platform of the 300 AIM and other London Stock Exchange listed stocks.
The changes Year award in the Risk Awards made at ISDX have been well received by market participants.
The 2012, recognising best practice acquisition of ISDX, an RIE and RSE, provides additional exibility in a changing regulatory environment.
in the risk management and derivatives markets.
Our strategy in action Launch of ISDX In June 2012 we acquired Plus Stock Exchange plc, one of only six RIEs in the UK, the others being LSE, LIFFE, LME, ICE and BATS Chi-X Europe.
It was relaunched in October as ISDX.
The core offering for ISDX is its Growth Market which is dedicated to helping entrepreneurial companies access equity capital to finance their businesses.
In the future it could be used to launch new derivatives contracts leveraging off ICAPs substantial existing electronic and derivatives expertise.
ICAP plc 26 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Post Trade Risk and Information Expanding our customer base and product portfolio The Post Trade Risk and Information business comprises the portfolio Reset and ReMatch risk services businesses, Reset, ReMatch and TriOptima, the Reset is the market leading provider of risk mitigation services, transaction processing business, Traiana, and the information business reducing the basis risk within portfolios from xings in the interest which together provide services to more than 3,000 customers.
rate, FX and ination markets.
This risk results from the structure of Demand for improvements in the efficiency of post trade processing the instruments traded and a mismatch of exposure over time.
It also and for reductions in the capital allocated to existing positions addresses structural imbalances within trading portfolios.
ReMatch, continued to provide opportunities for ICAPs Post Trade Risk and the operations of which are now fully integrated into the Reset Information business which now represent a core and embedded part business, rebalances the illiquid basis and market risk inherent in credit of its customers processes and infrastructure.
ICAPs aim is to continue to develop its Post Trade Risk and For the year ended 31 March 2013 revenue decreased by 10%.
Information business by providing innovative services that enable its Revenue growth was held back by the low interest rate environment customers to reduce costs and risk, as well as to increase efficiency, in all major currencies, Libor volatility at all time lows and at yield return on capital and capacity to process trades.
Against these difficult market conditions Reset and ReMatch continue to grow their customer bases.
Reset is now used by more Change Revenue m % than 375 banks and over 3,000 individual users.
Any anticipated change to the interest rate outlook should increase basis risk in Reset Reset and ReMatch 47 10 and ReMatchs customers portfolios and therefore increase demand TriOptima 44 2 for their services.
Traiana 43 19 Both Reset and ReMatch have launched innovative new products Information 73 3 during the year.
These include a new cross-currency basis service Total 207 from Reset and a new product to help traders manage risk in the index market from ReMatch.
ReMatch continues to cement its position in the CDS market for both western European and emerging Change market sovereigns and has recently launched its service in Asia.
m % Operating profit 90 2 Before acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
For the year ended 31 March 2013 revenue of 207 million was in line with the prior year.
Operating profit decreased by 2% and the operating profit margin was at at 44%.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 27 Business review Post Trade Risk and Information continued For the year ended 31 March 2013 revenue increased by 2% and by TriOptima 8% on an underlying basis at constant exchange rates.
Revenue TriOptima, through triReduce and triResolve, is the market leader in growth was mostly driven by an increase in the use of our risk termination and risk mitigation solutions for OTC derivatives, reconciliation service, triResolve, a subscription based service, has primarily through the reconciliation and elimination of outstanding benefited from the proactive implementation of best practice in risk transactions.
management and portfolio reconciliation ahead of changes in Aligned with the G20 policy objective of reducing systemic risk, regulation.
triResolve has more than 250 rms in its network, triReduce enables market participants to decrease counterparty regularly reconciling more than seven million OTC derivative trades.
credit risk, the number of outstanding contracts and the gross In addition to terminating $70 trillion of gross notional outstanding notional value, through early termination of existing contracts for 2011 12 $72 trillion, TriOptima completed its first portfolio rates, credit and commodity swaps.
Since its launch in 2003, it has compression cycle for precious metal swaps and its first portfolio terminated more than $338 trillion in total notional volume.
compression cycle at the Singapore Exchange.
The portfolio reconciliation service, triResolve, operates a community TriOptima continues to innovate and provide its customers with new network facilitating efficient collateral management and dispute resolution solutions.
triBalance, which is expected to be launched in October and reduction in operational risk in line with regulatory requirements.
2013, is a new service designed to reduce systemic risk and improve counterparty risk management.
Since not all trades by banks are eligible for clearing, triBalance will provide a solution for rms to manage bilateral risk for their uncleared portfolios.
TriOptima is also working with customers to pilot a new counterparty credit risk analytics service for OTC derivatives called triQuantify.
Last year TriOptima received the Energy Risk Technology House of the Year award for triReduce and triResolve.
Our strategy in action TriOptimas new triQuantify service In January 2013, TriOptima announced its new triQuantify service for counterparty credit risk analytics and initial margin calculations for OTC derivatives.
This has been positively received by the market.
A multitude of factors including new regulatory initiatives in risk management and collateral, the wealth of portfolio data in triResolve, and recent significant advances in state-of-the-art large scale parallel computing itself enabling a unique approach to risk calculations have combined to create an ideal opportunity for the introduction of triQuantify.
TriOptima has recruited several pilot customers who will help shape the final service.
ICAP plc 28 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information The expansion of Traianas platform to new asset classes and Traiana segments continues to provide it with growth opportunities.
Traiana provides financial institutions with services to automate post Harmony is now connected to nine of the top ten futures brokers, trade processing of transactions in listed and OTC markets.
Traianas positioning Traiana to expand services to buy-side rms and reinforce post trade solutions have become the market standard for FX.
Traiana its value proposition to sell-side rms.
Working with leading buy-side is focused on growing its FX business and exploiting the strengths of rms, Traiana has implemented a FIX SWIFT compliant solution to its Harmony network by adding new asset classes including exchange reduce costs and create more efficient straight through processing in traded derivatives, xed income, interest rate swaps, cash equities and cash equities and xed income markets.
In September 2012, Traiana equity swaps.
Traianas Harmony network connects more than 550 expanded its Harmony CreditLink initiative with the addition of global banks, broker dealers, buy-side rms and trading platforms.
real-time limit monitoring and a kill switch capability for exchange For the year ended 31 March 2013 revenue increased by 19%.
Revenue growth was driven by an increase in the number On 14 January 2013, ICAP announced that it had sold a 12% stake in of transactions processed by Harmony.
The average number Traiana to seven of its leading customers giving the business an implied of transactions processed per day for the year ended 31 March 2013 valuation of $300 million.
Collectively, the investors also have an was 1.4 million 2011 12 1.1 million, an increase of 37% on the opportunity, under certain conditions, to acquire an additional 20% equity previous year.
In addition, Traianas trade aggregation joint venture in Traiana at a cost of up to $82.5 million.
More recently, Goldman Sachs with CLS Group, CLSAS, processed on average more than 360,000 has joined the bank customer shareholder consortium and bought a transactions per day in the year ended 31 March 2013, having 1.67% stake in Traiana on the same terms.
While ICAP retains control of increased by more than 45% over the past 12 months.
Traiana 86.6%, the sale will solidify the relationship between Traiana and its customers, align their interests and help accelerate product adoption.
In 2013, Traiana won the Markets Media Choice Award for Best Post Trade Processing Solutions.
Our strategy in action Traianas strategic partnership with leading global banks Traiana provides financial institutions with services to automate post trade processing of transactions in listed and OTC markets.
ICAP solidied its partnership with major players in the global FX industry when eight of its leading customers invested in approximately 13% of Traiana.
This partnership ensures that our interests are aligned and will help accelerate the growth of Traiana, enabling the transformation of the markets we serve and making them more robust for our customers and their clients.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 29 Business review Post Trade Risk and Information continued During the year, IISs product offering has grown to incorporate new Information and innovative data solutions as the market continues to demand ICAP Information Services IIS is the leading provider of OTC market greater transparency and accuracy.
IIS launched a credit rating service information, delivering independent data solutions to financial market with Rapid Ratings, an alternative rating, research and analytics rm.
It employs a subscription-based charging structure This product delivers a unique view of the credit derivatives market.
In addition to this new pricing service, IIS added hazard rates and For the year ended 31 March 2013 revenue decreased by 3%.
This survival probabilities enabling customers to manage issuer credit risk decline was primarily due to the loss of a proportion of data sales more efficiently.
following a change to EBSs product offering.
Market data generated IIS has worked to develop a series of trade-backed, volume-weighted via the EBS platform and sold by the IIS business amounted to 40% indices and launched RepoFunds Rate as well as the Tankard Index.
of IISs revenue for the current year 2011 12 43%.
Excluding the RepoFunds Rate, launched with BrokerTec and MTS, is the first index EBS related sales, IISs revenue grew by 3%.
to reect the effective cost of secured funding in key Eurozone countries.
Tankard, a series of indices for UK and European natural gas hubs, is calculated from trades arranged by ICAP, Marex Spectron and Tullett Prebon.
The trades are physically-settled natural gas forwards, transacted between utilities, natural gas producers, hedge funds, banks and trading houses.
Our strategy in action Indices meeting the demand for more transparent benchmarks ICAP has positioned its index business to capitalise on forthcoming market and regulatory developments.
A number of trade-backed, volume-weighted indices have been launched in response to demand from the market for more transparent benchmarks that are fully auditable.
RepoFunds Rate and iRepo reect a market progression from unsecured to secured forms of funding.
These robust indices are calculated from actual trades made on centrally cleared regulated trading systems.
The Tankard Index was also launched following demand for increased transparency in the UK and European gas markets.
ICAP plc 30 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Our strategy in action Euclid Opportunities technology innovation for financial markets Innovation is central to ICAPs growth.
Through Euclid Opportunities, ICAP provides funding as well as tailored support and guidance to entrepreneurs to help them deliver strategically viable financial technology solutions to market.
In November 2012, we increased our investment in Model Two Zero Limited trading as Duco, an early stage software rm, to develop a next generation reconciliation service built on the companys innovative matching and data-translation technologies.
This hosted service utilises intelligent algorithms to reduce the time and cost involved in setting up reconciliations, improving operational risk controls, efficiency and exibility across the industry.
Launched in April 2013 the service is expected to be a key development in the post trade technology landscape.
Other Post Trade Risk and Information investments ICAPs Post Trade Risk and Information business invests in new companies developing innovative technology-led offerings via Euclid Opportunities.
Euclid Opportunities is majority owned by ICAP and has assessed more than 300 early stage rms since its launch in March 2011.
Its portfolio includes minority stakes in Model Two Zero Limited, trading as Duco, an early-stage software rm pioneering the next generation of innovative matching, reconciliation and data-translation technologies invested in December 2011 and November 2012, OpenGamma, a real-time risk analytics provider invested in August 2012 and Global Valuation, a next generation provider of portfolio valuation and simulation software source code agreement January 2013.
