Business review Our business model This allows them to select the most appropriate How we create execution method depending on the liquidity of the product and their specic needs.
They also value for our have access to an unrivalled source of financial markets data.
Our risk mitigation services help customers reduce both their operational risk customers and market exposure.
ICAP plays a pivotal role in bringing buyers and We continue to innovate and develop new sellers together in the global wholesale financial products and services as the markets and our markets.
We help our customers manage and customers needs evolve.
mitigate their risks and provide them with a choice of trading venues and methods ranging from fully electronic to broker assisted trades.
Transparency and Venues and opportunities market information for trade execution Live trading data and Electronic bids offers displayed on platforms ICAP proprietary systems Live trading data, indicative data and analysis via ICAP $ proprietary systems Broking including e-capability Transaction-based indices, indicative and trading data distributed via third party data vendors Transparency Execution Market participants access live and historic trading and indicative data ICAP provides market participants with the ability to trade on a purely to inform their trading decisions and assess market levels and activity.
electronic basis, typically in the most liquid assets, with direct access ICAP displays live and indicative data and provides price transparency to ICAPs matching engines and central order book.
For less liquid or to users of its systems by aggregating bids and offers and indications episodic markets, participants can trade via one of ICAPs electronic of trading interest.
ICAP sells real-time and historical data, direct and systems and or speak with an ICAP broker who will identify trading via data vendors and provides market commentary.
interest and availability from among other market participants.
ICAP also acts as an executing broker for exchange products.
The value we bring our customers The value we bring our customers unrivalled depth and breadth of data for wholesale financial markets exceptional depth of liquidity a unique data set from our Global Broking business and the worlds access to global counterparties and an orderly market leading FX EBS and xed income BrokerTec platforms greater speed of execution innovative new data products that complement our established, increased certainty of trade industry leading OTC derivatives data efficient and fair access to prices for all participants indicative and trade-backed, volume-weighted indices improved risk management secure, reliable networks ICAP plc 08 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Generating revenue The majority of our revenue comes from commissions which vary in line with customers trading activity.
Approximately 12% of our revenue comes from subscription-type services.
We do not engage in proprietary trading or make markets using our balance sheet.
Two thirds of our operating profit comes from our electronic and post trade risk and information businesses.
Automated links and services provided to other parts Portfolio risk reduction of market infrastructure and messaging Management and netting of high velocity Automated market transaction details links to: Clearing Systemised mitigation of customer User risk systems risks by identifying and removing: Settlement systems including Central Banks, Trade mismatches LCH.
Clearnet, Unwanted exposures Depository Trust and Transactions that no longer have Clearing Corporation a commercial purpose and the derivatives Reconciliation of transactions to allow exchanges accurate reporting to regulators and clearing houses Support to other infrastructure Risk reduction and messaging ICAP has created links from its electronic broking and post trade The Traiana service automates links from any high speed execution systems to clearing houses, customer risk and position keeping system, not just ICAPs.
It also operates the netting service on behalf of systems and settlement venues.
It also provides services to clearing CLS Bank, the worlds FX settlement system.
ICAP also operates a series house members and clearing houses and trade repositories of services through TriOptima, Reset and ReMatch that enable users depositories themselves.
of derivatives and bonds to mitigate unwanted risks in their trading portfolios.
TriOptima allows trading counterparties and trade repositories to reconcile trade details to ensure accurate calculation of risk.
The value we bring our customers The value we bring our customers customer trades are sent automatically to clearing houses reduce operational system wide risk and repositories depositories increase the efficiency of trading clearing and settlement systemic risks are reduced and reducing costs Reset and ReMatch help customers manage risk in their portfolios Before acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 09 Business review Our business model continued ICAP executes or arranges trades on We help behalf of its customers in one of three ways depending on the asset class and customers market involved.
These methods exist in the electronic and broking businesses.
ICAP also frequently assists market users execute trades executing multiple transactions simultaneously, which means that more than one of these and access methods may be involved in providing customers with their desired outcome.
clearing Name give-up broking Matched principal broking Exchange broking give-up ICAP identies and introduces counterparties ICAP enters into simultaneous or nearICAP executes a trade on an exchange in the who have indicated their willingness to trade simultaneous purchase and sale transactions capacity of executing broker on behalf of a with each other, and who have reciprocal on behalf of customers and is responsible for customer.
The customers clearing member credit or clearing, and or where two or settlement.
Primarily this is to provide access accepts the trade for settlement, at which more customers orders match.
These to clearing and or maintain post trade point ICAP ceases to be party to the counterparties contract directly with each anonymity.
Settlement risk to ICAP is transaction and settlement risk transfers.
other and or the relevant clearing house minimised through use of the delivery versus This model is used to broke financial, bearing the settlement obligation as well as payment settlement model where delivery commodity, equity derivatives and cash the counterparty credit risk themselves.
of the traded instruments, i. e. the change in equities instruments.
ICAP is a member of Increasingly these trades are novated into their ownership, occurs at the same time and the worlds largest derivatives exchanges.
clearing and ICAP aims to automate the is dependent on payment.
Name give-up broking Matched principal broking Exchange broking give-up Dealer 1 Dealer 2 Dealer 1 Dealer 2 Customer Exchange counterparty ICAP ICAP ICAP execution ICAP ICAP contracts contracts Contract and settlement and settles and settles Clearing Clearing Customer Clearing Counterparty house house clearer house clearer Risk Risk Risk No credit risk or contractual link between Delivery versus payment model minimises ICAP has minimal settlement risk.
Any unmatched positions are closed out as soon as reasonably practicable.
ICAP plc 10 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information ICAPs electronic capabilities Technology is Post Trade Risk at the heart of Electronic Markets and Information Euclid Opportunities EBS our business ISDX Reset Traiana BrokerTec ReMatch TriOptima MyTreasury ICAPture i-Swap ICAPinflation.
com iLinked ETC TradingPro Global Broking ICAP Fusion TrueQuote ICAP Credit ICAP invests heavily in technology and user market infrastructure to build and maintain our market-leading positions.
In 2012 13, 13% of our revenue was invested in technology and 20% of our people are involved in technology.
Technology spend as a percentage of revenue % The ability to transact on systems with the highest level of stability is of vital importance to our customers.
We ensure that our global 13 2013 broking, electronic and post trade platforms not only meet the 13 2012 current needs of our customers but also anticipate the greater 12 reliance on electronic transactions as regulatory changes come 2011 into force in Europe and the US.
As part of the SEF requirements we will provide both surveillance and transaction monitoring where required.
ICAPs technology spend is not purely focused on the provision of access to market liquidity but increasingly provides services that are embedded in our customers operational ows and regulatory compliance.
As well as straight through processing, we provide links to transaction data repositories and CCPs.
We also help our customers manage their own and their clients risk limits.
Examples of greater integration between ICAP and its customer base are: Traiana already a key component in post trade market infrastructure it supports trade life cycle and risk management and has recently launched a suite of new services for regulatory compliance for OTC derivatives: EBS Direct as well as provision of interbank trading capability, EBS will provide its customers with the technology to stream executable prices direct to their clients: and i-Swap already launched in Europe in anticipation of an increase in electronic trading of IRS, this co-operative venture between ICAP and a group of major dealers has now been launched in the US for the support of US dollar IRS.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 11 Business review Our business model continued In 2012 13 we expanded the long term incentive plan to a wider group of managers below GEMG level.
This has introduced an We attract and element of deferral with rewards being linked to both past and future performance.
Such schemes encourage the building of a profitable, invest in high stable and low risk business over the long term with wider equity participation.
Training and development quality people This year we have increased our focus on training and development, with particular emphasis on our leadership and management.
It is critical that our managers and leaders have the skills they need to take us to the next stage of business growth.
We have extended and enhanced our comprehensive training programme for our senior broking managers and desk heads which People and values reinforces ICAPs cultural values.
Our people Training is delivered on an ongoing basis to make employees aware of Our success as an organisation is dependent on the calibre and skills important issues including anti-money laundering, bribery, corruption of the people we employ.
As the organisation has grown both in size and market abuse.
All employees must complete their e-learning and and complexity the breadth of skills we require has increased to training records are monitored to ensure compliance.
We look for people who, in addition to having a range of technical skills, are customer and solutions focused, entrepreneurial, Graduate recruitment professional and able to perform in a pressurised environment.
ICAP is committed to maintaining an active global graduate recruitment and development programme, even in these slower Our business provides significant opportunities for development and market conditions.
First launched in 2006, ICAPs programme aims cross functional working through a range of project teams.
40% of to provide a steady ow of talent into the business.
Since inception, our people have been in ICAP for more than five years, driving our a total of 289 graduates have joined ICAP, with 48 graduates joining business and underpinning our organisational growth.
We also run a range of internship and placement The changing climate and the demands that come from this require programmes to ensure we attract the brightest early on, the most us to ensure that we have within ICAP a culture that drives and successful of whom are offered full-time positions once they graduate.
encourages appropriate behaviour for ICAP, its customers, All our programmes cover the breadth of our global businesses.
Regulators, customers and the Diversity and inclusion wider society are demanding that financial services organisations ICAP is committed to providing and promoting equality of continuously improve their cultures.
At ICAP we are giving additional opportunity in employment and advancement and an environment training to highlight the reasons behind regulatory changes and that ensures tolerance and respect for all employees.
ICAPs policy is compliance obligations.
that no employee, contractor or temporary worker will be treated Performance and reward less favourably, victimised or harassed on the grounds of disability, ICAPs remuneration policy is performance based and is structured to gender, marital or civil partnership status, race, nationality, colour, be both consistent with, and promote, effective risk management in ethnicity, religion or similar philosophical belief, sexual orientation, respect of ICAPs activities.
age or any distinction other than merit.
Employee compensation costs are the most significant part of ICAPs cost base.
In the current economic environment we are ensuring that our compensation packages remain competitive, while at the same time being commensurate with and linked to the Companys performance.
Broker compensation is directly linked to commission which varies from desk to desk.
Such arrangements are structured to ensure that no more than a minimal risk remains outstanding at the time of payment.
In 2013, given the more demanding trading conditions and the changing regulatory environment, increased scrutiny has been placed on commission terms for new contracts.
ICAP plc 12 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information There are four key values on which we focus Our values to deliver our strategic goals.
These define the culture of ICAP.
and culture guide the way we do business Leadership Entrepreneurship ICAP aims to deliver best in industry ICAP seeks to anticipate industry results, both nancially and operationally.
change, identify and assess new We need to be the standard setter for business opportunities, move at speed our industry across a broad range of to capture these and manage the risks measures, establishing the performance that inevitably arise in this process.
benchmarks that other companies use to To do this the Company must attract, judge themselves.
To do this we foster motivate and retain creative people, and reward ambition in our employees manage itself and its infrastructure and and managers.
processes in a way which fosters agility and controlled experimentation and an environment where employees charged with supporting the business are heard and valued.
Integrity Respect for control ICAP endeavours to build and maintain a As a key part of the global financial relationship of openness and trust with infrastructure, ICAP respects and its customers, partners, investors and is seen to be respecting both the spirit regulators.
To do this the Company and and the letter of the control, compliance its employees are expected to behave and assurance environment within which consistently and within standards of the Group operates worldwide.
ethical and professional conduct at all times and these qualities need to be rewarded appropriately.
