Governance Global Executive Management Group The management team Michael Spencer John Nixon Group Chief Executive Officer Group Executive Director, Americas Michael Spencer was the founder of Intercapital in 1986 and became Chairman and John Nixon represents the ICAP Americas businesses to the board.
He has joint Chief Executive of Intercapital in October 1998, following the Exco Intercapital management oversight and responsibility for ICAPs xed income Electronic Broking merger.
Michael, together with IPGL and its subsidiary companies, is a substantial business and is chairman of the i-Swap business.
Prior to his appointment to the board shareholder in the Company.
He is the chairman of IPGL and is on the board of many of in 2008, John had served from 1998 to 2002 as a non-executive director.
Michael is chairman of the GEMG.
been a member of the GEMG since 2003 when he had responsibility for strategic acquisitions.
John was previously the Chief Executive Officer of Tullett and Tokyo Forex, now part of Tullett Prebon, where he worked from 1978 to 1997 in Toronto, London and New York.
John holds a degree in Commerce from Queens University, Ontario.
Mark Beeston Iain Torrens Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance Director Portfolio Risk Services Iain Torrens joined ICAP in 2006 as Group treasurer and became Group financial Mark Beeston is responsible for the Post Trade Risk and Information business and, since controller in 2008.
Before joining ICAP, he worked in a number of senior financial roles October 2012, he has had responsibility for co-ordinating the Groups response to for CP Ships Limited and Cookson Group plc.
Iain is responsible for the Groups finance, regulatory reforms.
Prior to joining ICAP in December 2009, he spent four years as company secretarial, investor relations, compliance, business services and human President of T-Zero now ICE Link.
Before this he spent 13 years at Deutsche Bank resources functions.
He is a member of the GOC and is chairman of the GRACC.
where, among other roles, he served as Chief Operating Officer for Global Credit Iain holds a degree in Banking and Finance from the University of Wales and a Trading, Chief Operating Officer for OTC Derivatives and global head of Money postgraduate diploma from the University of Ulster.
He is a Chartered Accountant Market Derivatives trading.
Mark represented Deutsche Bank at board level across and a Chartered Secretary.
numerous industry companies and associations including ISDA, Markit, OTCDerivNet and DTCC DerivServ.
ICAP plc 50 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information David Casterton Gil Mandelzis Chief Executive Officer, Chief Executive Officer, EBS Global Broking and Executive Chairman, Traiana Since September 2012, David Casterton has been responsible for the new Global Since March 2012, Gil Mandelzis has been responsible for the Groups electronic FX Broking division with regional management teams reporting to him.
Gil co-founded Traiana in April 2000 and he remains Executive previously been responsible for all voice broking and related support functions in Chairman of Traiana.
Gil led Traianas growth from a small start-up to a recognised London and EMEA.
Between 1995 and 2008, David worked in a number of senior global leader in post trade services resulting in Traianas acquisition by ICAP in 2007. broking roles and had responsibility for interest rate derivatives, money markets, repos, Gil was appointed to the New York Federal Reserves Foreign Exchange Committee government bonds and financial futures.
Prior to joining ICAP in 1995 he was with in 2012.
MW Marshalls and Guy Butler International.
Hugh Gallagher Duncan Wales Chief Executive Officer, Group General Counsel Asia Pacic Since September 2010, Hugh Gallagher has been responsible for voice broking, Duncan Wales oversees the legal, risk and government affairs functions.
technology and support functions throughout Asia Pacic.
Hugh was appointed to He has occupied a number of senior roles within ICAP, including director of the GEMG in January 2012.
He has held several senior positions within ICAP since government affairs, General Counsel EMEA and Asia Pacic and senior counsel joining in 1988, including Chief Executive Officer ICAP Australia.
Prior to joining ICAP, to the electronic broking division.
Prior to its acquisition by ICAP in 2003, Duncan Hugh worked for Citibank and Lloyds in FX and money markets.
Hugh has more than was director of legal affairs at BrokerTec.
He spent five years at Clifford Chance as a 25 years experience working in OTC markets in the Asia Pacic region.
Duncan is a member of the GOC and the GRACC.
He is a member of the GC 100 Group, the Council of the Wholesale Markets Brokers Association and the City of Londons International Regulatory Strategy Group.
Seth Johnson Co-head, BrokerTec and Chief Executive Officer, ISDX Seth Johnson joined ICAPs electronic markets in November 2011 to lead the expansion of its product portfolio.
In this role he is the co-head of BrokerTec and the Chief Executive Officer of ISDX.
He has been a member of the GEMG since May 2012.
He joined ICAP as a graduate trainee and has worked in the Company for more than 20 years.
For ten years, Seth was the Managing Director of the interest rates options and ination swaps desks.
He oversaw the introduction of new and innovative trading solutions including the volume match system.
