CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: REmuNERATiON COmmiTTEE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued A bonus of 46.8% of the maximum entitlement was Rules on retained shares SYSC 19A.
3.47R, deferral SYSC REmuNERATiON COmmiTTEE Directors, the committee has the discretion to take awarded to Executive Directors for performance during 19A.
performance on environmental, social, regulatory and Roger Yates, Chairman the financial year.
During the year, the 2010 value-sharing governance matters into account.
of the Remuneration Other activities plan VSP performance period ended and this will result in Committee, reviews the The committees other responsibilities are to: During the year, the committee also completed a vesting of only the PBT award at 14.5% of the maximum committees activities the following: awards made.
The committee feels that the level of Determine and review the Groups remuneration policy, during the financial year payout vesting under the bonus and long-term scheme Review and approval of the 2012 Directors remuneration ensuring it is consistent with effective risk management is a fair representation of the financial performance of report and review of the final outcome of AGM voting on across the Group, and to consider the implications of this the Company as set out in the Operating and Financial the report remuneration policy on risk Review.
Specifically, over the three years to 31 May 2013, Review of the draft Directors remuneration report for the Approve the remuneration of the Chairman IGs profits grew by 37%.
year ended 31 May 2013 Approve all share-based awards under the Groups ChAiRmANs OVERViEw Review and approval of both the share incentive plan employee incentive schemes, to determine each year Pages 70 to 74 of the Directors remuneration report The committees focus during the financial year has and the value-sharing plan offerings whether awards will be made and, if awards are made, provides details of the committees assessment of the been on ensuring an appropriate balance between the Review of the Group remuneration policy and the risk to monitor their operation, the size of such awards and Executive Directors performance against these financial levels of remuneration required to attract, retain and report on remuneration policy the performance targets to be used and non-financial measures.
This section also details the motivate talented leaders in a competitive market, and Establish the selection criteria, appoint and set the terms profit before tax and total shareholder return performance setting policies that are aligned with the interests of The following chart highlights how the committee spent its of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise against the target benchmark of awards made under the shareholders and regulatory requirements.
This included a time during the year ended 31 May 2013: the committee 2010 value-sharing plan for which the performance period comprehensive review into Executive Director remuneration ended on 31 May 2013. and, at the time of writing, major shareholders are being Remuneration Committee The Board determines the remuneration of consulted on the changes.
Details of the conclusions of the Allocation of time Non-Executive Directors.
As set out in the Remuneration Committees Chairmans remuneration review and any changes to remuneration will overview, the committee has furthered its work on the Salary and bonus scheme be provided in the notice of AGM.
ACTiViTy duRiNG ThE fiNANCiAl yEAR Groups remuneration framework this year by conducting arrangements Remuneration framework a thorough review on Executive Director remuneration.
Incentive awards REmuNERATiON COmmiTTEE The committee recognises that the Group must be able Remuneration regulation mEmBERshiP ANd ATTENdANCE to attract, retain and motivate leaders who are focused on Remuneration regulation Remuneration reporting Scheduled delivering the business strategy in line with the interests of The committee continues to monitor the developments meetings Scheduled Remuneration policy stakeholders, and the committee strives to ensure that the eligible to meetings in this area, including the governments reforms to attend attended Groups remuneration framework is structured in order to enhance shareholder voting rights in relation to executive enable this.
remuneration and to strengthen the legislation and Chairman of Remuneration Committee regulation around remuneration governance which will take AdVisORs Last year, the committee reviewed the bonus arrangements R P Yates 4 4 effect on 1 October 2013.
The Enterprise and Regulatory The committees work is supported by independent for the Executive Directors and employees participating Independent Reform Act 2013 received Royal Assent on 25 April professional advice received from Kepler Associates and in the general staff bonus scheme, in order to ensure that Non-Executive Directors 2013 and was published on 2 May 2013.
The committee New Bridge Street.
During the year both Kepler Associates there is an ongoing link between performance and reward.
D Currie 3 3 has decided to adopt a number of the new reporting and New Bridge Street provided advice in relation to The committee determined it was appropriate, from D M Jackson 4 4 requirements early.
This years remuneration report, trends in executive remuneration, the Executive Directors periods beginning after 1 June 2012, to incorporate some S G Hill 4 4 consistent with previous years, will be subject to a single salaries, and the Groups bonus scheme for Executive non-financial measures into the metrics for both bonus J R Davie 4 4 advisory vote at the AGM on 17 October 2013.
New Bridge Street also provided schemes, to ensure that rewards were balanced between remuneration benchmarking data to the Group.
The committee meets four times a year, and as and financial and strategic goals.
Another area of regulatory development is the cap on when required.
variable remuneration as a percentage of fixed pay The committee will continue to report transparently on For Executive Directors, whose maximum bonus potential brought in by the Capital Requirements Directive IV.
We are all aspects of Directors remuneration and to actively ROlE Of ThE REmuNERATiON COmmiTTEE is 200% of salary, the potential bonus profile is as follows: awaiting guidance from the Prudential Regulatory Authority engage with shareholders when developing executive The committee is responsible for making recommendations as to whether or not a cap will apply to the Group, from 75% of maximum bonus potential ie 150% of salary for remuneration policies and structures.
to the Board on the Groups remuneration policy.
financial measures diluted earnings per share DEPS Operating within agreed terms of reference, it determines 25% of maximum bonus potential ie 50% of salary for an overall remuneration package for the Executive The European Banking Authority is also consulting on non-financial measures, comprising: Directors in order to attract and retain high-quality changes to the definition of Code Staff.
We are engaged 12.5% Execution and delivery of key strategic initiatives Directors capable of achieving the Groups objectives.
with this consultation and will review our Code Staff policy 12.5% Performance against key non-financial metrics: if required.
Roger Yates The committee determines the contractual terms, system reliability uptime, maintaining good standing Chairman of the Remuneration Committee remuneration and other benefits for each of the Executive with regulators, customer satisfaction, reputation and Further, and since the end of the last financial year, the Directors, including performance-related bonus schemes, PR, and risk management Financial Conduct Authority has updated its proportionality 23 July 2013 pension rights, compensation payments and contingent guidelines meaning the Group, as a level 3 firm, does not share awards.
In setting the remuneration for Executive need to comply with the current FCA Remuneration Code 60 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 61
