BUSINESS REvIEW: managing Our Business risK mANAGING ouR BuSINESS RISk continued EXEcuTIvE commITTEES AND The ICAAP and ILAA are prepared according to FCA ouR RISk REPoRTING cyclE INDEPENDENT REvIEw requirements and are subject to independent review by This diagram represents the flow of information and feedback that supports the Risk Governance Framework.
RISk commITTEE a subgroup of the Non-Executive Directors NEDs.
The The Risk Committee generally meets on a weekly basis, ICAAP and ILAA Committee is chaired by the Chief Risk and may meet more often if required.
The committee Officer and is made up of the Chief Executive Officer, OUR KEY RISKS Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer and made up of Head of Dealing and the Head of Legal and Compliance.
BOARD REVIEW the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Head of Dealing and the Head of NoN-EXEcuTIvE RISk REvIEw Legal and Compliance.
Roger Yates, Senior Independent Twice a year, a sub-group of the Non-Executive Directors Director, attends the committee on a periodic basis.
conducts a risk review, in discussion with the Chief Risk CREDIT If any material risks are identified it will inform the Board.
As the Non-Executive BOARD AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES Members of the Risk Committee receive a monthly risk Directors are a step removed from the daily operations report from the risk department.
Remuneration | Risk | Client Money | ICAAP & ILAA of the business, this enables them to assess and Senior Accounting Officer challenge the risk management processes from an An overview of the Risk Committees main responsibilities independent standpoint.
and activity during the financial year is set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
SENIoR AccouNTING oFFIcER commITTEE clIENT moNEy commITTEE The Senior Accounting Officer SAO Committee is MARKET REPORTS ACTIONS Regulatory authorities continue to emphasise the responsible for reviewing and challenging processes and importance of client money segregation.
The FCA in controls put in place to ensure we comply with HMRC particular now requires that all firms designate a named requirements in certifying that each of our UK subsidiaries Periodic reporting individual, the CF10a, who is responsible for overseeing had appropriate tax arrangements throughout the financial processes and controls over the segregation of client funds year.
The committee reports to the Chief Financial Officer, Monthly risk reporting and the FCAs CASS operational oversight function.
who is the designated SAO.
including Key Risk Indicators AUDIT Control BuSINESS oPERATIoNS Internal Audit The Chief Financial Officer is the CF10a and Chairman COMMITTEE actions We have embedded risk management into underlying of the committee.
The committee meets monthly and LIQUIDITY Risk registers business operations.
Heads of department are responsible receives periodic reports from a number of control functions, for the maintenance of risk registers and, where necessary, enabling it to monitor the effectiveness of our global Most significant risks taking action to mitigate risks and enhance the control processes and controls for segregating client money.
External audit control report environment.
The risk and compliance control functions The committee also assesses risks in relation to client money use these registers in co-ordinating the identification, by reviewing our client money policy, monitoring regulatory Monitored by ICAAP & ILAA measurement and monitoring of risk across the business.
Internal Audit changes that impact client money treatment and reviewing the implementation of these changes.
coNTRol FuNcTIoNS OPERATIONAL An overview of the Client Money Committees main duties Additional levels of assurance are provided by control and activity during the financial year is set out in the functions which are independent of the business, namely Corporate Governance Report.
finance, risk, compliance and legal.
The control functions provide periodic reporting to the Board and executive CONTROL FUNCTIONS IcAAP AND IlAA commITTEE committees as appropriate.
Finance | Risk | Compliance | Legal | Internal Audit In addition to the management of individual risks, the INTERNAl AuDIT ICAAP Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process The final level of assurance is provided by Internal Audit, and ILAA Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment who report to the Audit Committee.
Committee undertakes stress and scenario testing as REGULATORY part of the capital adequacy and liquidity review process.
BUSINESS CONTROLS These assessments stress-test the potential impact on capital and liquidity of a series of combined risk events, to ensure that the business is prepared for any major changes in our operating environment or strategy.
30 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 31
