BUSINESS REvIEW: what we DO wHAT wE Do We provide active retail traders with fast and flexible access to the financial markets.
Using our award-winning dealing platform, our clients take coNTRAcTS FoR DIFFERENcE cFDs ouR AcHIEvEmENTS positions on financial market movements without needing CFDs are derivatives that enable clients to take advantage of THE NumBER oNE to own the underlying asset.
Clients are able to capitalise changes in an assets price, without owning the asset itself.
In 1974 we founded the worlds first financial spread betting on both rising and falling markets, taking advantage of company, Investors Gold Index.
Our goal was to give retail We are the worlds No.
1 CFD provider leverage with our competitive margin rates.
investors a new opportunity to access financial markets We offer global CFD trading, including direct market without the need to own the underlying asset, beginning access DMA to shares and forex markets Our range of over 10,000 global financial markets includes: with gold.
Nearly 40 years later, we remain committed to creating opportunity for our clients.
Forex the value of one currency in relation to another, See page 162 for an example of a CFD trade.
such as the pound versus the dollar In 1982 we were the first to offer spread betting on the BINARIES Indices the movements of global stock indices such FT30.
Our other firsts have included spread betting on Our pioneering binary markets are based on a single as the DAX, the Dow Jones and the FTSE 100 individual shares 1995, the first online dealing platform question: Will the underlying market behave in a specific Shares the performance of thousands of for financial spread betting 1998 and the UKs first way before the binary expires?
Clients predict whether the individual companies browser-based direct market access DMA CFD trading answer will be yes or no.
Commodities the prices of key resources such as gold, service 2009. oil and wheat Binaries are unrestricted by volatility, remaining attractive DRIvING TEcHNoloGy FoRwARD to clients when markets are stable We also offer trading opportunities on interest rates, Our recent developments include a Chrome browser Our binaries enable clients to trade with limited risk government bonds, exchange-traded funds ETFs and extension enabling clients to deal from almost any page a number of other markets.
on the web, push alerts to mobile devices, an interactive NoRTH AmERIcAN DERIvATIvES EXcHANGE NADEX preview allowing prospective clients to explore our Our clients can deal 24 hours a day and access their Nadex is our US derivatives exchange, enabling US web-based platform and mobile app with no login.
accounts on the move using our range of customised investors to trade global financial markets in apps for mobile devices.
A GloBAl BuSINESS We began our international expansion in 2002, when we Nadex is the first US-based retail-oriented exchange ouR PRoDucTS became Australias first CFD provider.
We opened offices We provide a flexible way for our clients to trade with We offer a variety of products in line with the differing in Germany and Singapore in 2006, and more territories limited risk regulatory environments in the territories where we operate.
How wE GENERATE REvENuE SPREAD BETTING We currently have operations based in 16 countries, 1 AND PRoFIT Financial spread betting in the UK is a tax-free way to deal providing clients from over 130 countries with access Our principal revenue sources are the dealing spreads by betting on the price movement of an asset.
The size of to the financial markets.
This year we opened two or commission charges we apply to each transaction, a clients win or loss depends on the degree and direction offices, in Ireland and Norway.
according to the asset and product type being traded.
We also charge funding for positions held overnight.
We are the UKs largest and longest-running spread 2 We derive our earnings from the volume of our clients betting provider dealing transactions, which can be influenced by the level We are the UKs No.
1 financial spread betting provider of activity in the underlying financial markets.
Since our See page 160 for an example of a spread bet.
clients can choose to buy or sell, dealing volumes can be maintained and we are able to profit irrespective of the direction in which markets are moving.
A centralised operating model enables us to maintain low-cost and capital-efficient processes, while robust risk management procedures help us monitor and control the impact of market and credit risk.
1 Tax laws are subject to change and depend on individual circumstances 2 All market share data presented in this report is provided by Investment Trends Limited please refer to Investor resources section for details 14 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 15
