BUSINESS REvIEW: Our strategy ouR STRATEGy Leveraging the strengths of our established reputation and unified global brand, we are focusing on four strategic objectives to drive our continued growth and maximise returns for our shareholders.
mAINTAINING ouR StrengthenIng our mARkET lEADERSHIP global preSence We aspire to be the market leader in online trading for We have offices in 16 countries, serving clients in over active retail traders, and we are currently the No.
1 global 130 countries, and we continue to seek opportunities provider of CFDs and financial spread betting.
to grow our client base in both established and new territories.
We have achieved our position at the forefront of the industry by recruiting talented people, developing Our new single global identity IG will help us superior technology and building on our financial to develop our brand reach, increase our market strength.
We continue to leverage this combination of penetration and target regional markets from the key advantages to grow the lead we have established countries in which we already operate.
in the major markets where we operate.
See page 24 See page 20 SuSTAINING ouR DElIvERING quAlITy lEADERSHIP IN SERvIcE TEcHNoloGy We maintain absolute integrity in our relationship with clients, and our responsive approach has won us top Our financial strength has enabled us to invest in IT ratings for customer satisfaction in independent research.
development and build superior platform technology, tools and resources for our clients.
By combining fast and reliable execution with transparent pricing and segregation of retail client funds in Our market-leading position is underpinned by accordance with FCA rules, we help our clients to feel our platforms award-winning performance and secure and confident in trading with us.
We also support proven resilience.
We work continually to introduce our clients with educational programmes, market insight enhancements and create a flexible trading environment resources and 24-hour technical help.
that supports our clients individual needs.
See page 22 See page 26 18 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 19
