CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: ThE BOARd CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued ThE BOARd continued hOw ThE BOARd OPERATEs lEAdERshiP Matters not specifically reserved for the Board are The Board The Board meets regularly: at least five times a year, and ROlE Of ThE BOARd delegated to the Executive Directors.
These include: Allocation of time attends an additional off-site strategy day.
The Board is responsible for the long-term success Developing and recommending strategic plans for of the Group.
It is accountable for ensuring that, as a Strategy The Board also meets when necessary to discuss important the Group collective body, it has the appropriate skills, knowledge Business and operational ad-hoc emerging issues that require consideration between Implementing strategies of the Group and experience to perform its role effectively.
It provides highlights standard Board meetings.
All Directors make every effort Day-to-day monitoring of the operating and financial guidance and leadership by challenging business Financial performance to attend each meeting: each Director committed an results of the Group performance, and sets the strategic direction of the Group.
Risk appropriate amount of time to their duties during the Prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and Client money financial year and the Non-Executive Directors met the human resources The powers of the Board are set out in the Companys Current trading time commitment specified in their letters of appointment.
Developing and implementing risk management articles of association, which are available on the Groups Other systems, policies and procedures website, www.
The articles may be amended Quarterly forecast and budget The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet formally Promoting good standards of corporate governance by way of a special resolution of the members of the in the absence of the Executive Directors at least once and shareholder engagement Company.
The Board may exercise all powers conferred on BOARd ANd ExECuTiVE COmmiTTEEs a year.
it by the articles and in accordance with the Companies Act The Board has delegated certain governance responsibilities BOARd sTRuCTuRE 2006, and other applicable legislation.
ATTENdANCE AT BOARd mEETiNGs to Board committees in order both to assist it with During the year, the Company was headed by an The number of full Board meetings, including the Board carrying out its responsibilities and to ensure that there is Specific key decisions are reserved for the Board in order experienced Board of seven Directors, comprising an strategy day, attended by each Director during the year is independent oversight of internal control and risk.
These to ensure that it meets its responsibilities.
These include: independent Non-Executive Chairman, three Executive set out below: Board committees comprise independent Non-Executive Directors, including the Group Chief Executive Officer, and Directors only and have agreed terms of reference, which Setting Group strategy Scheduled Board Scheduled three independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board was meetings eligible Board meetings are available on our corporate website, www.
Approving major acquisitions, divestments and pleased to announce the appointment of Sam Tymms as a Board attendance to attend attended capital expenditure Non-Executive Director of the Company on 22 May 2013, The Chairman of each Board committee reports to the Approving expansion into new business or Group Chairman taking the total number of Directors on the Board to eight.
Board on the matters discussed at committee meetings, geographic areas J R Davie 7 7 and the minutes of each of the committee meetings are The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Approving annual budgets Executive Directors made available to all Directors.
Please see the following the Chief Executive Officer is clearly defined in writing Approving changes relating to the Groups capital T A Howkins section for reports on the year from the Chairman of each Chief Executive Officer 7 7 and has been approved by the Board.
The Chairman is structure including reduction of capital Board committee.
C F Hill 7 7 responsible for the leadership of the Board and creating Reviewing operational and financial performance P G Hetherington 7 7 the conditions for its effective working.
The Chairman sets Setting the risk appetite of the Group Certain governance responsibilities have also been A R MacKay 1 1 the Boards agenda in consultation with the Chief Executive Approving any changes to the Groups risk management delegated to executive committees, whose members Independent Non-Executive Directors Officer and Company Secretary, taking full account of policy which materially increase the Groups risk profile include Executive Directors and members of senior D Currie 1 1 the issues and concerns of Board members and giving Reviewing the Groups systems of internal control and management.
Please see the following section for reports on S G Hill 7 7 consideration to the need to allow sufficient time for the risk management the year from both the Risk and Client Money Committees.
D M Jackson 7 7 discussion of items on the agenda.
Approving Board, Board committee and Company R P Yates 7 6 Secretarial appointments EffECTiVENEss All Non-Executive Directors are independent of S J Tymms 1 1 Ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board BOARd sTRuCTuRE management and are considered by the Board to be Non-independent Non-Executive Director and senior management The size, composition and qualifications of the members free from any business or other relationships which could N B le Roux 1 1 Defining and setting Board committee terms of reference of the Board have a significant impact on its effectiveness.
interfere with the exercise of their independence.
Their Approving policies relating to Directors remuneration hOw ThE BOARd disChARGEd iTs There is an appropriate combination of Executive Directors role is to advise and constructively challenge management, and the severance of Directors contracts REsPONsiBiliTiEs duRiNG ThE fiNANCiAl yEAR and Non-Executive Directors such that no individual along with monitoring managements success in delivering Receiving reports on the views of the During the year, the Board has been engaged across the or small group of individuals can dominate the Boards the agreed strategy within the risk appetite and control Companys shareholders key areas of financial performance, strategy, governance decision making.
This is regularly reviewed to ensure that framework set by the Board.
They are also responsible for and risk as highlighted in the following chart.
In addition the Board has the right mix for constructive discussion and, A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the to regular reviews of performance, the Board has further ultimately, effective Board decisions.
the Board can be found on the Groups website, at Executive Directors.
discussed risk appetite, capital and liquidity planning, www.
suCCEssiON PlANNiNG ANd APPOiNTmENTs Roger Yates is the Senior Independent Director and and talent management, including succession planning.
TO ThE BOARd provides support to the Chairman, serving as an It has also held an off-site strategy day to review strategic Succession planning is used by the Board to ensure that intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
The options open to the Group in light of the regulatory and economic environment.
the Group is managed by executives with the necessary Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders skills, experience and knowledge, and to ensure that if they have concerns which communication via the normal the Board has the right balance of individuals to be able channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or other to discharge its responsibilities.
The search for Board Executive Directors has failed to resolve, or for which candidates is conducted, and appointments are made, such communication is inappropriate.
on merit against objective criteria.
56 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 57
