BUSINESS REvIEW: Our strategy ouR STRATEGy continued DElIvERING quAlITy SERvIcE We offer high-speed execution, our own dealing clIENT moNEy SEGREGATIoN comPETITIvE cHARGES, NET PRomoTER ScoRE 1 technology never requotes prices, and we only fill orders We adopt a best-practice approach to holding client TRANSPARENT PRIcING Our Net Promoter Score NPS is one of the Key at the price the client requested or better within our set money.
In all of the jurisdictions where we operate, we fully We offer competitive prices, such as our spreads starting Performance Indicators KPIs that we use to gauge how margin of tolerance.
comply with the statutory requirements relating to client from just 0.8 pips on major currency pairs, without successfully we are achieving our strategic objectives.
We segregate all individual clients compromising on the quality of our service.
is a widely recognised measure of customer loyalty, with These are just some of the reasons why over 50% of our funds into client money bank accounts.
a high score normally associated with strong, sustainable Where available, we source equity prices from multilateral clients rate us as very good or excellent, and we receive long-term revenue growth.
In the UK we follow the client-asset rules set by the trading facilities MTFs as well as primary exchanges, a very low level of complaints.
Financial Conduct Authority FCA and in other jurisdictions for greater liquidity and better prices for our clients.
Independent research company Investment Trends used we adhere to similar rules set by local regulators, including the NPS method to survey spread betting and CFD clIENT SuPPoRT AND EDucATIoN the Monetary Authority of Singapore MAS, the Australian trading clients in various countries, asking if they would We recognise the importance of educating and supporting RESPoNDING To clIENT FEEDBAck Securities and Investments Commission ASIC and the recommend their provider to a friend or colleague.
We our clients, so our extensive range of resources includes: We always listen carefully to comments from clients, and often Japanese Financial Services Authority JFSA.
were among the highest ranking companies in all the ask for their input through tailored surveys and focus groups An introductory education programme promoting regions they studied.
Word of mouth recommendation linked to marketing campaigns or trials of new technology.
We also commissioned an independent assurance responsible trading remains a major source of new clients and independent assessment of our client money processes, which was We create new functionality to meet clients needs and A wide range of client seminars and webinars, available research indicated that we are the largest beneficiary in completed to the International Standard on Assurance requests.
Recent examples include the ability to withdraw online and in person our industry of traders switching between providers.
We believe we are funds using mobile apps, push alerts to mobile devices, Daily research bulletins on major financial markets, the first firm in our industry to do so.
We achieved the top score of all providers in Australia, and the integration of popular third-party charting plus regular technical analysis from in-house and and in the UK we ranked second for spread betting and packages.
We have brought together our CFD and spread third-party sources We are regulated by the FCA in the UK, as well as third for CFDs.
In the UK we scored 25 for spread betting betting websites at IG.
com and created a single client A dedicated market insight section on our website other major regulators in our overseas locations and 20 for CFD trading, against industry averages of 6 and login making it easy for clients to access, manage and A comprehensive online help portal 3 respectively.
24-hour support Monday to Friday over the phone, We hold all retail client money in segregated by email, live chat and Twitter accounts with a range of major banks NPS is calculated by asking respondents: How likely TREATING cuSTomERS FAIRly are you to recommend this company to a friend or We are proud of our reputation for excellent customer service We only use our own funds for hedging colleague?
Respondents reply on a 0-10 scale, with the and client support, and continually seek ways to improve.
We final NPS calculated as the percentage of promoters those have developed our own unique set of measures to help us answering 9 or 10 minus the percentage of detractors We do not pass individual clients money through monitor our treatment of clients, demonstrating our commitment those answering 0-6. to hedging counterparties to the FCAs Treating Customers Fairly TCF initiative.
1 Excludes MT4, a third-party platform offered by IG kEy PERFoRmANcE INDIcAToRS kPIs We analyse a suite of metrics to ensure we are achieving our objectives.
NET PRomoTER ScoRE UK spread betting UK CFDs Australia Singapore France Germany IG Nearest competitor Industry average IG Nearest competitor Industry average IG Nearest competitor Industry average IG Nearest competitor Industry average IG Nearest competitor Industry average IG Nearest competitor Industry average 25 20 21 -12 12 14 -6 18 -16 -20 7 -8 6 3 -7 -34 -5 -9 -40 -20 0 20 40 -40 -20 0 20 40 -40 -20 0 20 40 -40 -20 0 20 40 -40 -20 0 20 40 -40 -20 0 20 40 26 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 27
