BUSINESS REvIEW: Our strategy ouR STRATEGy continued STRENGTHENING ouR GloBAl PRESENcE INcREASED mARkET PENETRATIoN A uNIFIED GloBAl BRAND NADEX Over the past six years we have opened 13 new offices In 2012 we initiated a major business development: We continue to develop our US subsidiary, Nadex, and around the world.
This year has seen two new additions, we consolidated our spread betting and CFD brands, produce integrated marketing campaigns across multiple Norway and Ireland, giving us a physical presence in eight IG Index and IG Markets, into a simple and memorable channels to promote our unique product range.
As a result, countries in and around the European Economic Area.
the number of active Nadex clients has almost doubled are excited about the opportunities presented by Norway over the past year.
Our new name recognises and leverages the strength of and Ireland, as these regions have an established trading the IG brand, positioning us as a unified global business While Nadex remains an ongoing project and is still a small market and competition has weakened recently.
that delivers consistently high service across all territories.
part of our operations, we are optimistic our exchange has The larger European economies have established online Our new identity is powerful in its clarity, and will help us to long-term prospects in the US.
trading communities, which are a natural target audience develop our brand reach further worldwide.
We expect to see continued growth cENTRAlISED oPERATIoNS Our single identity, outside the US, is supported by our from these sources.
We are also actively exploring other Our centralised operating model promotes the effective investment in a suite of domain names centred around new territories, where regulatory conditions are favourable management of our global businesses.
This reflects our new brand name and provides or are expected to become favourable.
organic growth and ensures that our commercial users with a straightforward route to our network of activities are both low-cost and capital-efficient.
We have recently moved to new premises in Australia, websites, as well as significantly increasing the efficiency Singapore and South Africa and extended our premises of our online marketing.
We have recently merged our UK in France, as we now have a clearer sense of the size spread betting and CFD sites and created a consistent of the longer-term opportunity in these countries and structure and style across all sites, and this has enabled us neighbouring areas.
to optimise our use of resources.
While we continue to grow our client base in markets where we already have an established commercial presence, our network of global offices enables us to drive further growth by targeting additional regional markets from the countries where we already operate.
This is already particularly relevant in the Asia Pacific region.
kEy PERFoRmANcE INDIcAToRS kPIs We analyse a suite of metrics to ensure we are achieving our objectives.
GEoGRAPHIc NET TRADING REvENuE GEoGRAPHIc oPERATING PRoFIT We monitor net trading revenue by region and compare against other regions at a similar stage of maturity.
We assess operating profit by geographical area.
2012 2013 2012 2013 191.8m UK 186.5m UK 107.1m UK 110.2m UK 58.0m Australia 56.3m Australia 36.1m Australia 36.6m Australia 72.2m Europe 71.0m Europe 26.1m Europe 26.6m Europe 16.4m Japan 15.9m Japan 6.2m Japan 7.2m Japan 28.4m Rest of World 32.2m Rest of World 10.0m Rest of World 11.3m Rest of World 24 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 25
