CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: ThE BOARd CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued ThE BOARd Jonathan Davie Tim Howkins Non-Executive Chairman, 66 years old Chief Executive, 50 years old Jonathan joined George M. Hill and Co, a jobber on the Tim has a first class degree in Mathematics and Computer London Stock Exchange, in 1969.
Wedd Durlacher Mordaunt Science from Reading.
He qualified as a Chartered and Co then acquired the firm, where Jonathan became Accountant with Ernst & Young and is also a member of the a partner in 1975.
He was the senior dealing partner of Chartered Institute of Taxation.
Tim was one of a group of the company when it was later acquired by Barclays Bank partners and staff who left Ernst & Young in 1990 to form to form BZW in 1986.
Jonathan developed BZWs fixed Rees Pollock, a firm of Chartered Accountants targeted income business prior to becoming CEO of the global at entrepreneurial, owner-managed businesses.
Tim was equities business in 1991.
In 1996 Jonathan became Deputy a partner in Rees Pollock for seven years, where he was Chairman of BZW and then Vice Chairman of Credit Suisse responsible for the Groups audit.
He then joined IG as First Boston in 1998, when they acquired most of BZWs Finance Director in 1999, and became Chief Executive businesses.
Jonathan is presently a Non-Executive Director in 2006.
Tim is a member of the board and executive of Persimmon plc and Hansa Trust plc, and Chairman of committee of the Futures and Options Association.
First Avenue, an alternatives advisory boutique.
Jonathan is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Christopher Hill Peter Hetherington Roger Yates Stephen Hill Sam Tymms Martin Jackson Chief Financial Officer, 42 years old Chief Operating Officer, 44 years old Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, 53 years old Non-Executive Director, 46 years old Non-Executive Director, 64 years old Christopher read Modern History at Peter read Economics at Nottingham Non-Executive Director, 56 years old Stephen served as CEO of the On graduating in 1987 Sam joined the Martin was appointed a Non-Executive Oxford University.
He is a Chartered University and has a Masters in Finance Roger joined the Board as senior Financial Times for Pearson plc London Stock Exchanges Surveillance Director of IG Group and Chairman Accountant and an associate member from the London Business School.
independent Non-Executive Director between 1996 and 2002, and on Division, which over time became of the Audit Committee in April 2005. of the Association of Corporate Peter was an officer in the Royal Navy in February 2006.
Roger read Modern Pearsons management board.
He the Securities and Futures Authority He was the Group Finance Director of Treasurers.
He joined IG Group in before joining IG Group, as a graduate History at Worcester College, Oxford, was the CEO of Betfair plc from 2003 and eventually the Financial Services Friends Provident plc between 2001 April 2011 from Travelex, a group trainee, in 1994.
He became Head and has 28 years experience in the fund to 2005.
Currently he is Chairman Authority in 1998.
During that time and 2003, of Friends Provident Life providing cross-border payment and of Financial Dealing in 1999 and was management industry as an investment and CEO of DAval Limited, a private she held a range of supervisory Office between 1999 and 2001, and of foreign exchange services to corporate appointed as Chief Operating Officer professional and business manager.
investment company, and Trustee roles, worked for two years in the London & Manchester Group plc from and retail customers, where he was of IG Group in 2002.
Previously he was Chief Investment and Chairman of the Royal National Investigations and Enforcement 1992 to 1998 up until its acquisition by Chief Financial Officer.
Prior to joining Officer of Invesco Global and held senior Institute for Deaf People Action on Division and spent a short period at the Friends Provident Life Office.
He is a Travelex in 2007, Christopher worked at roles for fund management companies Hearing Loss.
Stephen also serves as Bank of England leading the work on Non-Executive Director and Chairman VWR international, a global laboratory LGT and Morgan Grenfell.
He joined a member of the Advisory Board of the integrated supervision, as the regulators of the Group Risk Committee of supply company from 2005 to 2007, at Henderson Global Investors as Chief Cambridge University Judge Business were merged.
As a supervisor she Admiral Group plc.
He is also a fellow of General Electric from 2000 to 2005 and Executive in 1999.
Stephen is an experienced ran departments supervising global the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
at Arthur Andersen from 1992 to 2000. on to lead the fide-merger from its then Non-Executive Director, having investment firms, retail and investment parent AMP, becoming Chief Executive previously served on the boards of banks and major insurance groups.
In of the resulting listed entity now the Royal SunAlliance Insurance Group 2007 Sam joined Promontory Financial Henderson Group plc until November plc, Psion plc and Channel 4.
He was Group as a Managing Director.
From December 2009 until July also Chairman of Interactive Data Promontory is a leading strategy, 2010, Roger was CEO of global asset Corporation of the US from 1998 risk management and regulatory manager Pioneer Investments.
He is to 2002. compliance consulting firm, where Sam a Non-Executive Director of JP Morgan advises financial services firms on a wide Elect Investment Trust plc and of range of risk and regulatory matters.
Electra Private Equity Trust plc.
54 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 55
