CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: diRECTORs sTATuTORY REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued diRECTORs sTATuTORy REPORT facility 120.0 million is available for a period of one year The Directors are pleased to submit their report together Management is also responsible for establishing and Accountability and audit and 80.0 million is available for three years respectively with the audited Group Financial Statements for the year maintaining adequate internal control over financial A statement of the Directors responsibilities in respect of from the facility signing date.
Internal controls over financial reporting are the Financial Statements is set out immediately prior to the Financial Statements, and a statement regarding the carried out under the supervision of the Chief Financial RElATiONs wiTh shAREhOldERs Dividends use of the going concern basis in preparing these Financial Officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding the The Board recognises the importance of communications The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of Statements is given later in this report.
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the with shareholders.
The Chairmans statement, Chief 17.50 pence per share, amounting to 63,767,000, making consolidated Financial Statements for external reporting Executives review and the Operating and Financial The independent Auditors report, which sets out a total of 23.25 pence per share and 84,612,000 for the year.
purposes, in accordance with International Financial Review include detailed reviews of the business and the Auditors reporting responsibilities, is also given Dividends are recognised in the Financial Statements in the Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the future developments.
There is regular dialogue with immediately prior to the Financial Statements.
year in which they are paid, or in the case of a final dividend, European Union.
institutional shareholders, including presentations by when approved by the shareholders.
The amount recognised Principal activities management around the time of the Groups preliminary Internal controls over financial reporting focus on the most in the Financial Statements, as described in note 13, is made An overview of the principal activities of the Group is announcement of the year-end results and at the halfmaterial financial statement items and include policies and up of this financial years interim dividend and the final provided in the Business Review.
These presentations are made available on the procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that: dividend from the previous year, which were both paid.
com, which also provides Operations outside the United Kingdom The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on Fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets, information to shareholders and prospective shareholders.
In line with strategic objectives, the Group has branches 22 October 2013 to those shareholders on the register accurately and in reasonable detail Feedback is provided to the Board following these investor in each of Australia, South Africa, France, Germany, Italy, at 20 September 2013.
Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are presentations of any views or concerns expressed Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Ireland, Spain and recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial by shareholders.
Sweden, a representative office in China and subsidiaries in Directors and their interests statements in accordance with IFRS the US, Singapore and Japan.
Biographical details of the Directors who held office at The Board uses the Annual General Meeting AGM to Ensure that receipts and expenditures are being the end of the year are given at the beginning of this communicate with private and institutional investors and processed only in accordance with authorisations from Review of business and future developments Corporate Governance Report.
Details of the service welcomes their participation.
The Chairman aims to ensure management and the Directors A review of the Groups progress, outlining developments contracts for those Directors and the Directors interests that all of the Directors, including the Chairmen of the Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention during the year and giving an indication of future in the share capital of the Company are set out in the Remuneration and Audit Committees, are available at the or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or developments, is provided in the Operating and Financial Directors remuneration report.
The Annual Report and notice disposition of assets that could have a material effect on Review.
The Operating and Financial Review also covers of the AGM are sent, or made available on the Groups the financial statements an analysis of the financial position of the Group at the Share capital website at www.
com, to the shareholders at least year-end and Key Performance Indicators.
Details of the Companys equity and preference share The Annual Report is reviewed by the Audit Committee 20 working days prior to the meeting being held.
capital are given in notes 28 and 27 respectively to the and the Board prior to publication.
Details of the Groups required Roger Yates, the Senior Independent Director, is available The Groups statutory profit for the year, after taxation regulatory capital are disclosed in note 38 to the Financial Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, to meet shareholders on request and to ensure that the amounted to 141,748,000 2012: 136,760,000, of which Statements and in the Operating and Financial Review.
have inherent limitations and may not prevent or detect Board is aware of shareholder concerns not resolved a profit of 141,692,000 2012: 136,792,000 is attributable misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of through other mechanisms for shareholder communication.
to the equity members of the Company.
The Group purchases its own shares in order to satisfy effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that awards under the Groups share incentive plan schemes The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director internal controls may become inadequate because of Related party transactions and the Group issues shares in respect of long-term provide feedback to the Board of any views or concerns changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance Details of related party transactions are set out in note 35 incentive plan and value-sharing plan schemes.
Details of expressed to them by shareholders.
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
the shares held by the Groups Employee Benefit Trusts Risk mANAGEmENT ANd iNTERNAl CONTROls The Risk Management Framework has been in place for and the amounts paid during the year are disclosed in Subsequent events The Group is exposed to a number of business risks in the full year under review and up to the date of approval of note 29 to the Financial Statements.
Subsequent to the year-end, in accordance with the providing products and services to its clients.
The Board is the Annual Report, and is in accordance with the Turnbull phased transfer agreed with the FCA for the Group to responsible for establishing the overall appetite for these guidance, Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors hold a liquid assets buffer of up to 100.0 million by risks, which is detailed and approved in the Risk Appetite on the Combined Code, published by the Financial August 2013, the Group has purchased 32.3 million Statement.
The Risk Management Framework is supported Reporting Council.
of additional BIPRU 12 qualifying assets please refer to by a system of internal controls that is designed to embed note 20 to the Financial Statements for further details.
The Board and Audit Committee have reviewed the design the management of business risk throughout the Group.
Following this purchase the Group now holds 83.1 million and effectiveness of managements system of internal Both the risks to which the Group is exposed and the Risk of BIPRU 12 qualifying assets within the liquid assets buffer.
control covering financial, operational, compliance and Management Framework are outlined in the Managing our risk management systems.
No significant weaknesses were business risk section of the Business Review.
Further, on 19 July 2013 the Group completed the identified during this review.
renegotiation of the liquidity facilities with a syndicate of Internal control three banks.
In doing so the Group has increased the size Management has designed and implemented a system of the overall facility to 200.0 million and established a of internal control to manage, rather than eliminate, the longer-term liquidity funding arrangement.
Of the total risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss.
82 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 83
