68 Directors report The Directors present their annual report and the audited financial investments has been delegated to the Mezzanine and Minority statements for the 12 months ended 31 March 2013.
The Committee is chaired by Christophe Evain, CEO and CIO.
The consideration of new Principal activities and business review senior debt, second lien debt and high yield investments has been delegated to the Credit Funds Investment Committee.
The principal activities of the Group are those of providing This Committee is chaired by Christophe Evain, CEO and CIO.
mezzanine and equity finance to companies throughout Europe, All investments are reviewed by the corresponding Investment Asia Pacific and North America along with the management of Committee.
The approving Committees, comprise up to seven third party funds.
additional members for mezzanine investment and five additional The Groups profit before taxation was 142.6m 2012: members for credit fund management.
The Directors consider the state of the Companys members among two predefined lists of people including affairs to be satisfactory.
Managing Directors and senior investment executives.
One of The review of the Groups business as required by section these members will be nominated as Sponsor member, 417 of the Companies Act 2006 including its likely future depending on the specificities of the investment geography, development is contained in Our business, the Business size, nature of the transaction.
By chairing both Investment review and on pages 39 to 45, which are incorporated into this Committees, the CIO ensures consistency in the Global report by reference, together with this report itself.
The Corporate Investment Strategy of the firm.
Governance Statement, set out on pages 50 to 55, forms part of this report.
The Pillar 3 disclosure is available on the shareholders Key performance indicators KPIs section of the Companys website www.
Details of the KPIs are shown in the Business review on pages 12 to 15.
Investment process The Group has a defined and disciplined investment process for Post balance sheet events all mezzanine and equity investments.
Investments are sourced by ICGs network of investment professionals in Europe, Asia Pacific Material events since the balance sheet date are described in note 31. and the US from financial partners including private equity sponsors, banks and professional advisors and or directly with Directors the management teams of companies.
Investment teams assess The Directors who served during the year were as follows: all investment opportunities against ICGs investment criteria and present potential investments to the Investment Committee with Justin Dowley Non Executive Chairman details of pricing, leverage, capital structure and a full commercial Christophe Evain Chief Executive Officer background of the company.
The Investment Committee is Philip Keller Managing Director responsible for approving the Groups investments in Benot Durteste Managing Director opportunities and will guide the investment teams on due diligence and set financial parameters.
Extensive due diligence is Kevin Parry Senior Independent then undertaken by advisors, retained by the equity sponsor or Non Executive Director appointed directly by ICG, covering the management team, the Peter Gibbs Non Executive Director market, financial and legal review, sustainability and corporate Kim Wahl Non Executive Director social responsibility issues.
The due diligence focuses on the Lindsey McMurray Non Executive Director protection of principal and interest and assessing the future value of the equity.
Once completed, a further Investment Committee Jean-Daniel Camus Non Executive Director meeting is held to review all available information and reach a James Nelson Non Executive Director consensus unanimous approval is required before an investment Jean-Daniel Camus and James Nelson retired from the Board can be made.
A similar process is followed for all credit fund investments, The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions for with a two-step Investment Committee process approving trading the periodic retirement of Directors.
However, in accordance with limits for all new investments.
The process works on a shorter the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Board time frame with the team usually benefiting from pre-agreed has decided it would be appropriate for all Directors to submit to documentation and a prepared due diligence set of information.
In order to effectively manage potential conflicts of interests between both ICGs businesses, namely mezzanine investment and credit fund management, two separate and independent Investment Committees have been set up: the consideration of new mezzanine loans or equity investments for approval and monitoring of performance of existing mezzanine loans and equity Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 38 45 46 76 Annual Report 2013 77 112 69 Accordingly Justin Dowley, Christophe Evain, Philip Keller, Kevin Significant shareholdings Parry and Peter Gibbs retire by rotation at the next Annual General As at 22 May 2013 the Company had been notified or otherwise Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
become aware of the following interests pursuant to the During the year, Benot Durteste was appointed to the Board Disclosure Rules and the Transparency Rules representing 3% as a Managing Director on 21 May 2012 and was re-elected at or more of the issued share capital of the Company: the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 10 July 2012.
Accordingly Benot Durteste retires by rotation at the next Number Percentage of of shares voting rights Institution Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for Aviva Investors 28,491,692 7.1 re-election.
Also during the year, Kim Wahl was appointed to the F&C Asset Management plc 22,668,174 5.6 Board as a Non Executive Director on 10 July 2012 and Lindsey McMurray was appointed to the Board as a Non Executive Newton Investment Management 19,280,769 4.8 Director on 20 September 2012.
Baillie Gifford & Co Ltd 17,162,132 4.3 The Companys Articles of Association provide that any Cazenove Capital Management 16,390,741 4.1 Director appointed by the Board shall retire at the next Annual LSV Asset Management 15,445,358 3.8 General Meeting of the Company following such appointment.
Legal & General Investment Accordingly, Kim Wahl and Lindsey McMurray will each retire Management 14,427,778 3.6 at the next Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer BlackRock Investment themselves for re-election.
Management 12,965,560 3.2 The composition of each of the Committees of the Board and the Chairperson of each Committee are detailed on pages Dividend 48 and 49.
The Directors recommend a final net dividend payment in respect Directors interests of the ordinary shares of the Company at a rate of 13.7p per share 2012: 13p, which when added to the interim net dividend The Directors who held office at 31 March 2013 and their of 6.3p per share 2012: 6p, gives a total net dividend for the year connected persons, as defined by the Companies Act, had the of 20p per share 2012: 19p.
The amount of dividend paid in the following interests in the ordinary shares of the Company: year was 74.9m 2012: 70.1m.
31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Number of 20p Number of 20p ordinary shares ordinary shares Trade creditors and suppliers Justin Dowley Chairman 119,639 119,639 It is Group policy to agree and clearly communicate terms of Christophe Evain CEO 671,383 781,627 payment as part of the commercial arrangements negotiated with Philip Keller 234,776 152,158 suppliers and then to pay according to those terms, based upon Benot Durteste 54,400 49,068 the timely receipt of an accurate invoice.
The Group does not Peter Gibbs follow any code regarding terms of payment.
During the financial Kevin Parry year our trade creditor days, based upon the ratio of amounts Kim Wahl that were owed to trade creditors at the year end to the aggregate amounts invoiced by trade creditors during the year, were Lindsey McMurray 13 days 2012: 21 days.
There have been no changes to the Directors interests in shares at 31 March 2013 as set out above as at 22 May 2013.
Auditor A resolution for the reappointment of the current auditor, Directors share options Deloitte LLP, will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Details Details of Directors share options are provided in the Report of of auditors remuneration for audit and non audit work are the Remuneration Committee on pages 62 and 63.
Other than disclosed in note 9 to the accounts.
the interests of Benot Durteste in shares of ICG FMC Limited disclosed on page 63, during the financial year ending 31 March 2013, the Directors had no interests in the shares of any subsidiary company.
No Company shares were issued under the Executive Share Option Schemes during the year.
70 Directors report continued Disclosure of information to the auditor Share capital and rights attaching to the Companys shares Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: As at 31 March 2013 the issued share capital of the Company was 402,056,200 ordinary shares of 20p each.
Certain key so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit matters regarding the Companys share capital are noted below: information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Under the Companys Articles of Association, any share in the Director has taken all reasonable steps that he ought to the Company may be issued with such rights or restrictions, have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any whether in regard to dividend, voting, transfer, return of capital relevant audit information and to ensure that the Companys or otherwise as the Company may from time to time by ordinary auditor is aware of that information.
resolution determine or, in the absence of any such This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in determination, as the Board may determine.
All shares currently accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies in issue are ordinary shares of 20p each carrying equal rights.
At a general meeting of the Company every member present in person or by a duly appointed proxy has one vote on a show Charitable and political contributions of hands and on a poll one vote for each share held.
During the year the Group made charitable donations of The Intermediate Capital Group Employee Benefit Trust 2002 21,203 2012: 38,000 principally to local charities serving the holds shares which may be used to satisfy options and awards communities in which the Group operates.
During 2013, we ran granted under the Companys employee share schemes three workshops as part of our commitment to the Private Equity including its long term incentive plans.
The voting rights of Foundations PEF ThinkForward programme.
The PEF is a these shares are exercisable by the Trustees in accordance foundation backed by private equity firms and their advisors.
Their mission is to empower young people, by investing both The notice of any general meeting specifies deadlines for money and expertise from the private equity community, to help exercising voting rights either by proxy or present in person charities achieve a significant change in their impact.
19,000 was in relation to resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
No shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, The Group also allows employees to take two days paid leave entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a a year to devote to charitable causes supported by the Group general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by under its Corporate Social Responsibility programme, further being a shareholder if: details of which are given on pages 36 and 37.
No contributions were made during the current and prior year for political purposes.
A he or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power to require Directors indemnity information with respect to interests in their voting shares : and The Company has entered into contractual indemnities with each B he or any interested person has failed to supply the of the Directors pursuant to the amendment to the Companys Company with the information requested within 14 days where Articles of Association authorised at the 2010 AGM and these the shares subject to the notice the default shares represent remain in force.
The Company also provides Directors and at least 0.25% of their class or in any other case 28 days after Officers insurance for the Directors.
Where the default shares represent 0.25% of their class, unless the Board decides otherwise, Acquisition of shares by Employee Benefit Trust no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
These During the year the Intermediate Capital Group Employee Benefit restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company Trust 2002, purchased 3,984,457 2012: 4,813,531 ordinary of a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the shares in the Company having an aggregate nominal value of information required by the relevant section 793 notice, 796,891.40 2012: 962,706.2 for a consideration of 13.3m whichever is the earlier.
2012: 12.9m, which was funded by the Company.
The shares were purchased in order to hedge the Companys future liabilities in relation to the vesting of awards under the Companys long term incentive plans.
This represented 1.0% 2012: 1.2% of the Groups share capital at 31 March 2013.
Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 38 45 46 76 Annual Report 2013 77 112 71 The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share Powers of Directors which is not a fully paid share, although such discretion may Subject to its Articles of Association and relevant statutory law not be exercised in a way which the Financial Conduct Authority and to such direction as may be given by the Company by special regards as preventing dealings in the shares of the relevant resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the class or classes from taking place on an open and proper basis.
Board, who may exercise all powers of the Company whether The Directors may likewise refuse to register any transfer of a relating to the management of the business or not.
share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Companys Articles of Association give power to the The Company is not aware of any other restrictions on the transfer Board to appoint Directors.
The Articles also require any Directors of ordinary shares in the Company other than: appointed by the Board to submit themselves for election at the first AGM following their appointment and for one third of the certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by Companys Directors to retire by rotation at each AGM.
Directors laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws or the may resign or be removed by an ordinary resolution of UK Takeover Code : and shareholders.
Notwithstanding the above, the Company has pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct elected, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require to have all Directors reappointed on an annual basis.
approval of the Company to deal in the Companys shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between Change of control agreements shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of There are no agreements between the Group and its Directors securities or voting rights.
or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or At the 2012 Annual General Meeting the Directors were given employment that occurs because of a takeover bid apart from the the power to allot shares and grant rights to subscribe for, or usual payment in lieu of notice.
convert any security into, shares: up to an aggregate nominal amount of 26,679,347 and, in the case of a fully pre-emptive There are no significant agreements to which the Group is a party rights issue only, up to a total amount of 53,358,694. that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the A resolution will be proposed to renew the Companys Group following a takeover bid, other than: authority to allot further new shares at the forthcoming AGM.
1 The multicurrency forward start revolving loan facility In accordance with the institutional guidelines issued by the agreement of 250m dated 1 July 2009 where a change of Association of British Insurers ABI, the proposed new authority control is an event of default and gives lenders the right, but will allow the Directors to allot ordinary shares equal to an amount not the obligation, to cancel their commitments to the facility of up to one third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital and declare the loans repayable on demand.
as at 21 May 2013 plus, in the case of a fully pre-emptive rights issue only, a further amount of up to an additional one third of the 2 The two Private Placement arrangements totalling 222m Companys issued share capital as at 21 May 2013.
The authority dated between 28 June 2004 and 28 February 2007 where for Directors to allot shares in the Companys shares is renewed a change of control gives rise to a downgrade in the credit annually and approval will be sought at the forthcoming AGM for rating and the loans are thereafter repayable on demand.
3 The Private Placement arrangement totalling 34m dated The Directors authority to effect purchases of the Companys 26 June 2008 and the Private Placement arrangement shares on the Companys behalf is conferred by resolution of totalling $150m dated 8 May 2013 where a change of control shareholders.
At the 2012 AGM the Company was granted in the Company gives rise to an event of default under the authority to purchase its own shares up to an aggregate value agreements.
The loans are thereafter repayable on demand.
of approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 22 May 2013.
The authority to effect purchases 4 The loan facility agreement of 250m dated 1 June 2009 and of the Companys shares is renewed annually and approval amended and restated 1 July 2009 where a change of control will be sought at the forthcoming AGM for its renewal.
gives lenders the right, but not the obligation, to cancel their commitments to the facility and declare the loans repayable on demand.
72 Directors report continued Change of control agreements continued Resolutions 5 The employee share schemes, details of which can be found Financial Statements and Reports Resolution 1 in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 56 The Directors are required to present to shareholders at the to 67, Awards and options under the 2001 Approved and AGM the financial statements and reports for the year ended Unapproved Executive Share Option Schemes and SAYE 31 March 2013.
Plan 2004 become exercisable for a limited period following a change of control whereas awards under the KERSP will Directors Remuneration Report Resolution 2 only become exercisable if the Remuneration Committee so The Directors are required to seek approval of the shareholders decides.
Awards and options under the Omnibus Plan and for the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 the BSC Plan vest immediately on a change of control.
The resolution is an advisory vote, as permitted by 6 Three bilateral loan facility agreements totalling 640m agreed law, and no entitlement to remuneration is made conditional on in May and June 2012 and two further bilateral loan facility the resolution being passed.
The Report of the Remuneration agreements totalling 100m agreed in May 2013 where a Committee is on pages 56 to 67. change of control gives lenders the right, but not the obligation, to cancel their commitments to the facility Dividend Resolution 3 and declare the loans repayable on demand.
The Directors recommend a dividend of 13.7p per share.
The final dividend cannot exceed the amount recommended by 7 75m private placement arrangements signed on 9 November the Directors.
If approved by shareholders, the final dividend will 2011 under which a change of control triggers an immediate be paid on 24 July 2013 to those shareholders on the register as prepayment obligation of all outstanding principal, accrued at 14 June 2013. interest and all other amounts due under the agreement, and a further private placement agreement for 11m agreed in November 2012 on the same terms.
The Auditor Resolutions 4 and 5 The shareholders are asked every year to approve the 8 The terms and conditions of the 35m retail bond issue which reappointment of the auditor, Deloitte LLP, as auditor of the took place in December 2011 sets out that following a change Company and agree that the Directors may approve their of control event, investors have the right but not the obligation remuneration.
The Board believes that the quality of audit service to sell their notes to ICG if the change of control results in provided by Deloitte LLP is appropriate and that they demonstrate either a credit ratings downgrade from investment grade independence and objectivity.
Therefore they recommend to non-investment grade, or a downgrade of one or more shareholders vote in favour of reappointment.
notches if already non-investment grade, no credit ratings being in existence.
Re-election of Directors Resolutions 6, 7, 8, 9, 9 The terms and conditions of the 80m retail bond issue 10, 11, 12 and 13 which took place in September 2012 sets out that following a In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate change of control event, investors have the right but not the Governance Code relating to the re-election of Directors, Justin obligation to sell their notes to ICG if the change of control Dowley, Christophe Evain, Philip Keller, Benot Durteste, Peter results in either a credit ratings downgrade from investment Gibbs, Kevin Parry, Kim Wahl and Lindsey McMurray are retiring grade to non-investment grade, or a downgrade of one or and will be standing for re-election at the AGM.
The Chairman is more notches if already non-investment grade, no credit satisfied that, following formal performance evaluation, each ratings being in existence.
Director continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to their role.
The other Directors are satisfied that, following formal Annual General Meeting performance evaluation, the Chairman continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to his role.
The Board considers A number of resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General that each of the Directors brings experience and skills valuable to Meeting AGM as ordinary and special business as follows: the Boards effective performance and that their reappointment is Resolutions 15 to 17 will be proposed as special resolutions.
in the best interest of the Company.
Biographies of all the All other resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
Directors appear on pages 48 and 49.
To pass special resolutions 75% or more of the votes cast must be in favour.
Voting on all resolutions will be by way of poll.
Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 38 45 46 76 Annual Report 2013 77 112 73 Authority to allot shares Resolution 14 General Meetings Resolution 17 The Directors may allot relevant securities only if authorised Resolution 17 is required to meet the requirements of the to do so by shareholders.
The authority granted at the 2012 AGM Shareholder Rights Directive, which would otherwise require the is due to expire at this years AGM.
Resolution 14 seeks to renew notice period for General Meetings of the Company to be not less this authority for a period until 30 September 2014, or the date than 14 days.
of the 2014 AGM, whichever is the earlier.
The Shareholder Rights Directive provides that the Company Paragraph a of Resolution 14 will allow the Directors must have shareholder approval to allow the Company to call to allot ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount General Meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice.
of 26,800,000 representing approximately one third of the The approval given at the 2012 AGM is due to expire at this years Companys existing issued share capital and calculated as at AGM.
If granted, the 2013 AGM approval will be effective until the 21 May 2013 being the latest practicable date prior to publication 2014 AGM or 30 September 2014, whichever is the earlier.
In accordance with the latest institutional The Company will also need to meet the requirements for guidelines issued by the ABI, paragraph b of Resolution 14 will electronic voting under the Directive before it can call a General also allow Directors to allot, including the ordinary shares referred Meeting on 14 days notice.
to in paragraph a of Resolution 14, further ordinary shares in It is not intended that the shorter notice period would be used connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of a rights issue to as a matter of routine, but only where the flexibility is merited by ordinary shareholders up to a maximum nominal amount of the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage 53,600,000, representing approximately two thirds of the of shareholders as a whole.
Companys existing issued share capital calculated as at 21 May 2013.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
However, if they do exercise the authority, the Directors intend to follow emerging best practice as regards its use including, where appropriate, the Directors standing for re-election as recommended by the ABI.
Andrew Lewis Company secretary Issue of Shares Resolution 15 22 May 2013 If the Directors wish to allot equity securities or sell treasury shares for cash, the Companies Act 2006 requires that these shares are offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
These requirements are known as shareholders pre-emption rights.
There may be occasions, however, when, in order to act in the best interests of the Company, the Directors need flexibility to finance business opportunities as they arise without offering securities on a pre-emptive basis.
Resolution 15 asks shareholders to renew the Directors authority to allot equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 4,020,562 being equivalent to approximately 5% of the ordinary issued share capital as at 21 May 2013 without the shares being offered first to existing shareholders.
If given, this power will expire on 30 September 2014 or at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM, whichever is the earlier.
Repurchase of own Shares Resolution 16 The Company may buy its own shares with the authority of shareholders.
Resolution 16 seeks to renew the current authority given at the 2012 AGM.
The resolution specifies the maximum number of shares that may be purchased in the markets up to a limit of 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 21 May 2013 and the highest and lowest prices at which they may be bought.
In the event that shares are purchased, they would be either cancelled and the number of shares in issue would be reduced accordingly or, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, be retained as treasury shares for resale or transfer for use with the Companys employee share plans.
