Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 38 45 Annual Report 2013 46 76 77 112 Funds and portfolio: 39 Our investment culture Our investment culture mezzanine investment philosophy ICG is a leading specialist asset manager providing We invest alongside financial sponsors and private debt, mezzanine finance, leveraged credit management teams with a focus on midmarket and minority equity.
With 24 years of mezzanine companies in Europe, Asia Pacific and the uS.
investing experience we are one of the leading We seek a prudent balance of risk and return for Our people independent mezzanine providers in the world.
ourinvestors and this balance determines which Furthermore we are one of the largest managers partof the capital structure we invest in.
Returns ofEuropean senior loans and high yield bonds with are generated through debt coupon cash, 14 years of investing experience in this field.
payment in kind, pay-if-you-can or pay-if-you-want We structure and provide mezzanine finance, and through equity, either through equity warrants leveraged credit and minority equity deploying associated with mezzanine or standalone equity.
capital from the ICG plc balance sheet and on behalf A key strength is our ability to adapt our of our third party fund investors.
ICG manages third financing approach to each investment opportunity.
party funds in mezzanine, senior debt, real estate, ICG has led the market through a very reactive high yield bonds and related assets.
Common to and flexible approach, structuring ad hoc solutions allof these asset classes is our ability to originate, and products and introducing innovative instrument assess and price risk across the capital structure features.
By controlling each instrument in which we We invest across a companys capital structure invest, we provide certainty and stability in a capital depending on where we identify the potential value structure.
If syndication is required this is typically Chris Heine and subsequent returns for our investors.
We do to one of our limited partners or financing partners Head of Asia not apply a fixed investment structure, instead but ICG is always the primary contact point for Chris joined ICG in 2006 we configure a capital solution to fit the cash flow management and shareholders.
from CVC Asia Pacific generation of the underlying business in order to We are take and hold investors with the where he spent seven maximise value for our investors.
intention to hold our investments to maturity, years since its inception.
ICGs network of 63 investment executives investing in the business and its management He manages ICGs based in 10 countries provides us with a powerful team for the medium to long term.
By investing for Asia Pacific mezzanine business.
Chris has over advantage based on local insights, knowledge and longer periods and by having board representation, 20 years experience with relationships.
Our local network enables us to: either as an observer or director, a deeper mutual a number of financial successfully source, select, structure and execute understanding is generated between ICG, institutions in Asia.
investment opportunities through established management and shareholders.
We are often a local relationships and so deliver superior returns repeat investor in a business as businesses are sold in secondary transactions.
We represent conduct in-depth, experienced investment continuity and stability to those management selection and pricing of risk via rigorous credit teams and businesses.
Fundamental analysis and corporate We believe in a local approach to investment.
information is the key to unlocking market Ourlocal executives originate and execute inefficiencies, mispricings and superior returns transactions and retain a monitoring responsibility carry out effective portfolio management with throughout the life of the investment.
This ensures localinvestment executives who know their local continuity and better communication between ICG, markets, cultures and jurisdictions and can handle management and shareholders.
challenging situations deploy robust recovery strategies for underperforming investments, through active involvement with portfolio companies management teams and significant stakeholders 40 Funds and portfolio: Our investment culture continued mezzanine investment strategy ICG longbow real estate philosophy We believe that, given its position in the capital ICG longbows investment philosophy centres structure, mezzanine as an asset class has a onfour principles.
number of key attributes that make it an attractive Firstly, we seek to preserve capital investments investment opportunity: by achieving diversity in our portfolio at the loans the cash yield on mezzanine loans can provide level, avoiding specific risk assets and targeting an annual cash distribution to investors assets where value creation at the property level will fide-risk the loan over time.
creditor protections on mezzanine loans provide Secondly, we employ an income-focused significant security and stability of returns to approach to investing, so as to take most of the mezzanine investors return on our loans during the loan lifetime via coupon.
attractive upside returns are available from the Thirdly, we align our philosophy with the borrowers equity participation available to mezzanine investors situation by investing on a participate in value creation We focus on midmarket companies with enterprise basis via profit share agreements.
values between 150m and 1bn with leading market And finally we invest on the basis of property positions, led by strong management teams.
As a fundamentals, applying a stock picking approach mezzanine investor with a strong focus on protecting based on sustainable cash flow, revenue per square its invested principal and minimising defaults across foot analysis and underlying liquidity in properties.
its portfolio, ICG looks to create a well-diversified portfolio by investment instrument, industry sector, ICG longbow real estate strategy geography and investment size, with the aim of ICG longbow seeks to capitalise on the market delivering an attractive balance of risk and returns.
opportunities in the uK commercial real estate debt When reviewing investments we utilise not market focusing on: onlythe market intelligence and company-specific providing mezzanine finance to leading uK information provided by our large network of property companies with a proven track record investment executives and the current investment value creation portfolio, but also our 24 years accumulated direct providing senior finance to support acquisition of investment experience.
under-managed properties, often from distressed We aim to apply our core credit principles and or motivated vendors strong focus on recovery of our invested principal consistently across investments and we strive for opportunistically acquiring high quality loans a consistent approach in relation to deal execution fromthe secondary market at discounted prices when partnering with private equity sponsors, In putting this strategy into place, ICG longbow management teams, banks and advisors across leverages its extensive network of relationships Europe, Asia Pacific and the uS.
withuK property companies, advisors and lenders.
Coupled with its localised market knowledge, Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 38 45 Annual Report 2013 46 76 77 112 41 rigorous structuring, underwriting process and Risk appetite Non-credit related factors such stock picking approach, ICG longbow generates as risk appetite, strategic asset allocation and the adefensive portfolio in all of its funds.
overall liquidity of financial markets influence the ICG longbow believes that significant opportunities credit markets.
These changes in supply and to originate real estate senior and mezzanine debt demand impact leveraged finance for non-credit will be available as a long term trend, as traditional related reasons lenders continue to exit or reduce exposure to the We seek to exploit these inefficiencies to create market.
In light of the current conditions of the debt returns above the expected market returns.
market and building on its proven approach, ICG Ourrigorous bottom-up research provides a real longbow believes that attractive returns can be information advantage that drives our investment achieved by providing financing to uK real estate selection, significantly lowers our default rates and companies with a strong track record in value enables better management of recoveries.
market cyclicality offers opportunities for longer term investors with the experience and conviction CFm investment philosophy to invest when prices are overcompensating for We believe that risk in the European leveraged risk.
We believe that these pricing anomalies take finance market is persistently mispriced due to time to resolve themselves and therefore a medium three structural inefficiencies: to long term investment horizon is essential for Rating changes New issue pricing is based on capturing returns in excess of market expectations.
ratings at the prevailing market rate rather than the underlying risk over a bonds life.
up to 80% CFm investment strategy of high yield bonds undergo a rating change, We believe in fundamental analysis and in depth demonstrating that the pricing based on the initial information.
This is the key to unlocking the rating risk can change inefficiencies caused by lack of transparency and Transparency leveraged finance is a specialist persistent mispricings.
We have the largest team market requiring complex investment decisions of dedicated leveraged finance professionals in but it has less published information than more Europe providing fundamental analysis: six local widely researched public markets.
This creates European offices accessing local intelligence: and market inefficiencies 24 years ofrelationships with financial partners providing extensive access to management teams and company information.
Our people Andreas Mondovits Head of marketing and Client relations Joined ICG in 2012 from uBS Global Asset management, where he spent over 10 years in seniordistribution and marketing roles, latterly as Global Head of Business Development for Global RealEstate.
Over 20 years experience in senior sales and marketing roles in financial institutions and the FmCGindustry.
