Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 Annual Report 2013 38 45 46 76 77 112 Business review: 19 Our markets As central banks have continued their aggressive quantitative easing policies, this year has seen a noticeable return of liquidity in global debt markets.
However, the impact has differed significantly across regions and for different sizes of borrower.
larger European companies have had improved meanwhile, small and midsized companies and access to debt, particularly through capital markets, lBOs have traditionally relied on the bank market.
but the sustainability of this recovery is questionable.
European bank lending is constrained by the During the financial year there was an absence of pressures on capital and liquidity as well as the significant new fund issuance in Europe and the needfor banks to refocus on their domestic evercloser expiration periods of ClOs leave a markets.
Aconsiderable imbalance in supply and significant funding gap insyndicated loan markets.
demand has arisen in that part of the market, Whilst the relatively apathetic large leveraged buyout providing investors with the potential for attractive lBO market continues to be supported by the risk adjusted returns in the direct lending space.
reducing rump ofthese ClOs which are still active, Thisis particularly true of the midmarket where allof this residual capacity will disappear between companies do not have access to the syndicated 2013 and 2014.
There are early signs that the loan and highyield markets that are available to European ClO market may be returning, but it is thelargercompanies.
unlikely to be sufficient to replace the run off of the We continue to see disparity between the older ClOs, as European regulators have imposed uncertain supply and the increasing demand for new capital rules which should only make it possible lBO debt, as well as general corporate debt.
for the stronger fund managers to sponsor new Weexpect this situation to persist for a long period vehicles.
While in the short term the loan market of time providing our mezzanine and direct lending remains sufficiently well supplied, there is some businesses with attractive investment opportunities.
uncertainty as to the medium term prospects of this Risk return characteristics of private debt assets market as a reliable funding source in the absence are now at a very attractive level and, asaresult, ofsufficient new fundissuance.
institutional investors are increasingly attracted by The high yield market has been strong, allowing this well protected, well priced and growing asset the largest companies to find alternative and relatively class.
We believe that experienced specialist asset cheap sources of finance.
With interest rates at very managers, such as ICG, will play a leading role in low levels for the foreseeable future we expect this reshaping the European debt market in the coming market to stay strong for some time.
However, we have years by providing institutional investors access to seen volatility in this part of the market, demonstrating higher yielding assets.
there are limitations to the expectation that this source of finance could be the sole answer to the funding gap.
Our people Jeff Boswell Portfolio manager Joined ICG in 2008 from Investec where he was Head of Acquisition Finance and Senior Portfolio manager for Investecs Gresham Capital ClO programme.
He established Investecs Acquisition Finance department in 2004.
Over 15 years experience in the financial services markets: Jeff is a CFA Charterholder and a Chartered Accountant.
20 Business review: Our markets continued The uK real estate market shows similar Fundraising market characteristics in that whilst there is an availability Our The fundraising environment is improving due to offinancing for prime location assets in the london people theincreased liquidity in the market and the search area, elsewhere there continues to be a significant for yield.
That said, investors continue to be cautious funding gap.
Banks, for instance, have made a timid and are increasingly selective in their choice of return to the real estate lending market and have investment partners.
For many investors, that leads tended to focus on prime location assets, with limited toconcentrating and deepening asset manager investment appetite beyond this.
relationships and, while there are advantages with In contrast to the European markets, the uS highly diversified platforms we believe in the merits debtmarkets are fully functioning and therefore more ofbeing specialised.
We are finding that ourlong term competitive, assisted by a less restrictive regulatory track record, specific investment propositions and environment.
Finding yield is more challenging in a higher yield strategies are resonating well.
Investors well funded market but the buyout market is growing are searching for this combination of disciplined and with it demand for traditional mezzanine.
In activemanagement, credit quality and attractive yield.
Max Mitchell addition, the uS institutional loan market reopened Portfolio manager We have increasingly seen demand from a diverse during the year and a significant amount of capital for ICG Senior Debt range of pension schemes, insurance companies has been raised by new ClOs.
Even though pricing Partners fund and sovereign wealth funds for high quality investment levels are competitive, investors have remained opportunities in the credit space.
These types of Joined ICG in 2001 disciplined in their risk appetite.
With a strong team institutions contributed to our extremely successful from Arthur Andersen now in place, ICG will be in a position to take Corporate Finance.
Over fundraising of ICG Europe Fund V, where we attracted advantage of the recovery in the mezzanine market 15 years experience, a wide variety of investors across all geographies as well as the broader credit market.
max has worked in ICGs andhave shown strong interest in our Senior Debt local Asia Pacific banks were less significantly mezzanine business Partners fund.
Further, the development of our global in Europe and Asia impacted by the financial crisis.
The buyout market distribution capability is enabling us to compete for Pacific for 11 years and remains open and we are well placed in the region mandates from those investors who want to manage now manages ICGs with a solid pipeline of investment and product a concentrated number of relationships, each with a Senior Direct lending opportunities.
The investment pipeline in our core fund in london.
markets remains strong, particularly in China and a Chartered Accountant.
However, transactions in the region, especially in China, typically have a longer gestation and execution timetable than in Europe and the uS.
Elsewhere, the withdrawal of international banks from the Australian senior debt market has left a funding gap in the market for institutional investors.
We have already begun preparations to provide an institutional product to meet this demand.
In addition, there are increasing opportunities in the wider Asia Pacific region, outside of our traditional heartlands, and we continue to expand the geographical scope of our business.
