10 Our business: Progress towards our strategic priorities Market drivers Priorities for Fy13 The fundraising environment is improving due to the increased Grow our Fund liquidity in the market and the search for yield.
That said, investors continue to be cautious and increasingly selective in their choice Management Company ofinvestment partners.
For many investors, this leads to concentrating and deepening asset manager relationships and, while highly diversified platforms continue to win market share, we believe in the merits of being specialised.
Our long term track record, specific investment propositions and higher yield strategies are resonating well and Investors are searching for this combination of disciplined active management, 1 credit quality and attractive yield.
Market drivers Priorities for Fy13 European bank lending is constrained by the pressures on capital Invest selectively and liquidity as well as the need for banks to refocus on their domestic markets.
A considerable imbalance in supply and demand has arisen in that part of the market, providing investors with the potential for attractive risk adjusted returns in the direct lending space.
This is particularly true of the midmarket where companies do not have access to the syndicated loan and highyield markets that are available to the larger companies.
Wecontinue to see disparity between the uncertain supply and 2 theincreasing demand for lBO debt, as well as general corporate debt.
We expect this situation to persist for a long periodof time, providing our mezzanine and direct lending businesses with attractive investment opportunities.
In contrast to the European markets, the uS debt markets, assisted by a less restrictive regulatory environment, are fully functioning and therefore more competitive.
local Asia Pacific banks were less significantly impacted by the financial crisis and the buyout market remains open.
Market drivers Priorities for Fy13 The lack of available senior debt in the market in the early part of Manage our portfolio the financial year and the continuing valuation gap between sellers and buyers has resulted in a low period of transactions.
However, to maximise value since the turn of the calendar year we have seen more liquidity in the market and, should this remain, we expect that this will result inan increase in lBO transactions in the next 12 months.
3 Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 Annual Report 2013 38 45 46 76 77 112 11 Progress Priorities for 2014 We have had a successful year at raising new capital for our funds, Our product pipeline is strong which, along with our raising 2.3bn of third party money.
These funds were raised across dedicated global distribution team, is underpinning the a number of products with a more geographically and institutionally momentum in our fundraising.
Preparations are well diverse investor base than previously achieved.
Thisisnot only a advanced for the launch of a dedicated uS product reflection of the attractiveness of our offerings and track record, but which will further broaden the geographical spread demonstrates the benefit of the investment in our own distribution ofthe business.
capabilities over the past two years.
Our flagship fund ICG Europe Fund V closed in December 2012 at its maximum size of 2.5bn, of which 0.5bn was contributed byour Investment Company.
This was well above our target of 2.0bn and the largest fund of its kind raised since 2007.
Further, inJanuary 2013, ICG longbow broadened its product offering byraising a 105m uK property senior debt fund quoted on the london Stock Exchange.
This momentum has continued with ournext ICG longbow debt fund expected to close at its maximum permitted size of 700m and our Senior Debt Partners fund having a first close.
Progress Priorities for 2014 The year to 31 march 2013 was a strong investment year for Our recent fundraising achievements mean that we have a lot of capital available to deploy.
to maintain our current investment rate subject to finding Ongoing economic uncertainty and the lack of availability in investment opportunities with the appropriate risk return senior debt meant deal flow in the wider European market was balance.
We will maintain our historical disciplined slow in the 2012 calendar year, although this has since picked up.
However, our local network of experienced investment professionals was able to generate and complete seven European transactions during the course of the financial year.
Our Asia Pacific and uS teams have also completed one transaction each in Fy13.
Our European credit funds business continues to see a good pipeline of new opportunities, aided by improved deal activity in the middle market and a buoyant high yield market.
In particular, our Senior Debt Partners fund benefits from a strong current pipeline ofdeals, attractively priced and structured, of which we expect to close a number over the course of the new financial year.
Progress Priorities for 2014 The Investment Companys portfolio continues to demonstrate In recent months, private equity sponsors are increasingly looking to exit or refinance a number of their resilience, with 61% of our portfolio companies by number investments, with a number of processes having already 75% on a value weighted average basis performing above or begun.
Visibility on timing remains unclear as sales atthe same level as the previous year.
There are no changes to transactions continue to be delayed due to a valuation thenames of our weaker assets and we are engaged in a small gap between buyers and sellers.
However, we do number of restructurings, primarily amongst our French portfolio.
expect the number of realisations to increase during Repayments over the year were at a low level given the thenext 12 months with businesses taking advantage of slowness of the European buyout market.
We realised 128.8m cheaper refinancing options or current sponsors having ofprincipal repayments and 28.7m of PIK for the Investment to return cash to their investors and therefore realise Company during the year.
assets, even at lower valuations than they expected.
