2 Our business: Our business model What we do We are a specialist asset manager providing private debt, leveraged credit and minority equity.
As a trusted partner to more than 200 investors, we manage over 12.9bn of assets in third party funds and proprietary capital, investingglobally in income generating alternative assets.
How we create value Our outstanding track record over more than two decades means that we are trusted by our investors to meet their needs by taking appropriate, considered risks when investing.
Our investors capital, along with our experienced, specialist investment teams, enables us to access and profit from opportunities that other fund managers and financial institutions cannot.
Assemble Invest Manage Realise Our team combines Our highly disciplined Our investment in We provide returns institutional capital and investment processes, private debt and senior to our investors, and our own resources, industry sector equity teams remain generate income for and in doing so earns specialisms and fully engaged with the Group, throughout a fee for managing knowledge of local every asset throughout the life of an asset, third party money, markets underpin its life cycle.
through a combination either when it is every investment Ourspecialist credit of the assets income committed or invested, decision.
fund teams actively returns and capital depending on the manage their portfolio growth.
We return much of our income to shareholders in the form of dividends, whichhave increased 18% over the last three years.
Cash not returned  is reinvested in the business.
18% Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 Annual Report 2013 38 45 46 76 77 112 3 Our structure The Investment The Fund management Company FmC Company IC The IC is the investment The FmC is the operating business of ICG plc that sources and manages business of ICG plc.
investments on behalf of third party funds and the IC.
Private debt Credit funds Real estate debt Balance sheet and senior equity investments ICGs funds invest in ICG credit funds deploy ICG Longbows funds The Investment Company mezzanine and minority third party capital investing deploy third party co-invests alongside equity assets of proven in senior loans and high capital investing in real the third party funds midmarket companies with yield bonds of proven estate mezzanine and at predetermined ratios leading market positions.
and provides seed capital to launch and develop newfunds.
Distribution ICGs in-house distribution team raises third party capital for new funds.
Infrastructure Infrastructure teams support all aspects of the business covering operations, finance, HR, legal and compliance.
Our competitive advantages Our people are our key competitive advantage 11 Our teams long track record, with 24 years experience in generating lOCAl TEAmS income from alternative assets, means that we are trusted by our partners to deliver returns.
Our Investment Committee members have an average of 18 years 171 investment experience, of which eight was gained at ICG.
EmPlOyEES Our network of specialist investment professionals have unparalleled access to, and knowledge of, their local markets, enabling them to originate opportunities not available to our competitors and giving them 25 better access to portfolio companies.
NATIONAlITIES We are close to our assets.
We have Board seats or observer rights in more than 80% of Investment Company portfolio companies.
Our distribution teams relationships with institutional investors enhances 29 our fundraising capabilities and supports the growth of the business.
DIFFERENT lANGuAGES Our scalable infrastructure enables the investment and distribution teams SPOKEN to grow the business, and ensures that the Group effectively manages risk and meets its governance obligations.
