48 Governance: Board of Directors Justin Dowley Christophe Evain Chairman Managing Director and CEO Justin Dowley qualified as a chartered accountant with Christophe has been CEO of ICG since 2010: he PriceWaterhouse in 1980.
From 1981 until 2011 his hadworked at ICG for 16 years prior to this and career was in investment banking: he was a founder wasresponsible for opening ICGs offices in Paris, partner of Tricorn Partners, Head of Investment Banking HongKong and New york.
Before ICG, Christophe at merrill lynch Europe and a Director of morgan helda number of roles in leading financial institutions Grenfell.
He is a Non Executive Director of melrose including Banque fide Gestion Prive, National Industries PlC and is also a Director of a number Westminster Bank and Crdit lyonnais specialising ofprivate companies including Ascot Authority inleverage and structured finance.
Chairs ICGs Nominations Committee and is a member Chairman of the Investment Committee and the of the Remuneration Committee.
Joined: 2006 Joined: 1994 Benot Durteste Philip Keller Managing Director Managing Director and CFO Benot Durteste is Head of European mezzanine and Philip has been CFO of ICG for seven years.
Prior to aFund manager for ICG Recovery Fund 2008 and ICG ICG, Philip was Finance Director of ERm, a global Europe FundV.
He joined ICG in September 2002 from environmental consultancy, where he was part of a SwissRe where he worked as a managing Director in management team that led two leveraged buyouts the Structured Finance division in london.
He previously held a number of SwissRe, Benot worked in the leveraged Finance financial directorships at GlaxoSmithKline and Johnson division of BNP Paribas for six years and for GE Capital, & Johnson.
Chartered Accountant and graduate of notably as CFO of one of their portfolio companies.
Benot is a graduate of the Ecole Suprieure fide member of the Investment Committee and The Executive Commerce fide Paris.
Responsible for finance, human resources andoperations.
member of the Investment Committee and the Executive Committee.
Joined: 2006 Joined: 2002 Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 38 45 46 76 Annual Report 2013 77 112 49 Peter Gibbs lindsey mcmurray Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Previously Chief Investment Officer of merrill lynchs lindsey has been a private equity investor for more Investment management activities outside the uS and than15 years with a particular focus on the Financial prior to this Co-Head of Equity Investments worldwide.
For seven years, she has been Head He has wide experience in the asset management and ofEquity Finance at RBSs Special Opportunities Fund, investment management sectors and currently serves a 1.1bn private equity fund which has maintained top as a Non Executive Director of Friends life Group plc, quartile performance.
Prior to RBS, lindsey was a Impax Asset management Group plc, and Aspect Partner at Cabot Square Capital, ltd. a london-based Capital limited, Director of merrill lynch uK Pension private equity firm, for six years.
There she focused on Plan Trustees ltd and as a Director of uKFI.
operating investments in real estate and other asset backed investments, together with investments in the Chairs ICGs Remuneration Committee and is a member financial services sector.
of the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and the Nominations Committee.
member of the Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee, Risk Committee, and the Nominations Committee.
Joined: 2010 Joined: 2012 Kevin Parry Kim Wahl Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Chief Financial Officer at Schroders plc, the FTSE 100 Owner and Chairman of the investment firm asset management and private banking group, from Stromstangen AS since 2004.
Kim was Deputy January 2009 until may 2013 and Chairman of their Chairman and co-founder of the European private Audit Committee from 2003 to 2008.
Previously Chief equityfirm IK Investment Partners from 1989 to 2009, Executive at management Consulting Group plc and and previously was a Corporate Finance Associate amanaging partner at KPmG.
Kevin is a Chartered withGoldman, Sachs & Co. Board member of Accountant with extensive experience of auditing and uPm-Kymmene Oy, the Aspelin-Ramm Group AS, advising large international groups.
KavliHolding AS and Trient Asset management AS.
memberof the Industrial Advisory Board of IK Chairs ICGs Audit Committee and the Risk Committee, Investment Partners.
Co-Founder and Chairman member of the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations oftheVoxtra Foundation.
Committee and Senior Independent Director.
Joined: 2009 member of the Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and the Nominations Committee.
