8 Our business: Our strategic priorities We aim to increase AUM by building on the strong record Grow our Fund of our credit strategies and launching new products for institutional investors and, to this end, we have established ManagementCompany an experienced distribution team in order to deepen further our institutional reach.
1 ICG has one of the widest and most experienced local Invest selectively networks dedicated to sub-investment grade investments and as a result has a strong deal origination capability.
2 Regular involvement with portfolio companies Manage our portfolio is fundamental to managing and supporting the value of our investments.
to maximise value 3 Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 Annual Report 2013 38 45 46 76 77 112 9 Private debt and senior equity Real estate debt In private debt and senior equity, we continue tobuild on In uK commercial real estate debt, we see opportunities to ourleadership position and strong track record inEuropean grow our ICG longbow franchise and replicate the success and AsiaPacific debt and continue to expand our presence we haveenjoyed in the buyout market.
Expanding our asset classes Credit funds Over the past 24 years ICG has built a leading global As one of the longest established European credit mezzanine platform and a strong European leveraged loan managers we are well placed to grow Aum in senior loans and high yield bond business.
This success was achieved and high yield bonds through a growing range of investment by combining local, dedicated teams of investment products.
We are further seeking to exploit new opportunities specialists with a common investment discipline and arising as a result of the liquidity shortage in Europe.
Since 2010 we have been active in the expanded distribution team is further helping in marketing uK real estate debt market through ICG longbow.
We will these opportunities toinvestors.
In addition we will continue continue to grow our product offering through measured to review opportunities toexpand our franchise expansion into adjacent asset classes where our core skills, geographically andthrough selective acquisitions.
global reach and infrastructure can create value forour institutional clients and shareholders.
Disciplined approach to investment Each investment opportunity is considered individually teams have established our reputation as a trusted and on its merits and in the context of the expected risk and experienced investment partner with innovative structuring return requirements set by the Investment Committee.
Equally important, our investment teams have built Particular emphasis is placed on limiting the downside longstanding relationships with localprivate equity sponsors, riskof the investment and the underlying focus is on cash banks, advisors and management teams, providing deal flow generation and repayment of the investment.
ICGs flow andearly access to investment opportunities.
investment strategy has been underpinned by rigorous Our European credit funds team are an experienced group analysis of the credit fundamentals of each investment of sector specialists, who understand the market in which toachieve this aim.
For our liquid debt instrument portfolios, we For private debt and senior equity investments, we actively manage risk when trading investments by using recognise the importance of having local teams which experienced traders.
speak the languages and understand the cultures ofthe markets inwhich they operate.
These investment Strong track record Post-investment monitoring is a key focus of both ICG Closely monitoring investments enables us to identify investment executives and the Investment Committee risks within the portfolio at an early stage.
ICG executives and typically we seek board attendance rights from have experience in default situations and the recovery portfoliocompanies.
Investment executives are responsible ofprincipal.
for attending monthly or quarterly board meetings.
Through our investment and monitoring processes we Board representation assists in: haveachieved a strong track record since inception, with our funds performing strongly against their peers and the Effective portfolio management due to access investment company targeting an average mid teens tomanagement and company information: and internalrate of return on exited assets.
Building and strengthening relationships with stakeholders, which has historically provided a significant number of both follow-on and new investment opportunities.
