Strategic Report MARKET OVERVIEW Understanding our changing markets Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Lithuania.
Macroeconomic environment Whilst we do not compete head-to-head with these The global economy has strengthened gradually providers, they have impacted our share of voice since the 2008 and 2009 financial crisis and GDP on TV.
growth in our markets was in positive territory during 2013, with the exception of the Czech Republic.
Our business model is different from payday lending Looking ahead, prospects for economic activity in a number of ways: in 2014 are more optimistic still, with signi cantly we do not charge default fees on our home higher GDP growth predicted in all our markets with service if we make a poor credit decision we forecasts expected in the range of 1.5% and 3.5% pay the price, not our customer: in Europe, and the higher rate of 3.8% in Mexico.
we do not roll over loans we are happy to offer Overall, consumer con dence improved in our further credit to good customers with a proven European markets in 2013.
In Mexico, consumer track record of repayment.
We do not offer credit to con dence reduced but is still at a higher level customers who need the money to pay off a loan than in Europe.
from us: Competitive environment our business is fide ned on forbearance if a As a consequence of the buoyant economies in customer misses a payment we will work with which we operate and strong demand for credit them to reschedule their loan and, as a result, from consumers, we continue to see competition default or penalty fees are not a revenue stream intensifying in most of our European markets, within our home service business model: particularly from the payday lending sector in GDP growth % Consumer confidence 4.0 3.8 0 3.3 3.5 -5 3.0 -10 2.6 2.5 -15 1.9 2.0 -20 1.3 1.5 1.2 -25 1.0 -30 0.5 0.0 -35 Europe Mexico UK 2013 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2013 estimate 2014 forecast Europe Mexico UK Source: Citigroup Sources: European Commission and Statistical Agency of Mexico Our European markets weighted by population 18 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Strategic Report We maintain constructive relationships with regulators and opinion formers we do not employ continuous payment authority passed into committee a proposal for a rate our home service loan repayments are collected cap based on a multiplier of the Lombard rate.
by one of our agents at pre-arranged times that In Slovakia, parliamentary debate is underway are convenient for our customers: and regarding the re-introduction of a rate cap and the possibility of prohibiting loans being delivered all our agents are paid principally on what in cash.
We expect both the Czech and Slovak they collect not what they sell so there is an proposals to go through substantial revision before inbuilt responsible lending structure in our returning to parliament for further debate.
On 24 December 2013 we announced that our There are home credit lenders in most of our Polish business had received a notice from UOKiK, European markets.
During 2013, we saw growing the Polish Of ce of Consumer Protection and competitive pressure in the Czech Republic, with Competition, stating that the way it calculates APR intensi ed media activity from bank and non-bank amounts to a collective infringement of consumer lenders together with other home credit operators.
interests and subjecting it to a ne of PLN 12.4 million approximately 2.4 million.
UOKiK believes that the The competitive environment in Mexicos microfinance sector is largely unchanged.
fee for our optional home service and an associated preparatory fee should be included in the total cost As part of our Strategy for Growth we intend to of credit and, therefore, the APR gure.
We disagree develop our product offer and include more digital with UOKiKs decision and have legal opinion channels, not only to improve customer engagement supporting our view that the way we calculate our but to ensure our products remain in demand as the fees is correct.
We have submitted our appeal and competitive landscape evolves.
the decision is now expected to go through the court appeal process.
There are three possible levels Regulatory environment to the appeal process and were we to lose all three, The level of regulatory debate on rate caps and then under current legislation, we would be required other consumer protection initiatives across Europe to update our loan documentation and marketing has continued to increase during the past year.
to include the relevant fees in the total cost of credit This is a reaction, in part, to the perceived excesses and APR calculations.
UOKiK is also reviewing the of the financial services industry that were identi ed practices of a number of non-bank consumer credit in the recent global financial crisis and follows providers, in respect of the calculation of fees for increased regulation of the banking sector.
Our charging methodologies are in result all financial companies, including consumer line with industry standards but, as part of this review, lenders, face increased legislation and challenges we are exploring alternatives in respect of certain from consumer protection authorities.
More recently elements of the product structure with UOKiK.
the attention of the media, politicians and regulators has also shifted to the non-bank consumer credit We have experienced teams in each market working proactively with the relevant parties.
We also have a sector, driven by a combination of market speci c matters, such as the shadow banking issue in track record of evolving our products and services to both meet new regulatory requirements, as well as Poland, and the rise in payday lending.
remaining transparent and valued by our customers.
As a result, draft proposals have been published As a result, we do not expect any of these matters to in Poland to supplement the existing interest rate have a signi cant impact on business performance cap with a further cap on mandatory non-interest or our growth prospects.
charges for credit and a cap on default charges.
In the Czech Republic, an opposition party has 19 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
