Corporate Governance OUR BOARD AND COMMITTEES 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Committee membership key Limited, The Windsor Leadership Trust, 1.
Christopher Rodrigues CBE A Audit and Risk Committee the British Bobsleigh & Skeleton Chairman, age 64 D Disclosure Committee Association, and on 30 January 2014 N E Executive Committee he became Chairman of Openwork N Christopher joined the Board of Nomination Committee Holdings Limited.
He is an advisor to R Remuneration Committee International Personal Finance plc in Monitise plc and on the Council and a 2007 at the time of the demerger from Trustee of the National Trust and is an Provident Financial plc, serving as executive committee member of the Executive Chairman until October 2008 World Tourism and Travel Council.
when the chairmanship became a Previous appointments: A non-executive non-executive role.
director of Ladbrokes plc, Chief Quali cations: Graduated in Executive of Thomas Cook, Chief Economics and Economic History, has Executive of Bradford and Bingley, an MBA and was awarded an Honorary board member of the Financial Degree of Doctor of the University Services Authority, President and Chief of Surrey.
Executive of Visa International and Joint Deputy Chairman of Provident Other appointments: Chairman of Financial plc.
VisitBritain, Almeida Theatre Company 42 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate Governance Previous appointments: Deputy Chief 2.
Tony Hales CBE Executive Of cer and Chief Finance Chief Executive Of cer, age 49 Senior Independent non-executive Of cer of Everything Everywhere Limited, D E N director, age 65 Managing Director of T-Mobile UK A N R Gerard joined the Board of Limited, Chief Executive Of cer of International Personal Finance plc Tony joined the Board of International Orange Romania SA, Orange Denmark in January 2012 as Chief Executive Personal Finance plc as a nonA S and Orange Thailand Limited.
Of cer Designate and became executive director in 2007.
Nicholas Page Chief Executive Of cer at the Quali cations: Graduated in Chemistry.
Independent non-executive director, Other appointments: Chairman of age 61 Quali cations: Fellow of the Institute Canal & River Trust, a non-executive A N R of Chartered Accountants Ireland.
director of Capital & Regional plc and Nicholas joined the Board of a board member of The Services Sound Previous appointments: Chief Financial International Personal Finance plc and Vision Corporation.
He is also a Of cer of Garanti Bank, Turkey and as a non-executive director in 2007. director of Welsh National Opera Chief Executive Of cer of GE Money Limited and Chairs Naa Pension Bank, Prague: Chief Executive Of cer Quali cations: Graduated in Philosophy, Fund Trustees.
of Citis consumer finance businesses Politics and Economics and is a in the Western Europe, Middle East Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Previous appointments: Chief Executive and Africa region: director of Citi Accountants in England and Wales.
of Allied Domecq plc, Chairman of International plc, Egg plc and Workspace Group plc and NAAFI, and Other appointments: During the year Morgan Stanley Smith Barney UK.
a non-executive director of Provident Chair of C. A. R. E. Europe 1 S. a. r. l. and Financial plc, Welsh Water plc, Aston C. A. R. E. Europe 2 S. a. r. l. and a director 3.
Adrian Gardner Villa plc, HSBC Bank plc and Reliance of RSM Tenon Group plc, adviser to Chief Financial Of cer, age 51 Security Group plc.
Edyta Kurek Previous appointments: Chief Operating Adrian joined the Board of International Of cer of Travelex plc, Managing Independent non-executive director, Personal Finance plc on 2 January Director of Hambro Insurance Services age 47 2014 as Chief Financial Of cer.
plc, executive director of Hambros N Quali cations: Graduated in Bank and Joint Deputy Chairman of Edyta joined the Board of International Engineering Science and is a Fellow of Hambro Group Investments, and a Personal Finance plc as a nonthe Institute of Chartered Accountants non-executive director of MoneyGram executive director in February 2010. in England and Wales.
International Limited, Collins Stewart Hawkpoint plc.
Quali cations: Has an MA in Nuclear Other appointments: A non-executive Engineering.
director of Amdocs Limited and is a 9.
Cathryn Riley Member of the Advisory Council to Other appointments: Vice President Independent non-executive director, Worcester College, Oxford University.
Nordics, East Europe, Middle East and age 51 France of Herbalife.
Previous appointments: Chief Financial R Of cer of RSM Tenon Group plc, Previous appointments: Positions in Cathryn joined the Board of PA Consulting Group Limited and Ori ame Poland Sp.
z o. o. and UPC International Personal Finance plc as a ProStrakan Group plc and a Poland Sp.
z o. o. non-executive director in February 2014.
Managing Director of Lazard LLC.
Richard Moat Quali cations: Has an MA in Manpower 4.
David Broadbent Studies, completed CEDEPs General Independent non-executive director, Chief Commercial Of cer, age 45 Management Programme and is a age 59 graduate of the Institute of Personnel D E A R HR Management.
David joined the Board of International Richard joined the Board of Personal Finance plc as Finance Other appointments: A non-executive International Personal Finance plc as Director in 2007 and became Chief director of The Equitable Life a non-executive director in July 2012.
Commercial Of cer on 2 January 2014.
Quali cations: Graduated in Law from Quali cations: Graduated in Previous appointments: Group Chief St. Catharines College Cambridge Classics, has an MBA and is a Operations Of cer of Aviva plc, chair of and is a Fellow of the Association of chartered accountant.
Aviva Healthcare UK Ltd, Aviva Global Chartered Certi ed Accountants.
Services and Hill House Hammond, Previous appointments: Senior Manager Other appointments: Chief Financial General Manager, Transformation at with , Financial Of cer of Eircom Limited, an advisory BUPA and a Principal Consultant in Controller and later Finance Director of board member of Tiaxa, Inc Chile, the financial services division at the International Division of Provident Trustee of the Peter Jones Foundation, Coopers & Lybrand.
and chair of the ACCA Accountants for Business Global Forum.
43 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
