Directors Report Introduction The Directors present their Annual Report on the performance of as last calculated where the Directors believe such purchases will the Company and group for the year ended 31 December 2013. enhance shareholder value.
Such purchases will also only be made in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority which provide that the price to be paid must not be more than 5% Principal Activity above the average of the middle market quotations for the The Company is a limited liability, Guernsey incorporated Ordinary Shares for the five business days before the shares are authorised closed-ended investment company under Companies purchased unless previously advised to shareholders.
The Company shares have a premium accordance with the Companys Articles of Association up to 10% listing on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and are of the Companys shares may be held as treasury shares.
traded on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
The Chairmans Statement and Strategic Report contain a review Going Concern of the business during the year.
A Corporate Governance The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to Statement is provided on pages 41 -49. affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 9 - 40.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing are Directors Indemnities The Company has made qualifying third-party indemnity described in the financial statements from page 59. provisions for the benefit of its Directors which were made during The Directors have considered significant areas of possible the period and remain in force at the date of this report.
financial risk and comprehensive financial forecasts have been prepared and submitted to the Board for review.
The Directors Substantial Shareholdings have, based on the information contained in these forecasts and As at 31 December 2013, the Company had been notified, in the assessment of the committed banking facilities in place, accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial Rules, of the following interests in 5% or more of the Companys statements, that the group and the Company have adequate Ordinary Shares to which voting rights are attached: resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
of Date notified Issued ordinary After consideration, the Directors are satisfied that it is Name of holder Capital shares appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Schroder financial statements.
Investment Management Ltd 13.21% 63,274,260 10 May 2011 Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of Investec Wealth & this Annual Report confirms that: Investment Ltd 10.83% 80,543,156 15 Jan 2013 So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit As at 21 March 2014, being the most current information information of which the Company's auditors are unaware available, this position was unchanged.
The director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have Directors Authority to Buy Back taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's Shares and Treasury Shares auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given The Company did not purchase any shares for treasury or and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of cancellation during the year.
Section 249 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
The current authority of the Company to make market purchases By order of the Board of up to 14.99% of the issued Ordinary Share Capital expires on 12 June 2014.
The Company will seek to renew such authority at the Annual General meeting to take place on 12 June 2014.
Any buy back of Ordinary Shares will be made subject to Guernsey law and within any guidelines established from time to time by the Board and the making and timing of any buy backs will be at the absolute discretion of the Board.
Rupert Dorey John Whittle 26 March 2014 26 March 2014 Purchases of Ordinary Shares will only be made through the Chairman Director market at prices below the prevailing NAV of the Ordinary Shares INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 55
