Corporate Governance REPORT OF THE BOARD Board members Christopher Rodrigues Chairman Gerard Ryan A formal governance Adrian Gardner from 2 January 2014 David Broadbent structure is in place Tony Hales to ensure effective Edyta Kurek John Lorimer until 25 April 2013 decision making and Richard Moat oversight throughout Nicholas Page Cathryn Riley from 12 February 2014 the Group.
Christopher Rodrigues Achievements for 2013 Chairman Oversight of the selection of a signi cant IT partner to help transform and modernise the business over the coming years.
Appointment of David Broadbent into the position Overview of Chief Commercial Of cer to provide focused leadership of the Groups transformation programme, The Board leads and provides strategic direction to the and appointment of Adrian Gardner as Chief Company.
Our business model and strategy can be found Financial Of cer.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved speci cally to the Board for decision.
Thorough review of the Groups succession and An overview of these can be found on page 48. development plans for senior leadership roles.
Other matters are delegated speci cally to five principal Approval of the secondary listing of the Companys Board Committees.
Their terms of reference are available shares on the Warsaw Stock Exchange.
ip n. co. uk and from the Company Secretary.
Details of the work of the Nomination Committee Review of new market strategy, culminating in the and the Audit and Risk Committee can be found on launch of new businesses in Bulgaria and Lithuania.
The work of the Remuneration Committee is discussed fully in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 78.
The Chairman of each Committee briefs the 2014 objectives whole Board at each meeting on the principal items that were discussed, decisions and issues.
Focus on growth through: The day-to-day running of the business is delegated to the monitoring progress of new product developments: Executive Committee, which comprises the Chief Executive reviewing investment cases for new markets and Of cer, the Chief Financial Of cer and the Chief Commercial potential acquisition opportunities: and Of cer.
In 2013 the Executive Committee met frequently to process a wide range of matters, often of a technical nature.
continuing focus on development and leadership, The Disclosure Committee meets as required to consider including Board succession planning.
whether an announcement to the London and Warsaw Build sustainability through: Stock Exchanges is required.
It comprises the Chief Executive Of cer, the Chief Financial Of cer, the Chief Commercial considering opportunities to reduce funding costs: Of cer and the Company Secretary and met four times in 2013. ensuring a continued focus on regulatory risk and the management thereof: The governance framework extends to operational activities with decision-making and oversight responsibilities monitoring progress of the transformation delegated to a series of Group governance committees, programme: and as shown in Our governance and oversight structure on keeping abreast of developments in the page 45. competitive environment.
46 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate Governance Work in 2013 Meetings The Board held nine scheduled meetings in 2013, one ad hoc meeting and one strategy retreat.
Details of the matters considered at the meetings during the year are shown below.
Matters considered by the Board in 2013 January New market update Sustainability review 2012 Board evaluation survey results reviewed Functional presentation: Marketing 1 Standing agenda items February 2012 Group results, Annual Report and Financial Statements and AGM notice reviewed New market update Commencement of trading in Bulgaria and Lithuania approved Funding diversi cation reviewed Secondary listing on the Warsaw Stock Exchange approved Statement of principal risks approved Updated terms of reference of Executive Committee approved Issue of invitations to employees under the SAYE Scheme approved Functional presentation: Technology 1 Standing agenda items 2 March Issue of notes under the Euro Medium Term Note Programme Retail Bond approved April Q1 2013 Interim Management Statement reviewed Romania business update Functional presentation: Loss prevention Health and safety Board training session on cyber-security 1 Standing agenda items May Board strategy retreat Progress of Strategy for Growth reviewed Sale of Polish debt portfolio approved Functional presentation: Competitor activity June Poland - business update Functional presentation: Credit risk 1 Standing agenda items July Group results for the first six months and the 2013 half year financial report reviewed Declaration of interim dividend approved Capital structure considered and 60M share buyback approved Issue of invitations to employees under the SAYE Scheme and the move to annual launch approved Hungary business update Functional presentation: Technology 1 Standing agenda items September Update on Transformation for Growth programme New market update Mexico business update Review of Chairmans performance and fee Implementation of a Groupwide all-employee incentive scheme approved Functional presentation: Competitor activity 1 Standing agenda items 3 October Q3 2013 Interim Management Statement approved Issue of notes under the Euro Medium Term Note Programme Retail Bond approved Functional presentation: People and Organisational Planning Functional presentation: Corporate Affairs reputation and sustainability review 1 Standing agenda items December Budget strategy plan review Review of non-executive directors performance and fees 1 Standing agenda items 1 Standing agenda items: Reports from Chief Executive, Finance Director, Committee Chairmen and Company Secretary: a review of performance against KPIs: review of competition and regulation.
3 There were two meetings in October 2013: one speci cally to consider the Interim Management Statement.
47 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate Governance REPORT OF THE BOARD CONTINUED Non-executive directors Matters reserved for decision by the Board The independent non-executive directors have been The Boards key responsibilities are set out in a schedule of appointed for a xed period of three years, subject to matters reserved to it for approval.
These include: re-election by shareholders.
The initial period may be Group strategy and risk appetite: extended for a further period.
Their letters of appointment may be inspected at the Companys registered of ce and approval of results: are available from the Company Secretary.
Each of the non-executive directors has been formally determined by approval of budgets: the Board to be independent for the purposes of the UK approval of dividends: Corporate Governance Code the Code.
approval of major transactions: Executive directors Executive directors are responsible for managing the treasury policies: operations of the Group on a day-to-day basis, as well approval and amendment of a prospectus and approval as their own speci c areas of responsibility.
and issuance of bonds and notes: Meetings Board appointments and appointments to Board A series of scheduled meetings and a strategy retreat are Committees: planned in advance each year.
A detailed agenda and a pack of Board papers are made available electronically health and safety and environmental policy: to each director a week before each meeting so he she corporate governance: has suf cient time to review them.
Additional meetings are convened if required and there is contact between meetings annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system where necessary.
The Chairman has held a number of of internal control: sessions with the non-executive directors without executive directors present, and the non-executive directors have met approval of directors con icts of interest: and without the Chairman.
certain credit policies, particularly in respect of repeat Con icts of interest lending, provisioning, write-offs and material changes to To take account of the Companies Act 2006, the directors product structure and pricing.
have adopted a policy on con icts of interest and The Board established a register of con icts.
The directors consider that these procedures have operated effectively in 2013 Division of responsibilities of our Chairman, Chief Executive and up to 26 February 2014.
Of cer and Senior Independent Director The Board has approved a statement of the division of Company Secretary and independent advice responsibilities between the Chairman, the Chief Executive All directors are able to consult with the Company Secretary, Of cer and the Senior Independent Director.
who also updates the Board on a regular basis on developments relating to governance.
The appointment The role of our Chairman and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the The Chairman is responsible for chairing Board meetings Board.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Board and monitoring their effectiveness, and chairing the Annual Committees other than the Disclosure Committee of General Meeting AGM and Nomination Committee.
which the Assistant Company Secretary is Secretary.
The Chairman is also Chairman of VisitBritain.
He ceased to Any director may take independent professional advice be a non-executive director of Ladbrokes plc during 2013. at the Companys expense relating to the performance The role of our Chief Executive Of cer of his her duties.
The Chief Executive Of cer is responsible for developing and Training implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for all The Companys policy is to provide appropriate training to executive matters apart from those reserved to the Board directors.
Training takes into account each individuals and the Board Committees and delegates accordingly.
quali cations and experience and includes environmental, The role of our Senior Independent Director social and governance training as appropriate.
Training also The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders covers generic and speci c business topics and in 2013 if they have concerns, which contact through the normal included presentations for the Board on subjects such as channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Of cer and Chief marketing, loss prevention and technology.
The Board also Financial Of cer has failed to address or for whom such visited the business in Poland in June and received updates contact is inappropriate.
from the Polish management team.
A Board visit to the business in the Czech Republic took place in October.
48 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate Governance In addition to regular executive director visits, individual Directors indemnities and insurance non-executive directors visited other markets during the year The Companys Articles of Association permit it to indemnify including Romania and Poland.
The Company Secretary directors of the Company or of any associated company maintains a register of training for each director which in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
However, no is reviewed by the Board.
A comprehensive, individually qualifying indemnity provisions were in force in 2013 or at tailored induction plan is prepared for new directors.
any time up to 26 February 2014 other than under the International Personal Finance plc Pension Scheme the Performance evaluation Pension Scheme.
Under the deed establishing the Pension At the beginning of 2013 the Board reviewed the results of Scheme, the Company grants an indemnity to the trustee its Board evaluation survey.
This was followed by a series of and the directors of the trustee.
Two of these directors are individual interviews and a review session led by Andrew directors of subsidiaries of the Company.
Jackson of Stanton Marris, selected as an external leadership and change specialist.
As a result, the Directors agreed and The Company has in place appropriate Directors and subsequently focused on developing a broader skillset, Of cers liability insurance.
greater Board diversity and targeted Board agendas towards Budgetary process and financial reporting strategic issues.
The Board approves a detailed budget each year The Board is again carrying out an evaluation of its usually in December for the year ahead.
It also reviews performance with directors completing a questionnaire, the outline projections for the subsequent four years.
results of which will be collated by the Company Secretary.
Actual performance against budget is monitored in detail regularly and reported monthly for review by the directors.
Under the Code, evaluation should be facilitated The Board requires its subsidiaries to operate in accordance externally at least every three years.
External evaluation with corporate policies.
was undertaken for 2010 by Professor Stuart Timperley, who carried out further follow-up meetings for 2011, The Financial Statements for the Group are prepared and facilitated externally by Andrew Jackson in 2013. by aggregating submissions from each statutory entity.
The Company is, therefore, in compliance with the Code.
Prior to submission to the Group reporting team, each Neither Professor Timperley nor Andrew Jackson have any country submission is reviewed and approved by the other connection with the Company.
Finance Director of the relevant country.
When the submissions have been aggregated and consolidation Re-election of directors adjustments made to remove intercompany transactions, Under the Companys Articles of Association, each director the consolidated result is reviewed by the Group Head of must offer himself herself for re-election every three years.
Finance and the Chief Financial Of cer.
The results are After nine years a director, other than an executive director, compared to the budget and prior-year gures and any must offer himself herself for re-election annually.
A director signi cant variances are clari ed.
Checklists are completed who is appointed initially by the Board is subject to election by each statutory entity and by the Group reporting team to at the next AGM.
The Company has decided that in con rm that all required controls, such as key reconciliations, accordance with best corporate governance practice have been performed and reviewed.
all directors will offer themselves for re-election again this year.
Details of the directors, including the reasons for The Financial Statements, which are agreed directly to the proposing their election re-election, are contained in the consolidation of the Group results, are prepared by the Chairmans letter to shareholders which will accompany Group reporting team and reviewed by the Group Head the Notice of AGM.
of Finance and the Chief Financial Of cer.
The supporting notes to the Financial Statements are prepared by Policy on Board appointments aggregating submission templates from each market and The Board has approved a policy on other directorships: any combining these with central information where applicable.
request for an exception to this is considered on its merits.
The Financial Statements and all supporting notes are An executive director will be permitted to hold one nonreviewed and approved by the Group Head of Finance executive directorship and to retain the fees from that and the Chief Financial Of cer.
These are signed by the appointment provided that the Board considers this will Chief Executive Of cer, the Chief Financial Of cer and the not affect his her executive responsibilities adversely.
The Companys policy is that the Chairman and the nonexecutive directors should have suf cient time to ful l their duties, including chairing a Board Committee as appropriate.
A non-executive director should not hold more than four other material non-executive directorships.
If he she holds an executive role in another FTSE 350 company, he she should not hold more than two other material non-executive directorships.
49 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
