Strategic Report Investment Policies & Objectives 2013 Investment Principal Operating Financial & Policies & Strategy Risks & Outlook Model Operating Objectives Mitigation Review Investment Objectives investments in infrastructure assets or concessions The Company seeks to provide shareholders with a predictable, characterised by high barriers to entry and expected to attractive and sustainable investment yield fully supported by net generate an attractive total rate of return over the life of the income receipts in addition to the potential for capital appreciation investment of the Investment Portfolio.
Portfolio composition The Company targets a minimum annual dividend which for 2014 The Company may make investments in any location or jurisdiction is targeted to be 6.30 pence per Ordinary Share and for 2015 is where the investment meets the parameters set out above, targeted to be 6.45 pence per Ordinary Share or a minimum although the Company does not currently expect to invest in increase of c. 2.5% per annum and seeks to continue to increase projects in non-OECD countries.
this where sustainable to do so.
The Company will, over the long-term, seek a spread of The Company also targets an internal rate of return IRR equal to investments both geographically and across industry sectors in or greater than 8% p. a. on the Initial Public Offer issue price of 100 order to achieve a broad balance of risk in the Companys portfolio.
pence per Ordinary Share to be achieved over the long-term.
The The actual asset allocation will depend on the maturity of Directors seek to achieve this through asset development, future development of the local infrastructure investment market, wider acquisitions, active management and prudent use of gearing.
The market conditions and the judgment of the Investment Advisor and 2013 Financial and Operating Performance Review section provides the Board as to the suitability of the investment from a risk and further information relating to performance during the year.
Key Portfolio Facts on page 5 has details of the current composition of the investment portfolio.
Investment Policy The Companys investment policy is to invest directly or indirectly Investment restrictions in public or social infrastructure assets usually via entities which The Companys investment policy restricts it from making any have been granted a concession to operate and manage those investment of more than 20% of the Companys total assets in any assets and related businesses located in the UK, Australia, Europe, one investment at that time.
North America and, it is anticipated, in due course, in other parts of the world where the risk profile meets the Companys risk and This policy does not however oblige the Company to rebalance its return requirements.
investment portfolio subsequently as a result of a change in the net asset value of any investment or the Company as a whole.
The Company intends to continue to acquire operational and However, its purpose is to limit the risk of any one investment to construction phase assets and hold them for the long-term or life the overall portfolio.
of the asset or concession, unless there is a strategic rationale for earlier realisation.
The Company will seek to enhance the capital The Company is also subject to certain restrictions pursuant to the value and the income derived from its investments.
The full UKLA Listing rules, i. e. to invest and manage assets with a view to Investment Policy is available on the Companys website spreading or otherwise managing investment risk in accordance www.
com with the Investment Policy: to not conduct a trading activity which is significant to the group: to not hold more than 10% of its total Investment parameters assets in other listed closed-ended investment funds.
Currently the The Company intends to acquire further investments within the Company has no investment in any listed closed-ended investment following parameters: funds.
investments with characteristics similar to the existing portfolio investment in other assets or concessions having a public or social infrastructure character and in respect of which o availability based payments are or will become payable: o a property rental is or will become payable, or o user paid charges or payments related to amount of use are or will become payable INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 9 Strategic Report continued Investment Policies & Objectives continued Managing conflicts of interest It is expected that further investments will continue to be sourced The Company may make prudent use of leverage to enhance by the Investment Advisor, Amber Fund Management Limited.
It is returns to investors, to finance the acquisition of investments in likely that some of these investments will have been originated and the short-term and to satisfy working capital requirements.
developed by, and in certain cases may be acquired from members of the Amber Infrastructure Group.
Under the Companys Articles, outstanding borrowings at the Company level, including any financial guarantees to support The Company has established detailed procedures to deal with subscription obligations in relation to investments, are limited to conflicts of interest that may arise and manage conduct in respect 50% of the Gross Asset Value of the Companys investments and of any such acquisition.
The Companys Board is required, in cash balances.
The Company has the ability to borrow in aggregate accordance with the UKLA Listing Rules, to have a majority of up to 66% of such Gross Asset Value on a short term basis i. e. less independent members and a Chairman who is independent from than 365 days if considered appropriate.
Currently, the the Investment Advisor.
The Operating Model section within this Companys corporate debt facility, which has recently been Strategic Report sets out the operating model for the Company and increased to 175 million, is fully undrawn see page 32 for further the Corporate Governance Report sets out more details on the details.
The Group may borrow in currencies other than GBP as part of its Financial management currency hedging strategy.
The Company may hold derivative or other financial instruments designed for efficient portfolio management or to hedge interest, Operating cash surpluses and funds pending investment are held in inflation or currency risks.
cash, cash equivalents, near cash instruments, money market instruments and money market funds and cash funds.
Subject to the strategy approved by the Board the Investment Advisor manages such hedge activities for the purpose of efficient Changes to investment policy Material changes to the investment policy summarised in this portfolio management to enhance returns from the portfolio.
section may only be made by ordinary resolution of the Hedges are not entered into for speculative purposes.
Further Shareholders in accordance with the UK Listing Rules.
details on the Companys use of hedges are provided in the Financial Statements in note 13.
The underlying entities into which the Company invests often are leveraged.
Any debt assumed by these vehicles is non-recourse to the Company and variable interest rate debt is swapped to fixed rates at that projects inception to ensure that the cost of the debt is known over the life of the project concession.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 10 Strategic Report continued Strategy 2013 Investment Principal Operating Financial & Policies & Strategy Risks & Outlook Model Operating Objectives Mitigation Review The Companys strategy, which is determined by and reviewed by manage its investments and finances throughout the investment the Board, can be divided into three different but linked areas of cycle and, where justified, identify new investment opportunities focus.
In combination, these areas of focus assist the Company to meeting its investment objectives.
Value-focused Portfolio Development Management Focus on delivery of anticipated Through relationships with co-shareholders Efficient financial management of returns from existing assets and pre-emptive rights where applicable cash holdings and debt facilities increase individual investment holdings to available for investment and Maintain high levels of public sector 100% where beneficial appropriate hedging strategies satisfaction and asset performance Make additional acquisitions where possible, Deliver additional capital value from ideally off market, at prospective returns existing assets through management that are beneficial in risk return terms of construction risk and delivery of operational improvements to meet Enhance prospects for capital growth by client requirements investing as primary investor and or in construction phase assets where available Identify complementary investment sectors within the Companys investment policy offering better returns with a similar risk profile Take advantage of infrastructure opportunities internationally where investments have an appropriate risk profile and contractual structures are reliably enforceable to enhance diversification Undertake ongoing review of portfolio composition to ensure suitable blend of risk return, inflation linkage, yield versus capital characteristics, level of diversification and opportunistic enhancements 1.
Active Asset Management Companys overall approach are described in more detail in the The delivery of returns anticipated to be received from the Operating Model section below.
The success of the Companys Companys investments is fundamental to the Companys policy of active asset management can be seen through a performance.
The Company takes an active approach to asset combination of the Companys record in receiving investment cash management, encouraging the Investment Advisor and its flows in line with projections and the level of satisfaction that associates to maximise cash flow from its investments in ways that public sector clients have with the facilities which they occupy.
are consistent with delivering high levels of service to the underlying assets public sector clients.
These relationships and the INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 11 Strategic Report continued Strategy continued 2.
Value-focused Portfolio Development market transactions.
The Company continues to see such The second leg of the Companys strategy is to seek out further opportunities offering attractive returns for the level of risk.
attractive investments that can improve the overall quality of projected returns from the Companys portfolio.
To this end the The Company considers that it has sector differentiation and a Company works closely with its Investment Advisor to seek out competitive advantage in being able to take this approach through new opportunities which meet the Companys desired risk and the strong record of its Investment Advisor and its associated return profile.
Historically this has included both primary group in developing new opportunities and gaining early-mover investments where the Company or its Investment Advisor have competitor advantage in relatively new growth sectors such as originated a new project and secondary investments where an 1 OFTOs.
existing investment is acquired from a third party.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company will The Company does not have a preference as to whether the continue to be well placed to take advantage of similar off-market investments it acquires are characterised as senior debt, and emerging sector opportunities in the future as well as onsubordinated debt or equity or a combination of any of these.
market opportunities that may emerge.
For further details, refer to What is relevant to the Company is the risk adjusted return the Operating Model section of this Strategic Report.
available to it from such investment.
Portfolio development also includes consideration of realisation of The Companys preference is to own majority or 100% holdings in value for investors through divestment, particularly where its investments, where possible, in order to have full oversight and investments are no longer core or are minority holdings and where control over underlying investment performance.
The Companys the acquisition of further investment is unlikely.
strategy during the year has therefore been to continue to make incremental investments in existing projects where available and 3.
Efficient Financial Management beneficial to the overall risk return profile of the Company.
The Board seeks to manage returns on operating cash surpluses and efficiently manage cash available for investment through The Company has also targeted, and expects to continue to target, prudent use of a corporate debt facility.
The Company also seeks to overseas markets, principally Australia and Germany, where it has use foreign exchange derivatives, interest rate swaps and other experience from existing investments and client relationships, and appropriate hedging strategies to protect investment returns where it and its Investment Advisor have operational experience of where appropriate to do so, in accordance with the Investment the effectiveness of contractual structures, to mitigate risks.
Policy see Investment Policy section.
Currently the Company only has foreign exchange forward contracts in place excluding hedging In recent times, the level of market competition for assets sold arrangements at and underlying investment entity level.
through open auction processes has led the Company to focus its strategy particularly on identifying niche, off-market, secondary 1 Offshore electricity transmission owner licensed entities opportunities and continuing to develop its access to primary INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 12 Strategic Report continued Operating Model 2013 Investment Principal Operating Financial & Policies & Strategy Risks & Outlook Model Operating Objectives Mitigation Review Key aspects of the operating model The diagram above illustrates the Companys operating model, which is founded upon: Strong independent board leadership and governance An experienced Investor Advisor team, expert in all aspects of A long-term alignment of interest with its Investment Advisor infrastructure development, investment and management and other key suppliers A disciplined approach to asset selection and country risk Consistent communication and delivery of strategy throughout A focus on acquiring controlling stakes or minority positions the group where strategically beneficial to do so A vertically integrated model which gives the Company visibility of and a relationship with its public sector customers INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 13 Strategic Report continued Operating Model continued flotation in 2006 a ten year fixed term with a five year notice period.
The Board consider that given the long-term nature of the Companys investments and its responsibility for the detailed dayto-day delivery of management services and relationships with public sector clients, it is important that benefits from the continuity of service provided by a long-term advisory partner.
Additional changes approved at the EGM included: Removal of cash receipts from capital raisings and tap issuances from the gross asset value used to calculate base fees Strengthening certain termination provisions to ensure that, in the event of poor investment performance, the Company has greater flexibility to remove the Investment Advisor The Investment Advisor is also entitled to receive an asset Board and committees origination fee of 1.5% of the value of new investments acquired by The Board sets the strategy for the Company and makes decisions the Group.
It should be noted that, generally, the Investment on changes to the portfolio including approvals of acquisitions, Advisor bears the risk of abortive transaction origination costs and disposals and valuations.
Through committees and the use of that this fee has been waived or reduced by agreement on external independent advisors it manages risk and governance of occasions in the past where it has been deemed appropriate to do the Company.
The Board has a majority of independent directors so for the transaction in question.
No other transaction fees may currently five of the six directors are independent.
See the be paid to the Investment Advisor otherwise than at the absolute Corporate Governance Report for further details.
No such fees were paid in 2013 or are Investment Advisor anticipated to be paid.
The Companys Investment Advisor is Amber Fund Management Further information and details of the Boards process for Limited a member of the Amber Infrastructure Group Holdings independent management and review of its relationship between Limited group of companies.
the Investment Advisor and the Company are set out within the The contractual arrangements allow for the provision of Corporate Governance Report.
investment advisory and certain other financial services to the Board.
In return, the Investment Advisor receives fees based on The Companys Group The Company holds its investments through a number of holding the gross asset value and composition of the investment portfolio entities including an English law limited partnership of which one of as well as a contribution to expenses.
The annual base fees are its subsidiaries is the sole limited partner and a company calculated at the following rates: associated with the Investment Advisor is the general partner.
1.2% for that part of the portfolio that bears construction risk Beneath these holding entities the Companys investments are held i. e. the asset has not fully completed all construction stages in special purpose investment entities so that as far as possible including any relevant defects period and achieved certification each investment is held in a separate entity to avoid cross by the relevant counterparty and senior lender collateralisation between investments.
For fully operational assets: Investment entity asset management o 1.2% for the first 750 million of gross asset value of the Underlying investment entities particularly PPP PFI entities do portfolio not typically have their own employees, although there are o 1.0% for that part of the portfolio that exceeds 750 exceptions to this.
Instead, normal practice is for such services to million in gross asset value but is less than 1.5 billion be subcontracted at the time of project inception to specialist asset o 0.9% for that part of the portfolio that exceeds 1.5 billion management entities.
The role of the asset manager is to manage in gross asset value all interfaces between the investment entity, the client, financiers The 1.0% fee bracket above was introduced in June 2012 and the and supply chain sub-contractors.
0.9% fee rate bracket was introduced and approved by Such services are generally provided directly to each investment shareholders on 29 August 2013 as part of a wider Extraordinary under asset management contracts specific to that investment General Meeting EGM approving a number of changes to the entity.
Services typically include day to day management, issue Investment Advisory Agreement IAA, as mentioned within the resolution, monitoring and reporting for the entity and can cover Chairmans Letter.
These changes included the removal of the operational, regulatory, compliance, accounting, tax, company previously applicable incentive fee and a re-basing of the term of secretarial and other related services specific to each entity.
the IAA to that which applied at the time of the Companys initial INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 14 Strategic Report continued Operating Model continued Under typical PFI PPP structures such services are generally success in project origination and development activity, fees and provided for a fixed fee by third party service providers under costs will in the normal course be payable on financial close of the contracts put in place at the inception of the PFI PPP project after a opportunity to a range of service providers including associates of period of competition.
the Investment Advisor relating to matters such as reimbursement of bid costs, and in respect of legal, technical, development and The Companys preference for the majority of its investments is for financial advisory work.
For the avoidance of doubt, such amounts associates of the Investment Advisor to provide such services to are not paid by the Company but by the project entity formed to the relevant entity.
This ensures that financial and operational carry on that project and any such amounts form part of the overall aspects are performed in-house by Amber rather than subcapital or project costs bid and agreed with the public sector and contracted to other third party providers who have less incentive are thus outside the Companys control.
The Companys projected to focus on delivery of desired outcomes.
Where the Company investment return from any prospective investment is calculated does not have control such services are outsourced to other service after taking account of all such costs.
The contracts and fees payable for such asset management services whether with third parties or, where Amber Differentiation of operating model The operational structure of the Company and the investment provides these services, associates of the Investment Advisor are entities it invests in and through is designed to align the interests of generally set in real terms for the life of the project and agreed at those entities with the Company.
The Companys preferred the time of documentation of the project with the public sector operational structure and the structure of the Investment Advisor which in many cases will be prior to the Companys investment.
and its associates acting as investment advisor, operator and asset These form part of the project costs along with other project service related costs and are thus outside the Companys direct manager effectively extends the Boards oversight to the control but the Companys projected investment returns are underlying asset management and finance teams enabling it to be calculated after taking account of all such project costs.
an active rather than a passive investor.
A breakdown of typical project costs in the operational stage of an The Investment Advisor and its associates employ more than 70 investment appears on page 17.
Following the adoption of IFRS 10 personnel, the majority to support the Company and its investment Investment Entity Consolidation Exemption all underlying entities in the provision of financial and asset management project level costs and project level revenues are now excluded services.
This operating model contrasts with those who have from the Groups financial statements.
Instead and consistent with tended to employ smaller teams, instead, outsourcing some, or all, such services often to associates of the construction facilities other investment funds, the financial statements present management firms providing those services to the investment investment returns received from underlying investments received entities.
out of investment entity net cash flows.
The Company believes its operating structure differentiates it Investment origination The Investment Advisor plays a key role in identifying, developing within the market and provides it with greater control of the and originating investment opportunities that meet the Companys performance of its underlying investments for example requirements and putting these forward to the Board of Directors management of lifecycle cost risk or control of contract variations, for initial consideration and, where appropriate, final approval.
as the Investment Advisor acts on its behalf, managing the day-toThese opportunities may lead to the Company investing in such day issues and interfaces between public sector client and projects and or acquiring investments from associates of the subcontractor supply chain partners.
This enables the Company, Investment Advisor.
Where investments are acquired from without additional cost, to: associates of the Investment Advisor, such investment fide-risk the investment entity through managing the pass-down consideration is undertaken in accordance with detailed of risk to subcontractor supply chain procedures designed to ensure the fair treatment of the Company Oversee service and availability level and to ensure the valuation is approved independently by a suitably experienced third party valuer.
More details are set out in Have greater confidence in the deliverability of forecast cash the Corporate Governance Report.
flow Enhance returns through hands-on management of contractual Where associates of the Investment Advisor undertake project variations and additional service requirements origination and development activity e. g. bidding for new primary Align day to day operational management, financial projects they do so at their own risk and bear the risks of lack of management, tax and accounting, issue resolution and contract success and associated abortive costs which on large projects can management with investment objectives not just board be substantial.
The Company does however have a contractual representation right of first look at such investment opportunities either on Avoid conflicts of interest between asset and finance financial close or, if originally invested in by an associate of the management and the subcontractor supply chain Investment Advisor, upon disposal of that investment.
Following INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 15 Strategic Report continued Operating Model continued The Companys operating model is also differentiated through the This allows the Company to benefit from: capability of the Companys Investment Advisor to originate new primary market transactions which provide the Company with Primary investment opportunities developed with the access to off-market opportunities not afforded to other Companys long-term strategy and objectives in mind infrastructure investment funds.
These opportunities typically A greater ability to structure new projects to meet returns take three years or more to gestate and are regularly reviewed and inflation linkage requirements between the Company and its Investment Advisor.
Under the Transactions structured to be low risk based on direct asset terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement the Company has a management and contract management experience right of first look at investments fitting its investment mandate Experienced finance, accounting, legal, construction and that are being realised by Amber.
The access that the Company facilities management expertise familiar with developing new has had to such primary opportunities alongside the access that investments and managing them.
This leads to the ability to the Company has, in common with other funds, to secondary perform due diligence analysis on investments offered for sale opportunities broadens the Companys opportunity set for new in the secondary market based on greater hands-on investments.
experience Access to senior debt as well as equity and subordinate debt investment opportunities INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 16 Strategic Report continued Case Study Investment Characteristics Private Public Partnerships PPP and projects procured in the UK insurances and entity administration costs.
Once the infrastructure asset is available for use, the investment entity under the Private Finance Initiative PFI regime typically have receives revenues from the public sector.
the following characteristics although individual transactions may exhibit some variations.
Offshore transmission assets have similar During the operational phase, the investment entity makes characteristics but to date have been acquired by the Company payments for the provision of operations and maintenance with all construction works complete at the time of investment.
services by facilities management companies and pays insurance premiums.
Open competitive process to appoint infrastructure provider Concession contracts or license based long-term revenue PPP PFI entities generally do not have their own employees.
Income based on availability of the infrastructure asset and Instead a sub-contracted asset manager is normally engaged to provision of services to specification with deductions for poor provide financial and physical management of the asset and act as performance availability the key interface between stakeholders and contracting parties.
Income fully or partially linked to inflation Procured by the public sector as a purchaser of services the The asset manager role is often performed by an associate of the public sector determines the performance standards it construction company or facilities management company requires e. g. number and area of classrooms, standard of although in projects where the Company invests this role is cleanliness etc but does not determine how this is achieved usually performed by an associate of the Investment Advisor The public sector passes substantially all the risks associated which serves to reduce conflicts of interest and increase with cost overruns or construction delay to the Investment alignment between the Company and its Investment Advisor.
Entity, which in turn passes these on to construction facilities Within a PFI PPP project the breakdown of project costs in the management firms subject to liability caps : or puts in place operational stage will vary depending on the nature of the suitable insurances to manage its own exposure services required e. g. a school typically being less service The asset manager is the party responsible for managing the intensive than a hospital but in a typical school PFI project interface between the various parties for the benefit of the approximately 62% of project revenues are applied to financing investment entity both debt and equity, about 31% to services building maintenance, cleaning, lifecycle replacements and approximately During construction, equity investment, shareholder loans and 7% to other costs such as insurance etc.
senior loans are used to finance construction activity, relevant Illustrative PFI PPP structure 1 Illustrative example of UK PFI accommodation investment INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 17 Strategic Report continued 2013 Financial and Operating Review 2013 Investment Principal Operating Financial & Policies & Strategy Risks & Outlook Model Operating Objectives Mitigation Review Key Performance Indicators The Company has identified 10 priorities to assist in meeting its KPIs.
The KPIs and the relative performance for the 2013 Key Objectives.
In order to assess annual performance in meeting financial year is summarised below and further details of each of these objectives the Company will semi-annually review its these elements are provide in the sections that follow: performance against the following key performance indicators Key Objectives Key Performance Indicator 2013 Performance Page Reference Investor Returns Deliver sustainable long-term 21-27 returns to shareholders Maintain and enhance Achieved targeted fully covered cash Focus on providing distributions to shareholders dividend of 6.15p share, a 2.5% shareholders with increase on 2012 dividend predictable, and where possible growing dividends Obtain significant inflationIncrease or sustain degree to Significant degree of inflation linkage linkage in revenues which portfolio revenues are within the portfolio - 0.81% p. a. linked to inflation increase in projected return for a 1% increase over anticipated portfolio average inflation 2012: 0.81%p.
Deliver capital value Total shareholder return Achieved.
The total shareholder return enhancement where possible since IPO is 78.6% NAV and NAV p share NAV of 935.4 million and NAV per share of 123.0p share Strategic Priorities Key Performance Indicator 2013 Performance Page Reference Active Asset Management 1 Focus on delivery of anticipated 28-29 returns from existing investments Actively manage Availability for all controlled Achieved investments to ensure that investments at 98% or above they meet financial and Returns from investments in Met 2013 net revenue generation and other targets line with expectations dividend goals 2 Maintain high levels of public Performance deductions Achieved sector satisfaction and asset below 3% for all projects performance INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 18 Strategic Report continued 2013 Financial and Operating Review continued Strategic Priorities Key Performance Indicator 2013 Performance Page Reference Active Asset Management continued 3 Deliver additional capital value Number of change requests Around 700 variation requests 28-29 from existing contracts representing 9 million of the from existing assets through additional capital investment at the management of construction risk project level and delivery of operational improvements to meet client Continued on time build-out of two Management of investments requirements construction projects, Royal Childrens in the course of construction Hospital and Gold Coast Light Rail in projects in line with overall Australia delivery timetable Working through defects rectification period on three projects, Liverpool Library and Moray Schools in the UK and Diabolo Rail project in Belgium in line with expectation Value-focused Portfolio Development 4 Through relationships with co- 31 Value enhancing follow-on An additional investment in Diabolo shareholders and pre-emptive investments made Rail project of 28.0 million 100% risk rights, where applicable, increase capital owned post transaction individual investment holdings to An additional investment in Alberta 100% where beneficial Schools project in Canada of 7.5 million 100% risk capital owned post transaction Further 1.0 million follow-on investment made in a UK schools PPP project procured under the Building Schools for the Future framework 5 Make additional acquisitions 31 Value of additional As above.
All investments in the year where they can be acquired on or investments acquired offwere acquired outside secondary off market at prospective returns market market auction processes that are beneficial in risk return terms 6 Enhance prospects for capital Number of investments in Progressed an offer to acquire a 31 growth by investing in construction construction phase PPP project, a construction phase assets where governmental building in Germany, available which was acquired since the year end 7 Identify complementary 31 Value of investments in Continued to progress a preferred investment sectors within the complimentary investment bidder opportunity and bid for further Companys investment policy sectors opportunities within the offshore offering better returns with a transmission sector.
The preferred similar risk profile bidder position is expected to be invested in 2014 INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 19 Strategic Report continued 2013 Financial and Operating Review continued Strategic Priorities Key Performance Indicator 2013 Performance Page Reference Value-focused Portfolio Development continued 8 Take advantage of infrastructure Number of new opportunities During the year, additional investment 31 opportunities internationally in international markets of 35.5million made in projects in where investments have an Belgium and Canada appropriate risk profile and contractual structures are reliably enforceable to enhance diversification 9 Undertake continuing review of 31 Improvement of risk return, Realisation of strategically insignificant portfolio composition to ensure inflation linkage, return, stakes at prices in excess of carrying suitable blend of risk return, diversification characteristics value progressed during 2013 and with inflation linkage, yield versus 18.8 million divestment agreed in capital characteristics, level of early 2014. diversification and opportunistic enhancements Efficient Financial Management 10 Provide efficient management of 32 Dividends paid to investors Dividends paid to investors 1.3 times 1 cash holdings and debt facilities covered by operating cash covered by net operating cash flow available for investment and flow appropriate hedging policies New investments made from All investments in the period made available cash after payment from available cash funds of dividend in priority to use of corporate debt Benchmarked market cash rates and Competitive cash deposit re-allocated based on risk return rates profile 42.5 million of foreign exchange Use of appropriate hedging forward contracts re-set during the strategies period 1 Cash dividends to shareholders are paid from net operating cash flow including financing costs before one off operating costs.
The information required to be included in the Strategic Report relating to environmental and social matters is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 48 - 49. INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 20 Strategic Report continued 2013 Financial and Operating Review continued Performance against Key Objectives during the year Investor Returns Profits and distributions Profit before tax was 56.1 million 2012 restated: 68.4 million with earnings per share of 7.82 pence 2012 restated: 11.28 pence.
Returns from portfolio investments in the year was 77.2 million 2012 restated: 81.4 million included fair value movements, dividends and interest.
These returns were offset by operating expenses including finance costs of 25.3 million 2012 restated: 13.6 million, of which 11.9 million 2012: 2.1 million was non-recurring.
Non-recurring costs included an 11.0 million incentive fee to the Investment Advisor 2012 restated: nil.
60% of this fee was settled in shares.
These results allowed the Company to deliver the fully-covered dividend of 6.15 pence per share for the year 2012: 6.0 pence per share, an increase of 2.5% over the prior year.
Total Shareholder Return The Companys Total Shareholder Return share price growth plus reinvested distributions for investors since the initial public offer of the Company in November 2006 to 31 December 2013 has been 78.6%, compared to a total return on the FTSE All-Share index over the same period 1 of 47.4%.
The Company has exhibited relatively low levels of volatility compared to the market, as evidenced by the graph below which plots the Companys share price since IPO against the price performance of the major FTSE indices and the Companys NAV.
INPP Share Price Performance INPP FTSE 250 FTSE AllShare INPP NAV 60% 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% -10% -20% -30% -40% -50% -60% Net Asset Valuation The Company reported an 8.6% increase in NAV, up to 935.4 million at 31 December 2013 from 861.0 million at 31 December 2012.
This represented an increase of 1.7% of NAV per share, increasing to 123.0 pence per share at 31 December 2013 from 121.0 pence per share at 31 December 2012.
The build-up of NAV is derived from a discounted cash flow calculation to determine the fair value of investments plus the value of cash and other net assets held within the Companys consolidated group.
The key drivers of the change to the NAV between 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2013 are highlighted in the graph overleaf and described in more detail below.
1 Bloomberg share price appreciation plus income INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 21 Dec 06 Mar 07 Jun 07 Sep 07 Dec 07 Mar 08 Jun 08 Sep 08 Dec 08 Mar 09 Jun 09 Sep 09 Dec 09 Mar 10 Jun 10 Sep 10 Dec 10 Mar 11 Jun 11 Sep 11 Dec 11 Mar 12 Jun 12 Sep 12 Dec 12 Mar 13 Jun 13 Sep 13 Dec 13 Strategic Report continued 2013 Financial and Operating Review continued 1 Represents movements in the forward foreign exchange curves used to forecast future international project distributions 2 The NAV Return represents, amongst other things, i variances in both realised and forecast project cash flows, ii the unwinding of the discount factor applied to those future project cash flows and iii changes in the Companys other net assets see also more detail below During the period a total of 46.5 million of new capital was raised from investors by means of tap issuances.
40.0 million was raised in January to support the expected potential investment pipeline and an additional 6.5 million was issued during April and May to satisfy demand for the Companys shares which were trading at a significant premium to NAV.
During the period, government bond yields increased resulting in a negative impact on the NAV.
However, the negative impact of the increase in government bond yields was offset by a reduction in discount rate risk premia to reflect i assets moving out of the construction or defects liability phase and towards full operations and ii the higher prices at which similar investments were observed to be trading at in the market.
The negative impact of the weakening Australian and Canadian Dollars was mitigated to some extent by the strengthening of the Euro and the increase in value of the foreign exchange hedge agreements that were entered into during 2013.
In aggregate, foreign exchange movements had a negative 6.0 million impact on the NAV during the period.
Cash distributions reached 36.9 million during the year and represents the cash elements of two dividends made to INPP shareholders.
The Return has had a 61.1 million positive impact on the NAV and captures the following: Unwinding of the discount factor - The movement of the valuation date has had a positive impact on the NAV as the valuation date approaches the peak of the project distributions currently forecast between 2028-2035 : Value generated through accretive investments - Value accretion from acquisitions made during the period increased the NAV: Movements in the Companys working capital position - The net movement of the Companys working capital position increased the NAV.
This captures distributions from underlying projects received during the period and not yet paid out as dividends: Updated project forecasts - Changes to the assumptions used in the project models to reflect current expectations, including adjustments to certain macroeconomic assumptions as positive impact on the NAV: The incentive fee paid to the Investment Advisor - The cash element of the Incentive Fee paid to the Investment Advisor reduced the NAV.
The remainder of this fee was paid in shares and therefore had no impact on the NAV.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 22 2047 2046 2045 2044 2043 2042 2041 2040 2039 2038 2037 2036 2035 2034 2033 2032 2031 2030 2029 2028 2027 2026 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Strategic Report continued 2013 Financial and Operating Review continued Investment Valuation Forecast future cash flows The Companys investments are expected to exhibit and historically have exhibited relatively predicable cash flows.
As the Company has a large degree of visibility over expected income from its current investments the chart below sets out the Companys expectation for the evolution of investment receipts from its current portfolio over the remaining life of current investments.
The majority of the receipts over the life of the concessions are investment income from the operational assets in the form of dividends from equity investments or interest and principal payments from senior and subordinated debt investments.
It is important for shareholders to note that the Company generally invests in infrastructure entities with finite lives determined by concession or licence terms.
As the remaining life of each of the Companys investments reduces the Companys receipts in respect of that investment will represent return of capital as well as income.
The line in the chart below illustrates how, in the event that the Company never acquires any additional assets, nor raises any additional capital and other things being equal, the NAV of the Company would reduce to zero over time.
It should however equally be recognised that any future acquisitions or disposals or changes to the projected cash flows of any investment or the assumptions upon which they are based will change this projection from time to time although it can be expected to retain the same general amortising profile.
INPP projected cash flow profile m Income Phase NPV m Capital Repayment Phase 140 1,000 120 800 100 600 80 60 400 40 200 20 0 0 2013 forecast income Forecast NAV Note: There are many factors that may influence the actual achievement of long-term cash flows to the Company.
These include both internal as well as external factors and investors should not treat the chart above as being more than an indicative profile and not a projection, estimate or profit forecast.
The actual achieved profile will almost certainly be different and may be higher or lower than indicated.
Macroeconomic Assumptions The Company reviews the macroeconomic assumptions underlying its forecasts on a regular basis and, following a thorough market assessment during the period, certain adjustments have been made to some of the assumptions used to derive the Companys portfolio valuation.
The Company anticipates that the greater detail provided below on key macroeconomic assumptions by jurisdiction should enhance transparency and allow investors to better assess the Companys performance.
The key assumptions used as the basis for deriving the Companys portfolio valuation are summarised in the following table and further details are provided in note 13 in the financial statements.
Across the portfolio the weighted average inflation assumption as at 31 December 2013 was 2.52% 2012: 2.50% and the weighted average deposit rate assumption was 3.47% 2012: 3.20%.
Refer to the Net Asset Valuation Section above for further details on the impact of these assumptions on the valuation during the period.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 23 Strategic Report continued 2013 Financial and Operating Review continued Variable Basis 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 Inflation UK RPI 2.75% 2.50% average across the Australia CPI 2.50% portfolio Europe CPI 2.00% Canada CPI 2.00% 1 Deposit Rates UK 3.50% 3.20% long-term average future Australia 4.50% deposit rate across the portfolio Euro 3.00% Canada 3.00% Foreign exchange GBP CAD 1.78 1.68 GBP AUD 2.01 1.74 GBP EUR 1.16 1.21 2 Tax Rate UK 20% 23% Australia 30% 30% Europe Various no change Various Canada Various no change Various 1 The portfolio valuation assumes UK deposit rates range from 0.5% to 1.0% p. a. to 2017 and 3.5% thereafter 2 The corporation taxation rate will reduce by 2% to 21% from 1 April 2014 with a further reduction to 20% from 1 April 2015 Discount rates The discount rate used for valuing each investment is based on the appropriate long-term Government Bond rate and a risk premium.
The risk premium takes into account risks and opportunities associated with each project including location, phase of operation construction etc.
The majority 82% of the Companys portfolio is invested in the risk capital equity and subordinated debt of the underlying investments.
18% of the portfolio is invested as senior debt where the Company also holds the risk capital.
Previously, senior debt was eliminated on consolidation within the Companys consolidated financial statements.
Following the adoption of IFRS 10 Investment Entity consolidation exemption, such senior interests are recorded at fair value.
For consistency with the valuation approach taken in the financial statements, the Company now publishes both a risk capital weighted average discount rate and a new portfolio weighted average discount rate across all investments including senior debt interests.
It is important to note that this additional disclosure does not impact the overall NAV of the Company.
The current discount rates used by the Company are given in the table below.
These rates need to be considered against the assumptions and projections upon which the Companys anticipated cash flows are based.
The average blended discount rates need to be interpreted with care.
In the Companys view they are relevant only in the context of the cash flows and cash flow assumptions they are applied to in calculating the fair value of investments.
Comparison of discount rates between investment portfolios or funds is only meaningful if there is a comparable level of confidence in the quality of forecast cash flows and assumptions rates are applied to: the risk and return characteristics of different investment portfolios are understood: and the depth and quality of asset management employed to manage risk and deliver expected returns are identical across the compared portfolios.
Metric 31 Dec 2013 30 Jun 2013 31 Dec 2012 Movement 31 Dec 2012- 31 Dec 2013 Weighted Average Government Bond Rate Nominal 3.46% 3.02% 2.87% 0.59% portfolio basis risk capital and senior debt Weighted Average Project Premium over Government 4.26% 4.68% 4.89% 0.63% Bond Rate risk capital and senior debt Nominal Weighted Average Discount rate 7.72% 7.70% 7.76% 0.04% - Portfolio basis risk capital and senior debt Weighted Average Discount rate 8.20% 8.19% 8.30% 0.10% 1 - risk capital only NAV per share 123.0p 121.5p 121.0p 2.0p 1 Risk capital is equity and subordinated debt investments The change in the weighted average discount rate in the period is principally due to reductions in the discount rate risk premia to reflect i assets moving out of the construction or defects liability phase and towards full operations and ii the higher prices at which similar investments were observed to be trading at in the market.
The effect of these two adjustments was, to some extent, offset by an increase in the weighted average government bond yield over the period.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 24 Strategic Report continued 2013 Financial and Operating Review continued Government bond rates In the table above the Company has provided an analysis of the weighted average government bond rate used in calculating the discount rate.
It should be noted that the nominal i. e. non inflation linked bond rate has been used in this calculation.
The Company considers, however, that investors may also find a comparison with inflation adjusted government bond rates helpful.
This is the case due to the significant level of inflation linkage inherent in the Companys anticipated cash flows.
The table below details the nominal government bond rates used in certain key jurisdictions where the Company is active.
Taken together, on a weighted average basis, these lead to the nominal portfolio bond rate of 3.46% shown above.
If real i. e. inflation adjusted bonds were to be used instead, the indicative real rates are shown below.
On a weighted average basis this would lead to a real portfolio rate of 0.53% with the difference between the real and nominal rates being the implied rate of inflation, which are generally higher than those currently being assumed in the Companys estimate of NAV.
While this information may be useful to investors wishing to approximate comparisons in the projected return of the Company in comparison with that available from government index linked bonds, this should be done with care and any such comparison can only be an estimate due in part to the facts that the linkage of the Companys cash flows to inflation is imperfect and the Companys cash flows already assume a core level of inflation as set out in the section headed Macroeconomic Assumptions on page 23.
Note estimates only for Belgium and Ireland as no index lined bonds available Portfolio level assumptions underlying NAV calculation The Company is aware that there are subtle differences in approach to the valuation of portfolios of investments among different infrastructure funds.
To clarify the Companys position in this regard its key cash flow inputs and broad valuation principles include: That key macroeconomic variables outlined in the section above continue to be applicable That the contracts under which payments are made to the Company and its subsidiaries remain on track and are not terminated before their contractual expiry date That deductions suffered under such contracts are fully passed down to subcontractors That where possible lifecycle costs are not borne by the Company but are passed down to a third party such as a facilities management contractor That cash flows from and to the Companys subsidiaries and the infrastructure asset owning entities in which it has invested will be made and are received at the times anticipated That where assets are in construction they are either completed on time or any costs of delay are borne by the contractors not the Company That where the operating costs of the Company or the infrastructure asset owning entities in which it has invested are fixed by contract such contracts are performed, and where such costs are not fixed, that they remain within projected budgets That where the Company or the infrastructure asset owning entities in which it has invested owns the residual property value in the asset that the projected amount for this value is realised That where assets in which the Company invests are not GBP assets that foreign exchange rates remain consistent with current four year forward looking projections Sensitivities for key macroeconomic assumptions and discount rates The Companys NAV is based on the factors outlined above.
The Company has also provided sensitivity analysis showing an indication of the impact on NAV per share from changes in macroeconomic assumptions and discount rates, as set out below.
Further details can be found in note 13 in the financial statement.
This analysis is provided as an indication of the likely impact of these variables on the NAV per share on the basis that they apply uniformly across the portfolio whereas in practice the impact is unlikely to be uniform.
These sensitivities should be used only for general guidance and not as accurate predictors of outcomes.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 25 Strategic Report continued 2013 Financial and Operating Review continued Discount rates The Companys approach to determining the discount rate is described in detail above.
Assuming all other things are equal, a reduction of 1% to the underlying project discount rates would increase the 31 December 2013 NAV per share by 11.6 pence.
Should the underlying project discount rates increase by 1% the NAV per share would decrease by 9.9 pence.
Inflation In an environment where investors are increasingly focused on achieving real rates of return on their investments, inflation protection is an important consideration for the Company.
At 31 December 2013 the majority of assets in the portfolio had some degree of inflation linkage and, in aggregate, the weighted average return of the portfolio can be expected to increase by 0.81% for a 1% inflation increase across the portfolio over currently assumed rates.
Where actual inflation is higher or lower than the assumed levels, it can be expected to impact on the Companys actual future cash flow in a correspondingly positive or negative manner other things being equal.
If the underlying project inflation rates were to increase by 1% there would be an 8.6 pence increase to the NAV per share, conversely, if the rates were to decrease by 1% there would be a 7.8 pence decrease to the NAV per share.
Foreign exchange The company has a geographically diverse portfolio and therefore GBP revenues are subject to foreign exchange rate risk.
Should the assumed exchange rates increase by 10% this would lead to a 4.7 pence increase in the NAV per share while a 10% reduction in the exchange rates would result in a 3.8 pence decrease in NAV per share.
Deposit rates The long-term weighted average future deposit rate across the portfolio is 3.47% per annum.
While operating cash balances tend to be low given the structured nature of the investments, project finance structures typically include reserve accounts to mitigate certain costs and therefore variations to deposit rates may impact the portfolio.
All else being equal, a 1% increase in the underlying deposit rates would lead to a 1.8 pence increase in the NAV per share and a 1% decrease in deposit rates would lead to a 1.8 pence reduction in the NAV per share.
Tax rates The company has a geographically diverse portfolio and therefore post-tax investment cash inflows are impacted by tax rates across all relevant jurisdictions.
Should the assumed tax rates increase by 1% this would lead to a 0.8 pence decrease in the NAV per share while a 1% reduction in the tax rates would result in a 0.9 pence increase in NAV per share.
Future Tax Group Relief Under UK tax group loss relief rules, losses within the UK group companies can be, subject to UK tax law, offset against taxable profits in other UK group companies including project entities formerly part of the UK group.
This group tax loss relief can reduce the overall tax charge across the portfolio and potentially reduce taxable profits substantially below the levels currently modelled by the Company.
The Company has taken a conservative approach to the valuation of future tax losses and, to date, has not incorporated these into the NAV.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 26 Strategic Report continued 2013 Financial and Operating Review continued Cash flow movements in the period Summary of consolidated cash flow Year to 31 Dec 2013 Year to 31 Dec 2012 million million Opening cash balance 65.8 14.1 Cash from investments 59.7 62.5 Operating costs recurring 11.7 9.4 Net financing costs 0.5 1.0 Net cash before one off operating costs 47.5 52.1 One-off operating costs 5.4 2.1 Net cash flow from operations 42.1 50.0 Cost of new investments 36.5 146.6 Proceeds of capital raisings net of costs 46.1 196.9 Distributions paid 36.9 30.5 Repayment of borrowings - 18.1 Net cash at period end 80.6 65.8 The Companys net cash at 31 December 2013 was 80.6 million 2012: 65.8 million, an increase of 14.8 million.
Cash inflow from the Companys investment portfolio was 59.7 million 2012: 62.5 million.
In both the current and preceding years, cash generation from the underlying investment portfolio was in line with forecast, with the change in the period reflecting the timing of receipt of distributions from underlying investments.
Ongoing operating costs of 11.7 million 2012: 9.4 million are categorised in the ongoing charges table below.
One-off operating costs of 5.4 million 2012: 2.1 million represent new acquisition transaction costs and the cash portion of the incentive fee paid to the Investment Advisor in 2013.
Dividends paid in the period of 36.9 million 2012: 30.5 million were in respect of the six month periods ended 31 December 2012 and 30 June 2013 respectively.
Ongoing charges A breakdown of ongoing operating costs paid is provided below.
Further details can be found in notes 7 - 9 of the financial statements: Year to 31 Dec 2013 Year to 31 Dec 2012 1 Corporate Expenses million million Management fees 10.6 8.1 Audit fees 0.1 0.1 Directors fees 0.2 0.2 Other running costs 0.8 1.0 Operating costs ongoing 11.7 9.4 1 The 2012 balance has been restated to reflect the IFRS10 consolidated expenses previously reported ongoing charges in 2012 were 9.8 million The increase in management fees paid to the Investment Advisor is in line with the growth in managed investments and the growth of the Companys portfolio.
Year to 31 Dec 2013 Year to 31 Dec 2012 Ongoing Charges million million 1 Annualised Ongoing Charges 11.7 9.4 2 Average NAV 905.9 774.7 Ongoing Charges 1.29% 1.21% 1 The Ongoing Charges ratio was prepared in accordance with the Association of Investment Companies AIC recommended methodology, noting this excludes nonrecurring costs.
The 2012 balance has been restated to conform to the IFRS 10 grouping the previously reported full consolidated ongoing charges in 2012 was 9.8 million 2 Average of published NAVs for the relevant period INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 27 Strategic Report continued 2013 Financial and Operating Review continued Performance against Strategic Priorities Active Asset Management Delivery of expected returns from the existing portfolio Investment cash flow from the Companys portfolio of 122 investments has continued to perform in line with the Companys forecasts.
Ensuring that the Companys assets are available for use and are performing in accordance with contractual expectations is a critical task for the Company and its service providers.
The Investment Advisor, on behalf of the Company, closely monitors any availability and performance failures at a subcontractor level and works with these service providers to mitigate the risk of deductions.
As an example, on the Orange & Associated Health Services PPP, Australia, the performance levels judged through the scoring system utilised to establish payment deductions were improved by over 50% in 2013.
This was achieved by working with the service provider to identify repeat failures and determine how these could be avoided through different methods of service delivery and also by focusing on accurate and timely reporting of services delivery.
Maintain high levels of public sector satisfaction and asset performance The Company takes an active role in assisting its public sector clients to achieve savings from existing concession arrangements.
During the period the Investment Advisor became a signatory to the Code of Conduct for Operational PFI PPP Contracts developed in the UK by HM Treasury.
The Code is voluntary and assists in identifying and delivering efficiencies and savings in operational PFI and PPP contracts.
At a project level the Investment Advisor works with the public sector counterparty to ensure the contractual agreed benchmarking of services and insurance are effectively delivered.
This approach saw considerable savings delivered to the public sector clients during the year where, for example, insurance savings were achieved on the Derby Schools 2 and Moray Schools projects and in relation to Diabolo Rail project in Belgium.
In addition, the Investment Advisor has also been able to assist its public sector clients generate additional income from third party lettings.
This was achieved on the Derby and Northampton schools projects in extending the letting of the school facilities for private use outside school hours.
Key milestones were achieved in several of the Companys projects that were previously under construction: during the period HRH Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex officially opened the Liverpool Central Library: and, the Diabolo Rail Project received a European Rail Award recognising its role in reducing congestion within the Belgium rail system.
It is a measure of the significance of many of the Companys facilities to their communities that they have been recognised in this way.
Deliver additional capital value from existing assets During 2013 our public sector clients commissioned c. 700 variations resulting in over 9 million of additional works at the project level.
All variations were overseen by the Investment Advisor as part of the day-to-day asset management activities it undertakes in conjunction with the project facilities manager and the public sector client.
Variations ranged in size from a few hundred pounds to over 2 million and demonstrate the value and flexibility of PFI PPP contracts to respond to the changing requirements of public sector clients.
The day-to-day management of interfaces between the client, investors and construction partners is also of importance in relation to investments in the course of construction.
For instance, the Gold Coast Rapid Transit project which, at the beginning of 2013, was some four weeks behind schedule is now due for completion at its original completion date of May 2014. INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 28 Strategic Report continued 2013 Financial and Operating Review continued Valuation benefits from successful completion of the construction and defects correction phases of these projects and other construction projects recently completed are expected to continue to be realised in 2014 and 2015 as sustained operational performance is demonstrated.
All construction currently within the portfolio is due to be completed by December 2014 with defects periods completed in 2015.
Since 31 December 2013 the Company has increased its investments in construction stage projects as set out in the Value Focused Portfolio Development section below.
Projects under construction as at 31 December 2013, all of which are currently on schedule for operational commencement are set out in the table below.
Post year end, the Company has increased its investment in construction stage investments as detailed in Value-focused portfolio development section below Asset Location Construction Completion Defects Status % of Fair Date Completion Value of Year Investment Royal Childrens Hospital Australia Phase 1 September 2011 2015 Phase 1 completed 5.2% Phase 2 December 2014 Phase 2 on schedule Gold Coast Rapid Transit Australia May 2014 2015 On schedule 1.1% 1 Building Schools for the Future UK Various.
Latest September 2015 On schedule 0.3% portfolio 2014 1 Estimate based on the number of projects within the BSFI portfolio that were still in construction at 31 December 2013 INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 29 Strategic Report continued Case Study Investment Entity Active Asset Management works in partnership with Spotless who provide the day-to-day Royal Childrens Hospital facilities management services to the facility to ensure that client Project Summary expectations are met and any failures of the contracted service The A$1 billion Royal Childrens Hospital Project RCH is the specifications kept to a minimum.
largest hospital redevelopment to be undertaken by the State of Victoria.
The Hospital is home to three main clinical stakeholders One of the SMs key roles is to keep the RCHs lenders abreast of Royal Childrens Hospital, Murdoch Childrens Research key developments in order that they can understand progress to Institute, and the University of Melbourne and the client for the date for the construction and the level of service delivery ensuring project is the Victorian Minister for Health.
distributions from the project are paid to the Company in line with expectations.
An associate of the Companys Investment Advisor acts as asset manager and together with its project partners Lend Lease and Examples of Active Asset Management on RCH Spotless, has been involved with the project since its inception in 2002, with the project reaching financial close in November 2007.
Management oversight improving project performance The project is being delivered in two stages with the first stage, In cooperation with Spotless and the client, an amendment was the construction of a new childrens hospital on the site adjacent agreed to the method of service delivery in relation to lifts within to the existing hospital, completed early and on budget in the building.
Given RCHs size and number of lifts, the November 2011.
Stage 2, which includes the demolition of recommendation was for a lift engineer to be based on site during hospital buildings, construction of a hotel and other retail business hours rather than attend out of hours or respond from a services, is on schedule to be completed on time in December remote location when issues arose.
This solution not only 2014. resulted in reduced response times to any faults but also generally more consistent levels of service and reduced overall costs, The facility, when completed at the end of Stage 2, will be supporting client relations and protection of investor returns.
2 230,000m, housing 357 beds, 2,160 underground car park spaces and a complementary commercial precinct all sitting on 4.1ha of Service provider management maintained land.
RCHs design is in keeping with its park setting - Planning was undertaken with Spotless and the client to ensure bringing the park into the hospital and the hospital into the park that the hospital had the necessary back-up system in the event of and the interior fit-out is focused on children, being child friendly a State or city wide power blackout.
This back-up system has rather than childlike.
been tested with detailed electrical Blackstart power checks being undertaken with the hospital operator to ensure all The new hospitals design is built on green principles.
For switches and power priorities function as they are expected to in example, the facility achieved a 5 Star Green Star rating against the event of power failure, improving robustness of service the Healthcare Pilot tool and generates less greenhouse gas delivery and protecting returns.
emissions, is less energy intense, and uses less water.
At its peak the project provided work for 2,100 Victorians and remains a city Added value icon for both delivering quality health care services and design in The delivery of health care services is heavily impacted by the State.
emerging technology and the asset manager has demonstrated its capacity to evolve with the needs of the client.
RCH required a Key Day to Day Management Interface multi-million dollar medical imaging magnet on rails to move In addition to financing and redeveloping the RCH the project between an operating theatre and cardiac laboratory.
The asset partners provide, maintain and deliver services to the clinical manager facilitated the significant additional design and physical stakeholders so that they can carry out clinical support, research, works in support of this new clinical tool, pricing for the necessary educational, training and non-clinical support services.
The design, construction, lifecycle and annual maintenance risk, with partners also support the retail offering at the facility.
the client retaining the clinical equipment risk associated with the imaging equipment.
In order to do this the asset manager takes a proactive approach to managing relationships, both with the client as well as other Added extras project partners, and has a senior manager SM on site at the Being a tertiary teaching hospital for children, Amber has hospital in a full time capacity.
promoted, part funded and manages a range of project enhancements.
As many of the clients services are provided 24 hours a day every day of the year, the facility needs to be operational on the same These enhancements provide entertainment and a distraction for basis.
Having a team member on site allows the asset manager to children and their families while in hospital.
These include a be responsive to any issues that emerge as well as remaining on permanent home for a colony of meerkats cared for by the top of day-to-day management activities.
In addition, the SM Melbourne Zoo: a 110,000 litre salt water aquarium with over 500 holds regular formal as well as informal meetings with the tropical fish: free access to first run movies in a fully functional contractors on the facility, Lend Lease, to ensure that the projects cinema: use of games provided by Museum Victoria.
building works are being successfully delivered.
The SM also INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 30 Strategic Report continued 2013 Financial and Operating Review continued Performance against Strategic Priorities Value focused portfolio development The Company made three acquisitions in 2013 for a total consideration of 36.5 million.
All of these were either follow-on investments in existing projects within the existing portfolio or opportunities identified through existing shareholder or framework arrangements: Alberta Schools project in Canada - the Company acquired the remaining 25% economic interest in the project for 7.5 million.
The Company now owns 100% of the risk capital in this project Building Schools for the Future PFI project a 1.0 million investment was made into additional stakes following the initial investment in 2011 Diabolo Rail project the remaining 25% economic interest was acquired from a subsidiary of HSH Nordbank for 33.3 million 28.0 million.
The Company now owns 100% of the risk capital in this project The Company believes that it is reflective of the quality of its portfolio that self-generating additional investments such as these are possible.
In a market that is increasingly competitive, these transactions illustrate the value for shareholders that may be obtained by investing in offmarket transactions, such as those developed from the existing portfolio, rather than through competitive external auction processes.
During the period the Company considered a further 46 potential transactions.
Of these, the Company was outbid or did not progress 22 highlighting the level of heightened competition for assets and consequential pricing pressure that has continued to be a feature throughout the past year.
In addition, the Company had previously forecast that it would have been able to invest in the Lincolnshire OFTO during the early stages of 2013 but due to vendor related factors outside of the Investment Advisors control it is now targeting investment for later this year.
Since the end of the financial year, on 24 January, the Company acquired a 97% equity interest and 100% of the subordinated debt in a PPP project that will deliver the new headquarters of the Federal German Ministry of Education and Research in Berlin BMBF.
The Ministry provides funding for research projects and institutions and sets general educational policy, including providing student loans, in Germany.
The BMBF interests were acquired from an associate of the Investment Advisor for approximately 11.9 million 9.7 million.
The acquisition process was fully managed in accordance with the Companys policy on dealing with conflicts of interest in such circumstances, as set out within the Corporate Governance Report.
This process included the Company obtaining an independent valuation which valued the asset at a price slightly higher than the price at which it was acquired.
This investment underlines the Companys ability to access a developed pipeline of international investment opportunities other than through a secondary market auction process.
The investment is expected to complete construction in July 2014.
Since 31 December 2013 the Company has also entered into a number of UK schools PFI transactions with respect to Building Schools for the Future BSF portfolio.
Two investments were made in existing BSF projects: The acquisition of 60% of Kier Project Investments 80% interest in the Kent BSF UK PFI schools project for 6.8 million.
When all aspects of the transaction are completed later in 2014 the Company will own 58% of the project A follow-on investment of 0.5 million in the Wolverhampton BSF UK PFI schools project where the Company had the opportunity to invest on a minority basis.
The project involves the design, construction, financing and operation of two high schools in the second phase of the Wolverhampton BSF programme delivered using a PFI structure In addition, the disposal of minority interests in the Hull, Leeds, Newcastle, Rochdale, Sandwell and Leicester BSF projects have been agreed, with 18.8 million to be realised.
The divestments were agreed as the Company had determined that it had no realistic scope to increase its holdings in these particular projects to majority controlling holdings and therefore considered that, based on the price offered: a sale would be in the best interests for the Company.
The proceeds of sale are substantially in excess of the price paid for the same stakes on acquisition in August 2011, offering a significant premium to the Company and illustrates the strength of the secondary market for these assets.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 31 Strategic Report continued 2013 Financial and Operating Review continued Performance against Strategic Priorities Efficient financial management The Company seeks to generate dividends to investors that are paid from operating cash flow.
For the year ended 31 December the cash dividend paid to investors was 1.3 times covered by net operating cash flow and the Company remains confident that it will be able to grow dividends in the future.
Since the end of the financial year, the Company has renewed its corporate debt facility.
On 20 January 2014 the term of the facility was extended until December 2016 on broadly the same terms as the existing facility but with an increase in the size of the facility to 175 million previously 100 million in light of a growing trend in the size of investment opportunities available.
It remains the Companys policy not to have long-term corporate level debt and it is anticipated that to the extent that the corporate facility is drawn to fund acquisitions, this would be a short-term arrangement and equity funding, by means of a capital raising, would be sought to repay outstanding debt as soon as practicable.
As at the date of this report, the corporate debt facility was undrawn.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 32 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Mitigation 2013 Investment Principal Operating Financial & Policies & Strategy Risks & Outlook Model Operating Objectives Mitigation Review The key risks affecting the Company and the investment portfolio intended to highlight all the potential risks to the business.
There have not materially changed year to year, largely due to the highly may be other risks that are currently unknown or regarded as less contractual and long-term nature of the investments with similar material which could turn out to be material.
Any of these could risk profiles.
Changes in the macro-economic environment and have the potential to impact the performance of the Company, its broader global regulatory and tax environment can impact on assets, capital resources and reputation.
fund returns and are a permanent feature of the risk appraisal A description of broader risk factors relevant to investors is process.
disclosed in the latest Company prospectus available on the The Companys approach to risk management is set out within the Companys website www.
Whilst the Company has applied mitigation processes as The following table summarises the Boards views on the principal highlighted below it is unlikely that the techniques applied will risks and uncertainties for the Company and the relevance of entirely eliminate the risk.
these risks to meeting the Companys objectives.
This is not Risk Description Mitigation Approach Macro-economic Risks Inflation may be higher or lower than expected.
Investment The Company monitors the effect of inflation on its portfolio Inflation cash flows are positively correlated to inflation therefore through its twice yearly valuation process and reports on this to increases decreases to inflation would impact positively or investors.
The Company also provides sensitivities to investors negatively on Company cash flows.
Negative inflation indicating the projected impact on the Companys NAV of a limited deflation will reduce the Companys cash flows in absolute number of alternative inflation scenarios, offering investors an terms.
ability to anticipate the likely effects of some inflation scenarios on their investment.
The Companys portfolio has been developed in anticipation of continued inflation at or above the levels used in the The Company has actively pursued a strategy of increasing the Companys valuation assumptions.
Where inflation is at proportion of its portfolio with inflation linkage.
levels below the assumed levels investment performance may be impaired.
The level of inflation linkage across the investments held by the Company varies and is not consistent.
Some investments have no inflation linkage and some have a geared exposure to inflation.
The overall impact on the portfolio return from a 1% change of inflation is 0.81%: see pages 23-24 for details on the assumptions behind this sensitivity.
The consequences of higher or lower levels of inflation than that assumed by the Company will not be uniform across its portfolio.
The Company is also exposed to the risk of changes to the manner in which inflation is calculated by the relevant authorities.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 33 Strategic Report continued Principal Risks and Mitigation continued Risk Description Mitigation Approach The Company indirectly holds part of its investments in The Company uses forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate Foreign entities in jurisdictions with currencies other than Sterling the risk of short-term volatility in foreign exchange on significant exchange but borrows corporate level debt, reports its NAV and pays investment returns from overseas investments.
These may not be movements dividends in Sterling.
Changes in the rates of foreign currency fully effective and rely on the strength of the counterparties to exchange are outside the control of the Company and may those contracts to be enforceable.
impact positively or negatively on Company cash flows and The Company monitors the effect of foreign exchange on its valuation.
portfolio through its twice yearly valuation process and reports this to investors.
The Company also provides sensitivities to investors indicating the projected impact on the Companys NAV of a limited number of alternative foreign exchange scenarios, offering investors an ability to anticipate the likely effects of some foreign exchange scenarios on their investment.
Interest Changes in market rates of interest can affect the Company in a variety of different way: rates Valuation Discount Rate The Company, in valuing its investments, uses a discounted In determining the discount rate used to value the Companys cash flow methodology.
Changes in market rates of interest investments the Company generally uses nominal interest rates.
particularly government bond rates will directly impact the Where the Companys cash investment inflows are linked to discount rate used to value the Companys future projected inflation, higher interest rates can often be precipitated by higher cash flows and thus its valuation.
Higher rates will have a inflation expectations, and therefore any inflation linkage may negative impact on valuation while lower rates will have a partly mitigate the effect of interest rate changes.
Corporate Debt Facility The Company has a corporate level debt facility that may be In the event that the interest rate increases then the Company has drawn from time to time.
Interest is charged on a floating the option of repaying that facility at any time with minimal notice, rate basis, so higher than anticipated interest rates will providing sufficient funds are available.
increase the cost of this facility potentially adversely impacting on cash flow and the Companys valuation.
Cash Holdings The Company and underlying investment entities typically Interest rate risks cannot be fully mitigated against.
In respect of chose or can be required to hold various cash balances, deposit interest rates the Company monitors the effect of historical including contingency reserves for future costs such as and projected interest rates on its portfolio through its twice yearly major lifecycle maintenance or debt service reserves.
These valuation process and reports this to investors.
The Company also are generally held on interest bearing accounts and under provides sensitivities to investors indicating the projected impact on the contractual terms applicable to certain investments in the Companys NAV of a limited number of alternative scenarios, many cases are projected to be held for the long term.
offering investors an ability to anticipate the likely effects of some deposit interest rate scenarios on their investment.
The Company assumes that it will earn interest on such deposits over the long term.
Changes in interest rates may mean that the actual interest receivable by the Company is less than projected.
If the Company receives less interest than it projects this will impact cash flows and NAV adversely.
Change in Legislation Taxation Changes in tax legislation across the multi-jurisdictions in The diversified jurisdictional mix of the Companys investments may which the Company has investments can reduce returns provide some mitigation to tax changes in any one jurisdiction.
impacting on the Companys cash flow and valuation.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 34 Strategic Report continued Principal Risks and Mitigation continued Risk Description Mitigation Approach Change in tax rates Taxation Most recently the Company has benefited from reductions in The Company believes it takes a conservative approach to tax continued the headline rates of UK corporation tax positively impacting planning.
The Board monitor changes in tax legislation and takes its UK based investments, however there is a risk that this advice as appropriate from external, independent, qualified could be reversed if there were a change in government or advisors.
Whilst the Board and the Companys Investment Advisor policy.
Such changes may occur in all jurisdictions in which seek to minimise the impact of adverse changes in tax the Company operates.
requirements, its ability to do so is naturally limited.
The current economic environment is putting pressure on tax setting authorities to increase the collection of taxes, in part through targeting legitimate tax planning and seeking to restrict the international transfer of taxable profits.
While the Company does not believe that it uses structure that are considered aggressive or out of the ordinary there is a risk that potential legislative changes to target such arrangements could inadvertently have an adverse impact on the Companys performance.
Accounting Accounting changes may have either a positive or adverse A significant portion of the Companys income is received in the effect on cash flows available for distribution to the Company form of shareholder debt interest income i. e. from pre-tax cash and therefore the value of the investments.
Accounting flows and therefore not constrained by distributable profits tests.
changes that have the effect of reducing distributable profits in investment entities and holding entities may impact the Companys cash flows and thus valuation adversely.
Market Risk The nature of the businesses in which the Company invest The Companys existing investments benefit from long-term service Political and expose the Company to potential changes in policy and legal and asset availability based pricing contracts and the countries in regulatory requirements.
All investments have a public sector which the Company operates do not tend to have a tradition of infrastructure service aspect.
Some are subject to formal penal retrospective legislation.
The countries where the Company regulatory regimes.
All are exposed to political scrutiny and operates tend to be long-term supporters of PPP frameworks and the potential for adverse public sector or political criticism.
similar procurements and recognise the risk of deterring future Moreover all are dependent ultimately on public sector investment in the event that penal or disproportionate steps are expenditure for most of their revenues.
The Company is taken in respect of existing contractual engagements.
therefore potentially highly exposed to changes in policy, law or regulations including adverse or punitive changes of law.
Termination of contracts In particular most if not all of the contracts between public The Company maintains strong and positive relationships with its public sector clients where it can.
The Company engages with its sector bodies the Companys investment entities contain public sector clients in developing cost saving initiatives and acting rights for the public sector to voluntarily terminate contracts as a good partner where it can.
None of the Companys in certain situations.
Whilst the contracts typically provide investments have been identified, by any government audit or for compensation in such cases that could be less than public sector report as being poor value-for-money or not in the required to sustain the Companys valuation of the public interest.
investment causing loss of value to the Company.
There The Investment Advisor is a signatory to the Code of Conduct for have been instances of contracts being voluntarily Operational PFI PPP contracts in the UK.
The voluntary code of terminated in the UK health sector recently although not conduct sets out the basis on which public and private sector affecting the Company.
partners agree to work together to make savings in operational Public PPP contracts.
Compensation on termination clauses within such contracts serve to partially mitigate the risk of voluntary termination.
Furthermore in the current financial climate where voluntary termination leads to a requirement to pay compensation such compensation is likely to represent an unattractive immediate call on the public finances for the public sector.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 35 Strategic Report continued Principal Risks and Mitigation continued Risk Description Mitigation Approach Change in law regulation Political and Changes of law or regulation may increase costs of operating Some investments maintain a reserve or contingency designed to regulatory and maintaining facilities or impose other costs or obligations meet change of law costs and or have a mechanism to allow some continued that indirectly adversely affect the Companys cash flow from change of law costs typically building maintenance related to be its investments and or valuation of them.
passed back to the public sector.
Change in political policy Political policy and financing decisions may also impact on Current policy trends in the UK and elsewhere continue to support the Companys ability to source new investments at the use of private sector capital to finance public infrastructure.
attractive prices or at all.
Change in regulations The Company is subject to changes in regulatory policy that The Company and its Investment Advisor monitor regulatory relate to its business and that of its Investment Advisor.
The developments and seek independent professional advice in order to Company is supervised by the Guernsey Financial Services manage compliance with changing regulatory requirements.
Commission and is required to comply with the UK Listing Rules applicable to Premium listings.
The Investment Advisor is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in the UK in accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Recent regulatory changes Recent regulatory changes have included the transposition of The Board considers the Company is self-managed i. e. it is the the European Unions Alternative Investment Fund Managers Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
It is therefore Directive AIFMD into UK and other EU countries national subject to a lighter regulatory regime than if it were to appoint an laws which will impact the Company by increasing its AIFM from within the EU.
However it is not possible to entirely regulatory burden.
mitigate the risk the Company may be deemed or choose to be managed by an EU AIFM in the future.
Operational and Valuation Risk Asset availability Asset The Companys investments entitlement to receive income The Board reviews underlying investment performance of each Performance from their public sector clients is generally dependent on the investment quarterly allowing asset performance to be monitored underlying physical assets remaining available for use and in close to real time.
continuing to meet certain performance standards.
Failure Historically the Company has seen very high levels of asset to maintain assets available for use or operating in performance which suggests a positive trend for the future.
accordance with pre-determined performance standards may entitle the public sector to stop wholly or partially Contractual mechanisms also allow for significant pass-down of paying the income that the Company has projected to unavailability and performance risk to sub-contractors in many receive.
Termination In serious cases where the terms of the underlying contract In the event of significant and continuing unavailability across the with the public sector are breached due to default or force Companys portfolio the Company is able to terminate the majeure then that contract can usually be terminated Investment Advisory Agreement.
This serves to reinforce alignment without compensation.
Failure to receive the amount of of interest between the Company and the Investment Advisor.
revenue projected or termination of a contract will have a consequent impact on the Companys cash flow and value.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 36 Strategic Report continued Principal Risks and Mitigation continued Risk Description Mitigation Approach The Companys investments are dependent on the The Company has a broad range of suppliers and believes that Counterparty performance of a series of counterparties to contracts supplier counterparty risk is diversified across its investments.
All Risk including public sector bodies, construction contractors, contracts include the provision of a security package from facilities management and maintenance contractors, asset counterparties to mitigate the impact of supplier failure.
In and investment managers including the Investment Advisor, addition, generally payments are made in arrears to service banks and lending institutions and others.
Failure by one or providers giving the Company some protection against failures in more of these counterparties to perform their obligations performance.
fully or as anticipated could adversely affect the performance The credit quality of supplier counterparties is reviewed as part of of affected investments.
Replacement counterparties where the Companys due diligence at the time of making its investments.
they can be obtained may only be obtained at a greater cost.
These risks would negatively impact the Companys cash Most of the services provided to the Companys investments are flows and valuation.
reasonably generic and there can be expected to be a pool of potential replacement supplier counterparties in the event that a service counterparty fails albeit not necessarily at the same cost.
Where borrowings exist in respect of the Companys The credit risk of such swap counterparties is considered at the time investments, interest rates are generally fixed through the of entering these arrangements and regularly reviewed, however use of interest swaps.
The Company is therefore exposed if there is a risk of credit deterioration which could impact affected the counterparties of these swaps were to default or the investments.
The Company indirectly invests in physical assets used by the The Companys investments benefit from regular risk reviews and Physical public and thus is exposed to possible risks both reputational external insurance advice which is intended to ensure that those Asset Risk and legal in the event of damage or destruction to such assets continue to benefit from insurance cover that is standard for assets and their users including loss of life, personal injury such assets.
While the assets the Company invests in benefit from insurance policies these may not be effective in all cases.
Contract Risk The performance of the Companys investments is Such contracts have been entered into usually only after lengthy dependent on the complex set of contractual arrangements negotiations and with the benefit of external legal advice.
A legal specific to each investment continuing to operate as review of contract documentation is undertaken as part of the intended.
The Company is exposed to the risk that such Companys due diligence at the time of making new investments.
contracts do not operate as intended, are incomplete, contain unanticipated liabilities, are subject to interpretation contrary to the Companys expectation or otherwise fail to provide the protection or recourse anticipated by the Company.
The Companys projections depend on the use of financial Financial forecasts are generally subject to model audit by external Financial models to calculate future projected investment returns for accountancy firms which is a process designed to identify errors.
These are in turn dependent on the outputs The comparison of past actual performance of investments against from other financial model forecasts at the underlying past projected performance also gives confidence in financial investment entity level.
There may be errors in any of these models where actual performance has closely matched projected financial models including calculation errors, incorrect performance.
However there can be no assurance that forecast assumptions, programming, logic or formulaic errors and results will be realised.
Once corrected such errors may lead to a revision in the Companys projections for its cash flows and thus impact on its valuation.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 37 Strategic Report Outlook 2013 Investment Principal Operating Financial & Policies & Strategy Risks & Outlook Model Operating Objectives Mitigation Review Current Market Environment and Future Opportunities The Companys ability to increase the value of its investment of a new pension industry infrastructure investment fund vehicle : portfolio depends significantly on the following market factors: and the UK government is currently procuring the management and creation of a new senior lending fund platform for future The extent of new infrastructure opportunities being school PPP projects.
procured by public sector bodies known as the primary There also continues to be new primary market opportunities in market the offshore transmission sector, where licences are granted for The number and quality of investments being sold by existing the transmission of electricity from offshore wind farms to the owners known as the secondary market national grid.
Such schemes are structured and financed in a The level of competition for primary or secondary similar way to social infrastructure schemes with a long-term opportunities and the impact this has on pricing and level of availability income paid for the provision of services and returns maintaining asset availability: i. e. there is no demand or The macroeconomic environment e. g. the impact of inflation, volumetric risk to such investments.
The Company has, to date, interest rates, and the pricing of risk and return for alternative been a market leader in investment into this sector.
The UK investments Government estimates a further 8 billion of capital investment Overall the Company continues to have a very positive market requirement in OFTOs by 2020 with the prospect of significantly outlook.
Government support for private sector investment in more in the years thereafter.
This is an obvious area for further infrastructure continues to feature as a high public priority.
Also, attention by the Company and its Investment Advisor.
secondary market competition is currently at a very high level, Other UK primary infrastructure is currently concentrated on large resulting in significant price inflation which augur well for the scale economic infrastructure such as inter-city rail connections value of the Companys existing assets and the market perception and replacement and renewable energy generation which of infrastructure being a firmly established class of investment typically do not exhibit the risk reward profile the Company seeks.
asset Nevertheless, the Company takes the view that there are plenty of Slightly less positively, new investment opportunity volumes have opportunities that do meet its investment criteria and the main remained low in the period, driven by the Company having been challenge for the Company in primary market transactions is to very selective over assets and being determined to progress the select those opportunities that offer premium returns with less acquisition of assets that it believes have a clear benefit to the competitive tension.
This means that the Company is continually portfolio.
Overall however, the Company is confident that its looking at new subsectors of the infrastructure market where approach will be justified over time and that the Company transactions are less commoditised.
continues to hold and build a portfolio of the highest quality.
Pricing in the secondary market has been particularly high over The Company has an international focus and the current market the past year, with significant premiums being paid.
While the environment in each of the major jurisdictions in which it operates Company actively reviews many of these opportunities it and the potential for future investment within each is outlined in continues to be wary of overpaying.
Over the last 12 months the more detail below: Company has confined itself to completing secondary market transactions where the Company has pre-emption or other legal United Kingdom rights that allow the Company an advantageous position in In the UK, investment in infrastructure is a significant policy acquisition discussions.
Such opportunities also allow the cornerstone for the government as a way to create jobs and Company to increase its percentage ownership of assets.
The government has set out a wide ranging National Infrastructure Plan with a particular focus on transport and power.
Its commitment to infrastructure is also demonstrated through the Green Investment Bank established to help finance large-scale offshore wind and energy-from-waste projects: over the last 12 months the UK government has also encouraged new investment into the wider sector for instance it has marshalled the creation INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 38 Strategic Report continued Outlook continued Australia In Australia, the federal government has focused infrastructure difficult.
In the short term these seem more likely to be needs through the Infrastructure Australia Authority: sought to secondary market opportunities for the Company rather than encourage greater investment from foreign investment firms and primary investments.
local superannuation funds: and, encouraged private financing In the longer term however, Canada has been actively through its Infrastructure Partnerships Australia program.
Each implementing PPPs at a provincial level and through the countrys state government also has its own long-term infrastructure $33.0 billion Build Canada plan.
Some authorities are also strategy delivery organisation.
considering sale and leasebacks of infrastructure assets which Given the level of commitment and history of project finance, may be of interest to the Company.
Australia is one of the most developed countries for undertaking Other Countries PPPs.
Currently, Australias infrastructure priorities include multiThe PPP or P3 market in the United States continues to grow billion Australian dollar transport projects such as improvements slowly, notwithstanding the additional complexities arising from and developments to highways and rail rebuilding and slightly different procurement processes in the different states.
The InfraDeals website at 21 February 2014 listed 96 projects at pre-launch stage which is indicative of the opportunity, although While there now appear to be attractive opportunities in the the same source recorded only seven projects, of the type the Australian market, until recently the Australian dollar AUD had Company might invest in, reaching financial close in the course of been trading at a substantial premium to Sterling compared to 2013.
Nevertheless in the medium term the US market does offer longer-term rates.
As a result it was less attractive for the potential opportunity and the Investment Advisor continues to Company to consider investing in that market.
However, recently maintain an office in San Francisco focused on these prospects.
Sterling has appreciated against the AUD thus potentially making Australian investments attractive again and the Company will The New Zealand market is also of interest to the Company continue to assess opportunities in this market.
currently and the Investment Advisor continues to work on a The Investment Advisor is currently evaluating a number of number of early stage opportunities there.
These are currently projects in Queensland and New South Wales in respect of which being resourced from the Investment Advisors Australian offices.
The Company keeps a watching brief on opportunities in other international markets but will only consider deals in other markets Europe excluding UK Northern Europe including Belgium, Holland, Germany and where it is satisfied that the combination of sovereign credit and Scandinavia continues to offer PPP accommodation opportunities rule of law makes such investment comparable with the which are attractive to the Company.
Ireland also now has an Companys existing investments.
active PPP programme where the Companys Investment Advisor is an active participant.
The Company, through the Investment Current Pipeline Overall, the Company remains very positive about its prospects, Advisors teams based in Munich, Brussels and Dublin, continues both in terms of the performance of its existing investments and to explore opportunities in these markets.
the opportunity to add high quality investments to the portfolio Elsewhere in Europe, austerity measures and fiscal constraint during 2014. have limited the capacity of governments to fund infrastructure Currently, the Investment Advisor has identified around 180 projects, particularly in southern Europe.
million of likely investment for the Company which is at preferred Currently, the greatest focus is being applied in Ireland where a bidder stage.
If this investment is made as anticipated such number of bids are underway, Germany where the Company has investment will fully utilise the Companys currently available funds including its debt facility.
In addition to these potential acquired an asset after the year end, Belgium where the investments the Company and its Investment Advisor have a Company has an existing investment and further investment significantly larger number of transactions which are at an earlier opportunities are being reviewed and Scandinavia where PPP stage of development, under review.
transactions appear to be gaining more traction.
Canada PPP in Canada is well established and the Company holds existing investments in the market.
The Companys Investment Advisor remains active in the Canadian market and will seek out opportunities for the Company where it can.
The market is however still relatively small and dominated by domestic pension funds making entry into new investment opportunities more INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 39 Strategic Report continued Outlook continued Key areas of current activity within the Company and or its Opportunities arising in the UK health and social care sphere Investment Advisor or associates include: where an active pipeline of small to medium sized opportunities continues to exist Continued activities in the area of UK offshore transmission Appropriately priced proposals from third parties seeking to where the Company has one transaction at preferred bidder dispose of projects meeting the Companys investment stage and another in development criteria which have synergies with the Companys existing Other UK and European primary investment opportunities for portfolio instance in UK healthcare and Irish schools Selected specific current opportunities identified by the Acquisition of additional investments in projects where the Company already has an investment.
Typically these will arise Investment Advisor are outlined in the table below.
under pre-emption and similar rights.
This was a key area of Notwithstanding the projects listed above, it should be noted that focus in 2013 which is likely to continue in 2014 the Companys performance is not dependent upon making additional investments in order to deliver its projected returns.
New developments in UK public policy with respect to the Further investment opportunities will be judged by their financing of PPP projects in the UK anticipated contribution to overall portfolio returns.
The growing range of opportunities in Ireland Further growth in social infrastructure projects in Germany, Belgium, Australia and New Zealand which conform to the existing risk profile within the Companys portfolio Project Location Estimated Expected Project Status Investment Concession Length Gross Capital 1 Value OFTOs - Lincolnshire UK 360 million 20 years Consortium including the Company named preferred bidder OFTOs West of Duddon UK 400 million 20 years Consortium including the Company Sands shortlisted Healthcare projects UK 30m million 25 years Community health project in the UK.
Education Funding Agency UK 500 million 25 years Consortium including the Company Funding Aggregator shortlisted on innovative UK PPP funding project Irish Schools Bundle 4&5 Ireland 100 million 25 years Consortium including the Company shortlisted on next round Various medium-term UK, Belgium, 800 million - 1 25 years The Company has the benefit of short, opportunities Australia, New billion medium and long-term development Zealand opportunities as well as pre-emption opportunities in respect of a number of projects within the existing portfolio 1 Represents opportunities currently under review by Amber Infrastructure Group including current bids, preferred bidder opportunities and estimated value of opportunities to acquire additional investments under pre-emption first refusal rights.
There is no certainty these will translate to investment opportunities for INPP.
The value referenced in relation to the European utility and pre-emption opportunities represents the potential investment value which reflect the current unaudited estimate of the total likely acquisition price at the time of investment.
In relation to the remaining assets listed as further investments, the figure represents the current unaudited capital value of the relevant project and therefore includes both debt and equity and is not necessarily indicative of the eventual acquisition price for, or the value of, any interest that may be acquired Rupert Dorey John Whittle 26 March 2014 26 March 2014 Chairman Director INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 40
