Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Business review Annual Report 2013: Directors report Business review Our business model Sky is Britain and Irelands leading home entertainment and communications provider.
As at 30 June 2013, we had 11.2 million customers taking a total of 31.6 million products.
Our business Our strategy We retail pay TV services to residential customers both in We have a clear and consistent growth the home and on the move.
We connect our customers with strategy: to sell more products and services broadband and telephony products, including DSL, fibre and to our customers: to attract new customers WiFi.
We also retail our TV services to commercial customers and to Sky: and to develop our adjacent operate adjacent businesses distributing our programmes and businesses.
channels, selling advertising on our own and on partner channels, and offering a range of betting and gaming services.
Our approach To achieve our broadly-based growth strategy, we invest in the customer experience while improving the efficiency of our operations.
Through unwavering focus on quality, flexibility, value and service we can grow in a variety of ways, create value for shareholders, and make a broader contribution to society.
Invest in standout Add value through Grow in home Scale other Increase operating content innovation communications businesses efficiency We invest in high Through continually We have an We deploy our content We focus on quality, differentiated innovating around our infrastructure which investments to operating efficiency content to give products and services, we allows us to provide support growth in our to deliver the best customers a greater extend our reach into new customers with great adjacent wholesale, service, underpin choice of the TV they markets, distribute our value, high quality and advertising, data and investment in future are passionate about.
content more broadly and reliable communications betting and gaming growth and increase improve the experience services.
profit, cash flow and and add more value for returns.
Develop long term capability We invest in developing our brand, our people and our infrastructure as key components of long term success Our people Seeing the bigger picture How we manage risk The talent, hard work and Seeing the bigger picture is The Group has a formal risk management enthusiasm of our people our approach to building a are critical to Skys success.
We do framework embedded within the business to We want to ensure we this by growing our economic attract the best people and and social contribution: taking support the identification and effective management of risk across create a culture and an environment where responsibility for doing the right thing in our they can perform at their best and achieve day to day business: and reaching beyond our the Group.
business to inspire people to take action to make a positive difference.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 7
