Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Business review Annual Report 2013: Directors report Business review licences.
Ofcom found that, in the circumstances, including the We have created a distribution platform that is now in over 40% of compliance record of the Sky channels from 2006 to 2012, the Groups British and Irish homes, enabling scores of other broadcasters to success during James Murdochs tenure as CEO and Chairman, and the reach an audience and build their business.
We have also been a current governance structure, the Group remained fit and proper to hold global pioneer of new technologies like digital, HD and 3D TV, which broadcast licences.
In its decision, Ofcom also noted the continuing have subsequently become industry standards.
nature of its duty to be satisfied that a licensee is fit and proper and that We are committed to training and developing our people.
From it would consider further evidence if it became available in future.
dedicated programmes for apprentices and graduates through to Under the rules on privacy in the Broadcasting Code, Ofcom has life-long learning for our most experienced employees, we understand that the skills of our people are integral to our commercial success considered two instances of a Sky News journalist accessing the email of individuals suspected of criminal activity.
The Groups Audit see pages 21 to 23.
Committee conducted a thorough review of each of those instances Contribution to the UK economy and concluded that the action was justified in the public interest and Sky makes a significant contribution to UK GDP, estimated in a study subject to proper editorial oversight.
On 1 July 2013, Ofcom published by Oxford Economics to be 5.9 billion over the past year.
Seventy-six its conclusion that the broadcasters right to freedom of expression, per cent of our revenue was retained in the UK, where we also worked including the freedom to receive and impart information and ideas with over 6,600 suppliers.
without interference, in the exceptional circumstances of this case, outweighed the individuals expectation of privacy and found Sky not With over 24,000 people, we are now one of the countrys biggest in breach of the Broadcasting Code.
Our impact on the wider economy has become increasingly significant, with 120,800 jobs dependent on Sky across SEEING THE BIGGER PICTURE the UK in the past year.
At Sky we want to build a business that is durable for the long-term.
Sky generated a 2.7 billion contribution to tax revenues in the last We know simply being good for Sky is not enough.
To achieve year, equivalent to 43 for every person in the UK.
Our direct tax sustainable success, we must also be good for our customers, our contribution was 1.3 billion, consisting of taxes borne of 440 million people, our partners and the communities in which we live and work.
and taxes collected of 810 million.
We call this seeing the bigger picture.
A Responsible Business Our Contribution Acting responsibly and being successful commercially go hand in We are proud of the positive social and economic contribution Sky hand.
Millions of homes across Britain and Ireland choose Sky.
They makes to Britain and Ireland as a successful and growing business.
have high expectations of us, trusting us to do the right thing.
Our high ethical, social and environmental standards are essential to Improving our customers lives maintaining that trust and underpin the decisions we take every day.
We have opened up choice in television, bringing customers a wide range of the best content from the UK and around the world.
Our This approach is integral to the culture and values we seek to products offer world-leading innovation, helping customers to promote at Sky.
Its set out through a series of commitments in our manage their lives better by allowing them to watch TV and go online Ways of Working, which is our code of conduct that everyone who where, when and how they choose.
Our news service makes a vital works at Sky is expected to adhere to.
contribution to media plurality in the UK, offering innovative, multiOur commitment to customers and viewers media coverage 24 hours a day.
As a result, citizens are better Because we never forget that people make a choice when they buy informed and more engaged with democratic society.
our products or watch our programmes, we commit to treating our We are bringing competition to the home communications market, customers and viewers with respect and strive to make sure our helping millions of people to get online in an easy and affordable way.
services meet their needs and expectations.
As a result, they are more connected to each other and to society as a We maintain high editorial standards on our TV channels and online whole.
services and this year we published our Sky News editorial guidelines Investing in the creative industries and sport to help with decision-making in sensitive or difficult situations.
Over the past year, we have worked with more of the countrys leading We take our responsibilities seriously as a major advertiser and media writers, producers and actors to bring great new ideas to screen.
We follow the relevant codes set out by the Advertising are on track to meet our commitment to spend 600 million a year on Standards Authority, both for our own advertising and the advertising UK production and commissioning by the end of 2014.
We have from others that we carry on our services.
worked with hundreds of production companies, providing a platform for their creativity and helping them grow their own businesses.
We champion diversity on-screen, aiming to reflect the diverse make up of our customer base in our programmes.
Once again this year we We are a long-term supporter of sport at all levels.
We have supported International Womens Day, showcasing leading female contributed over 15 billion to British and Irish sports organisations directors, presenters and women in sport over a week in March.
As over the last 22 years and helped to create more fans for a wide range part of our diversity and inclusion commitment, we have increased of different sports.
Our investment has enabled sports bodies to the representation of women as expert commentators on Sky News improve performance, commercial value, participation and pieces from 25% to 33% over the past 18 months.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 17 Annual Report 2013: Directors report Business review Review of our business continued We help parents to keep their children safe on our TV platform and Our commitment to shareholders online, providing them with effective and easy to use tools and We take seriously our responsibilities as a major British business making sure they understand how to use them.
Over the past year, we listed on the London Stock Exchange, maintaining high standards of have worked with industry, government and a range of noncorporate governance and taking steps to ensure our communications government organisations to develop a leading approach to with investors are clear, open and timely.
Our Board oversees the supporting customers to keep their families safe online.
We have alignment of the Companys strategy with the interests of our encouraged our customers to activate our free parental controls investors and takes account of the interests of our stakeholders tools and made it a requirement for all new Sky Broadband customers see page 60. to make a choice about whether they want these controls or not.
We Our commitment to business partners made a strong contribution to raising the awareness of Safer Internet Because our business relies on strong partnerships with many Day 2013 with coverage on Sky News, Sky Sports, radio and our digital suppliers and distributors, we want to build productive, fair and channels.
collaborative relationships with them, based on mutual improvement.
Over the year, more than 1,605 young people created their own Sky We expect everyone we do business with to deliver a high-quality news report about using the internet and social networking tools service and provide good value for money, as well as to behave safely in Sky Skills Studios, our state-of-the-art, free learning ethically and comply with all relevant laws and regulations.
We want to experience thats linked to the curriculum.
They have helped raise be a good partner in return, treating suppliers fairly, rewarding good awareness more widely by sharing their videos with their schools, performance and meeting all of our obligations to them.
We promote better social and environmental standards through our We make our products and services accessible to everyone, including Responsible Sourcing Principles, which we expect all our suppliers to those with disabilities.
We provide subtitling and audio description on embrace.
Over the past year, we have improved our Responsible our TV channels and exceed the Ofcom requirements.
Sourcing Programme, refining how we communicate our social and i Access service provision against Ofcom requirements environmental expectations to suppliers and enhancing the tools we use to assess performance so that they are easy to use and support 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 industry standards.
We have also undertaken audits of key strategic Key performance Annual Annual Annual suppliers such as product manufacturers to assess their indicator Quota Achieved Quota Achieved Quota Achieved ii Subtitling % 60 68 70 74 70 73 performance against our Responsible Sourcing Principles, working Audio with them on areas for improvement.
iii Description % 10 27 10 26 10 21 Our commitment to the environment Notes Because we want to build a business that is sustainable for the long i 2011 12 and 2012 13 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be viewed online at sky.
com biggerpicture term, we understand the importance of minimising our environmental ii Average across Sky News, Sky 1, Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports News and Sky Movies impact and taking a leadership position in the business community.
Premier iii Average across Sky 1, Sky Sports 1 and Sky Movies Premier: Sky News and Sky Sports We know that operating efficiently, saving energy and using natural News are exempt resources wisely helps us to be a better business, as well as contributing to a more sustainable future for everyone.
To achieve We continue to work with customers and organisations representing this, we have set out a series of bold environment targets and disabled people, to make sure our current and future products commitments, expanded in November 2012, so that we have fewer include specially designed features to meet their needs.
This year is environmental impacts and better, more sustainable products.
the 10th anniversary of our 80 strong Accessible Customer Service We continue to make very good progress on reducing our impacts.
team who continue to provide specialised support to customers with Over the last year, we have reduced our carbon intensity by 33% disabilities.
against the baseline we set in 2008 09, and we are on track to meet Our data management practices are overseen by our Executive Data our new target of a 50% reduction by 2020, having reached our Governance Committee which reports, in turn, to the Audit previous target of a 25% reduction last year.
We take steps to make sure our customers personal emissions are stable at 100,045 tonnes.
information is kept confidential and secure, and is only used for clearly Our continued long-term investment in low-carbon and renewable communicated, authorised purposes.
Our new product Adsmart energy technologies on our sites in London and Scotland means we enables us to use our knowledge of our customers to deliver them are now sourcing 6% of our energy from our on-site wind turbine, more tailored and relevant advertising.
We make sure our customers Combined Cooling, Heat and Power plant and biomass boiler.
can opt-out if they prefer us not to use their data in this way.
We have further improved the environmental sustainability of our Our commitment to colleagues and the company products, measuring ourselves against a set of ambitious objectives Because our people are critical to our success, we want to create a and commitments, which we review and update each year.
Our new culture where they can do their best work and fulfil their potential.
Sky HD boxes now use less than 0.5W in passive standby and have Equally, everyone at Sky has a responsibility to the Company to an eco-mode function that automatically puts the box into this protect its assets and its reputation and to play their part in building passive state.
Over the year we have been working to make our new a successful and durable business.
We champion diversity in our products more energy efficient than previous models.
We use workforce and make sure our people are safe at work see pages 21 life-cycle assessment, such as the one we completed this year on our to 23.
18 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Business review Annual Report 2013: Directors report Business review new Sky Hub, our wireless router, to up skill the product designers in Our commitment to complying with the law and working with our business on how to reduce environmental impacts effectively.
regulators, government and media We take steps to ensure compliance with all laws and regulations that We are sharing what we have learned with non-government apply to our business and have well established functions across Sky organisations, other companies and policy makers, in order to drive to that end.
Because we want external stakeholders to understand positive change on low carbon energy technologies and renewable our business and our contribution, we engage in open and honest energy.
We also share our knowledge by working alongside our dialogue with regulators, government and media and we respond production companies to enable them to measure and reduce the promptly to their enquiries.
environmental impacts of film making.
We collaborate closely with our key product manufacturers on process efficiencies and with our Inspiring People to Take Action logistics suppliers, ensuring together we provide efficient and effective distribution, maintenance and end-of-life recycling for our As an entertainment and communications company with 11.2 million Sky products.
customers across Britain and Ireland, we have an opportunity to reach beyond our business and make an even greater positive impact i Our total CO e emissions 2 and a valuable contribution to a more sustainable society.
Key performance indicator Baseline 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 We choose to focus on four areas that were passionate about, where Total gross CO e emissions 2 ii iii tCO e 107,215 110,531 109,042 100,272 100,045 we believe Sky can make a difference and we can inspire people to 2 iv Total net CO e tCO e 35,860 44,198 35,070 24,866 26,564 2 2 take action.
These are improving lives through sport: championing Notes creativity and opening up the arts: helping young people to build skills i 2013 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be viewed online at sky.
for a changing world: and taking action to protect the environment.
com biggerpicture ii Historical data is recalculated each year in line with the latest Guidelines to Defra Using the power of sport to excite, inspire and change lives DECCs Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company Reporting and re-stated Sport is one of the central pillars of our content investment and we accordingly believe in its power to improve lives.
We bring our customers a wealth iii tCO e emissions including emissions from premises and company-owned vehicles 2 of sport on TV, and that investment over 15 billion over the last Scope 1 and 2 22 years helps to fund the sports we all love and get people iv Our net emissions take into account the renewable energy procured from a watching and playing.
But we want to do even more, so we also work renewable energy tariff with Scottish and Southern Energy Group.
Scottish and Southern retain on our behalf the Levy Exemption Certificates and Renewable with our partners off screen, using our reach and the power of the Sky Energy Guarantee of Origin REGOs.
In addition, we offset our total gross emissions Sports brand to inspire more people to get involved.
through the purchase of Voluntary Carbon Standard credits We do this through our grassroots-to-elite support for British cycling, i Our carbon intensity and three complementary Sky Sports initiatives, each supported by ii ii ii ii Key performance indicator Target Baseline 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 Sky Sports programming, marketing, talent ambassadors and staff.
Carbon intensity Sky Sports Living for Sport this national schools-based CO e m revenue 20.7 19.1 16.3 14.8 13.8 2 Change in total gross programme, run in partnership with the Youth Sport Trust, uses tonnes per million revenue sports stars and skills to help raise the aspirations and improve the i iii iv CO e m % -50 -8 -21 -29 -33 2 life skills of young people.
Now in its tenth year, over 1,500, or one Notes third of all schools across the UK, participated this academic year.
i 2011 12 and 2012 13 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be Over 30,000 students benefitted, with 96% of lead teachers viewed online at sky.
com biggerpicture: previous years data was independently reporting improvements in self-confidence and 90% reporting assured by ERM ii Performance relative to base year 2008 09 improvements in attitudes to learning amongst the students over iii Target is to halve our emissions tonnes relative to revenue m by 2020 the past academic year.
iv Historic data is recalculated each year in line with the latest Guidelines and Defra DECCs Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company Reporting and re-stated Raising aspirations and building life skills through Sky Sports i accordingly Living for Sport i Key performance indicator Target 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 Progress towards our on-site renewable energy target Number of schools taking Key performance indicator Target 2011 12 2012 13 ii iii part 1,500 269 376 866 1,517 Sky-owned sites to obtain 20% of their energy ii Notes requirement from owned or controlled renewables % 20 2 6 i 2011 12 and 2012 13 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be Notes viewed online at sky.
com biggerpicture i 2012 13 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be viewed online at ii Each year sky.
com biggerpicture iii In the 2012 13 year, as measured from 1 September 2012 to 1 June 2013 ii Measured against baseline data for 2008 09 Sky Sports Scholarships this mentoring and sponsorship programme supports some of Britain and Irelands most exciting emerging athletes, helping them to fulfil their potential on the international stage and prepare them for life in the spotlight.
We supported 11 scholars, many of whom went on to achieve international success at the World Championships, European British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 19 Annual Report 2013: Directors report Business review Review of our business continued Championships and London 2012.
We have now recruited the next knowledge.
In 2013, audiences have enjoyed experiencing the cohort of athletes in anticipation of similar success.
successful projects from the first artists we supported, such as Sky Sports ECB England and Wales Cricket Board Coach Opera Director Daisy Evans Silent Opera and Theatre Director Felix Education Programme this programme has played a key role in Mortimers The Trial.
This year, following on from the five we attracting and training cricket coaches in England and Wales, supported in 2012, we have chosen five more young artists from equipping them with the skills necessary to deliver high-quality disciplines such as creative production, composition and poetry.
coaching at all levels of the game, ensuring the success of the sport Engagement with Sky Arts activities on the ground at Sky Arts with a new generation of players.
Over 50,000 places have been i Ignition: The Source at Tate Liverpool taken up on courses since the scheme started in 2007.
Key performance indicator Target 2012 13 Cycling our ground-breaking partnership with British Cycling aims Number of visitors 42,000 49,543 to get more people on their bikes through the inspiration of elite Note success by Team GB and Team Sky, combined with our grassroots i 2012 13 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be viewed online at Sky Ride initiatives that make it easy to participate.
com biggerpicture of the partnership in 2008, our elite cyclists have achieved unprecedented success, with 41 Olympic and Paralympic Gold In addition, we broadcast Mariellas Book Show live in front of studio Medals and two British winners of the Tour fide France.
Last summer, audiences at the Cheltenham and Hay Literature festivals, as well as 146,100 people took part in the Sky Ride events we held across the championing moments of creativity amongst festival goers, offering country.
Sky Ride Local, our guided ride programme delivered locally free creative classes and inspiring performances in the Sky Arts Den.
throughout the UK, resulted in over 17,000 people participating.
In September last year, we met our target of over one million more Helping young people to build skills for a changing world people across the country cycling regularly, one year ahead of We know that future success, not just for Sky but also for society as a schedule.
whole, depends on equipping young people with the skills they need for a changing world.
Thats why training and development is a high i Improving lives through cycling priority right across our business from front line staff to future iii iii iii iii Key performance indicator Target 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 leaders.
But we want to go further, reaching beyond our employee Number of new people base to open up Sky to more young people, raising their aspirations ii cycling regularly by 2013 1 million 92,000 376,000 688,000 1.15 million and helping them learn valuable new skills.
Notes i 2011 12 and 2012 13 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be As well as running strong graduate and apprenticeship programmes, viewed online at sky.
com biggerpicture we do this through practical work experience opportunities and our ii Number of new people cycling on average once a month or 12 times a year as a result dedicated learning facility for schools on our campus in West London.
of Skys initiatives iii Cumulative year on year Sky Skills Studios opened in September 2012, this unique, free learning experience takes schools behind the scenes at Sky in our Championing creativity and opening up the arts state of the art broadcasting facility.
Linked to the curriculum, it Millions of people love the arts, but its not always easy to see helps students to build life skills by working with our latest favourite artists and performers.
We believe in opening up the arts to technology to make their own television report on subjects theyre more people.
Thats why Sky Arts broadcasts 48 hours of arts studying at school.
We set a target of welcoming over 12,000 young programmes a day, covering the whole range from classical arts to people in the first academic year, and we are on track, reaching rock concerts.
But we want to do more than just showcase the arts 9,500 by the end of June 2013. on screen, we want to do our bit to ensure great ideas reach their full potential by working with the artistic community to help create new Raising aspirations and building life skills through Sky Skills works of art today and develop new talent for tomorrow.
i Studios ii iii We do this through Sky Arts Ignition and Sky Arts Futures Fund: Key performance indicator Target 2012 13 Number of young people taking part 12,000 9,588 Sky Arts Ignition this series of partnerships with leading arts Notes organisations across Britain and Ireland aims to support the i 2012 13 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be viewed online at creation of innovative new works and events that might otherwise sky.
com biggerpicture never get off the ground.
In September 2012, we launched an award ii In the first year, from September 2012 to August 2013: the target will be 10,000 for winning first collaboration with Tate Liverpool and renowned the next academic year multimedia artist Doug Aitken to create Sky Arts Ignition: The iii Until 30 June 2013 Source, an outdoor installation exploring the roots of creativity which was visited by almost 50,000 people.
In June 2013, we worked Work experience, apprenticeships and graduate schemes read with the V&A to bring Sky Arts Ignition: Memory Palace to life, a more about these on pages 21 to 23. unique exhibition based on the power of memory.
We are investing Our local communities we are investing in long-term relationships in the thriving Irish arts landscape with our third project which will with local schools near our campuses in Hounslow, Scotland and launch in Ireland in the coming financial year.
Leeds to help build life skills.
Our network of Sky volunteers play an Sky Arts Futures Fund we are boosting the careers of five active role in our local communities, with 1,691 people volunteering emerging young artists a year by providing them with a 30,000 their time to help make a difference in 2013.
As well as all staff bursary together with support and mentoring from senior Sky staff having two paid days to volunteer each year, our employees can and arts industry experts to develop their commercial skills and make tax-free donations to any UK registered charity of their choice 20 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
