Board of Directors Background and Experience Rupert Dorey Keith Dorrian Giles Frost Claire Whittet John Whittle John Stares Chairman ex-Chairman Aged 51, resident in Aged 58 and a Aged 58, John is a Aged 62 and a Aged 53 and a Aged 67, a resident the United Kingdom, resident of resident of resident of Guernsey resident of of Guernsey, Keith Giles is a founder Guernsey, Claire has Guernsey.
John is a since 2001, John has Guernsey, Rupert has over 40 years of and director of over 35 years Chartered 40 years business has over 30 years of relevant professional Amber and has experience in the Accountant and experience.
experience in experience at worked in the banking industry.
holds the Institute of Before moving to financial markets, Executive Board infrastructure Since 2003 Claire has Directors Diploma in Guernsey John including 17 years at level in the banking, investments sector been a Director and, Company Direction.
worked for 23 years CSFB where he finance and fund for over 20 years.
more recently, John chairs the NED as a management specialised in credit management Giles qualified as a Managing Director sub-committee of consultant with related products.
solicitor and partner and Co-Head of the Guernsey Accenture where he in the law firm Wilde Rothschild Bank Investment Fund Ruperts expertise A former committee held a wide variety Sapte now International Ltd and Association.
was principally in member of the of leadership roles.
Director of the areas of debt Guernsey John was previously Rothschild Bank CI John is a Fellow of distribution, Investment Fund Giles is a director of Finance Director of Ltd. Claire was the Institute of origination and Association Keith is a Amber Close Fund Services, previously with Bank Chartered Accounts trading, where he member of the Infrastructure Group a large independent of Scotland and was in England and held a number of Institute of Financial Holdings Limited, fund administrator.
latterly Global Head Wales, a member of senior positions at Services, holds the the ultimate holding of Private Client Prior to moving to the Worshipful CSFB, including Fixed Institute of Directors company of the Credit at Bank of Guernsey, John was Company of income Credit Diploma in Company Investment Advisor Bermuda.
at Price Waterhouse Management product coordinator Direction and has to the Company and Claire is a member in London before Consultants and a for European offices been elected a various of its of the Chartered embarking on a Freeman of the City and head of UK Fellow of the subsidiaries.
Institute of Bankers career in business of London.
member of the predominantly Chartered Insurance Since 2005 Rupert telecoms.
Institute, a has been a NonChartered Banker, a Executive Director member of the for a number of Institute of Directors Hedge Funds, and holds the Private Equity & Institute of Directors Infrastructure Funds.
Diploma in Company Rupert is a member Direction.
of the Institute of Directors.
Date of Appointment 2 August 2006 2 August 2006 2 August 2006 10 September 2012 6 August 2009 28 August 2013 INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 53 Board of Directors continued Listed Company and Other Relevant Directorships Rupert Dorey Keith Dorrian Giles Frost Claire Whittet John Whittle John Stares Chairman ex-Chairman Guernsey Chamber Brevan Credit Giles is also a TwentyFour Select Starwood European JT Group Chairman of Commerce Catalyst Limited director of a number Monthly Income Real Estate Finance Jersey Electricity President of the Companys Fund Limited Limited Third Point Offshore subsidiary and Terra Firma M&G General Investors Limited Globalworth Real investment holding Guernsey-based Partner Inc, Episode Estate Investments entities and of other Eurocastle entities LLP & Episode Inc. Ltd entities in which the Investments Limited Company has an Governors of More Tetragon Financial India Capital Growth investment.
He House School Chair Group Ltd Fund Ltd and received no Ltd Tetragon Advance Frontier directors fees from New Philanthropy Financial Group Markets Fund Ltd such roles for the Capital Trustee Master Fund Ltd Company.
AP Alternative Assets LP, AAA Guernsey Ltd Partners Group Global Opportunities Ltd HarbourVest Senior Loans Europe Ltd CQS Diversified Fund Ltd Cinven Capital Management III, IV Ltd, V General Partner Ltd, Cinven Ltd. Committee Membership Chairman of the Chairman - Senior Independent Chairman - Risk Sub Board Management Director Committee Engagement Committee Member of Audit & Member of Audit & Member of Audit & Chairman of Audit Member of Audit & Risk Committee Risk Committee Risk Committee and Risk Committee Risk Committee Member of Member of Member of Member of Management Management Management Management Engagement Engagement Engagement Engagement Committee Committee Committee Committee INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 54
