We are a trusted and responsible provider of consumer credit working in partnership with our stakeholders.
The strong relationships that exist between our customers, agents and Development Managers distinguish us from most other credit providers and are key to good customer service, high retention and growth.
These trusted relationships form the core of our business and help us to provide credit in a responsible, ethical and transparent way.
Our values, good governance and approach to customer service enable us to manage the social, ethical and environmental aspects of our business to deliver a long-term, positive performance that bene ts all of our stakeholders.
Working in partnership with our customers with our people with our communities with our investors 9 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013... p i h s r e n t r a p n i g n i k r o W W Strategic Report.
I like the helpful approach of my agent who is devoted to her job and provides the financial support that I need sometimes.
Over time she eventually became my friend which was an unexpected bonus.
Lucie Seifertov Customer Czech Republic WITH OUR CUSTOMERS Our customers know they can contact us anytime and we are here for them.
We always check their ability to repay and we only lend them the amount they can comfortably manage to repay.
Jir Astalo Development Manager Czech Republic Typically, our customers choose home credit Having personal relationships with our customers, because they want to borrow relatively small sums we are well placed to listen to how we can best that can be repaid in regular, affordable amounts.
serve their credit needs and it is vital that we They like the convenience of our agent home evolve our products to keep pace with their service and the peace of mind this brings in that changing behaviours.
the amount owed does not go up if they miss a In 2013 we made good progress introducing new repayment or are late repaying their loan.
Longer-term, higher value loans have Engaging and retaining customers are key to been well received by our best customers and we growing the business.
Treating customers fairly and are rewarding well-established, loyal customers with delivering an excellent customer service enables discounted loans.
We began a pilot in Hungary us to reserve customers who have good payment offering home insurance and also introduced loans histories with higher value loans.
Around two-thirds speci cally for self-employed customers in Poland.
of our loans are granted to existing customers and Looking ahead, we plan to develop our product in 2013 customer retention improved for the third range to serve our current and future customers year running.
across more sales and service channels.
See page 22 Our strategy and key performance indicators 10 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013.. p i h s r e n t r a p n i g n i k r o W W Strategic Report Lucie Seifertov Customer Czech Republic Jir Astalo Development Manager Czech Republic 11 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Strategic Report Korina Sughey Carvajal Luciano Agent Mexico Diego Yair Martinez Grajeda Development Manager Mexico 12 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Strategic Report... p i h s r My weekly visit to my customers allows me to provide a tailored service.
Whether its advice on loan repayments or assessing their suitability for a new loan, I can help because I know their speci c needs.
Korina Sughey Carvajal Luciano Agent Mexico WITH OUR PEOPLE My job is to support my agents so they deliver the best possible service to their customers.
We have a thorough induction process but the support never ends we are one team and we work to support each other.
Diego Yair Martinez Grajeda Development Manager Mexico Our people strategy is focused on creating a culture Gender split 2013 Female Male of engagement, identifying and nurturing talent and Board members 1 6 empowering our people to be the best they can be.
Senior managers 70 180 Our 2013 engagement survey results show a very All other employees 6,230 4,203 positive picture with signi cant improvements made Includes agents in Hungary in encouraging development and understanding our mission and purpose.
During the year our Human rights and ethics Polish business was named Top Employer and We participate in the UN Global Compact UNGC, our Hungarian operation won the Gallup Great a strategic policy initiative for businesses that Workplace Award.
are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally-accepted principles in Diversity the areas of human rights, labour, the environment We provide equality of opportunity in all aspects of and anti-corruption.
Our values and sustainability employment, recruitment and progression in all our principles re ect the UNGC and are derived from markets regardless of gender, race, age, religion or The Universal Declaration on Human Rights, The disability.
We do not have a formal gender diversity International Labour Organisations Declaration on policy because we believe recruitment should be Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, The Rio based upon merit and the ability to deliver value to Declaration on Environment and Development and the business and our shareholders.
We work hard The United Nations Convention Against Corruption.
to ensure that there are no gender barriers to recruitment or promotion.
Our business in Poland We aim to strengthen our ethical standards so all has signed the Diversity Charter in collaboration with employees and agents have a clear understanding the Responsible Business Forum and The Mexican of how we should behave as an organisation and as National Institute of Women certi ed Provident individuals.
In 2013, we piloted an ethical standards Mexico for its Gender Equity Model, which e-learning and testing programme and it is being implements best diversity practices and promotes rolled out in all our markets during 2014. gender equality in the workplace.
See page 50 Boardroom diversity 13 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 e n t r a p n i g n i k r o W Strategic Report Im responsible for our corporate responsibility programme and am proud that we have been recognised as one of the most generous community partners in the Czech Republic.
Barbora Pletichov CSR Specialist Czech Republic WITH OUR COMMUNITIES People who have completed the financial education course, which is generously supported by Provident, often say they have a better understanding of how to manage their nances and that they feel more in control.
Zuzana Kortusov Project Manager of Financial Education Czech Republic The sustainability of our business is linked directly In 2013, our carbon emissions increased by 14.6% to the communities in which our customers and because of our decision to include Hungarian agents live and work.
Our community activities agents in our calculations for the first time.
focus on providing genuine, local support for things These particular agents are employees and the key that matter to our customers.
We select partners impact relates to car travel emissions generated who share our values and with whom we can when visiting customers.
Each market has a provide long-term bene ts for our communities.
Sustainability Steering Committee to ensure we are integrating sustainability across all functions The total value of our community investment and engaging our senior teams in environmental contribution across the Group reduced to programs.
We aim to minimise our carbon footprint 0.8 million in 2013.
However, the number of through a range of initiatives including annual audits volunteering hours donated by 5,900 of our against the ISO 14001 Environmental Management employees and agents to a variety of community Standard and recycling.
In 2013 we introduced video activities increased by 19% to 21,500 hours.
We also conferencing, smart printing and tablet technology undertook a major programme of customer research for Development Managers in Poland and Hungary which highlighted that our support of financial which have improved ef ciency and helped education is appreciated.
This research will guide reduce business ight and rail travel by 10% and our future sustainability programmes, which will be 27% respectively.
aimed at supporting families and young people.
See page 59 Carbon reporting 14 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013... p i h s r e n t r a p n i g n i k r o W W W Strategic Report Barbora Pletichov CSR Specialist Czech Republic Zuzana Kortusov Project Manager of Financial Education Czech Republic 15 Int International P ernation ersonal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Strategic Report Justin Lockwood Group Head of Finance UK David Broadbent Chief Commercial Of cer UK 16 Int International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Strategic Report... p i Regular dialogue with our investors to communicate a clear picture of our performance and prospects is really important for a dynamic business like ours.
Justin Lockwood Group Head of Finance UK WITH OUR INVESTORS Were very focused on building on our track record of pro table growth through expanding our footprint, introducing new products and channels for our customers, and continuously improving our core business operations.
David Broadbent Chief Commercial Of cer UK IPF represents a robust investment proposition.
We are expanding our operations, making ef ciency We have a strong track record of pro t growth improvements and introducing new products to and generate healthy margins and returns.
deliver faster growth and pro tability.
Our engaged Our business model is long-established, resilient workforce and management teams have good and cash generative.
Its strength comes from the experience of home credit combined with wider personal relationships our agents have with their financial services expertise.
customers which give us valuable insight into We have a strong financial pro le with high equity their credit needs.
This face-to-face contact is support for receivables, low gearing and prudent supported by effective risk management systems provisioning.
We are committed to improving capital and high standards of corporate governance to ef ciency, which is demonstrated by the increase in ensure compliance with our risk appetite and our dividend to shareholders and the 60 million regulatory requirements.
share buyback programme completed in 2013.
We communicate regularly with our investor We also made good progress in delivering our community to help them understand how we serve debt funding strategy.
our customers, explain our ongoing performance We are focused on serving our customers well and and underline the signi cant pro table growth growing a business which consistently delivers prospects we see for our business.
returns to our existing and prospective investors.
Our strategy to accelerate growth and increase See page 33 Financial review shareholder value is embedded in the business.
17 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 h s r e n t r a p n i g n i k r o W W
