governance board of directors and company secretary Gerald Corbett Simon Litherland John Gibney Bob Ivell Chairman of the board and Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Chairman of the Nomination Non-Executive Director Committee and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Background and experience Over a long business career, Simon Litherland joined Britvic in John Gibney joined Britvic as During the 1980s, Bob Ivell Gerald has been a director of 12 September 2011 to perform the Finance Director in 1999.
His was the Managing Director of public companies, five of which newly created role of Managing responsibilities include Finance, Beefeater and was also on the he has chaired.
His most recent Director, Britvic GB, bringing with Legal, Estates, Risk Management board of Scottish & Newcastle role was as Chairman of SSL him valuable experience he and Procurement.
He is also plc as Chairman of the Retail International plc between obtained from Diageo, where he Chairman of Counterpoint, the Division between 1999 and 2005-2010.
His executive career was the Managing Director of Britvic licenced wholesale 2004.
He was the Executive included Group Finance Director the GB business.
Prior to this, business for Ireland.
Prior to Chairman of Regent Inns PLC roles with Redland plc and Simon was the Managing Director joining Britvic, John was Senior between 2004 and 2008.
Grand Metropolitan plc, and he in South Africa which led to his Corporate Finance & Planning was Chief Executive of Railtrack appointment as Managing Manager for Bass PLC, and prior between 1997-2000.
Director of Brandhouse, a joint to that he was Finance Director venture involving Diageo, and subsequently Deputy Heineken and Namibia Breweries.
Managing Director of Gala Clubs.
Date of appointment Gerald was appointed to the Simon was appointed to the John was appointed to the Bob was appointed to the board as Non-Executive board as Chief Executive board as Chief Financial Officer board as a Non-Executive Chairman in November 2005.
Officer in February 2013. in November 2005.
External appointments Gerald is Chairman of Betfair Simon is a Director of The None.
Bob is Chairman of David Lloyd Group plc, Moneysupermarket.
Leisure and Executive Chairman com Group plc and Towry of Mitchells and Butlers plc.
Holdings Limited and a Non-Executive Director of Numis Corporation Plc.
Committee membership Gerald is Chairman of As Chief Executive Officer, As Chief Financial Officer, Bob is Chairman of the Nomination Committee and is a Simon regularly attends Audit John regularly attends Audit Remuneration Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee, Remuneration Committee meetings by is a member of the Audit and Committee.
He also attends Nomination Committees.
Committee meetings by Remuneration Committee invitation.
He is Chairman meetings for certain items of the Executive Team.
26 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 go governance vernance ove over rv viiew ew business re business revie view w financial st financial statements atements shareholder inf shareholder information ormation governance corporate governance report corporate governance report continued Joanne Averiss Michael Shallow Ben Gordon Clare Thomas Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Company Secretary Director and Chairman of the Director and General Counsel Audit Committee Background and Experience Joanne Averiss has been a Michael was a Non-Executive Ben Gordon was the Chief Clare Thomas initially joined the member of the Pepsi Group Director of Spice plc from 2006 Executive of Mothercare plc group as interim Company legal department since 1990, until its acquisition by Cinven in and former Senior Vice Secretary and General Counsel holding a series of positions in December 2010.
He was the President and Managing in September 2012, a position the UK and the US and is Finance Director of Greene King Director of Disney Store, which she took up permanently currently Senior Vice President plc from 1991 to 2005 and, prior Europe and Asia Pacific.
Clare has a Law, General Counsel, Europe to that, he was an associate also held senior management corporate and commercial legal with legal responsibility for all partner with Accenture.
positions with WHSmith group background and prior to joining of the Pepsi Groups business in the UK and the USA and Britvic was a Partner at law within its Europe sector.
LOreal S. A. in France and in the firm Addleshaw Goddard LLP.
UK and has an MBA from INSEAD.
Date of appointment Joanne was appointed to the Michael was appointed to the Ben was appointed to the board Clare was appointed Company board as a Non-Executive board as a Non-Executive as a Non-Executive Director in Secretary in September 2012.
Director in November 2005 and Director in November 2005.
April 2008. is the Pepsi Group Nominee Director.
External appointments Joanne is a Trustee and Chair of Michael is a Non-Executive Ben is a Non-Executive Director Not applicable.
Director of Dominos Pizza of St. Ives plc.
Michael is Chairman of the Ben is a member of the Audit In addition to her attendance Audit Committee and is a Committee, Nomination at board meetings, Clare member of the Nomination Committee and Remuneration attends the meetings of the Committee and the Committee.
Audit Committee, Nomination Remuneration Committee.
Clare also attends meetings of the Executive Team.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 27 corporate governance report continued Compliance with the UK corporate governance code The board The board supports the principles laid down in The UK Corporate The board of directors currently has seven members, comprising Governance Code as issued by the Financial Reporting Council in the Non-Executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief September 2012, which applies to financial years beginning on or Financial Officer, three independent Non-Executive Directors and after 1 October 2012 the Code and is available at www.
uk the PepsiCo nominated Non-Executive Director.
At all times there This report describes how the principles of the Code are applied has been a majority of non-executive independent directors on the and reports on the companys compliance with the Codes provisions.
board, in compliance with the Code.
The board considers that it has been in compliance with the The directors provisions of the Code throughout the 52 weeks ended The biographical details of the board members are set out on 29 September 2013. pages 26 and 27.
All of the directors bring strong judgement to the boards deliberations.
They have all occupied, or occupy, senior 2013 Board programme positions in UK and or non-UK listed companies and have The board met ten times during the year in accordance with its substantial experience in business.
Other than their fees, which are scheduled meeting calendar and an additional four times in disclosed on page 51, the Non-Executive Directors received no connection with the merger with AG Barr plc.
The attendance remuneration from the company during the year.
They also do not by each board member at scheduled meetings is shown on page 32. participate in any of the groups pension schemes or in any of the The board agenda included standing items as well as deep dive groups bonus, share option or other incentive schemes.
reviews of key issues for the business, including the major projects the company initiated to implement the strategic initiatives and the Re-election of directors companys international franchise model as set out in the Chief The companys articles of association provide that all directors will Executive Officers Review on page 9.
The board also attended an stand for re-election at least every three years but in order to off-site two day strategy meeting with members of the Executive comply with the Code, all of the directors submit themselves for Team during the financial year.
re-election at each annual general meeting AGM.
Governance framework Shareholders 2,648 shareholders as at 29 September 2013 Board Non-Executive Chairman, 2 Executive Directors and 4 Non-Executive Directors Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Non-Executive Chairman, 3 Non-Executive Directors 3 Non-Executive Directors 3 Non-Executive Directors Provides oversight and governance over Agrees remuneration policy and sets Primary responsibility for succession the groups annual reporting, internal individual compensation levels for planning, board director selection and controls, risk management and directors and senior management board composition relationship with external auditors Committee Report pages 36 to 54 Committee Report page 35 Committee Report pages 33 and 34 Executive Management Level Committees Executive Sustainable Health & Treasury Pensions Share Architecture Incident Team Business Safety Committee Committee Allotment Group Management Committee Committee Committee Committee Meets as and when required 28 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 governance overview business review financial statements shareholder information corporate governance report continued The role of the board The role of the chairman and chief executive officer The board is responsible for the long term success of the company, The Chairman is primarily responsible for the workings of the corporate governance, strategy, risk management and financial board: to ensure that its strategic and supervisory role is achieved performance.
The board normally meets ten times each financial and for ensuring effective communication with our shareholders.
year and has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for The Chairman works closely with the Chief Executive Officer to decision making, including responsibility for the overall management ensure that the strategies and actions agreed by the board are and performance of the group and the approval of its long term implemented and provides support and appropriate advice to the objectives and commercial strategy, approval of annual and interim Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible results, annual budgets, material acquisitions and disposals, for the day to day management of the business, developing the material agreements and major capital commitments, approval of groups strategic direction for consideration and approval by the treasury policies, and assessment of its going concern position.
board and implementing agreed strategy.
He is supported by the Board members are given appropriate documentation in advance other members of the Executive Team.
of each board or committee meeting.
This includes a detailed The different roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are report on current trading and comprehensive briefing papers on acknowledged.
A responsibility statement for each of those roles matters where the board will be required to reach a decision.
has been agreed with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Senior executives below board level attend board meetings where respectively, and adopted by the board.
appropriate to present business updates.
During the year the Chairman met with the Non-Executive There is an established procedure for the preparation and review Directors without the Executive Directors present and the by the board, at least annually, of medium-term plans and the Non-Executive Directors met without the Chairman present, to annual budget.
The business reports monthly on its performance evaluate his performance.
The board receives a monthly update on performance and reviews any significant variances at each of Executive team its meetings.
Major investment decisions are usually subject to The board has delegated appropriate responsibilities to the post-completion reviews.
At least one of the boards regular Executive Team which comprises in addition to the two Executive meetings every year is devoted to reviewing and agreeing the Directors, the International Managing Director, the HR, IT & companys long-term strategy.
Change Director, the GB General Manager, the Managing Director, Britvic France, and the Commercial Director, Britvic Ireland.
The Board committees Executive Team meets 12 times a year and is responsible for the The board is assisted by three board committees as shown in day-to-day running of the business, carrying out agreed strategy the above governance framework diagram to which it delegates and implementing specific board decisions relating to the operation specific responsibilities.
Each committee has full terms of reference of the group.
that have been approved by the board and which can be found on our website at britvic.
aspx In addition to the Executive Team, there are a number of committees which meet to consider various issues involved in the Company secretary day-to-day management of Britvic and matters for recommendation The Company Secretary maintains a record of attendance at board to the board and its committees.
Details of these committees are set out within the governance framework diagram above.
meetings and committee meetings, further details of which are set out on page 32.
The Company Secretarys other responsibilities Senior independent director include ensuring good information flows to the board and its committees and between senior management and the NonThe Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they Executive Directors, advising the board on all legal and corporate have concerns which are not resolved through the normal channels governance matters and assisting the directors with their of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer: or professional development.
for which such contact is inappropriate.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 29 corporate governance report continued Tenure of Non-Executive Directors The table below shows the tenure and independence of each of our Non-Executive Directors since the date of their first election by The Code provides that the length of tenure is a factor to consider shareholders.
when determining the independence of Non-Executive Directors.
Date first elected Years from first Considered to be by shareholders election to 2014 AGM independent by the board Gerald Corbett January 2007 7 Note 1 Joanne Averiss January 2007 7 Note 2 Ben Gordon January 2009 5 Yes 2 Bob Ivell January 2007 7 Yes 2 Michael Shallow January 2007 7 Yes 2 Notes: 1.
T he company considers that, on appointment, the Chairman was independent for the purposes of provision A.
W ith the exception of the PepsiCo nominated Non-Executive Director, Joanne Averiss, the Non-Executive Directors are all independent of management and free from any business or other relationship, including those relationships and circumstances referred to in provision B.
1.1 of the Code that could materially interfere with the exercise of independent and objective judgement.
In addition to her fiduciary obligations to act in the best interests of the company, Joanne Averiss is required under her letter of appointment to discharge her duties in the interests of the company notwithstanding her connection with PepsiCo.
Service contracts and letters of appointment Independent advice Details of the Executive Directors service contracts and the The board has approved a procedure for directors to take Chairmans and the Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment independent professional advice at the companys expense if are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 48. necessary.
No such advice was sought by any director during the These documents are available for inspection at the registered year.
In addition, the directors have direct access to the advice and office of the company during normal business hours and at the services of the Company Secretary.
place of the AGM from at least 15 minutes before and until the end Board performance evaluation of the meeting.
Each year the performance of the board, its committees and Conflicts of interest directors is evaluated.
As required by the Code, every third year The companys articles of association allow the board to authorise the evaluation should be conducted by an external adviser.
This potential conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose limits or year the evaluation was conducted by Ffion Hague of Independent conditions, as appropriate.
Any decision of the board to authorise a Board Evaluation.
Ms Hague is an independent advisor and has no conflict of interest, whether matter-specific or situational, is only other connection with the company.
effective if it is agreed without the participation of the conflicted The evaluation process began with the evaluation team being given director s, and in making such a decision, as always, the directors a comprehensive brief by the Chairman and the Company must act in a way they consider in good faith will be most likely to Secretary.
The evaluation team observed a main board meeting promote the success of the company.
The company has established and a Remuneration Committee meeting and was provided with a procedure whereby actual or potential conflicts of interest are support materials by the company for briefing purposes.
Detailed reviewed annually and for the appropriate authorisation to be sought interviews were then conducted with the Chairman, each board prior to the appointment of any new director or if a new conflict member, the Company Secretary, senior management who arises.
No conflicts of interest have been identified during the year.
frequently interact with the board or its committees, and an external adviser.
All views and comments contained within the Education and development board evaluation report were made by the participants during The Company Secretary is responsible for preparing and cointerviews and all recommendations were based on best practice ordinating an induction programme for newly appointed directors, as described in the Code and other current corporate governance including presentations from senior management on different guidelines.
aspects of the business, as well as guidance on their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a director of a listed company.
Draft conclusions were discussed with the Chairman and subsequently with the whole board at its subsequent board Business familiarisation involves directors visiting sites in the UK, Ireland and France.
The Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to meeting, at which Ffion Hague was present.
The conclusions of that discussion were recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
The visit group manufacturing sites to enable them to gain a greater understanding of the groups activities and to meet senior evaluation team also gave feedback to the board committee chairmen on the performance of each committee.
Bob Ivell, as managers throughout the business.
Every director has access to appropriate training as required subsequent to his appointment and Senior Independent Director, received the report on the Chairman and the Chairman received the report on the individual board is encouraged to develop his understanding of the company.
The board and committees considered the reports of their effectiveness at their respective meetings.
30 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 governance overview business review financial statements shareholder information corporate governance report continued The report produced by Independent Board Evaluation indicated Internal control that the board is working well and that there are no significant The board has overall responsibility for the groups system of concerns among the directors about its effectiveness.
In particular internal control and risk management and for reviewing its the report noted that the board had been truly tested during the effectiveness.
In discharging that responsibility, the board confirms year as a consequence of the Fruit Shoot recall and the merger that it has established the procedures necessary to apply the negotiations.
The report also highlighted the importance of Code, including clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility succession planning and the board is conscious that changes will and delegated authority.
These procedures have been in place be needed to its composition in the future and to support the new since the company listed and are regularly reviewed by the board.
Business performance is managed closely and the board and the In light of the review by Independent Board Evaluation, the board Executive Team have established processes, as part of the normal considers the performance of each director to be effective and has good management of the business, to monitor: concluded that the board and its committees provide the Strategic plan achievement, through a regular review of progress leadership and control required.
towards strategic objectives: As a result of recommendations made in this years board Financial performance, within a comprehensive financial planning performance evaluation, the board has agreed: and accounting framework, including budgeting and forecasting, To increase focus on non-executive succession planning and also financial reporting, analysing variances against plan and taking executive talent management: appropriate management action: To revisit the board skills matrix and to match candidate Capital investment and asset management performance, with specifications to the new strategy: detailed appraisal, authorisation and post investment reviews: and To agree specific board roles and to ensure development plans and a detailed induction process for new directors are put in place: Principal risks and risk management processes, which accords with the Turnbull guidance published by the FRC in October 2005 To create more opportunities for the Non-Executive Directors, and is supported by reports from the Head of Internal Audit and who have a long standing relationship with the senior Risk that the significant risks faced by the group are being management, to interact more frequently with senior identified, evaluated and appropriately managed, having regard to management outside of board meetings: the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
The board has To create more opportunities for the board to discuss significant delegated the management of risk to the Executive Team, risks at board meetings, particularly in relation to the operational chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, which reviews the risk side of the business: and register on a quarterly basis, and reports to the Audit Committee.
To improve the content and timeliness of circulating board papers Management, with the assistance of the finance function, is in advance of board and committee meetings.
responsible for the appropriate maintenance of financial records The board will continue to review its procedures, effectiveness and and processes that ensure all financial information is relevant, development in the financial year ahead, particularly in relation to reliable, in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations, succession planning and in considering afresh the balance of skills and distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
A and expertise needed by the board to support the companys new review of the consolidation and financial statements is completed strategy, giving due consideration to all aspects of diversity, by management to ensure that the financial position and results of including gender.
Further information in these areas can be found the group are appropriately recorded, circulated to members of the in the Nomination Committee Report on page 35. board and published where appropriate.
All financial information published by the group is subject to the approval of the board, on Indemnification of directors the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
In addition to the indemnity granted by the company to directors in respect of their liabilities incurred as a result of their office in Risk management process accordance with our articles of association, we maintain a directors Britvic operates a robust risk management process that has been and officers liability insurance policy throughout the year.
Neither further strengthened over recent years.
Further details can be our indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the event that a found within the Risks and Uncertainties section on page 19. director has proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Through its monitoring processes, the board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it must be recognised that it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that context, the review, in the opinion of the board, did not indicate that the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory and the board is not aware of any change to this status up to the date of approval of this report.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 31 corporate governance report continued Attendance at scheduled meetings of the board and its committees The attendance of directors at board and committee meetings during the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2013 was as follows: Nomination Remuneration 1 1 Board Committee Committee Audit Committee Gerald Corbett 10 2 3 1 2 Simon Litherland 7 - 2 1 3 Paul Moody 4 - 1 1 Joanne Averiss 10 - - - John Gibney 10 - 2 2 Bob Ivell 10 2 3 2 Michael Shallow 9 2 3 2 Ben Gordon 10 2 3 2 Total number of meetings 10 2 3 2 Notes: 1.
Commit tee meetings scheduled to take place in September 2013 were moved to October 2013.
Meetings at tended by Simon Litherland subsequent to his appointment on 13 February 2013.
Meetings at tended by Paul Moody up until his retirement on 26 February 2013.
The board scheduled ten meetings during the year and additional Private investors meetings were convened to deal with specific matters which We are keen to hear the views of our private shareholders and we required the boards attention between scheduled meetings.
encourage them to use our shareholder mailbox investors@britvic.
Excluding ad hoc conference calls and committee meetings to co. uk for detailed enquiries and to access our website for our approve the financial results, in total, the board met 14 times, company reports and business information.
The website also including attendance at a dedicated two day strategy meeting with provides direct access to Shareview www.
co. uk which the Executive Team.
enables shareholders to manage their shareholding account online.
Specific enquiries to the Company Secretary may be sent to the Shareholder engagement Secretariat mailbox company.
co. uk or sent to Investor Relations the registered office.
The board is committed to maintaining good communications with At the AGM, the Chief Executive Officer gives a regular update on shareholders.
Senior executives, including the Chairman, Chief the positioning and outlook for the business.
Shareholders are Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have regular dialogue invited to ask questions formally during the meeting and to follow with individual institutional shareholders in order to develop an up these discussions with directors on a one to one basis understanding of their views which is then discussed with the afterwards.
The chairmen of the board committees and the Senior board.
All directors are offered the opportunity to meet with major Independent Director are present and available to respond to shareholders to listen to their views and, in addition to a monthly questions at the AGM.
report prepared by the Chief Financial Officer, receive regular We look forward to welcoming all our shareholders to our 2014 reports prepared by an independent capital markets advisory firm which provides comprehensive information relating to the AGM in January and to updating them on our business developments.
Presentations are made to analysts, investors and prospective investors covering the annual and interim results and the company seeks to maintain a dialogue with the various bodies which monitor the companys governance policies and procedures.
The Business Review set out on pages 6 to 21 details the financial performance of the company as well as setting out the risks it faces.
