business review overview governance financial statements shareholder information business review business resources The main resources the group uses to achieve its results are: A strong customer base.
For example, in the GB take-home market, Britvics customers include the Big 4 supermarkets An extensive portfolio of stills and carbonates brands, including Tesco, J Sainsburys, Asda and Wm Morrisons together with a Robinsons, Pepsi, 7UP, Tango, J O and Fruit Shoot.
The breadth 2 number of other important grocery retailers.
The group has and depth of Britvics portfolio enables it to target consumer significant supply arrangements with a number of key players in demand across a wide range of consumption occasions, in all the the GB pubs and clubs sector and leisure and catering channels.
major soft drinks categories and across all relevant routes to Through Britvic International, the group has built on the success market.
Britvic Ireland owns a number of leading brands in the of the Robinsons and Fruit Shoot brands by introducing these Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, including Club, products into markets outside GB.
Ballygowan and MiWadi as well as the rights to the Pepsi, 7UP and Mountain Dew brands.
In France the portfolio includes the Britvic also has a well-invested and flexible group production leading syrup brand Teisseire as well as Moulin fide Valdonne, capability and distribution network that enables its soft drinks to Pressade and Fruit Shoot.
be made available to consumers across all of its operating territories.
A successful long-standing relationship with PepsiCo that resulted in the exclusive bottling agreement EBA being renewed in GB in 2003 for a further 15 years, with an extension to 2023 on admission to the London Stock Exchange.
The EBA for Ireland lasts until 2015.
This relationship gives Britvic the exclusive right to distribute the Pepsi and 7UP brands in GB and Ireland, access to all new carbonated drinks developed by PepsiCo for distribution in GB and Ireland and, to support the development of its carbonates offering, access to PepsiCos consumer insight, marketing best practice, brand and product development expertise and technological know-how.
Britvic has added to its portfolio with Mountain Dew Energy in GB and Ireland and has also been appointed in recent years as the exclusive GB bottler of Gatorade, Lipton Ice Tea and SoBe.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 17 18 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
