governance directors report for the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2013 The directors present their report and the audited consolidated Articles of association Articles financial statements of the company and the group for the 52 The companys articles may only be amended by a special weeks ended 29 September 2013. resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No amendments to the articles are being proposed at the AGM.
In support of the new requirements introduced by The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 Directors which became effective on 1 October, 2013, the directors have The following were directors of the company during the 52 weeks voluntarily included disclosures in this annual report in relation to ended 29 September 2013: Gerald Corbett, Simon Litherland gender and human rights which may be found in the Chief appointed 13 February 2013, Paul Moody resigned on 26 Executive Officers Strategic Review on page 9 and on the February 2013, Joanne Averiss, John Gibney, Ben Gordon, companys greenhouse gas GHG emissions which are set out on Bob Ivell and Michael Shallow.
page 57 of this Directors Report.
Subject to company law and the companys articles, the directors Certain information required for disclosure in this report is provided may exercise all of the powers of the company and may delegate in other appropriate sections of the annual report.
These include their power and discretion to committees.
The Executive Team is the Business Review, the Corporate Governance, Audit Committee, responsible for the day-to-day management of the group.
Nomination Committee and Directors Remuneration Reports and the Group Financial Statements, and these are, accordingly, The articles give the directors power to appoint and replace incorporated into this report by reference.
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Principal activities Nomination Committee for approval by the board.
The articles also The group trades principally as a manufacturer and distributor of require directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the soft drinks.
first annual general meeting following appointment and to retire at the AGM held in the third calendar year after election or last Business review re-election, but to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code A detailed review of the groups business is contained within the all of the directors will submit themselves for re-election at the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executive Officers Strategic AGM.
The biographical details of the directors are set out on pages Review and the Chief Financial Officers Review on pages 8 to 21.
The information contained in those sections fulfils the requirements of the Business Review, as required by Section 417 of the Companies Directors interests Act 2006 and should be treated as forming part of this report.
The directors interests in ordinary shares of the company are shown within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 36 to Results and dividends 54.
No director has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of The groups profit for the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2013 any group company.
before taxation attributable to the equity shareholders amounted to Other than Joanne Averiss, who is a director of a number of 82.6 million 2012: 77.5 million and the profit after taxation PepsiCos subsidiaries, no director was or is materially interested amounted to 61.9 million 2012: 57.4 million.
in any contract other than his service contract, subsisting during or An interim dividend of 5.4p 2012: 5.3p per ordinary share was existing at the end of the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2013 paid on 12 July 2013. which was significant in relation to the groups business.
Further details of Joanne Averiss appointment are set out on pages 27 The directors have proposed a final dividend of 13.0p 2012: 12.4p and 30 in the Corporate Governance Report.
per ordinary share payable on 7 February 2014 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 4 December 2013, giving a Directors liabilities total dividend in respect of 2013 of 18.4p 2012: 17.7p.
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which Annual general meeting AGM the company has agreed, to the extent permitted by law and the companys articles, to indemnify: The companys AGM will be held at Nomura, One Angel Lane, London EC4R 3AB at 11.00a.
Details of the resolutions The directors, in respect of all losses arising out of, or in to be proposed at the AGM are set out in the separate circular which connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and has been sent to all shareholders with this annual report.
responsibilities as directors of the company or any of its subsidiaries: and Directors of companies which are corporate trustees of the groups pension schemes against liability incurred in connection with those companies activities as trustees of such schemes.
56 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 governance overview business review financial statements shareholder information directors report continued Directors remuneration Greenhouse gas GHG emissions The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the board, has adopted The table below sets out the quantities of GHG emissions in a policy that aims to attract and retain the directors needed to run tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e for the 52 weeks ended 2 the group effectively.
This is contained within the Directors 29 September 2013.
The directors are making this disclosure for Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 54. the first time, ahead of the new requirements for companies to disclose their GHG emissions in periods ending on or after 30 Employee involvement September 2013.
The group uses a number of ways to engage employees on matters We have reported on all of the emission sources required under that impact them and the performance of the group.
These include the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports road shows at key sites by members of the Executive Team, regular Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated team meetings, the publication of a bi-monthly internal newsletter, financial statement.
We do not have responsibility for any emission Britvic Life, together with the b. link intranet site providing sources that are not included in our consolidated statement.
easy access to the latest company information as well as company Emissions outside of our responsibility, including shared office policies and vacancies.
The company organises quarterly formal locations, have been omitted from our disclosure.
We have used business performance updates for employees, which are cascaded the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard by line managers.
An Employee Involvement Forum was established revised edition and emission factors from UK Governments GHG in 2004 through which nominated representatives ensure that Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014. employees views are taken into account regarding issues that are likely to affect them.
In addition, where the group has entered into 2012-2013 Tonnes CO e 2 a recognition agreement with a trade union, it fulfils its obligations to consult and negotiate accordingly.
The group approaches these Total CO e emissions 68,036 2 relationships from a partnership perspective.
A robust employee Emissions from: opinion survey process is also in place to ensure that employees are given a voice in the organisation and that the group can take Combustion of fuel & operation of 23,418 action based on employee feedback.
This covers a variety of topics facilities including leadership & line management, employee wellbeing, Electricity, heat, steam and cooling 44,617 career development, training, communications and corporate purchased for our own use responsibility commitments.
Intensity measure: All eligible employees are able to participate in the Britvic Share Incentive Plan which gives them the opportunity to purchase Emissions reported above normalised 0.03357 Tonnes CO e 2 to per tonne of product output Tonnage produced ordinary shares in the company using money deducted from their pre-tax salary, and to receive matching shares from the company, Notes: up to a maximum of 50 per four week pay period.
Emissions relate to those generated b y our manufacturing, office and distribution sites in GB, Ireland and France.
T ransport emissions, which are considered to be Scope 3, have not been The group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all included because our distribution network is sub-contracted to a third party.
employees without discrimination and applies fair and equitable 3.
Emissions outside of our responsibilit y and under the control of a third party have also been excluded.
employment policies which ensure entry into and progression within the group.
Appointments are determined solely by Supplier payment policy application of job criteria and competency.
It is the groups policy to agree terms and conditions for its Disabled persons business transactions with all suppliers.
Payment is made in accordance with these terms provided the supplier meets its Disabled persons, whether registered or not, are accorded equal obligations.
The average number of days of payments outstanding opportunities when applying for vacancies, with due regard to their for the group at 29 September 2013 was 46 2012: 51. aptitudes and abilities.
In addition to complying with legislative requirements, procedures ensure that disabled employees are Charitable and political donations fairly treated in respect of training and career development.
For During the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2013, the group and its those employees who become disabled during the course of their subsidiaries donated 0.7 million for charitable purposes 2012: employment, the group is supportive, whether through retraining 1.6 million.
This included cash and product donations directly to or redeployment, so as to provide an opportunity for them to charitable organisations and other investment in support of remain with the group, wherever reasonably practicable.
community programmes including employee volunteering.
In the opinion of the directors, all employee policies are deemed to No political donations were made by the group and its subsidiaries be effective and in accordance with their intended aims.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 57 directors report continued Major shareholders Change of control provisions At 25 November 2013 the company has been notified, pursuant to There are no agreements between the company and its directors DTR5 of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or Transparency Rules, of the following notifiable voting rights in its employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy ordinary share capital: or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The companys banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of Number of Percentage the company.
Certain other indebtedness becomes repayable if a ordinary of voting Nature change of control leads to a downgrade in the credit rating of the shares rights of holding company.
The companys agreements with PepsiCo are terminable Standard Life Investments Ltd 20,073,633 8.24% Direct upon a change of control, details of which are included on page 20.
Indirect Financial risk management Prudential plc 12,324,136 5.07% Direct It is the groups objective to manage its financial risk so as to PepsiCo, Inc. 11,813,032 4.88% Direct minimise the adverse fluctuations in the financial markets on the TIAA-CREF Investment groups reported profitability and cash flows.
The policies for Management, LLC 7,415,047 3.03% Direct managing each of the groups main financial risk areas are referred to in the Treasury Management section of the Chief Financial Officers Review on page 16 and in more detail within Note 24 of Share capital the consolidated financial statements.
As at 29 September 2013, the companys issued share capital comprised a single class of shares divided into ordinary shares of Research and development 0.20 each referred to as ordinary shares.
Full details of the The group carries out research and development necessary to support ordinary shares in issue are given in note 20 to the financial its principal activities as a manufacturer and distributor of soft drinks.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information Rights and restrictions attaching to shares to auditors On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company every So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit holder of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote information as defined by the Companies Act 2006 of which the shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all steps that ought or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every to be taken by a director to make himself aware of and to establish ordinary share held.
Any notice of general meeting issued by the that the auditors are aware of any relevant audit information.
company will specify deadlines for exercising voting rights and in appointing a proxy of proxies in relation to resolutions to be passed A copy of the financial statements is placed on the companys website.
All proxy votes are counted and the The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are directors.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration announced at the general meeting and published on the companys of these matters and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility website after the meeting.
for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the company other than: Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws other jurisdictions.
and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority Going concern whereby certain employees of the company require the approval In presenting the financial statements on a going concern basis, the of the company to deal in its ordinary shares.
directors have considered both the business activities and principal The company is not aware of any agreements between risks and uncertainties as set out in the Business Overview and shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Business Review on pages 1 to 21.
In addition, the directors have securities and or voting rights.
considered the following factors: the groups ability to generate cash flows, the financial resources available to it, headroom under bank Shares held in employee benefit trusts covenants, and exposure to credit risk.
Based on the groups cash Under the rules of the Britvic Share Incentive Plan the Plan flow forecasts and projections, the board is satisfied that the group eligible employees are entitled to acquire shares in the company.
will be able to operate within the level of its facilities for the Plan shares are held in trust for participants by Equiniti Share Plan foreseeable future.
For this reason the group continues to apply the Trustees Limited the Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
Trustees on receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant Auditors does not submit an instruction to the Trustees no vote is registered.
In addition, the Trustees do not vote on any unawarded shares held Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to accept under the Plan as surplus assets.
As at 25 November 2013, the re-appointment as auditors of the company and a resolution Trustees held 0.07% 2012: 0.05% of the issued share capital of proposing their re-appointment is contained in the Notice of the company.
AGM and will be put to the shareholders at the AGM.
Similarly, if IFG Trust Jersey Limited, as Trustee of the Britvic By order of the board Employee Benefit Trust the Trustee, holds ordinary shares on trust for the benefit of the Executive Directors, senior executives and managers of the group, a dividend waiver is in place.
The Trustee is not permitted to vote on any unvested shares held in the trust unless expressly directed to do so by the company.
The Trustee did Clare Thomas not hold any ordinary shares as at 25 November 2013 2012:nil.
Company Secretary 25 November 2013 58 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
