Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Internal audit As a result of the regulatory responsibilities ongoing focus on identifying fraud risk as arising from the DLC structure, there are well as auditing technology risks given Internal Audit two group Internal Audit departments Investecs dependence on IT systems.
activity is governed located in London and Johannesburg, Internal Audit also liaises with the external by an internal audit responsible for Investec plc and Investec auditors and other assurance providers to Limited respectively.
Investec Bank enhance efficiencies in terms of combined charter which Australia Limited and Investec Bank plc assurance.
The annual plan is reviewed is approved by Irish Branch have their own internal audit regularly to ensure it remains relevant and functions reporting into Investec plc Internal responsive, given changes in the operating the group audit Audit.
In combination, the functions cover environment.
The audit committee approves committees and is all the geographies in which Investec any changes to the plan.
These functions use a global reviewed annually.
significant control weaknesses are risk-based methodology and cooperate The charter defines reported, in terms of an escalation protocol, technically and operationally.
to the local assurance forums, where the purpose, The heads of internal audit report at each remediation procedures and progress authority and audit committee meeting and have a direct are considered and monitored in detail reporting line to the chairman of the audit by management.
The audit committee responsibilities of committee.
They operate independently of receives a report on significant issues and the function.
executive management but have access actions taken by management to enhance to their local chief executive officer.
An update on the status heads of internal audit are responsible for of previously raised issues is provided by coordinating internal audit efforts to ensure Internal Audit to each audit committee.
coverage is global and departmental skills If there are concerns in relation to overdue are leveraged to maximise efficiency.
For issues, these will be escalated to the administrative purposes the heads of executive risk review forum to expedite internal audit also report to the global head resolution.
of corporate governance and compliance.
Internal Audit proactively reviews its The functions comply with the international practices and resources for adequacy and standards for the professional practice of appropriateness, to meet our increasingly internal auditing.
demanding corporate governance and Annually, Internal Audit conducts a formal regulatory environment including the risk assessment of the entire business requirements of King III in South Africa.
from which a comprehensive risk-based The audit teams comprise well-qualied, audit plan is derived.
The assessment experienced staff to ensure that the function and programme are validated by has the competence to match Investecs executive management and approved diverse requirements.
Where specic by the responsible audit committee.
specialist skills or additional resources High risk businesses and processes are are required, these are obtained from audited at least every 18 months, with third parties.
Internal audit resources are other areas covered at regular intervals subject to review by the respective audit based on their risk prole.
