Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued The legal risk policy is implemented in the UK has outlined its approach to and voting interests as if Investec plc and through: managing rms conduct.
Investec Limited were a single unied enterprise.
t Identication and ongoing review of By conduct risk we mean the risk that areas where legal risk is found to be detriment is caused to the bank, its Investec Limited and Investec plc are present customers, its counterparties or the market, separately regulated entities.
Operating as a result of inappropriate execution of with different regulatory capital regimes, t Allocation of responsibility for the business activities.
it is difficult to directly compare regulatory development of procedures for capital sufciency of the two entities.
The management and mitigation of these The focus on conduct risk is intended to go following provides a brief outline of the risks beyond the current compliance monitoring regulatory environment relevant to the frameworks in order to move away from groups capital management framework.
t Installation of appropriate segregation the culture of tick box compliance.
As a of duties, so that legal documentation result, rms are expected to look across Regulatory capital is reviewed and executed with the their business models and strategies and Investec Limited appropriate level of independence from assess how to balance the pursuit of profits the persons involved in proposing or Investec Limited is supervised for capital with good outcomes for clients and proper promoting the transaction purposes by the SARB, on a consolidated standards of markets conduct.
be expected to take a holistic approach t Ongoing examination of the interto assessing their key conduct risks and relationship between legal risk and On 1 January 2013, the SARB implemented to ensure that these are being managed other areas of risk management, so as its local version of the Basel III rules as in accordance with FCAs strategic to ensure that there are no gaps in the composed by the Bank for International objectives of protecting clients, ensuring risk management process Settlements.
Basel III builds upon the markets function effectively and promoting Basel II framework to strengthen minimum t Establishing minimum standards for competition.
capital and liquidity requirements imposed mitigating and controlling each risk.
on banks following the global financial The groups work on conduct risk, This is the nature and extent of work crisis.
The SARB adaptation of the Basel III particularly in the UK, includes assessing to be undertaken by our internal and proposals within its local rules brings about key risks across the business, identifying external legal resources a number of changes for the assessment of key controls and ensuring that the board capital adequacy.
t Establishing procedures to monitor is receiving the right information to enable compliance, taking into account the it to challenge effectively the management In calculating capital adequacy, the most required minimum standards of risks by the business.
This work is set to material effect of the new SARB regulatory continue for the coming year and will aim framework relates to the eligibility of capital t Establishing legal risk forums, to build on the existing controls such as the to support minimum capital requirements.
bringing together the various legal risk compliance monitoring, Treating Customers In particular, the rules impose tighter managers, to ensure we keep abreast Fairly TCF and operational risk frameworks.
restrictions on the type of capital that of developments and changes in the qualies as tier 1 capital and increase the nature and extent of our activities, and regulatory minima of capital that must be to benchmark our processes against Capital management and held.
Internal targets remain in excess of best practice.
allocation Overall responsibility for this policy rests Investec Limited uses the Standardised with the board.
The board delegates Capital measurement approach to calculate its credit and responsibility for implementation of the Although Investec Limited and its counterparty credit risk and operational policy to the global head of legal risk.
subsidiaries and Investec plc and its risk capital requirements.
The market risk The global head assigns responsibility for subsidiaries are managed independently capital requirement is measured using an controlling these risks to the managers of and have their respective capital bases internal risk management model, approved appropriate departments and focused units ring-fenced, the governance of capital by the SARB.
management is consistent across the two Various subsidiaries of Investec Limited are A legal risk forum is constituted in each groups.
The DLC structure requires the subject to additional regulation covering significant legal entity within the group.
two groups to independently manage each various activities or implemented by local Each forum meets at least half-yearly and groups balance sheet and hence capital regulators in other jurisdictions.
For capital more frequently where business needs is managed on this basis.
This approach management purposes, it is the prevailing dictate, and is chaired by the global head of is overseen by the BRCC via the Investec rules applied to the consolidated Investec legal risk or an appointed deputy.
Minutes DLC capital committee which is a board Limited group that are monitored most of the meetings are circulated to the chief sub-committee with ultimate responsibility closely.
Nevertheless, where capital is a for the capital adequacy of both Investec executive officer of each legal entity.
relevant consideration, management within Limited and Investec plc.
each regulated entity pays close attention The legal and regulatory treatment of capital to prevailing local regulatory rules as Conduct risk is independent of existing shareholder determined by their respective regulators.
As part of the regulatory restructure, the arrangements that are in place to ensure Management of each regulated entity, new Financial Conduct Authority FCA that shareholders have common economic with the support of the groups capital 80 Investec integrated annual report 2013
