For the year ended 31 March 2013, Investec About this report plc and Investec Bank plc were regulated by the UK Financial Services Authority FSA.
However, on 1 April 2013 the FSA was abolished and the majority of its functions transferred to two The 2013 integrated annual report covers the period 1 April 2012 to new regulators: the Financial Conduct Authority 31 March 2013 and provides an overview of the Investec group.
FCA and the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
On the same date, the Bank of England BoE took over the FSA's responsibilities for This report covers all our operations across the various geographies financial market infrastructures and a Financial in which we operate and has been structured to provide Policy Committee FPC was established on a statutory basis in the UK.
Going forward, IBP will stakeholders with relevant financial and non-financial information.
be authorised by the PRA and regulated by the FCA and the PRA.
Kensington, Investec Wealth & Investment and Investec Asset Management We value feedback, invite questions and comments on our will be authorised and regulated by the FCA.
To give feedback or request hard copies of our reports, Accordingly, all references to the UK regulator in please contact our Investor Relations division.
this annual report are to the FCA and PRA.
volume volume volume one two three Investec overview, Investec risk and Investec nancials governance, sustainability Basel Pillar III and shareholder and remuneration report disclosures report information report Get the most out of our report Cross-referencing tools: Audited information Reporting standard Denitions Denotes information in the risk and Denotes our consideration of a Refers readers to the denitions remuneration reports that form part of reporting standard on the inside back cover the groups audited annual financial statements Page references Sustainability Website Refers readers to information elsewhere Refers readers to further information in Indicates that additional information in this report our sustainability report available on our is available on our website: website: www.
com Investec integrated annual report 2013 1 Contents Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management 4 Credit ratings 97 1 Internal audit 98 Compliance 99 Denitions ibc 2 Investec integrated annual report 2013
