Divisional review Specialist Banking The specialist teams are well Specialist expertise delivered with positioned to provide services for both personal and business dedication and energy needs right across Private Banking, Property Investments, Corporate and Institutional Banking and Corporate Global heads Advisory and Investment.
Andy Leith Corporate Advisory and Investment Activities Sam Hackner Property Activities David van der Walt Corporate and Institutional Banking Activities Ciaran Whelan Private Banking Activities Further information on the Specialist Banking management structure is available on our website.
"Our value proposition Annual highlights r JHI RVBMJUZ TQFDJBMJTU CBOLJOH TPMVUJPO UP DPSQPSBUF Operating profit JOTUJUVUJPOBM BOE QSJWBUF DMJFOUT XJUI MFBEJOH QPTJUJPOT up 30.1% to JO TFMFDUFE BSFBT 62.8% 242.3 million cost to income r 1SPWJEF IJHI UPVDI contributing 55.9% to group 2012: 62.4% QFSTPOBMJTFE TFSWJDF profit r ""CJMJUZ UP MFWFSBHF JOUFSOBUJPOBM DSPTT CPSEFS QMBUGPSNT r 8FMM QPTJUJPOFE UP DBQUVSF 8.0% PQQPSUVOJUJFT CFUXFFO UIF 2 ROE pre-tax EFWFMPQFE BOE UIF FNFSHJOH Loans and advances 2012: 6.2% XPSME 18.4 billion r #BMBODFE CVTJOFTT NPEFM 2012: 18.2 billion XJUI HPPE CVTJOFTT EFQUI BOE CSFBEUI r 5PUBM DPSQPSBUF BOE PUIFS DMJFOUT D 8.4% r 5PUBM IJHI JODPNF BOE IJHI OFU XPSUI DMJFOUT D Tangible ROE Customer deposits pre-tax 24.5 billion 2012: 6.5% 2012: 25.3 billion 70 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Divisional review Specialist Banking continued What we do High income and high net Corporates government institutional clients worth private clients Corporate Advisory and Corporate and Institutional Private Banking Investment Activities Banking Activities Activities Advisory Treasury and trading services Transactional banking Institutional, research, sales and Specialised finance Lending trading Debt Capital Markets Deposits Principal investments Investments Property activities Australia Canada Australia India Australia Hong Kong Southern Africa Southern Africa India UK and Europe UK and Europe Southern Africa UK and Europe USA Integrated systems and infrastructure Where we operate Hong Kong benefiting from a well diversied investment portfolio Acquired Access Capital in June 2011 creating a link between China, UK and South Africa Global resources platform established Institutional equities team acquired and trading capability established UK and Europe 13th largest bank Canada and USA Built an extensive quality client base from c. 50.000 in Distribution platform 2 2008 to c. 223 000 today Growing advisory and PFI Sustainable business on capabilities the back of client ow India Leading franchise in UK mid cap corporate market FTSE 250 Established a presence and well-recognised in 2010 private banking brand Facilitates the link Mauritius which is expanding into between India, UK transactional banking and South Africa Established in 1997 One of the leading international banks in Mauritius Australia South Africa Established a core business Fifth largest bank in Professional Finance and Full service specialist Investment Banking banking offering a high Developing our Corporate and quality innovative solution Institutional Banking business with leading positions in selected areas Building cross-border activities, especially in Total corporate and Resources and Mining private clients c. 225 000 Gateway to Asia Total corporate and private clients c. 53 000 Investec integrated annual report 2013 71 Divisional review Specialist Banking continued Financial analysis Operating profit Permanent employees Ordinary shareholders equity 44.1% 31.7% 16.2% 48.1% 32.2% 18.5% 100 100 100 83.8% 81.5% 80 80 80 68.3% 67.8% 60 60 60 55.9% 51.9% 40 40 40 20 20 20 Remainder of Investec group 0 0 0 Specialist Banking March 12 13 March 12 13 March 12 13 Before goodwill, acquired intangibles, non-operating items, taxation and after non-controlling interests."
As calculated on page 50, based on regulatory capital requirements.
The numbers prior to 31 March 2005 were reported in terms of UK GAAP.
Amounts from 2008 are shown before goodwill, acquired intangibles, non-operating items, taxation and after non-controlling interests.
Prior to 2008 amounts have not been adjusted for non-controlling interests.
2 72 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Divisional review Specialist Banking continued Income statement analysis 31 March.
BSDI b 2013 2012 7BSJBODF DIBOHF Net interest income 688976 683801 5175 0.8% Net fee and commission income 341999 330197 11802 3.6% Investment income 182298 174694 7604 4.4% Trading income arising from customer ow 70172 76958 6786 8.8% balance sheet management and other trading activities 35083 31727 3356 10.6% Other operating income 31793 62554 30761 49.2% 5PUBM PQFSBUJOH JODPNF CFGPSF NQBJSNFOU PO MPBOT BOE BEWBODFT 1350321 Impairment losses on loans and advances 251012 325118 74106 22.8% 0QFSBUJOH JODPNF Operating costs 837824 831300 6524 0.8% Depreciation on operating leased assets 16072 28670 12598 43.9% 0QFSBUJOH QSPU CFGPSF HPPEXJMM BDRVJSFE JOUBOHJCMFT BOE OPO PQFSBUJOH JUFNT Operating income losses attributable to non-controlling interests 3074 11368 14442 100.0% 0QFSBUJOH QSPU CFGPSF HPPEXJMM BDRVJSFE JOUBOHJCMFT OPO PQFSBUJOH JUFNT BOE BGUFS OPO DPOUSPMMJOH JOUFSFTUT UK and Other 51 156 52 880 1 724 3.3% Southern Africa 187 782 199 212 11 430 5.7% Australia 3 401 65 881 69 282 100.0% 0QFSBUJOH QSPU CFGPSF HPPEXJMM BDRVJSFE JOUBOHJCMFT OPO PQFSBUJOH JUFNT BOE BGUFS OPO DPOUSPMMJOH JOUFSFTUT 4FMFDUFE SFUVSOT BOE LFZ TUBUJTUJDT Ordinary shareholders equity 2 803 195 2 714 259 88 936 3.3% ROE pre-tax 8.0% 6.2% Return on tangible equity pre-tax 8.4% 6.5% Cost to income ratio 62.8% 62.4% Operating profit per employee 000 44.7 35.5 9.2 25.9% As calculated on page 50 and 52, based on regulatory capital requirements.
5IF WBSJBODF JO UIF PQFSBUJOH QSPU JO UIF 6, PWFS UIF ZFBS DBO CF FYQMBJOFE BT GPMMPXT t Net interest income increased marginally largely as a result of increased lending turnover, partially offset by higher costs on subordinated liabilities and less interest earned on running down legacy portfolios t Net fee and commission income increased due to fees reported in the Corporate Advisory business, however, transactional activity 2 levels in the corporate institutional business remained mixed t Investment income decreased as a result of lower returns generated on the xed income portfolios.
The unlisted investment portfolio continues to perform well t Trading income was ahead of the prior year largely as a result of a good performance from the structured equity retail deposit business t Other operating income includes associate income and income earned on an operating lease portfolio acquired during December 2010 t Total operating income decreased by 2.9% t Impairments decreased by 8.9%.
Further information is provided on pages 30 and 31 in volume two t Operating expenses decreased largely as a result of lower depreciation recorded on operating leased assets, with other costs marginally ahead of the prior year.
"Investec integrated annual report 2013 73 Divisional review Specialist Banking continued 5IF WBSJBODF JO UIF PQFSBUJOH QSPU JO 4PVUI ""GSJDB PWFS UIF QFSJPE DBO CF FYQMBJOFE BT GPMMPXT t The analysis and variances described below for the South African Specialist Banking division are based on the Rand numbers reported."
Results in Pounds Sterling have been negatively impacted by the depreciation of the average Rand: Pounds Sterling exchange rate of approximately 13% over the period.
The Specialist Banking division reported operating profit before taxation of R2 542 million 2012: R2 334 million Net interest income increased largely as a result of higher average loans and a sound performance from the xed income portfolio, partially offset by higher costs on subordinated liabilities t Net fees and commissions and customer ow trading income have been negatively impacted by lower activity in the Corporate and Institutional Banking business t Investment income increased largely due to a solid performance from the unlisted principal investment and investment properties portfolios t Total operating income increased by 10.2% t Impairments increased marginally and defaults decreased signicantly, with an improvement reported in the Private Client business offset by some corporate loans defaulting in the period.
Further information is provided on pages 30 and 31 in volume two t Operating expenses increased by 10.8%.
"5IF WBSJBODF JO UIF PQFSBUJOH QSPU JO ""VTUSBMJB PWFS UIF QFSJPE DBO CF FYQMBJOFE BT GPMMPXT t The Australian Specialist Banking division reported a significant decrease in impairments t Revenue increased largely as a result of fees earned in the Corporate Advisory and Corporate and Specialised Banking businesses."
The professional finance and asset finance franchises continue to perform well.
Analysis of key earnings drivers Net core loans and advances excluding Kensington b NJMMJPO PNF DVSSFODZ NJMMJPO 31 March.
David van der Walt Growth should come from a Geographical business leader United Kingdom reduced cost of funds, lower impairments and modest loan growth in high margin activities.
We will mortgages co-located in Reading in the originate and syndicate deals actively to first quarter of 2012.
NCB was purchased Please give us an ensure we churn our balance sheet and in Ireland in June 2012.
The private client overview of the maximise the return on capital while ensuring Voyage card account was launched in environment in which we grow our client franchise.
Kensington Mortgages capital light businesses where possible.
you operate was launched in November 2012 and Investec Mortgages in February 2013.
Online capability for retail deposit Budgets ahead of Investecs How do you activities has been signicantly enhanced.
financial year were prepared at An Institutional Equities team was acquired incorporate a time when activity levels were in Hong Kong and trading capability high following a massive injection of environmental established.
Economic activity and sustainability slowed dramatically from April 2012 on the considerations into Banking operations were largely back of European uncertainty, returning restructured under functional lines and your business?
slowly from November 2012. progress is underway to optimise systems, processes and people.
Banks remain high on the political agenda throughout Europe.
Ongoing changes The business units have been refocused on Investec has a broad based in regulation drive up costs and create approach to sustainability, our core client base.
instability with regard to remuneration, which extends beyond our own liquidity, Basel and conduct.
The cost of footprint on the environment and our many liquidity went up and LIBOR moved down CSI activities, to our funding and investing signicantly in the first eight months of What are your activities.
This is based on a deeper Investecs financial year: subsequently strategic objectives responsibility to our environment and society costs of liquidity have reduced substantially.
as opposed to just for business purposes.
Credit spreads reduced dramatically during As such, sustainable risk considerations the period.
are considered in the credit and investment processes when making lending or The opportunity was Europe but Investec investment decisions.
In particular, we take Specialist Bank chose not to enter the Business objectives are to grow into account environmental, social and market.
We pre-funded asset growth which our client base and to optimise economic considerations when reviewing a never materialised, leaving us overfunded market penetration.
Volatility hit an all time to launch ourselves as a committed and low affecting trading books.
Impairments In the UK we have made substantial strategic partner in the high net worth remained higher than we had anticipated progress with reducing our internal and mid corporate space.
We are actively but improved year-on-year.
During the period managing impairments, costs and cost 2 under review our energy management of liquidity.
We plan to launch a credit In summary it was a difficult period for us.
system at our Gresham Street ofces and overdraft function for the Voyage gained ISO14001 certication and won a card account in order to complete our number of awards recognising our efforts in transactional banking offering.
We wish to energy and waste management.
Investec What have been the take advantage of a dislocated UK banking was also Highly Commended in the key developments in landscape.
Community Impact category at the National the business over the Business Charity Awards for our work with last financial year?
Arrival Education, a social enterprise that designs and delivers programmes to young people from challenging backgrounds.
There have been various For further information highlights in the UK banking download the sustainability business.
Asset Finance and the report available on our website.
76 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Divisional review Specialist Banking continued This renewed focus on core banking in the high income space is aimed at improving Questions and answers the client experience, increasing client acquisition and utilisation of core products.
The Investec Property Fund which was listed on the JSE in April 2011 continues to Sam Hackner grow and during the year made acquisitions of R2.1 billion.
It currently comprises a Andy Leith portfolio of 50 properties with a gross lettable area of 568 978 square metres and Richard Wainwright a market capitalisation of R5.2 billion as at 31 March 2013.
The Fund creates Ciaran Whelan opportunities for us to develop quality product as it has a strategy to grow aggressively over the next five years.
Geographical business leaders South Africa Please give us an What have been the What are your overview of the key developments in strategic objectives environment in which the business over the for the coming year?
you operate last financial year?
The overall business has gone The South African environment We have seen very good progress on the implementation of the through significant change over was fairly volatile over the past year and a very strong stock single bank structure.
the past few years, dealing with exchange was overshadowed by very the consequences of the global financial The Corporate and Institutional Banking poor labour relations, weak currency, scal crisis and our single bank project.
business created an integrated equities pressures and relatively low economic Foundations are now well-rooted for future business incorporating equity derivatives, growth.
stockbroking and equity related structuring growth and development.
Cooperation and We, however, started to see good growth in activities from the previous Capital Markets collaboration across the business units has our Private Banking Activities and moderate and Securities divisions.
The business has improved signicantly.
growth in the Corporate and Institutional five areas of focus, namely distribution, ow The focus is on continuing to service our Banking business.
The weak conditions trading, research, structuring and prime existing clients in the best possible way continue to impact our level of impairments services.
Where feasible, research will also while at the same time attracting new clients which remain elevated.
Our defaults, be leveraged off our international coverage.
however, have declined signicantly as a Corporate lending portfolios have grown consequence of our tighter credit standards significant effort will be made on crossby 10%.
imposed five years ago and focused selling our products across different client management on our problem book.
bases so that we continue to provide A Prime Services platform is being integrated solutions to our clients.
established which will consolidate prime Most of our operating units showed an broking, clearing and scrip lending activities.
improved performance over the last year, We continue to roll out our Africa strategy particularly our Property group.
We have maintained a strong positioning in concentrating on a number of core the South African Advisory business.
Our geographies in Sub-Saharan Africa.
These Basel III was implemented on 2 initiatives remain focused largely on advisory, focus has been on local and cross-border 1 January 2013 and this has had a corporate institutional banking and asset M&A, capital raisings and restructuring moderate effect on our capital levels as transactions.
certain of our capital instruments are being phased out.
The Corporate Finance division was ranked second in volume of listed M&A transactions and third in general corporate finance in Dealmakers Magazine Survey for Corporate Finance 2012 calendar year.
We have been ranked first in volume of listed M&A transactions for nine out of the last 12 years.
Private Banking activities have been separated into two focus areas, namely high income and high net worth, to enhance the offering and the commensurate profitability.
Investec integrated annual report 2013 77 Divisional review Specialist Banking continued What is your Questions and answers outlook for the coming year?
David Clarke and Ciaran Whelan Outgoing Acting The past few years have been Geographical business leaders Australia tough for the bank in South Africa as impairments have been elevated and activity levels moderate.
Looking forward, the overall level of defaults Please give us an What have been the has declined to a level not seen for a few overview of the key developments in years.
The single bank project has improved environment in which the business over the cooperation across the group and the morale you operate last financial year?
Whilst the macro environment remains volatile, we, as a group, are well positioned The last year saw the continuation Investec Australia is focused to grow our market share and underlying of Investecs strategy to optimise on selectively growing our loan profitability.
portfolio, expanding the Private the business in Australia and Banking business with new products and focus on our core activities as a specialist continuing to diversify our deposit base.
With a strong, stable and fide-risked business model, we have Through the year, we announced the growth How do you focused on delivering returns and this has of our Asset Finance and Leasing business incorporate been reected in Investec Australia returning through the 100% acquisition of Alliance to profit in 2012. environmental Equipment Finance, a respected vendor and sustainability finance business with a 20-year history in Australias economic environment gradually considerations into improved during the course of Investecs the Australian market.
Asset finance and 2012 13 financial year.
Ination at only leasing is an integral part of Investecs global your business?
2% is under control and interest rates are strategy, with established operations across reasonable with the economy growing, South Africa and the UK.
The acquisition albeit slightly below trend.
strengthens our capabilities and provides Given the severe lack of skills us with a new direct offering for our existing Competition for retail deposits increased in South Africa, we use our clients as well as a broadened portfolio of all banks cost of funds during the year expertise as a business to enrich new customers.
however, recent increased levels of liquidity communities around us through education in the market saw this cost reduce as the Our everyday banking offering expanded and entrepreneurship.
In this regard, we financial year came to an end.
Australias through the launch of Investecs first credit spent over R10 million during the past low interest rate environment assisted a card in Australia, the Investec Visa Signature financial year on our Promaths programme card and the Investec Visa Platinum card.
gradual increase in confidence and activity which offers extra maths and science We added improved functionality to our in our lending areas from both corporate lessons to grade 10, 11 and 12 learners, and private clients.
online cash management account, and facilitating entrance into tertiary learning have one of Australias best value deposit institutions.
This stable operating environment has products and as such were awarded resulted in consistent activity in our Private From an environmental point of view, the Canstars Best Value Term Deposit in 2012.
Banking division and strong performances greatest impact we can have is through 2 Our deal-based income streams have from our Corporate Advisory and Corporate our business activities nding opportunities continued to gain momentum, particularly Lending businesses.
for our clients in areas such as cleaner and through our Corporate Advisory activities renewable energy sources, energy and their approach in providing a specialist efficiency and responsible lending and service to some of Australasias largest investing.
For example, we are nancing companies.
This year, we have represented some R3.2 billion worth of renewable a number of high prole clients including energy projects in South Africa over the managing the sale of Australias largest next two to three years.
Post year end poultry provider, Ingham Enterprises, to we nalised a deal whereby Investec is private equity rm TPG announced in nancing R105 million for a co-generation March 2013. plant that uses waste heat from hot water For further information from a smelter which evaporates into gas download the sustainability to drive a turbine in the system and helps report available on our reduce the plants overall power costs.
78 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Divisional review Specialist Banking continued As one of Australias largest finance To maximise our recycling efforts, our providers to the medical and dental industry, ofces make use of co-mingled recycling What is your we continued our expansion into this bins, eco bins for all employees and we outlook for the niche professional market by entering a recently introduced swipe to print which coming year?
partnership with CPA Australia the ofcial has dramatically reduced our paper body for Certied Practising Accountants in consumption.
Where possible we utilise Australia to target finance and accounting ofce furniture made from recycled materials professionals.
and our tenancies feature LED sensor We enter the year with a good lighting which is shut off completely after pipeline of activity and an asset core business hours.
We also encourage book with strong credit quality, well our employees to use public transport to funded by our private client deposit base.
What are your and from work and were forging the way in making it easier for employees to work from strategic objectives The Australian economic landscape is stable home.
with the only real uncertainty centred on the countrys Federal election in September For further information 2013.
Optimism in the market has improved download the sustainability and we believe Investec is well positioned to report available on our capture identied opportunities.
Our number one priority is to nurture the relationships we have During the year ahead we have a particular with our clients while reaching out focus on growing our Asset Finance and to new ones.
Our people are passionate Leasing business, and continuing to expand about delivering exceptional client and deepen our relationships in Private experiences and understanding the needs Banking with our professional client base.
Additionally, we will continue to maintain a prudent deposit base while minimising our How do you cost of funds.
We have built strong annuity incorporate streams across the business which places us in good stead for the coming year.
We environmental believe we are now operating in the right and sustainability markets and are focused on continuing considerations into in these niches.
By doing this our people your business?
are becoming known as experts in the industries in which we operate.
We are also fostering a culture of constant 2 In Australia, sustainability plays a key improvement in everything we do.
Were role in our operations.
Through the looking to maximise efficiencies in the way Investec Foundation and other operating we operate.
committees, we have a number of initiatives that are at the forefront of ensuring Investecs profitability is not achieved at a cost to the environment.
We have a team of employees who actively implement initiatives that reduce our footprint on the environment.
In our tenancies, while we are not the owner of the buildings, we are committed to reducing waste year-on-year.
Investec integrated annual report 2013 79 Corporate governance report
