Annual financial statements Schedule A to the directors report the financial position of Investec plc, in served with a notice after failure to provide Additional information Investec plc with information concerning the opinion of the board, justifies such for shareholders interests in those shares required to be payment.
provided under the Companies Act.
The board may withhold payment of all or Set out below is a summary of certain any part of any dividends or other monies provisions of Investec plcs current Articles payable in respect of Investec plcs shares of Association the Articles and applicable Deadlines for exercising English law concerning companies the from a person with a 0.25% or more UK Companies Act 2006.
This is a interest in nominal value of the issued voting rights summary only and the relevant provisions shares if such a person has been served Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Articles or the Companies Act 2006 with a notice after failure to provide Investec of Investec plc in respect of which the should be consulted if further information is plc with information concerning interests in business being voted upon is being heard.
those shares required to be provided under Votes may be exercised in person, by the Companies Act 2006. proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representatives.
The Articles Share capital provide a deadline for submission of proxy Voting rights forms of not less than 48 hours before The issued share capital of Investec plc at the time appointed for the holding of the 31 March 2013 consists of 605 196 771 Subject to any special rights or restrictions meeting or adjourned meeting.
ordinary shares of 0.0002 each, attaching to any class of shares, at a 15 081 149 non-redeemable, nongeneral meeting, every member present in cumulative, non-participating preference person has, upon a show of hands, one shares of 0.01 each, 2 275 940 ZAR Variation of rights vote and on a poll every member who is non-redeemable, non-cumulative, present in person or by proxy has one Subject to the Companies Act 2006, the non-participating preference shares vote for each share.
In the case of joint Articles specify that rights attached to of R0.001 each, 279 639 164 special holders of a share the vote of the senior any class of shares may be varied with converting shares of 0.0002 each, the who tenders a vote whether in person or by the written consent of the holders of not special voting share of 0.001, the UK DAN proxy shall be accepted to the exclusion of less than three-fourths in nominal value share of 0.001 and the UK DAS share the votes of the other joint holders and for of the issued shares of that class, or with of 0.001 each class as dened in the this purpose seniority shall be determined the sanction of an extraordinary resolution Articles.
by the order in which the names stand in passed at a separate general meeting of the register of members in respect of the the holders of those shares.
Under the Companies Act 2006 separate general meeting the quorum Purchase of own shares members are entitled to appoint a proxy, shall be two persons or, if there is only who need not be a member of Investec one holder, that holder at least holding or Subject to the provisions of the Articles, the plc, to exercise all or any of their rights to representing by proxy at least one-third in Companies Act 2006, the uncerticated attend and vote on their behalf at a general nominal value of the issued shares of the securities regulations 2001 and every meeting or class meeting.
A member may class calculated excluding any shares held other statute for the time being in force appoint more than one proxy in relation to as treasury shares.
The rights conferred concerning companies and affecting a general meeting or class meeting upon the holders of any shares shall not, Investec plc, the approval of shareholders provided that each proxy is appointed to unless otherwise expressly provided in as provided in the Investec plc Articles, exercise the rights attached to a different the rights attaching to those shares, be and without prejudice to any relevant share or shares held by that member.
deemed to be varied by the creation or special rights attached to any class of A member that is a corporation may issue of further shares ranking pari passu shares, Investec plc may purchase, or may appoint an individual to act on its behalf with them.
enter into a contract under which it will or at a general meeting or class meeting as may purchase, any of its own shares of a corporate representative.
The person so Where, under the companys share any class, including without limitation any authorised shall be entitled to exercise the incentive plan, participants are the beneficial redeemable shares, in any way and at any 1 same powers on behalf of such corporation owners of the shares, but not the registered price whether at par or above or below as the corporation could exercise if it were owners, the participants are not entitled to par.
an individual member of Investec plc.
exercise any voting rights until the shares are released to the participants.
Under the companys employee trust, the trustee does Dividends and Restrictions on voting not vote in respect of unallocated shares.
distributions No member shall be entitled to vote either in person or by proxy at any general Subject to the provisions of the Companies Transfer of shares meeting or class meeting in respect of any Act 2006, Investec plc may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare shares held by him if any call or other sum All transfers of shares may be effected by dividends not exceeding the amount then payable by him in respect of that share transfer in writing in any usual or common recommended by the board.
In addition no member form or in any other form acceptable to the may pay interim dividends whenever shall be entitled to vote if he has been directors.
The instrument of transfer shall be 8 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Annual financial statements Schedule A to the directors report continued signed by or on behalf of the transferor and passu inter se and with the most senior t Each perpetual preference share may except in the case of fully paid shares by confer upon the holder thereof the right ranking preference shares of Investec or on behalf of the transferee.
Transfers of to receive out of the profits of Investec plc in issue if any from time to time shares which are in uncerticated form are plc which it shall determine to distribute, and with the perpetual preference effected by means of the CREST system.
in priority to the ordinary shares, the plc shares special converting shares, the UK DAN The directors may, in the case of shares in t On a return of capital, whether or not on share and the UK DAS share, but pari certicated form, in their absolute discretion a winding up but not on a redemption passu with the plc preference shares, and without assigning any reason, refuse or purchase of any shares by Investec the preference dividend calculated in to register any transfer of shares not plc or otherwise, the plc preference accordance with the Articles being fully paid shares provided that such shares will rank, pari passu inter se t The holders of the perpetual preference discretion may not be exercised in such a and with the most senior ranking shares shall be entitled to receive notice way as to prevent dealings in the shares of preference shares of Investec plc in of and be present but not to vote, either that class from taking place on an open and issue if any from time to time and with in person or by proxy, at any meeting of proper basis.
The directors may also refuse any other shares of Investec plc that are Investec plc, by virtue of or in respect to register an allotment or transfer of shares expressed to rank pari passu therewith of the perpetual preference shares, whether fully paid or not in favour of more as regards participation in the capital, unless either or both of the following than four persons jointly.
If the directors and otherwise in priority to any other circumstances prevail as at the date of refuse to register an allotment or transfer class of shares of Investec plc the meeting: they shall within two months after the date t Investec plc may, at its option, on which the letter of allotment or transfer The preference dividend or any redeem all or any of the plc preference was lodged with Investec plc send to the part thereof remains in arrears shares for the time being issued and allottee or transferee a notice of the refusal.
and unpaid as determined in outstanding on the first call date or any accordance with Article 150.2 e ii The directors may decline to recognise any dividend payment date thereafter after six months from the due date instrument of transfer unless the instrument thereof: and t Holders of plc preference shares will of transfer is in respect of only one class of A resolution of Investec plc is not be entitled to attend and vote share and when submitted for registration proposed which resolution directly at general meetings of Investec plc.
is accompanied by the relevant share affects the rights attached to the Holders will be entitled to attend and certicates and such other evidence as the perpetual preference shares or the vote at a class meeting of holders of plc directors may reasonably require.
interests of the holders thereof, preference shares.
or a resolution of Investec plc is Subject to the Companies Act and proposed to wind up or in relation regulations and applicable CREST rules, to the winding-up of Investec plc the directors may determine that any class Non-redeemable, or for the reduction of its capital, of shares may be held in uncerticated in which event the preference form and that title to such shares may be non-cumulative, nonshareholders shall be entitled to transferred by means of the CREST system participating preference vote only on such resolution.
or that shares of any class should cease to be so held and transferred.
shares A number of the companys employee Rand denominated The following are the rights and privileges share plans include restrictions on transfer which attach to the perpetual preference non-redeemable, of shares while the shares are subject to the shares: plans, in particular, the share incentive plan.
non-cumulative, nont Each perpetual preference share will rank as regards dividends and a participating perpetual plc preference shares repayment of capital on the windingpreference shares up of Investec plc prior to the ordinary 1 The following are the rights and privileges shares, the plc special converting the ZAR perpetual which attach to the plc preference shares: shares, the UK DAN share, the UK preference shares DAS share, but pari passu with the t To receive a non-cumulative preferential plc preference shares.
The perpetual dividend out of the profits of Investec Investec plc has 2 275 940 ZAR preference shares shall confer on the plc in priority to the plc ordinary shares preference shares in issue.
The ZAR holders, on a per perpetual preference but pari passu with the perpetual perpetual preference shares are subject to shares and equal basis, the right on preference shares, on such dates in substantially similar terms and conditions a return of capital on the winding-up respect of such periods and on such as the existing Sterling perpetual preference of Investec plc of an amount equal to other terms and conditions as may be shares, as outlined above, save that they the aggregate of the nominal value determined by the directors prior to the are denominated in South African Rand.
and premiums in respect of perpetual allotment thereof preference shares issued divided by the t The plc preference shares will rank number of perpetual preference shares as regards participation in profits pari in issue Investec integrated annual report 2013 9 Annual financial statements Schedule A to the directors report continued effects of South African exchange controls ordinary or special resolution, the business Shares required for the and or if they otherwise consider of Investec plc will be managed by the DLC structure it necessary or desirable.
board who may exercise all the powers of Investec plc.
Investec SSC UK Limited, a UK trust The board may exercise all the powers company, specially formed for the purpose Appointment and of Investec plc to borrow money and to of the DLC structure, holds the plc special replacement of directors mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, voting share, the plc special converting shares, the UK DAN share and the UK DAS property, assets and uncalled capital and Directors shall be no less than four and no share.
These shares can only be transferred to issue debentures and other securities, more than 20 in number.
A director is not to another UK trust company, in limited whether outright or as collateral security for required to hold any shares of Investec plc circumstances.
any debt, liability or obligation of Investec by way of qualication.
Investec plc may by plc or of any third party.
The plc special voting shares are specially special resolution increase or reduce the created shares so that shareholders of both maximum or minimum number of directors.
Investec plc and Investec Limited effectively significant agreements: In accordance with the Articles of vote together as a single decision making Association, one-third of the directors are body on matters affecting shareholders of change of control required to retire by rotation.
Furthermore, both companies in similar ways, as set out all those directors serving for longer than The Articles of Association of both Investec in the Articles.
nine years are required to stand for annual plc and the Memorandum of Incorporation Prior to a change of control, approval re-election.
In accordance with the UK of Investec Limited ensure that a person of termination of the sharing agreement Corporate Governance Code the Code all cannot make an offer for one company which regulates the DLC, liquidation or members of the board offer themselves for without having made an equivalent offer insolvency of Investec plc, the plc special annual re-election.
to the shareholders of both companies on converting shares have no voting rights equivalent terms.
Investec plc may by ordinary resolution in except in relation to a resolution proposing accordance with the relevant provisions Pursuant to the terms of the agreements the i variation of the rights attaching to the of the Articles appoint any person to be establishing the DLC structure, if either shares or ii winding-up, and they have no a director so long as the total number Investec plc or Investec Limited serves rights to dividends.
The special converting of directors does not exceed the limit written notice on the other at any time after shares are held on trust for the Investec prescribed in the Articles.
Any such director either party becomes a subsidiary of the Limited ordinary shareholders.
Investec shall hold ofce only until the next annual other party or after both Investec plc and plc and Investec Limited have established general meeting and shall then be eligible Investec Limited become subsidiaries of a dividend access trust arrangements as part for re-election.
third party the agreements establishing the of the DLC.
Investec plc has issued two dividend access shares, the UK DAS share and All of Investec plcs share plans contain Powers of directors UK DAN share which enables Investec plc provisions relating to a change of control.
to pay dividends to the shareholders of Subject to the Articles, the Companies Outstanding awards and options would Investec Limited.
This facility may be used Act 2006, the CREST regulations and normally vest and become exercisable by the board to address imbalances in the every other statute for the time being in on a change of control and, where distributable reserves of Investec plc and force concerning companies and affecting applicable, subject to the satisfaction of any Investec Limited and or to address the Investec plc, and any directions given by performance conditions at that time.
