Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management Operational and Legal Risk Reporting Overview of disclosure teams.
This approach is core to assuming Group Risk requirements a tolerable risk and reward prole, helping Management us to pursue controlled growth across our Risk disclosures provided in line with the objectives are to: business.
requirements of International Financial Group Risk Management operates within Reporting Standard 7 Financial Instruments: r #F UIF DVTUPEJBO PG PVS SJTL an integrated geographical and divisional Disclosures IFRS 7 and disclosures on NBOBHFNFOU DVMUVSF structure, in line with our management capital required by International Accounting approach, ensuring that the appropriate Standard 1 Presentation of Financial r &OTVSF UIF CVTJOFTT PQFSBUFT processes are used to address all risks Statements IAS 1 are included within this XJUIJO UIF CPBSE TUBUFE SJTL across the group.
Group Risk Management section of the annual report BQQFUJUF has specialist divisions in the UK, South on pages 5 to 97 with further Africa and Australia and smaller risk r 4VQQPSU UIF MPOH UFSN disclosures provided within the divisions in other regions to promote sound TVTUBJOBCJMJUZ PG UIF HSPVQ financial statements section in risk management practices.
CZ QSPWJEJOH BO FTUBCMJTIFE volume three.
JOEFQFOEFOU GSBNFXPSL Group Risk Management divisions with GPS JEFOUJGZJOH FWBMVBUJOH international responsibility are locally All sections, paragraphs, tables and graphs NPOJUPSJOH BOE NJUJHBUJOH SJTL responsive yet globally aware.
This helps on which an audit opinion is expressed on to ensure that all initiatives and businesses are marked as audited.
r 4FU BQQSPWF BOE NPOJUPS operate within our dened risk parameters BEIFSFODF UP SJTL QBSBNFUFST The majority of the groups Pillar III risk and objectives.
Group Risk Management BOE MJNJUT BDSPTT UIF disclosures as required in terms of continually seeks new ways to enhance its HSPVQ BOE FOTVSF UIFZ BSF Regulation 43 of the regulations relating techniques.
JNQMFNFOUFE BOE BEIFSFE UP to banks in South Africa and BIPRU 11 DPOTJTUFOUMZ pertaining to banks in the UK are also included in this section of the annual report.
"r ""HHSFHBUF BOE NPOJUPS PVS Overall group summary FYQPTVSF BDSPTT SJTL DMBTTFT Information provided in this section of the of the year in review r $PPSEJOBUF SJTL NBOBHFNFOU annual report is prepared on an Investec from a risk perspective BDUJWJUJFT BDSPTT UIF DLC consolidated basis i. e. incorporating PSHBOJTBUJPO DPWFSJOH BMM MFHBM the results of Investec plc and Investec FOUJUJFT BOE KVSJTEJDUJPOT Limited, unless otherwise stated."
The This section should be read in group also publishes Pillar III and other conjunction with, and against r JWF UIF CPBSET SFBTPOBCMF risk information for its silo entity holding the background provided in, BTTVSBODF UIBU UIF SJTLT XF companies and its significant banking the overview of the operating BSF FYQPTFE UP BSF JEFOUJFE environment section on subsidiaries.
This information is contained in BOE UP UIF CFTU FYUFOU pages 18 to 20 in volume one.
the respective annual financial statements QPTTJCMF NBOBHFE BOE for those respective entities.
DPOUSPMMFE Investec has continued to maintain a sound balance sheet with low leverage, and a r 3VO BQQSPQSJBUF SJTL diversied business model.
This has been Philosophy and DPNNJUUFFT BT NBOEBUFE CZ supported by the following key operating UIF CPBSE approach to risk fundamentals: t Intimate involvement of executive management management ensuring stringent Our comprehensive risk management management of risk, liquidity and capital process involves identifying, quantifying, t Strong risk and capital management 1 managing and mitigating the risks culture embedded into our day-toassociated with each of our businesses.
We seek to achieve an appropriate balance Risk awareness, control and compliance are between risk and reward in our embedded in all our day-to-day activities.
business, taking cognisance of all Group Risk Management monitors, stakeholders interests manages and reports on our risks to t Reward programmes that align ensure it is within the stated risk appetite as directors and employees interests mandated by the board of directors through with those of stakeholders, ensuring the board risk and capital committee.
that these programmes promote Business units are ultimately responsible for effective risk management.
bonuses are closely linked to business We monitor and control risk exposure performance, determined largely by through Credit, Market, Liquidity, realised economic value-added profit 4 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued performance against pre-determined t Potential losses that could arise in our activity across the interest rate and foreign exchange corporate sales desk although targets above a risk and capital trading book portfolio when stress weighted return.
This model has been other trading opportunities were limited.
tested under extreme market conditions consistently applied within the group in The structured equity desks retail product i. e. per extreme value theory amount excess of ten years sales have remained strong and they to less than 0.3% of total operating continue to develop their product range.
income t Credit and counterparty exposures to Equity market making has expanded its a select target market: our risk appetite t A high level of readily available, high coverage of stocks.
continues to favour lower risk, incomequality liquid assets: cash and near based lending, with credit risk taken cash of 9.8 billion, representing 32.9% Balance sheet risk over a short to medium term.
Exposure of our liability base.
We continue to The bank entered the year with a healthy is taken against dened target clients maintain a low reliance on interbank surplus liquidity position, which increased displaying sound financial strength wholesale funding to fund core lending during the year mainly due to retail and integrity, a core competency asset growth deposits.
This was managed down over and an established track record.
the course of the year, returning to a similar t Continued increase in retail customer Impairments on loans and advances surplus as at the beginning of the year.
deposits and a growing retail franchise decreased from 325.1 million to Throughout the first portion of the year, 251.0 million.
The UK reported a retail one year and two year xed rate t Healthy capital ratios: we have moderate decrease whilst impairments products continued to attract significant always held capital well in excess of in Australia were 50 million lower deposit inows.
As liquidity grew, rates regulatory requirements and we intend than the prior year.
The South African were reduced to stem excessive inows.
We business reported a marginal increase Furthermore, the bank entered the continue to meet our capital targets in impairments in Rand.
Since wholesale markets with a three year 31 March 2012 the level of defaults t Geographical and operational 178 million syndicated bank club has improved with the percentage of diversity with a high level of recurring loan in June 2012 and a 200 million default loans net of impairments but income which continues to support UK residential mortgage securitisation in before taking collateral into account to sustainability of operating profit.
Cash and near cash core loans and advances amounting balances as at 31 March 2013 amounted to 2.73% 2012: 3.31%.
The ratio Geographic summary of the to 3.9 billion 2012: 3.6 billion with total of collateral to default loans net of customer deposits increasing by 1.1% year in review from a risk impairments remains satisfactory at during the year to 9.6 billion.
The bank perspective 1.26 times 2012: 1.37 times.
The in the UK currently comfortably meets its credit loss charge as a percentage of Detailed information on key developments regulatory liquidity requirements and will average gross core loans and advances during the financial year in review is progress to implement the forthcoming has improved from 1.12% at provided in the sections that follow: liquidity proposals included in the CRD IV 31 March 2012 to 0.84% Basel III package.
The bank is currently Refer to pages 17 and 18, shadowing and comfortably meeting the t Limited exposure to structured page 57 and pages 72 and 73, draft Liquidity Coverage and Net Stable credit investments: representing with a high level geographic Funding ratios.
We will continue to monitor approximately 1.5% of total assets summary of the most salient these rules until final implementation.
t Limited private client and corporate Southern Africa client exposures to peripheral Europe UK and Other Credit risk amounting to approximately 0.7% of Credit risk total assets.
In addition the group has Core loans and advances grew by Against a difficult economic background certain branch related and subsidiary 10.2% to R141.9 billion with commercial we continued to rebalance our lending activities in Ireland, with total assets real estate investments and residential portfolios in line with our risk appetite representing 2% of group assets owner occupied portfolios representing statement and focussing on a reduction in the majority of the growth for the financial 1 t A low leverage gearing ratio of property real estate as a proportion of our year in review.
There has been continuing 11.2 times loan exposures.
Non-property collateralised adherence to lower loan to value lending and lending as a percentage of gross credit greater competitive pressure on margins.
t A low level of net assets and liabilities exposures has increased.
Core loans and Default loans net of impairments as a exposed to the volatility of IFRS fair advances increased by 4.4% from percentage of core loans and advances value accounting: with level 3 assets 5.8 billion at 31 March 2012 to 6.0 billion improved from 2.73% to 1.89% with an amounting to 2.0% of total assets at 31 March 2013.
Default loans net of improvement in both lending collateralised impairments have decreased from 4.92% t Low equity and investment risk by property and the private client portfolio as as at March 2012 to 4.34% of core loans exposure with total investments certain problem loans have been settled or and advances.
The credit loss ratio comprising 3.7% of total assets some written off.
t Modest proprietary market risk within The corporate client portfolio had a small Traded market risk our trading portfolio.
Value at risk and number of defaulted counterparties where stress testing scenarios remain at Despite the difficult environment in the UK, the decision was made to write off the prudent levels there has been continued growth in client exposures in the financial year in review due Investec integrated annual report 2013 5 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued to low probability of recovery.
The credit Australia loss ratio improved to 0.61% from 0.65%.
Investec Australia Credit risk maintained a strong Core loans and advances increased by Traded market risk 10.0% from A$3.0 billion at 31 March Market conditions have remained difficult liquidity position 2012 to A$3.3 billion at 31 March 2013. for traders as client ow has not improved well in excess of Default loans net of impairments increased signicantly.
While equity markets have marginally from 1.70% to 2.13% of core regulatory and trended up this has been on low volumes loans and advances, with the credit loss and volatility has remained low all year.
internal policy ratio improving signicantly from 3.13% to Forex and interest rate markets have seen 0.85%.
Our Professional Finance business requirements more volatility though this has been mainly continues to show consistent growth to on the back of international market drivers.
become the largest segment of the Investec The impact of the Basel regulations has Australia loan book, and has maintained caused the cost of capital in the trading historically low levels of arrears and area to increase at least three fold, this has defaults.
adding to the constraints on traders level of risk taking.
Traded market risk Australian trading activity remains modest, Balance sheet risk with limited appetite for traded market risk Investecs balance sheet was well exposures.
Client activity is higher than in positioned for the 50bps rate cut that took previous years on the back of improved place in July 2012 and the net contribution deal activity, but remains somewhat to income was signicantly positive.
Investec continued to build its structural liquidity cash resources over the course Balance sheet risk of the year as part of our drive to improve Investec Australia maintained a strong the Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio to liquidity position well in excess of regulatory be implemented from 2015.
The bank and internal policy requirements throughout continued to benefit from a growing retail the year, with average cash and near cash franchise with total customer deposits balances amounting to A$1.2 billion.
increasing by 5.2% from 1 April 2012 to Total customer deposits increased by R185.3 billion at 31 March 2013.
Cash 4.3% from 1 April 2012 to A$2.5 billion at and near cash balances increased by 31 March 2013, which included an active 5.6% from 1 April 2012 to R73.0 billion at diversication strategy across funding 31 March 2013.
Our liquidity was further channels.
In respect of liquidity, the boosted by several successful mediumAustralian Prudential Regulatory Authority term senior and subordinated notes APRA is still formulating a response issues totalling R11.8 billion.
Syndicated to recent proposed changes to the loan deals raised about US$335 million Liquidity Coverage Ratio measure recently three-year funds.
Investec also issued its recommended by the Basel Committee first EMTN and raised US$300 million for on Banking Supervision BCBS.
Further welcome news was the bank in Australia remains committed to announcement of the softening of some of implementing the BCBS guidelines for the Basel III guidelines on liquidity risk in the liquidity risk measurement.
last quarter and this has placed Investec in a very favourable position to meet the new criteria with less of a negative impact on margins.
