Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Compliance In keeping with our core values, Investec Conduct Authority FCA will supervise all UK and Europe year in endeavours to comply with the highest rms on conduct matters.
The FCA will professional standards of integrity and review also be prudentially responsible for some behaviour, always keeping the interests smaller rms.
Each regulator has set out We have seen a continued effort by the of our customers and shareholders at the their agenda for future regulatory activities UK and European supervisory authorities forefront of the corporate agenda.
We also and they have revealed a number of new to enhance stability and resilience in the seek to bring high standards of compliance supervisory tools that will enable them to banking and advice sector by focusing on practice to all our jurisdictions in order regulate rms with the intention of pursuing structural reforms and macro-prudential to build trust and promote the quality of market integrity and good consumer regulation: specifically in relation to service to our colleagues and clients.
Investec continues to monitor capital, resolution, liquidity and market the changes to the regulatory landscape Compliance risk is the risk that Investec infrastructure.
and to adapt to the shift in supervisory fails to comply with the letter and spirit priorities.
of statutes, regulations, supervisory Structural banking reform requirements and industry codes of Retail Distribution Review On 4 February 2013, the UK Government conduct which apply to our businesses.
Mortgage Market Review introduced the Financial Services At Investec we manage compliance risk Banking Reform Bill to the House of On 31 December 2012 the FSA embedded through internal policies and processes, Commons.
The Bill would give the UK the proposals on the Retail Distribution which include legal, regulatory and authorities the powers to implement the Review RDR, which aim to improve the operational requirements relevant to key recommendations of the Independent quality of service provided to clients in the business.
Those responsible for Commission on Banking ICB on banking the advice sector.
By imposing minimum compliance work closely with the business reform, which include: qualication standards for advisers: and operational units to ensure consistent requiring rms to have more transparent management of compliance risk.
They t 3FUBJM SJOH GFODF this involves the charging practices: and disclosing more also provide regular training and advice on fencing of the UK and European clearly the parameters within which advice emerging policy issues to ensure that all Economic Area EEA retail banking is provided i. e. independent or restricted, employees are familiar with their regulatory activities of a UK bank in a legally the UK Regulator hopes to rebuild trust obligations.
distinct, operationally separate and in the IFA and investment management economically independent entity within As well as monitoring the business units community as well as improve outcomes the same group to ensure adherence to policies and for retail clients.
Whilst impact on Investec procedures, compliance ofcers are Bank plc has been limited, RDR is t JHIFS DBQJUBM BOE MPTT BCTPSCFODZ charged with developing and maintaining relevant to Investec Wealth & Investment.
SFRVJSFNFOUT the increase of the constructive working relationships This is particularly regarding charging loss-absorbing capacity of ring-fenced with regulators and supervisors in all structures and the qualications advisers banks jurisdictions.
have had to attain to continue to provide t %FQPTJUPS QSPUFDUJPO the Bill gives advice.
Investec Wealth & Investment has In addition to monitoring compliance with depositors protection under the implemented RDR and is continuing to the provisions prescribed by the respective Financial Services Compensation monitor its impact on the business and regulatory authorities, key compliance Scheme preference if a bank enters client outcomes.
functions include ensuring that the business insolvency.
is not being used for money laundering, The Mortgage Market Review is the terrorist nancing or market abuse, that The Bill contains a fide minimis exemption mortgage market equivalent of the RDR, customers are fairly treated and afforded from the requirement to ring-fence, which is focusing on outcomes for clients in the the necessary consumer protections and expected to be relevant to all but the largest mortgage space.
Investec is continuing that conicts of interests are adequately deposit takers.
It is expected that Investec to track the proposals through the identied and managed.
Current regulatory will fall within this fide minimis exemption and consultation process and is working themes and developments in these and will therefore be out of scope from the ringtowards embedding necessary changes by other areas are covered in the respective fencing requirement.
1 jurisdictions year in review below.
Reforms of the UK regulatory The volume of regulatory pressure on framework South Africa year in the sector to implement reforms has In the last year the UK financial regulator continued to be resource intensive, with review has been working towards implementing little indication that the rate of regulatory intervention is likely to slow down in the the legislative split into twin regulators.
As Following from National Treasurys near future.
Despite this pressure, Investec of 1 April 2013 the FSA will be split into publication of the Red Book which includes has continued to successfully adapt to two organisations focusing on primarily South Africas regulatory response to the the changing landscape by dedicating prudential and conduct matters separately.
global financial crisis and various G20 significant resources to monitoring, The Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA commitments, we have been subject to an analysing and implementing regulatory will prudentially supervise large banks unprecedented volume of regulatory activity developments as they arise.
and insurance rms, whilst the Financial new or enhanced regulation and policies, Investec integrated annual report 2013 99 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Compliance continued and extensively enhanced reporting, in the Banking Association of South Africa Consumer protection both the prudential and market areas, BASA.
The NCR will present the results of Australian Securities and Investments such as: Basel III, Solvency and Asset the review to Parliament early this year, and Commission ASIC, the Australian regulator Management, Financial Markets Act, hedge it is anticipated that they will commence responsible for consumer protection in funds, collective investment schemes, and with amendments thereafter.
relation to credit and financial products, the National Credit Act.
identies confident and informed investors The most recent draft of the Protection of and financial consumers as one of their With the Twin Peaks model of regulation Personal Information Bill POPI was debated three key priorities and it continues to having been identied as the most at the Technical Working Committee during attract significant resource contributions.
appropriate model going forward with March 2012.
Once enacted POPI will have a separate regulators being responsible for material impact on all aspects of Investecs During the course of the year ASIC business that concern the processing prudential and market conduct regulation created or refreshed regulatory guidance across industries, a variety of South African of personal information in respect of on a number of consumer-related topics, legislation needs to be amended to ensure Investecs clients and employees, as well as including marketing and advertising: each regulator has the appropriate authority information relating to the Investec group training for representatives who provide and scope to enable adequate regulation.
advice to retail clients: and market integrity To initiate this process the Financial rules.
Although guidance is generally Anti-money laundering and Services Board FSB has published The not prescriptive, it is indicative of the Roadmap: Treating Customers Fairly terror nancing regulators expectations and often provides TCF which sets out their programme a best practice standard that requires The Anti-Money Laundering AML and intended timelines for market conduct consideration by all licensed rms.
supervisory landscape has been amended.
The six principles set out by The Financial Intelligence Centre FIC, who Legislation and regulations to effect the the FSB mirror the equivalent principles historically lled the role as both compliance Australian governments Future of Financial published by the UK Regulators.
A further supervisor on AML matters as well as the Advice Reform have been published development, in February 2013, was the designated country Financial Intelligence and come into effect on 1 July 2013.
The publication of the document Implementing Unit FIU, has assumed the responsibility reforms, which modify the operation of a Twin Peaks Model of Financial Regulation of compliance supervisor only on matters current legislation, prohibits conicted in South Africa.
The document outlines relating to the requirement to register as remuneration in the retail advice sector, National Treasury's proposals for the an accountable institution with the FIC as creates a requirement for advisers to act splitting of regulatory functions between a well as reporting of suspicious transaction in the best interests of clients and aims to prudential and market conduct regulator, reports, counter-terrorist nancing reports improve transparency of fees.
and the functions of a systemic regulator.
Anti-money laundering and Investec is participating in both the TCF and An accountable institutions primary counter-terrorism nancing Twin Peaks industry work-streams.
supervisor assumes the responsibility of During the year, the Australian Government supervising compliance on all other AML introduced an amended funding model for matters.
Consumer protection Australia's AML CTF regulator, Australian Consumer protection regulation remains Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre a key focus into 2013 with additional AUSTRAC, which includes a supervisory Australia year in review emphasis on aligning existing processes levy for reporting entities.
with the TCF Roadmap published by the Reform within the Australian Investec Australia has updated triggers on FSB.
regulatory framework transaction reporting and implemented new As required by FAIS, the t and proper external monitoring arrangements with the Consistent with many other financial status of representatives and key individuals introduction of transaction banking through centres, the velocity of regulatory change of all licensed Investec financial services the launch of a credit card product.
in the Australian banking and financial providers FSPs is monitored on an services sector has remained relatively 1 ongoing basis and the requisite reports are high and the regulatory environment is made to the FSB.
A notable change is the increasing prevalence of The National Credit Regulator NCR real-time impacts of US and European commissioned a review of the National Credit Act NCA policy, in anticipation of regulatory reforms on the Australian market.
The University of Notable examples of these include the US Pretoria undertook the review, and Investec Dodd-Frank Act and Foreign Account Tax participated in the workshops held with Compliance Acts.
