Marketplace The landscape: IP Group offers more than traditional venture capital UK % of Worldnumber of leading research universities Current economic climate Measure total ranking in the UK and other collaborative Although there are some signs of arrangements.
recovery in parts of the global economy, Number of 3.9% 6 the overall environment remains researchers The UK has long held a leading position uncertain and volatile.
We have seen only Scientific in the global research landscape.
It is 6.4% 3 low levels of GDP growth in Eurozone publications home to some of the oldest and most countries and sustained recovery is not prestigious learned societies in the Cited publications 11.6% 3 yet assured.
However, all of the six largest sciences and has produced a number of Eurozone economies recorded quarterly Highly cited the outstanding scientific breakthroughs 15.9% 2 expansions in the final quarter of 2013 publications of the last millennium.
As a research for the first time in three years and the nation, the UK continues to punch Source: Report International Comparative Performance UK economy is forecast to grow faster above its weight as most recently set of the UK Research Base 2013 than any other major European economy out in a 2013 report prepared for the UKs The most recent Research Assessments in 2014.
Good growth is also expected Department of Business, Innovation and Exercise the RAE, undertaken in 2008, in the US where an increasing number Skills BIS.
A summary of some of the analysed the quality of research carried of the Groups underlying portfolio key data from this report is set out in the out in UK research institutions.
table above right, which highlights the ranked each university by reference to UKs global pedigree, with 16% of the University research landscape the number of Category A researchers worlds most highly cited publications An important aspect of IP Groups at such universities broadly defined as being generated by a nation with less strategy is an ability to access a wide someone who devotes the majority of his than 1% of the worlds total population range of leading scientific research.
This or her time to research and measured and only 4% of the worlds researchers.
has been achieved primarily through the overall quality of the research long-term partner relationships with a emanating from each of these 112m MARKET CAPITALISATION 335m 898m AIM admission O cial List admission Date of report 2001 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 IP Group established IP Group floats Acquires 19.9% stake Acquires Techtran IP Group joins Official Modern Water plc on AIM in Techtran in full List of LSE from AIM: floats on AIM Agreement raises c. 17m with Chemistry Signs agreement Acquires Top Signs agreement with Oxford Advanced Department, with Kings College, Technology Ventures University of Bristol Signs agreements Surfaces Group plc University of Oxford London with universities of floats on AIM Synairgen plc floats Proximagen plc & Surrey, Glasgow, Bath, Signs agreement with on AIM Getech Group plc Tracsis plc floats 2002 York & QMUL CNAP, University of float on AIM on AIM OHM plc floats Signs agreement York Velocys plc, Avacta on AIM Green Chemicals with University of Group plc, Evocutis plc floats on PLUS Southampton Summit plc floats plc float on AIM Markets now ISDX on AIM Signs agreement with Launch of IP Venture University of Leeds Fund IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 06 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Strategic Report Our Business & Strategy institutions.
Through its partnerships The 2012 British Venture Capital It is not uncommon for such companies and other collaborative relationships, Association BVCA performance survey to act in a collaborative manner through the Group has access to opportunities highlighted that the average return for syndication of investment.
However, there based on intellectual property generated post-dot com bubble 2002 onwards are also occasions when a competitive at 15 of the UKs highest-ranked research traditionally structured venture funds was approach is taken to achieving an universities.
The median Total Value interest in a particular company and its To Paid In Capital TVPI ratio for 2002 technology.
Accordingly, the Group can Outside of the UK, the Group has pilot onwards venture funds was 0.79 i. e. face competition of this nature from agreements with two of the eight Ivy the total value generated by the fund is a wide variety of categories of entity, League universities in the north-eastern 79% of capital paid in with the top decile including: United States.
performance being 1.61. specialist traditional venture capital IP Groups approach In contrast, the broadly equivalent investors: to commercialisation measure for a gross TVPI ratio for the large private institutional investors: To understand IP Groups business model, Group as at 31 December 2013 was 2.7 it is important to differentiate it from privately managed schemes based on capital invested, suggesting the Groups the more traditional approach to the government funding: differentiated approach can generate provision of venture capital to earlyprivate individuals, both acting above average returns.
stage businesses, which has tended to individually or collectively as groups have been provided through fixed-life Competitive landscape such as business angels networks or typically ten year duration funds to There are, however, a number of other through beneficial tax mechanisms start-up businesses with existing companies and organisations seeking to such as SEIS, EIS and VCTs: and management teams.
commercialise intellectual property and direct public funding, for example or provide capital to spin-out companies In contrast, IP Group offers far more the EU level JEREMIE fund and other from universities and research intensive to its businesses than just capital, national and local schemes.
Since the Kay with a much greater involvement in Review in 2012 and the governments In addition, certain universities and other providing its companies with access to response to it highlighted the importance research intensive institutions may in early-stage business-building expertise, of supporting innovative business over the future become increasingly proactive interim executive support, technical and longer term, the number of organisations themselves at seeking to raise private commercial networks and senior team operating in this sector has increased and sector funding to support their in-house recruitment and development.
The Group it is considered that this trend is likely to technology commercialisation activities.
also provides operational, legal, business continue.
and company secretarial support to its companies with a view to minimising the A number of businesses and funds most common administrative factors that operate in a similar space to the Group by can contribute to early-stage company providing capital and or support services failure.
Further, the majority of capital to early-stage businesses, and a wide provided by IP Group is not structured variety of business models can be seen.
Ten years of growth as a listed company 112m MARKET CAPITALISATION 335m 898m AIM admission O cial List admission Date of report 2008 2010 2012 2013 2014 Acquires 19% stake in Wins mandate to Retroscreen Virology Signs agreement Completes 100m Fusion IP plc manage North East Group plc floats on with University of fundraising Technology Fund AIM Manchester: pilot Acquisition of Fusion 2009 deals in the US with Ilika plc floats on AIM Trade sale of IP plc Proximagen plc Penn & Columbia Proximagen plc for up Tissue Regenix Group raises 50m to 357m Investment in plc floats on AIM Cambridge Innovation Oxford Nanopore Ltd Revolymer plc floats Capital plc raises 10m 2011 on AIM AGM plc floats on AIM Expands relationship with Oxford University Launch of IP Venture via Technikos Fund II Completes 55m fundraising Stock Code: IPO www.
com 07 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Strategic Report Our Business & Strategy
