Business model Our business model: turning innovation into successful businesses Deal ow Mature economies looking to exploit knowledge: Funding for academic research Framework for solutions to social environmental problems Leading research intensive Institutional institutions finance Science The City Identifying promising research opportunities with disruptive IP potential Business across 5 core sectors building Supporting businesses from cradle to maturity with: Strategic and commercial expertise Executive recruitment Administrative and company secretarial support Legal expertise Building management teams Allowing founders to concentrate on exploiting IP Capital Providing access to capital through: IP Group balance sheet Venture capital funds Networks of co-investors Patient capital 10 Yrs Systematic globalisation of intellectual property Cradle Long-term to maturity trusted capability partnerships Long-term value IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 04 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Strategic Report Our Business & Strategy Deal flow pipeline of potentially disruptive commercialisable intellectual property An important aspect of IP Groups strategy is its ability to access a wide range of leading scientific research.
This has been achieved primarily through long-term partner relationships with a number of leading research universities in the UK.
Recently the Group announced that it had expanded its access to intellectual property beyond the UK to the US.
The Groups specialist inhouse sourcing team works with our partners, as well as academics from other universities and research institutions, to identify and pursue compelling opportunities arising from these institutions and to create and build businesses around this research.
Business Building a rigorous and systematic approach to opportunity appraisal, development and business building During the early stages of an opportunitys development, members of the Groups team work closely with its founders to help shape its strategic direction, often taking an interim management role until such time as the business reaches a sufficient stage of maturity and has the resources to recruit a full external leadership team.
IP Group utilises its in-house executive search consultancy, IP Exec, to recruit experienced and high-calibre individuals to lead its developing businesses alongside founders and the Group team members, who continue to provide strategic guidance in an executive or non-executive capacity.
Further, IP Group, through its in-house division, IP Impact, has developed a series of innovative programmes that, by working with the CEOs and boards of portfolio companies, seek to help accelerate company growth.
The Group also provides operational, legal, business and company secretarial support to its companies with a view to minimising the most common administrative factors that can contribute to early-stage company failure.
Read our testimonials on pages 03 and 13 Capital access to sources of capital to finance businesses as they develop IP Group provides long-term capital for the development of its portfolio companies from its own balance sheet.
In addition, IP Group has an FCA-regulated venture capital fund management subsidiary, Top Technology Ventures TTV, which specialises in providing funding for early stage technology businesses.
TTV currently manages three funds: IP Venture Fund IPVF, IP Venture Fund II L. P. IPVFII and the Finance for Business North East Technology Fund NETF which, subject to investment guidelines, can provide further additional sources of capital to the Groups portfolio companies.
In addition, TTV and the Group work with a wide network of co-investors that can provide further capital alongside the Group.
Read our testimonial on page 28 Long-term value systematic commercialisation of intellectual property IP Group seeks to form, or assist in the formation of, spin-out companies based on scientific innovation, to take a significant minority equity stake in those spin-out companies and then to grow the value of that equity over time through taking an active role in spinout company development.
IP Groups approach has been to build significant minority equity stakes across a diversified portfolio of companies designed to achieve strong equity returns over the medium to long term.
com 05 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Strategic Report Our Business & Strategy
