Corporate Governance DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors report includes the following: 69 Principal activities and Strategic Report 73 Risk management An introduction to JLTs business and details of the 73 Going concern business review contents.
73 Share capital and shareholder rights 69 Results and dividends A detailed explanation of all shareholder matters, including A summary of the financial statements for the year, voting and transferring shares.
including details of dividends and payments to Dividends and distributions shareholders.
Voting rights 69 The Board Restrictions on voting Appointments and retirements Deadlines for exercising voting rights Board performance Variation of rights Directors interests and potential conflicts Transfer of shares Relationships with shareholders 74 Corporate Responsibility Relationship with Jardine Matheson Group 74 Annual General Meeting 71 Committees of the Board Details of the AGM and the ordinary and special business An overview of membership, activities and responsibilities to be covered.
of the Audit & Risk, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
71 Corporate Governance Reporting on the Groups compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Accountability and audit Statement of Directors responsibilities 68 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 The Directors present their report and the audited consolidated interviews with the directors and attendance at meetings by Dr Long financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31st December and the report was discussed with the Board and relevant 2013. committees.
The overall finding from this review was that the Board operated Principal activities and Strategic Report very effectively and in particular with regard to reviewing the Groups strategy.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc JLT is a holding company domiciled and incorporated in the UK with the Registered Number Board composition is under review in light of the forthcoming 1679424 and is an international group of risk specialists and retirement of Nick MacAndrew and the search for a new employee benefits consultants.
independent non-executive director is under way.
The Strategic Report on pages 11 to 45 covers the activities of the Talent management is also an ongoing priority for the Board in terms Group and its performance during the year.
of how best to manage our human resources across the Group.
The Board are also agreed that going forward a more structured approach should be taken in relation to site visits by our Results and dividends NonExecutive Directors.
The financial statements set out the Groups consolidated results for Following the review, the Board remains satisfied that it continues to the year ended 31st December 2013.
These are shown on pages operate effectively and constructively, with the appropriate balance 79 to 134. of expertise, experience, independence and knowledge to deliver The financial statements for the Company to 31st December 2013 long-term shareholder value.
These are prepared in The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Practice in the UK, also carried out a performance evaluation of the Chairman during also known as UK GAAP.
The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 17.1 pence per The table on page 70 illustrates the breadth of experience of the share is payable on 1st May 2014 to shareholders on the register at Board.
This brings the total dividend for the year to 27.2 pence per share compared to 25.5 pence in 2012, an increase of Directors interests and potential conflicts 6.7%.
Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 states that the Directors must declare certain material interests.
The Board has formal conflict The Board management procedures which have been in place for the year and, following review, no conflicts of interest have been reported.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 12 to 14 includes an overview of the Groups position on Corporate Governance matters.
Relationship with shareholders The Boards key responsibilities are to approve the strategy of the The Board communicates regularly with shareholders through Group and oversee its implementation, to review the performance of meetings and presentations.
These are held after the publication of management, to ensure there are appropriate systems of internal interim and final results, as well as at other appropriate times.
The controls and risk management and to ensure that the right Chairman, Senior Independent Director and members of the Board resources are in place throughout the Group to achieve the delivery are also available to answer questions at the AGM.
of long-term value to shareholders.
Relationship with Jardine Matheson Group Other matters reserved for decision by the Board include, material The Group continued to have a number of arms length trading links acquisitions and disposals, approval of financial results with the Jardine Matheson Group of companies during the financial announcements, approval of the Annual Report and shareholder year, which are set out in note 32 on page 132.
At 13th March 2014, circulars, share and other capitalisation issues and dividend being the latest practicable date prior to the date of this report recommendations.
Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited Jardine Matheson has an Certain matters are delegated to Board Committees and to interest in 40.16% of JLTs issued capital.
This interest is held management with clearly defined terms of reference or written limits.
through JMH Investments Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of The terms of reference of the principal Board Committees can be Jardine Matheson.
found on the Groups website.
Directors during the year The Board met seven times in 2013 and Board attendance is noted The Directors in position at the date of this report are profiled on on the table on page 72. pages 48 and 49.
At the date of this report, the Board is comprised Appointments and retirements of four executive directors and seven non-executive directors, including the Chairman.
The Articles of Association outline how the Directors are appointed and replaced.
Directors appointed by the Board during the year must Simon Keswick retired at the Annual General Meeting on 30th April stand for election at the next Annual General Meeting AGM and in 2013 and Lord Sassoon joined the Board at the conclusion of that line with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 The Code all meeting as one of the two representatives of Jardine Matheson Directors will retire at the forthcoming AGM and stand for election or Holdings Limited on the Board.
Vyvienne Wade resigned as a re-election.
director of the Company on 7th May 2013.
Board performance Nick MacAndrew will be retiring at the Annual General Meeting on 29th April 2014 having served on the Board since July 2005.
The Boards performance is reviewed annually.
An external facilitator, Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Limited, assisted with the Board and Committee review exercise for 2013 which included 69 Corporate Governance DIRECTORS REPORT An experienced and balanced Board Following review, the Board remains satisfied that it continues to have the appropriate balance of expertise, experience, independence and knowledge to deliver long-term shareholder value.
An overview of the Directors experience is summarised below.
Board Overview Name Position Committee Length of service as Independent Other Public Operational Insurance International Legal M&A Finance Government Membership board member Board experience Industry experience experience experience experience as at 31 Dec 2013 experience experience G M T Howe Non-Executive Chairman 12 years N A Member of NC A E Court Non-Executive Director 1 year, 5 months Member of ARC, RC, NC J D S Dawson Non-Executive Director, 1 year, 5 months Chairman ARC Member of RC, NC R J Harvey Non-Executive Director, 4 years Chairman RC Member of ARC, NC Lord Leach Non-Executive Director, 16 years, 11 months N A Chairman NC Member of RC N R MacAndrew Non-Executive Director 8 years, 6 months Member ARC, RC, NC Lord Sassoon Non-Executive Director 8 months N A Member ARC, RC, NC D J Burke Chief Executive Officer 9 years N A M F G Drummond International Chairman - Risk & 2 years, 10 months N A Brady Insurance M T Reynolds Finance Director 1 year, 1 month N A J D R Twining Commercial Director 1 year, 5 months N A Key: ARC Audit & Risk Committee RC Remuneration Committee NC Nominations Committee Group Executive Committee The GEC acts as an advisory group to the Chief Executive on the day-to-day management of the Groups operations.
Profiles of GEC members are set out on page 27.
Substantial shareholders At 31st December 2013 and at 13th March 2014 the latest practicable date prior to the date of this report the Company had been notified of the following substantial shareholdings.
31st December 2013 13th March 2014 % interest in % interest in Shareholder No of shares No of shares voting rights voting rights JMH Investments Limited 87,939,443 40.17% 87,939,443 40.16% Massachusetts Financial Services Company 16,314,833 7.45% 16,867,459 7.70% Royal Bank of Canada 8,113,926 3.70% 7,978,210 3.64% JMH Investments Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited.
Jardine Strategic Holdings Limited is interested in the shares of Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited under S. 823 1 b of the Companies Act 2006.
The highest percentage held by JMH Investments Limited in JLT in the 12 months preceding the date of this report was 40.17%.
70 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 For many years these appointees were Lord Leach and Committees of the Board Simon Keswick.
Simon Keswick retired at the AGM in Audit & Risk Committee 2013 and was replaced by Lord Sassoon.
For that reason The report of the Audit & Risk Committee for the year is only Lord Leach stood for re-election in 2013 but both he set out on pages 50 to 53. and Lord Sassoon will be standing for re-election at the 2014 AGM.
Remuneration Committee In addition to their board roles, the JM appointed Activities directors have always held committee memberships.
Lord In addition to a number of ad hoc meetings, the Leach is a member of the Remuneration Committee and Remuneration Committee met formally three times during Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
It is responsible, inter alia, for setting the is a member of each of the Audit & Risk, Remuneration remuneration and terms and conditions of the executive and Nominations Committees.
directors and setting overall remuneration policy for senior As a consequence of the above, JLT has, for a number of management of the Group.
years, not been in full compliance with the relevant UK It also approves the allocations under all long term Corporate Governance guidelines but have sought to incentive plans and share option schemes.
satisfy shareholders with appropriate explanations.
In particular: Assistance was provided to the Committee by the Chairman, Chief Executive and HR Strategy Director, but a Our Board does not comprise a majority of not in relation to their own remuneration, and by Deloitte independent non-executive directors: and LLP.
b Some of the committee memberships of the JM Deloitte LLP has been appointed by the Remuneration representative are not in accordance with the Committee to act as independent advisers to the guidelines.
The Board strongly believes that the continuation of these The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 54 to 67. arrangements, although not complying fully with the Nominations Committee guidelines, is in the interest of all of our shareholders for the following reasons: Activities To achieve a majority of independent non-executive The Committee met once during the year.
Its purpose is to directors JLT would have to appoint a further two or make recommendations to the Board on the appointment three independent non-executives the number of directors of the Company and to consider succession depending on the number of executives on the Board plans for senior management positions in the Company.
which would lead to an unnecessarily large and Board diversity unwieldy Board.
The Board supports the Codes recommendation that JM have clearly demonstrated that they are a diversity and gender should be considered when making committed long term shareholder and as such we Board appointments.
The Board believes that diversity believe their interests are fundamentally aligned to the should be considered broadly and our primary objective is interests of shareholders in general.
In the Boards to achieve the right balance of skills, experience, experience over the years, conflicts of interest are independence and knowledge to enable each board extremely rare and when they arise such as in 2011 member, and the Board as a whole, to discharge their when JM acquired an additional 10% stake in the duties and responsibilities effectively.
Selection of the best business, are handled with great awareness and candidate, irrespective of background is the JLT sensitivity by all concerned.
The JM nominees are extremely able and experienced The Groups approach on employee diversity and in their own right as their reputations bear testimony.
disclosures are set out in the Corporate Responsibility In addition, Lord Leach has great historical knowledge section on page 45 and on page 74. of JLT and the insurance industry.
They therefore provide significant value to the deliberations of all The terms of reference of the Audit & Risk, Remuneration Boards and Committees of which they are members.
and Nominations Committees are available on JLTs website.
The Board therefore believes that its Committees would be less effective if the JM representatives were Corporate Governance to be excluded.
Code Compliance The Board has given careful consideration to these During the year the Company has complied with the matters over recent years and, in particular, as part of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 external board effectiveness review which we have the Code, except for the following: recently completed.
All individual members of the Board, both executive and non-executive, are fully supportive of Since 1997 Jardine Matheson JM have appointed two the current arrangements.
representatives onto the Board of JLT Group.
JM currently has a 40.16% interest in the Company.
The relationship with JM is maintained on an arms length basis as detailed in note 32 on page 132.
71 Corporate Governance DIRECTORS REPORT Finally, with regard to the table below, it should be noted that Lord Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements Leach was unable to attend the meetings of the Board and for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared Remuneration Committee in July due to an unavoidable prior the Group financial statements in accordance with International commitment and, in December, the meetings of the Board, Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Remuneration and Nominations Committees as he was unwell at the Union, and the parent Company financial statements in accordance time of those meetings.
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under Other Matters company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the The Directors are able to consult the Companys legal, financial and state of affairs of the Group and the company and of the profit or other professional advisers on any matter relating to the Companys loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: Any Director may make use of this facility subject to notifying the Chairman or Finance Director.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: If independent advice is sought, this is subject to prior consultation with the Chairman or a Non-Executive Director as appropriate.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: All Directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, The Company maintains appropriate directors and officers liability subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the insurance in respect of legal actions against its directors.
Group and parent company financial statements respectively: Accountability and audit prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of continue in business.
internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting The implementation and maintenance of the risk management and records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys internal control systems are the responsibility of the Executive transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Directors and senior management.
The systems are designed to financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration objectives and can provide only reasonable assurance, but not Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the absolute assurance, against material mis-statement or loss.
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Statement of directors responsibilities Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Board Attendance The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by Board or appropriate Committee members in the year is shown below.
Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Board meeting Committee Committee Committee G M T Howe -- D J Burke -- - A E Court J D S Dawson M F G Drummond Brady -- - R J Harvey S L Keswick to 30th April 2013 - Lord Leach -- N R MacAndrew M T Reynolds -- - Lord Sassoon from 30th April 2013 - J D R Twining -- - V Y A C Wade to 7th May 2013 -- - Number of meetings during year - 72 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the The Company has one class of share capital being ordinary shares of companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 5 pence each and all the shares rank pari passu.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from There are no special control rights in respect of the Companys legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as The Board has the power to implement the purchase by the a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Company of its own shares in accordance with the power granted at information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups the AGM each year, and will be seeking renewal of that power at the performance, business model and strategy.
forthcoming AGM within the limits set out in the notice of that Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on meeting.
pages 48 and 49 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: All the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would normally accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the satisfaction of any performance conditions as may be appropriate at Group: and that time.
the Strategic Report contained in pages 11 to 45 of the Annual At 31st December 2013, the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Employee Report includes a fair review of the development and Share Trusts the trusts held 7,787,035 shares in the Company performance of the business and the position of the Group, representing 3.56% of the issued capital less treasury shares.
At together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 13th March 2014, being the latest practicable date prior to the that it faces.
posting of this report the trusts held 7,651,319 shares 3.49%.
In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, Dividends and distributions directors reports shall include a statement, in the case of each Shareholders can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary director in office at the date the directors report is approved, that: resolution but the amount of the dividend cannot exceed the amount a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit recommended by the Board.
information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and The Board can pay interim dividends whenever the financial position b he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit The Board can withhold payment of all or any part of any dividend or information and to establish that the companys auditors are other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from any aware of that information.
person with a 0.25 per cent interest as set out in the Articles if that person has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Risk management Company with information concerning interest in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
The Directors The Groups approach to Risk Management is discussed in the may also retain any dividends payable on shares on which the Finance Directors Review and the Risk Management Report on Company has a lien, and may apply the same in or towards pages 39 to 42. satisfaction of the debts, liabilities or engagements in respect of The Group takes a holistic approach to risk management and the which the lien exists.
Responsibility and accountability are shared across all Group companies, with ultimate responsibility resting with Voting rights the Board.
On a show of hands at a general meeting, every member present in Each operating company maintains controls and procedures person has one vote and on a poll every member who is present in appropriate to its own business and regulatory environment while person or by proxy has one vote for each share held.
In the case of conforming to Group standards and guidelines.
joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote whether in person or by proxy will be accepted to the exclusion of The identification and mitigation of major business risks is the the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority will responsibility of operational management and the Board.
be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members in respect of the share.
Voting rights in relation to Going concern Treasury shares are suspended and the voting rights are not normally The Directors consider that the Group and the Company have exercised in respect of the shares held in the employee benefit adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the trusts.
Consequently, the financial statements have been Restrictions on voting prepared on a going-concern basis.
No member, unless the Directors otherwise determine, is entitled to vote either in person or by proxy at any general meeting in respect of Share capital and Shareholder rights any shares held by him if any call or other sum then payable by him Movements in the share capital of the Company during the year in respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition, no member is ended 31st December 2013 are set out in note 24 on page 116. entitled to vote if he has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those At 31st December 2013 the issued share capital consisted of shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
218,941,471 ordinary shares of 5 pence each with voting rights and 1,143,131 shares are held as treasury shares for which voting rights would not be exercised.
73 Corporate Governance DIRECTORS REPORT Deadlines for exercising voting rights Corporate responsibility Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to Employment policies corporate members, by corporate representative.
The Articles The Group aims to provide an environment where individuals can provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 excel.
Wide share ownership and share option schemes encourage hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or employee engagement.
Regular briefings and consultation, using the adjourned meeting and the notice of Annual General Meeting will JLT intranet where possible, keep employees informed about the specify the deadline for exercising voting rights.
Groups performance and matters that affect them as employees.
Variation of rights The Group is an equal opportunities employer and encourages If at any time the capital of the Company is divided into different diversity.
Applications from disabled people will always be fully classes of shares then, subject to statute, the Articles specify that considered having proper regard to their aptitudes and abilities.
If rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written existing employees become disabled, every effort is made to make consent of the holders of at least 75% nominal value of the issued sure their employment with the Group continues.
If such employees shares of that class, or with the sanction of a special resolution are unable to continue work, every effort is made to safeguard their passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
The Group aims to provide training, development At every such separate general meeting the quorum is two persons and promotion opportunities that are identical, as far as possible, for holding or representing by proxy at least one third in nominal value of disabled and non-disabled employees.
the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares.
Employee diversity and environmental reporting A member that is a corporation may appoint an individual to act on The Groups Corporate Responsibility statement is set out on pages its behalf at a general meeting or class meetings as a corporate 43 to 45.
This includes the Groups position on employee diversity representative.
The person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise and the environment and also the Groups first Greenhouse Gas the same powers on behalf of such corporation as the corporation emissions report for the year ended 31st December 2013. could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company.
Transfer of shares Annual General Meeting All transfers of shares which are in certificated form may be effected The AGM notice is included in the Circular that accompanies this by transfer in writing in any usual or common form or in any other report.
The meeting will be held at 12 noon on 29th April 2014 at The form acceptable to the Directors.
The instrument of transfer must be St Botolph Building, 138 Houndsditch, London, EC3A 7AW.
signed by or on behalf of the transferor and except in the case of The special business includes the renewal, within prescribed limits, fully-paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor of: shall remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the Register of Members of the Company.
the directors authority to allot Company securities within Transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form are effected by Association of British Insurers guidelines: means of the CREST system.
the disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights: and The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of certificated shares the authority of the Company to purchase its own shares by way that are not fully paid provided that partly paid shares must be of market purchases: transferable free from restrictions and investors must be provided with sufficient information to allow dealing on an open and proper The directors would only consider making purchases of the basis.
The Directors may also refuse to register an allotment or Companys shares if they believe it would be in the best interests of transfer of shares whether fully-paid or not in favour of more than shareholders and would result in an increase in earnings per share.
If the directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer they must give the transferee notice of the refusal as soon as Independent Auditors is practicable and in any event within two months after the date on Following review, the Board proposes that  which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with the LLP are reappointed as the Company auditors.
A resolution proposing this will be put to the AGM.
The Directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer unless the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of By order of the Board share and when submitted for registration is accompanied by the relevant share certificates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require.
Subject to statutes and applicable CREST rules, the Directors may determine that any class of shares may be held in uncertificated form and that title to such shares may be transferred by means of the CREST system or that shares of any class should cease to be so held and transferred.
David Hickman Company Secretary A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, 14th March 2014 or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of shares to take place.
74 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 104 Investments in associates Includes the report of the Independent Auditor 105 Available-for-sale financial assets and the primary reporting statements as well as 106 Derivative financial instruments the accounting policies under which the financial 107 Trade and other receivables statements have been prepared.
108 Cash and cash equivalents 108 Trade and other payables 76 Independent Auditors Report 109 Financial instruments by category 79 Consolidated Income Statement 111 Borrowings 80 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 114 Deferred income taxes 81 Consolidated Balance Sheet 115 Provisions for liabilities and charges 82 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 116 Share capital and premium 83 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 116 Non-controlling interests 84 Accounting Policies 117 Other reserves 117 Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust Notes to the Financial Statements 117 Cash generated from operations Contains the supporting notes to the financial 118 Business combinations statements which provide further detail and 126 Business disposals analysis.
127 Retirement benefit obligations 132 Related-party transactions 90 Alternative income statement 133 Commitments 91 Segment information 134 Principal subsidiary and associated companies 94 Operating profit 95 Investment income Company Accounts 95 Finance income and costs Includes UK GAAP accounts of the company.
96 Employee information 99 Services provided by the Companys auditor 136 Independent Auditors Report and its associates 137 Balance Sheet 99 Income tax expense 137 Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds 100 Earnings per share 138 Accounting Policies 100 Dividends 139 Notes to the Company Accounts 101 Goodwill 102 Other intangible assets 103 Property, plant and equipment 75
