Overview DIRECTORS PROFILES G M T Howe D J Burke Lord Leach of Fairford Chairman, Non-Executive Chief Executive Deputy Chairman, Non-Executive Geoffrey Howe was appointed a Non-Executive Dominic Burke joined Jardine Lloyd Thompson Lord Leach was Chairman of Jardine Insurance Director in January 2002 and became Joint in 2000, when the Burke Ford Group of compaBrokers, latterly JIB Group plc, between 1988 and Deputy Chairman in November 2004. nies, of which he was Chief Executive and co- 1997.
He was appointed Deputy Chairman of the founder, became part of JLT.
He was appointed Chairman in April 2006 and is a member of the Nominations Committee.
He was appointed Chief Executive of the UK & He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee and Ireland Insurance Broking and the Groups a member of the Remuneration Committee.
He is Chairman of the Nationwide Building Employee Benefits businesses in 2000 and was Society and a non-executive director of Close His other directorships include Jardine Matheson appointed a Director and Chief Operating Officer Brothers Group Plc.
He was formerly Chairman of Holdings, Rothschild Continuation AG and other of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc in Railtrack Group plc, a director of Investec plc, Jardine Matheson Group companies.
January 2005. group general counsel of Robert Fleming Holdings and managing partner of Clifford Chance.
He was appointed Group Chief Executive in December 2005.
He was appointed a nonexecutive director and Deputy Chairman of Newbury Racecourse plc in November 2010 and became Chairman in June 2011.
A E Court J D S Dawson M F G Drummond Brady Non-Executive Non-Executive Annette Court was appointed a Non-Executive Jonathan Dawson was appointed a NonMark Drummond Brady has been with the JLT Director in August 2012.
He is a memGroup since 1987 and has held a number of senior ber of the Nominations and Remuneration posts in the Group.
She is a member of the Audit & Risk, Committees and, with effect from 5th March Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
He is currently the Groups International Chairman 2013, was appointed Chairman of the Audit & of Risk & Insurance.
Annette has extensive insurance experience.
Between 2007 and 2010 Annette was Chief He was appointed a Director of Jardine Lloyd Jonathan is senior independent non-executive Executive Officer for Europe General Insurance for Thompson Group plc in March 2011 and is a director of Next plc, a non-executive director of Zurich Financial Services and a member of the member of the Group Executive Committee.
National Grid plc and a partner in Penfida Group Executive Committee.
She is a former Partners LLP.
His career experience includes Chief Executive Officer of RBS Insurance, the eight years in the UK Ministry of Defence and insurance division of RBS Group which owned over 20 years in investment banking with Lazard.
the Direct Line and Churchill brands.
In this role In recent years he has served as a non-executive she was also a member of the RBS Group director of Galliford Try plc, National Australia Executive Management Committee.
Annette is a Group Europe Ltd and Standard Life Investments non-executive director of Admiral Group plc and Holdings Limited.
Foxtons Group plc and has previously served as a member on the board of the Association of British Insurers ABI.
48 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 R J Harvey N R MacAndrew M T Reynolds Non-Executive Non-Executive Finance Director Richard Harvey was appointed a Non-Executive Nick MacAndrew was appointed a Non-Executive Mike Reynolds, a Chartered Certified Director in December 2009.
Accountant, was appointed Finance Director of the Group in November 2012.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee He is a member of the Audit & Risk, Remuneration and is a member of the Audit & Risk and and Nominations Committees and is Senior He is a member of the Group Executive Nominations Committees.
He was Chairman of the Committee.
He has worked in a number of senAudit & Risk Committee from July 2005 to March ior finance roles in the insurance industry and he He enjoyed a long and successful career in the 2013. joined JLT from ACE European Group Limited insurance industry principally with Norwich Union where he was Chief Financial Officer from 2009. where he was Chief Executive from 1998 to A chartered accountant, he was previously Finance He was previously CFO of Aon Benfield.
2000 and subsequently with Aviva plc where he Director of Schroders plc, Chairman of F&C Asset was Group Chief Executive from 2001 to 2007.
Management plc and of Save the Children and a non-executive director of Fuller Smith & Turner plc He was also Chair of the Association of British and of Wates Group Limited.
He is non-executive Chairman of PZ Cussons Plc and is a fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
Lord Sassoon, Kt J D R Twining Non-Executive Director Lord Sassoon joined the Board in April 2013.
He is James Twining joined JLT from McKinsey & Co. as a member of the Audit & Risk, Remuneration and Group Strategy Director in January 2011.
He was appointed to the Board as Group He began his career at KPMG, before joining Commercial Director in August 2012 and is a Warburg later UBS Warburg in 1985.
From 2002 member of the Group Executive Committee.
He is to 2006 he was in the United Kingdom Treasury as also Chairman of Thistle Insurance Services a civil servant, where he had responsibility for Limited and sits on the Board of our UK & Ireland financial services and enterprise policy.
Following Employee Benefits and Reinsurance businesses this, he chaired the Financial Action Task Force: and our French associate Siaci St Honor.
and conducted a review of the UKs system of financial regulation.
From 2010 to 2013 Lord Sassoon was the first Commercial Secretary to the Treasury and acted as the Governments Front Bench Treasury spokesman in the House of Lords.
He is a director of Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited and other Jardine Matheson Group companies, having joined the Jardine Matheson Group in January 2013.
He is also Chairman of the ChinaBritain Business Council, a Trustee of the British Museum and is a member of the Global Advisory Board of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group.
