Overview JLT INTERNATIONAL NETWORK JLT International Network What it is The majority of our non-owned partners have been long-standing The JLT International Network offers members of the Network, with a our clients insurance risk management The JLT International Network demonstrable track record of meeting and employee benefit solutions in 135 each of our clients needs.
represents JLTs retail account countries.
It also provides a distribution channel for JLTs specialty, Service standards have been codified platform for multi-national clients, wholesale, reinsurance and employee through a set of clear operating benefits businesses.
procedures that have been designed comprising of majority owned, to ensure that each client, regardless How it works associate, and non-owned partner of their size, consistently receives the All brokers in the Network are highest level of care and attention in operations.
selected for their specialist the delivery of risk management, knowledge, local market reputation insurance broking, and advisory It offers our clients insurance risk and quality of service.
All non-owned partners are expect them to have the capability not subject to rigorous checks on their management and employee benefit only to service JLTs multinational adherence to these standards.
clients, but to compete for and win solutions in 135 countries, making it A further area of differentiation is the the largest accounts in their own Global Service Team, a multilingual the 2nd largest such insurance territories, in collaboration with JLTs team that is able to provide clients specialty, wholesale and reinsurance with a single point to access and broking network in the world.
regulate their global programme and provides a distribution channel for Overall responsibility for the Network help resolve any issues on a daily sits with the JLT International Network basis.
This central JLT function acts as JLTs specialty, wholesale, Management team, whose role is to the focal point for JLTs international ensure common service standards by account co-ordination and is used as reinsurance and employee benefits sharing expertise and best practices a centre of excellence, providing businesses.
across the Network, whilst offering a information and insight on local clear channel through which to compliance, regulation and market escalate and resolve issues with practices to clients and colleagues speed and efficiency.
Why it is different Key developments for 2014 Unlike other broker networks, the JLT Key developments for 2014 include International Network is run almost as GrECo opening new operations in an extension of JLT itself, with a Turkey and Estonia, and the similar focus on knowledge, expertise, acquisition of Insure Direct IDB in the service and quality.
JLT has the second largest international broker network in the world with representation in over 135 countries.
JLT International Network ofces 10 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT This section includes the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives and Finance Directors Reviews as well as details of our markets, strategic progress, operations and key risks.
12 Chairmans Statement 15 Chief Executives Review 18 Our Markets 22 Our Business Model 23 Delivering on our Strategy 26 Key Performance Indicators 27 Group Executive Committee 28 Review of Operations 37 Finance Directors Review 41 Risk Management Report 43 Corporate Responsibility 11
