Strategic Report OUR BUSINESS MODEL Clients and Services Risk & Insurance Employee Benets Acting as an advisor, intermediary Acting as intermediary for our and service provider in the pensions clients with insurers and reinsurers consultancy and administration, and providing related risk employee benefits and healthcare, management, analytical, advisory life insurance and wealth and other administrative services.
Clients include multinational Clients include multinational corporations and other public & corporations, public & private sector private sector organisations, retail organisations, pension trustees insurance brokers and individuals.
Fees and Commissions Fees are typically charged either on a time-cost or a fixed fee basis and are earned in both the Employee Benefits and Risk & Insurance business groups.
These fees are paid by the client rather than the insurer or reinsurer.
Commissions are typically based on a percentage of the insurance or reinsurance premium being paid by the client.
Frequently, the level of this commission payment is also subject to negotiation with the client.
This commission is paid by the insurer or reinsurer rather than the client and is largely earned in the Groups Risk & Insurance businesses.
Acquisitions Investment Income People The Group Strategy see page 23 The Group continues to retain and recruit Investment income arises from the holding of cash and investments on behalf of includes a commitment to grow its market leading individuals across all of its clients plus investment income on the Groups own cash.
The holding of client specialty-led capabilities and build out its monies largely relates to premium and claims payments which the business businesses throughout its global operations.
holds for a short period of time in its role as the intermediary of the client.
In 2013 the Group added 1,500 individuals to Acquisitions have been and will continue the JLT team, 1,000 through acquisitions.
JLT to be an important element of delivering now has more than 9,100 employees working on this strategy.
In 2013 the Group made 10 acquisitions Costs In the last 5 years the number of employees in for a total consideration of 200 million, the Group has increased by more than 65%.
including the acquisition of Towers Watson The two largest costs to the business relate to staff and premises.
In 2013 Key to the success of this recruitment has Re in November 2013 for USD250 million.
these respectively represented 58.2% and 4.9% of total revenues.
There is a been retaining and attracting individuals who clear focus on cost discipline with the Trading Margin being a Key Performance In the last 5 years the Group has made a not only add further capabilities but also fit Indicator of the Group see Page 26.
In addition, the Group has a rolling total of 25 acquisitions for a total JLTs distinctive culture.
programme of investment in areas such as information technology, process consideration of 340 million.
improvement and other enhancements to client service.
The Group is committed to investing in the training and development of all its employees.
PROFIT ADDED TO REINVESTED IN SHAREHOLDER CAPITAL BUSINESS RETURNS 22
