Strategic Report OUR MARKETS JLT is one of the worlds largest providers of insurance, reinsurance and employee benefits related advice, brokerage and services.
As such our business is influenced by six major factors: 1 the reason for the cut, although it should be noted that the Macro-economic growth trends overall growth levels of the Developing world still remain We believe that JLTs long term prospects are shaped far stronger than that seen in the Developed world.
more by longer term macro-economic and demographic Future outlook factors than the insurance rating environment.
The outlook for 2014 is somewhat brighter than it has At its simplest level, higher economic growth is both cause appeared for several years, particularly in more developed and effect of greater levels of corporate activity, investment markets.
In addition, regulatory change continues to create and increasing personal wealth, which in turn drives opportunities in areas such as the auto-enrolment and the appreciating asset values and greater demand for insurance annuity space in the UK employee benefits market.
cover and our services, be it placing the insurance for a new bridge, or helping arrange health cover for an expanding While there remains some uncertainty over the outlook for company workforce.
the Developing world in 2014, particularly as regards the potential impact of the tapering of the US Federal Reserves Current trends asset repurchase programme on international growth and The past five years have, from a macro-economic investment, we believe that the overall growth outlook for perspective, been extremely challenging, particularly in JLTs JLT remains positive.
core UK and European markets.
2013 saw a slight We attribute this to our own distinctive culture and specialty improvement over recent years, with encouraging early signs focus and a number of fundamental drivers of growth of growth in the UK and US in particular, and evidence of a including population growth, population ageing and broad stabilisation of the Eurozone, although here the urbanisation, as outlined on page 16 of the Chief Executives recovery remains fragile and very unbalanced between Review and below.
Further, greater economic growth and personal wealth drives However, there has been further evidence of a relative increasing levels of insurance penetration as a result, gross slowdown in economic growth in the so called Developing written premium growth in the Developing world, is world too.
In early 2014, the IMF cut its assessment of the expected to grow faster than the Developed world.
global growth achieved in 2013 by 0.3% to 2.9%, with a slower pace of expansion in Brazil, China and India cited as 2.6bn 3.1bn $18tr CONSUMERISM people people Consumer spending in emerging markets is expected to increase POPULATION GROWTH INCREASING MIDDLE CLASS from USD12 trillion today to The UN forecasts that the The size of the global middle USD30 trillion by 2030 worlds population will grow by class will increase from 1.8 billion 2.6 billion between 2011 and in 2009 to 3.2 billion by 2020 2050, 95% of which will take and 4.9 billion by 2030, place in the Developing world according to the OECD.
Almost all of this growth will take place in Asia 1.6bn 440m people people URBANISATION AGEING POPULATION The Developing world is experiencing The worlds population is living a wave of urbanisation.
It is forecast longer and getting older.
By 2050 that 60% of the worlds population 5 for example, a third of the billion people will live in a city by Chinese population 440 million 2030, rising to 70% 6.6 billion people people, will be aged over 60 in 2050 18 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 2 The insurance rating environment Developing countries in Asia Emerging Asia could see annual real ie inflation-adjusted growth rates of The insurance industry is inherently cyclical, with the over 10% both in P&C and Life premiums and their price of insurance fluctuating depending on demand for market share double from 8% to 16%.
insurance cover and the supply of capital into the insurance market.
Global ranking of regions according to real growth in A lack of capital, typically caused by one or more large primary insurance premiums until 2020 losses such as 9 11 or by investors choosing to invest in alternative asset classes, can lead to a hard market, P&C real CAGR from 2013-2020 when the cost of insurance increases.
An over-supply of capital can lead to a soft market which results in 1 Emerging Asia 10.2% insurance premiums reducing.
2 Eastern Europe 6.3% Current trends 3 Sub-Saharan Africa 5.8% The last few years have been characterised by some of 4 Latin America 5.7% the softest market conditions in recent memory.
This has been triggered by a generally benign loss 5 MENA 4.7% environment, improved underwriting discipline, and a 6 Mature Asia Pacic 2.8% significant over-supply of capital, with an increasing 7 North America 2.6% variety of long term investors attracted to the US Catastrophe reinsurance sector in particular.
2013 8 Western Europe 1.3% continued this trend, with price-led competition an increasing feature of the market.
Real CAGR real inflation-adjusted compound average annual growth rate Future outlook Source: Munich Re Economic Research Looking forward to 2014, absent some sort of major catastrophic event, it is hard to see insurance rates firming in the immediate future until interest rates, Impact on JLT particularly in Developed markets, begin to recover to We have deliberately aligned our business to these longmore normal levels and capital starts to flow back to term trends by looking to broaden our footprint in key other asset classes.
high growth economies and by focusing on our areas of specialisation such as construction, aviation, mining and Impact on JLT healthcare that are set to be key enablers and Our own business is affected by lower pricing to the beneficiaries of the growth of these markets and where extent that some of our remuneration is in part based we can best compete and win market share as on commissions.
This is particularly true of our insurance penetration increases.
operations in faster growing economies such as Asia At the same time, we have sought to consolidate our and Latin America, and our Reinsurance and position in the Developed world, by strengthening our International Employee Benefits operations.
It also can teams in those markets and investing in the US lead to more aggressive competitive behaviours as economy in particular in 2013, where JLT has historically rivals fight to retain their revenues.
had a relatively small presence despite it being by far the That said we have seen this potential volatility reduce largest insurance market in the world, through our over recent years as our mix of business has continued acquisition of Towers Watson Re.
to become more balanced between fees and As a result, we have been able to consistently deliver commissions.
Further, many more sophisticated strong levels of organic revenue growth despite a very corporate insurance buyers see rating declines as an tough operating and competitive environment.
opportunity to increase their cover for the same spend.
Looking forward to 2014, we feel confident that our We have managed to continue to win market share and specialty-led strategy and exposure to the faster growing grow our revenues despite the adverse rating economies of the world, balanced by our strong environment that has characterised the market for the operations in more mature markets, will allow us to last five or more years, thanks to the execution of our continue to make financial progress in the year.
clear strategy and distinctive culture.
We therefore expect to be able to continue to overcome any negative rating pressure.
19 Strategic Report OUR MARKETS 3 4 Interest rates Exchange rates Insurance brokers earn interest income on the fiduciary As a large international business, JLT has both funds that they hold on behalf of clients.
This essentially translational i. e. reporting of foreign financial statements comprises premiums passing through to underwriters in Sterling and transactional foreign exchange and paid claims being passed back to clients.
Our largest transactional exposure comes from our London market businesses which have Sterling Current trends cost bases but generate a large amount of US Dollar Throughout the global financial crisis, the global revenue.
In 2013 this amounted to some USD300 million.
economy has been characterised by a sustained period Current trends of very low interest rates, particularly in more Developed economies, as policy makers have sought The US Dollar has been relatively weak versus Sterling to stimulate growth by reducing the cost of borrowing during the latter part of 2013, as investors have worried and boosting exports.
Interest rates in the UK today about the impact of tapering of the US Federal Reserves stand at 0.5%, in the Eurozone at 0.25% and in the US asset repurchase programme on US growth and at 0.25%.
interpreted the recent strong growth in the UK economy as an indication that interest rates are likely to rise.
The Future outlook Australian Dollar relevant given the relative size of the Although there are some signs that improved economic contribution of our Australian business to our profits has activity in the US and UK in particular will cause policy also suffered a significant decline in 2013, versus makers to increase interest rates over time, this is likely Sterling.
to be in modest increments and in any case is not 2013 Foreign exchange rates expected by most market commentators to be a significant factor in 2014.
0.7000 Impact on JLT 0.6500 Historically, investment income has provided JLT with a significant flow of revenue up to 22% of profits in 0.6000 2007.
However for the reasons stated above, by 2013 this had reduced to 4.5 million, 2% of trading profits, 0.5500 despite average balances increasing over the same period by 107% to 702 million.
0.5000 Jan-13 Feb-13 Mar-13 Apr-13 May-13 Jun-13 Jul-13 Aug-13 Sep-13 Oct-13 Nov-13 Dec-13 USD:GBP AUD:GBP Investment income proportion of trading profit Future outlook 22% There are a wide range of views as to how the US Dollar 17% and other currencies will trade over the next 12 months.
Overall however, most commentators think that Sterling appears to be set for a period of relative strength.
Impact on JLT 6% A decrease in the value of the US Dollar reduces JLTs 5% 4% 4% 2% revenue relative to its Sterling cost base transactional and affects the Sterling value of the income statements and balance sheets of our international operations when 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 consolidated at the Group level translational.
JLT does not hedge its translational foreign exchange exposure.
However to mitigate the transactional impact of It is worth noting that we estimate that for every 1% foreign currency movements, we operate a rolling currency improvement in our average achieved rate, JLT hedging programme, covering our US Dollar exposures in generates approximately 7.0 million of additional particular, as well as other currency exposures.
While this income, assuming broadly consistent average invested hedging programme helps smooth the impact of foreign balances.
exchange movements, it cannot eliminate them completely However, given the overall interest rate outlook for and we are anticipating an impact from currency 2014, we do not expect that our interest income will movements in 2014.
Further detail on our hedging vary significantly from 2013 income in the year ahead.
programme and the impact of currency movements is provided on page 39 in the Finance Directors Review.
20 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 56 Competition Regulation With owned insurance broking and employee benefits JLT operates under the jurisdiction of a number of operations spanning 39 territories, JLT faces a very large different regulators around the world.
Its principal number and range of local, regional and international regulator is the UK Financial Conduct Authority.
Given this, it is impossible to comment on Current trends the relative individual strengths and weaknesses of our competitors, although we do complete with Marsh, Aon The regulatory regimes under which we operate around and Willis in many of our operations around the world.
the world are generally becoming more sophisticated, more demanding and more interventionist.
While this Current trends places additional strain and cost on the business, The financial crisis and the softening rating environment strong regulation also creates a more level playing field have combined over recent years to create a very and helps stimulate greater client demand, so is challenging competitive environment, with some players something we encourage and welcome as being willing to be very aggressive with their price and service positive for our clients, our people and the industry at offering to maintain their market share or win new large.
Future outlook Future outlook We would anticipate the various regulatory regimes There is no reason to believe that the competitive under which we operate around the world, particularly environment will ease in the near future.
Indeed, JLTs in more mature markets, to continue to increase the continued international expansion may introduce a new level of scrutiny and requirements placed on the set of local competitors.
insurance broking industry in our various local jurisdictions.
Impact on JLT Impact on JLT JLTs growth and success arguably makes us more of a target to attack.
As JLT grows, we can expect a greater level of regulatory scrutiny on our business in line with our However, JLT has been able to attract people and increased relevance, particularly for those of our clients, differentiate itself against the competition and businesses that carry consumer conduct risk.
Over grow through its specialty-led focus and distinctive the last 24 months we have significantly increased our culture that places clients first and values advocacy, investment in our risk management framework and expertise, tailored solutions and service excellence over personnel to adjust to these changing circumstances, commoditisation, bureaucracy and a focus on price to as discussed in the report of the Audit & Risk the exclusion of all other factors.
We feel confident that Committee on page 50.
There is considerable financial our distinctive culture and strong momentum will allow cost associated with this, not to mention an increasing us to continue to grow.
amount of management time, but we are committed to working constructively with all of our regulators to ensure that we meet our regulatory commitments and Organic revenue growth rate 2009-13 protect our clients interests.
10% In 2013 JLT Specialty a subsidiary of JLT was fined 8.5% 1.8 million by the FCA for failing to adhere to its 8% 7% 7% 7% systems and procedures to mitigate the risks 6% associated with overseas business introduced by third 5% parties.
4.3% 3.8% 4% 3.4% There was no suggestion by the FCA or evidence found 2% by them to suggest that JLT Specialty permitted any 1.3% illicit payment or inducement to be paid to any third 0 party introducer during the period, nor that JLT 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Specialty intended to permit any such payment to be -1.5% made.
Indeed the FCA recognised that JLT Specialty Organic growth is on fees and commissions excluding the impact of JLT Limited made significant efforts to improve its systems acquisitions, disposals, investment income and currency Average for US quoted brokers Aon, Marsh, Willis, Gallagher and controls framework over the period.
Whilst there was clearly process failure which we have now addressed, we believe that our culture acted as a strong first line of defence ensuring that no illicit payments were made.
