Investment Policy The Investment Policy has been recently amended through an Geographic focus EGM held on 7 February 2014.
These amendments were the We believe that attractive opportunities for JLIF to enhance subject of a separate communication to shareholders which is returns for shareholders are likely to arise in areas of the world available on our website www.
The changes have been where PPP is a practiced route for delivering infrastructure designed to ensure that we are able to capitalise on changes in investments.
The Company may, therefore, make investments the global infrastructure market and to allow us to take advantage in the European Union, other European countries, Canada, the of attractive investment opportunities in portfolios of projects United States of America and the Asia Pacic region.
which become visible and would otherwise be missed.
The The Company will seek to mitigate country risk by concentrating changes will give us greater exibility in investment decisions on investment opportunities in jurisdictions where JLCM advises and to create further value for shareholders.
that contract structures and their enforceability are reliable, We would like shareholders to be aware that we have not where to the extent applicable JLCM advises that public sector identied any immediate opportunities arising from these or government-backed obligations carry a satisfactory credit changes in investment policy and we are not pro-actively seeking rating and where financial markets are relatively mature.
JLIF will in-construction or non-PPP assets.
Rather, we believe that with ensure that over 50% of the Companys Total Assets, measured these changes we are better positioned to continue to capture by value, will be in respect of projects that are based in the UK carefully selected opportunities and to meet our investment although this will not require JLIF to dispose of Investment objective over the longer term.
Capital in respect of non-UK projects if this limit is breached as a result of changes in value of the Investment Portfolio.
The following describes our investment policy as amended.
Single investment limit and diversity of clients and suppliers General When any new acquisition is made, JLIF will ensure that the JLIFs Investment Policy is to invest predominantly in the equity investment or, in the event of an acquisition of a Portfolio of and subordinated debt issued with respect to infrastructure investments, each investment in the Portfolio acquired does projects that are predominantly PPP projects.
The Company not have an acquisition value or, if it is an additional stake in predominantly invests in projects that have completed an existing investment, the combined value of both the existing construction and that are in their operational phase.
Investment stake and the additional stake acquired is not greater than 25% capital in projects that are under construction will be limited of JLIFs Total Assets immediately post acquisition.
In selecting to 30% of the Total Assets of the Fund calculated at the time new investments to acquire, JLIF will seek to ensure that the of investment.
Portfolio of projects in which JLIF invests has a range of public JLIF predominantly invests in projects whose revenue streams: sector clients and supply chain contractors, in order to avoid over-reliance on any single client or contractor.
are public sector or government-backed: and are predominantly availability-based where payments Gearing received by the Project Entities do not generally depend JLIF intends to make prudent use of leverage leverage in the on the level of use of the asset, other projects being context of JLIF excluding senior debt in place at Project Entity demand-based where payments received by the Project level for nancing acquisitions of investments and working Entities depend on the level of use made of the project assets.
Under the company articles, and in accordance A project is availability-based or demand-based for these with JLIFs Investment Policy, JLIFs outstanding borrowings, purposes if the Investment Adviser deems that 75% or more excluding intra-group borrowings and the debts of underlying of payments received by the relevant Project Entity does or Project Entities but including any financial guarantees to support does not, as appropriate, generally depend on the level of subscription obligations, will be limited to 25% of JLIFs Total use of the project asset.
JLIF may borrow in currencies other than Sterling as part of its currency hedging strategy.
Whilst it is envisaged that further acquisitions will be of operational PPP projects with availability-based revenues, it may be possible that a limited number of projects in construction and or with Origination of investments demand based revenue mechanisms may be acquired.
All of the investments in the Portfolio have similar characteristics to those set out above and further investment opportunities will Investment capital in projects whose revenue streams are only be pursued if they generally satisfy these criteria.
It is predominantly demand-based will be limited to 15% of the Total expected that further investments will include investments that Assets of the Fund calculated at the time of investment.
For the have been originated and developed by members of the John purposes of this restriction the shadow toll mechanisms for the Laing Group and may be acquired from them.
investments in the M40 and M6 M74 motorway projects are not regarded as carrying demand risk due to their relative insensitivity We have established procedures to deal with any potential to trafc movement.
conicts of interest that may arise from individuals at John Laing who may act for the sell side for any member of the John In addition, the Company may invest up to 10% of its Total Assets Laing Group in relation to any acquisition of assets from the calculated at the time of investment in infrastructure assets that John Laing Group.
These procedures include: are not government-backed PPP assets but that have substantially the same risk prole and characteristics as PPP assets.
Complete segregation of JLCM, acting on behalf of JLIF, and the John Laing sell side team: 01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2013 17.
A requirement to conduct asset due diligence through third Currency and hedging policy party suppliers acting for JLIF, and for a report on the Fair A portion of JLIFs underlying investments may be denominated Market Value of the Investment Capital to be obtained from in currencies other than Sterling.
For example, currently some an independent expert: and of the Portfolio is denominated in Canadian Dollars and Euros.
However, any dividends or distributions in respect of the Ordinary JLIF Limited board approval prior to submitting an offer Shares will be made in Sterling and the market prices and Net to John Laing and prior to execution of the Sale and Asset Value of the Ordinary Shares will be reported in Sterling.
Currency hedging will only be carried out to seek to provide JLIF will seek to acquire further investments going forward both protection to the level of Sterling dividends and other distributions from John Laing and from the wider market.
In selecting the that JLIF aims to pay on the Ordinary Shares, and in order to assets to acquire, JLCM will ensure that these projects have reduce the risk of currency uctuations and the volatility of similar characteristics to the projects in the Portfolio and meet returns that may result from such currency exposure.
This may JLIFs investment criteria.
involve the use of foreign currency borrowings to finance foreign currency assets, or forward foreign exchange contracts for up Any proposed acquisition of assets by JLIF from the John Laing to three years to hedge the income from assets that are exposed Group that fall within the overall investment parameters set by to exchange rate risk against Sterling.
JLIF, including in relation to funding, will be subject to approval by the Directors, who are independent of John Laing.
Interest rate hedging may also be carried out to seek to provide protection against increasing costs of servicing any debt drawn The relationship between JLIF and John Laing is governed by down by the Company to finance investments.
This may involve the the Rules, as dened in the Prospectus.
These require that any use of interest rate derivatives and similar derivative instruments.
arrangements between a Relevant Person as dened in the Rules and JLIF are at least as favourable to JLIF as would be any Currency and interest rate hedging transactions will only be comparable arrangement effected on normal commercial terms undertaken for the purpose of efficient Portfolio management and negotiated at arms length between the Relevant Person and an these transactions will not be undertaken for speculative purposes.
Amendments to and compliance with the Investment Policy JLIF has a contractual right of first offer in accordance with the Amended Existing FOA and the New FOA for relevant Investment Material changes to JLIFs Investment Policy may only be made Capital in UK, European and Canadian accommodation and in accordance with the approval of the shareholders by way of roads and rail projects of which the John Laing Group wishes ordinary resolution and for so long as the Ordinary Shares are to dispose and that are consistent with our Investment Policy.
listed on the ofcial list in accordance with the UKLA Listing Rules.
It is envisaged that the John Laing Group will periodically make The investment restrictions detailed above apply at the time of available for sale further Portfolios of Investment Capital in the acquisition of Investment Capital.
In the ordinary course of infrastructure projects although there is no guarantee that this business, JLIF will not be required to dispose of Investment will be the case.
Subject to due diligence and agreement on Capital and to rebalance its investment Portfolio as a result of a price, we will seek to acquire those projects that t our change in the respective valuations of Investment Capital.
changes to the Investment Policy must be approved by the JLIF We will also seek out and review acquisition opportunities Board, taking into account advice from the Investment Adviser from outside the John Laing Group that arise and will, where where appropriate.
appropriate, carry out the necessary due diligence.
If, in the opinion of JLCM, as Operator of JLIF Limited Partnership the Policy based KPIs: Partnership, the risk characteristics, valuation and price of the KPI 2013 2012 Investment Capital in the project or portfolio of projects for sale Any single investment shall not be Max.
single Max single is acceptable and is consistent with our Investment Policy, then 5 greater than 25% of total assets asset: 8.20% asset: 11.1% subject to JLIF having funds an offer will be made without seeking the prior approval of the Board and, if successful, the Borrowings of the JLIF group shall Max.
debt Investment Capital in the relevant project or portfolio of projects not exceed 25% of total assets drawn during drawn during will be acquired by JLIF, following approval by the Board.
the year: 21.6% the year: 2.2% Investments in construction shall Nil Nil Potential disposals of investments 6 not exceed 15% of total assets Whilst the Directors may elect to retain Investment Capital in the Portfolio projects which JLIF acquires and any other further Investments receiving demand Nil Nil investments made by JLIF over the long term, JLCM will based payments shall not exceed regularly monitor the valuations of such projects and any 15% of total assets secondary market opportunities to dispose of Investment Capital Investments in non-PPP Nil Nil and report to the Directors accordingly.
The Directors only intend infrastructure assets shall not to dispose of Investments where upon the advice of JLCM they exceed 10% of total assets consider that appropriate value can be realised for JLIF or where they otherwise believe that it is appropriate to do so.
Proceeds from the disposal of investments may be reinvested or 5 Total assets of the Group.
distributed at the discretion of the Directors.
6 This restriction was increased to 30% after being approved by shareholders in February 2014.
