The Investment Adviser The Portfolio has grown by almost 50% in value during 2013 through a combination of value enhancement within the Portfolio and adding a significant value of new assets through successful acquisitions during the year.
We are particularly proud of the transaction with Investors in the Community to acquire our largest portfolio since launch, which gave JLIF the opportunity to demonstrate credibility and deliverability as a partner.
David Marshall David is a Director of JLCM, responsible for delivering the funds performance targets.
His extensive experience across infrastructure investment and M&A has played a key part in his helping take JLIF from a market capitalisation of 270.0 million at launch to a market capitalisation of 882.8 million in just over three years.
He has helped raise new equity in the market of over 525 million since launch and has overseen JLIFs portfolio expand from an initial 19 assets to more than 50 assets over the same period.
Prior to his current role, David was Chairman of the John Laing Investment Committee as well as Group Treasurer and was instrumental in the major corporate transactions that transformed the John Laing Group from a construction company to a leading PPP player.
Prior to joining John Laing, David was group treasurer of two FTSE 100 companies.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, a Fellow of the Association of Corporate Treasurers and a member of the Association of Investment Companies Infrastructure and Property Forum.
Andrew Charlesworth JLIF has delivered a total shareholder Andrew is a Director of JLCM, responsible for return in the year of 13.5% and has delivering the funds performance targets.
He has raised 282 million of new capital been able to draw on 19 years of experience in during 2013 its largest amount ever, infrastructure development and finance to help JLIF grow from a Portfolio Value of 259.0 million being more than at its IPO in 2010. at launch to a Portfolio Value of 795.8 million, This is a strong demonstration of overseeing JLIFs entry into the FTSE 250 index the continued support of our within just 11 months of its IPO.
Andrews broad experience of the PPP market, having acted as shareholders and their commitment advisor to authorities in procuring PPP projects to JLIF and its aspirations.
We have and to senior lenders in funding them has reduced the total expense ratio ensured that the investments JLIF has made have been accretive to shareholder value, materially, from 1.23% to 1.16%, delivering above forecast returns.
and continue to search for new Prior to his current role, Andrew led significant opportunities to grow JLIF with high parts of the primary investment business within quality assets and management.
John Laing, initially as CEO of Regenter a John Laing social housing PPP joint venture, then as Local Authority PPP Director and lastly as the Financial and Commercial Director for the global John Laing Investments business.
Andrew holds the CFA UKs Investment JLIF is advised by John Laing Capital Management Certicate.
Management which is able to draw upon a wealth of experience in infrastructure investments, management and development.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2013 19.
JLIF has had an exceptional year growing the Portfolio through value enhancing transactions.
During 2013, JLIF completed 20 acquisitions investing 265 million.
62% of the value invested was in to investments outside of first offer arrangements, which is 50% higher than in 2012, demonstrating JLIFs credibility and deliverability as a buyer.
Looking ahead, we are expanding our horizons for 2014 and beyond by actively pursuing new international markets for JLIF.
Jamie Pritchard Jamie is Director of Asset Management for JLCM.
His primary focus is on ensuring that forecast returns from JLIFs portfolio are delivered and on identication and management of value enhancements.
In his role, Jamie serves as a director on the board of a number of the project companies in which JLIF is a shareholder.
With over 12 years experience in infrastructure investments gained across both the primary and secondary markets, Jamies extensive portfolio management experience helped deliver value enhancements that underpinned underlying growth in 2013 of 53.7 million and ensured that distributions received from the underlying assets were 8.6 million ahead of budget.
Jamie also provides support for JLIFs bidding activities with specic focus on valuation, identifying value enhancements and portfolio structuring.
Prior to joining JLCM, Jamie worked at Serco leading the commercial and financial structuring of bids, prior to which he worked at Balfour Beatty Investments.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Joanne Gibbins We have continued to drive growth in Joanne is Director of Investments for JLCM, the Portfolio over and above the natural responsible for the sourcing, valuation and unwind of the discount rate and to execution of acquisitions, development of deliver yield ahead of forecast from JLIFs business into new PPP markets, and for shareholder and board reporting.
Joanne has the underlying projects through our over 10 years experience in infrastructure extensive knowledge, experience and investments and serves as a director at both expertise in managing infrastructure asset and corporate levels.
She led the process that saw JLIF sign a 150 million revolving assets.
Looking forward the operation credit facility in early 2013 and was responsible and management of the Portfolio for 266 million of acquisitions during the year.
continues to be key in underpinning Prior to joining JLCM, Joanne led the finance the success of JLIF.
and commercial elements of multiple PPP projects across most sectors of the infrastructure market, both in the UK and internationally, and raised and invested project finance of approximately 500 million.
Previously, Joanne worked at Carillion, a  company, and gained significant experience in financial modelling for bidding and advising consortia on their investments.
Joanne holds the ACSI designation.
