Strategic Report Objective: Our aim is to generate long term sustainable value through quality investments in and management of low risk infrastructure projects.
Strategy We invest predominantly in equity and subordinated debt interests in respect of PPP projects, whose revenues are backed by governments in scally strong countries.
We also consider investments in non-PPP projects that display similar risk characteristics to those above.
Sectors We continue to invest in the traditional core PPP sectors in which we currently own projects and we intend to broaden our sector diversity to include rail projects.
Governments are placing greater emphasis on economic infrastructure, compared to social infrastructure, than we have seen historically, and JLIF is ensuring it is well positioned to take advantage of future opportunities.
Geographies Our geographic spread reects the concentration of PPP transactions to date and the maturity and support of the PPP markets.
The Portfolio predominantly resides in the UK, followed by Canada and Continental Europe.
We hope to further diversify our exposure to new markets, particularly Australia and the United States of America.
We have recently expanded JLIFs Investment Policy to have the ability to invest up to 30% of our Portfolio in assets still in their construction phase increased from 15% and up to 10% of the Portfolio to be invested in projects that are not classied as PPP projects but which exhibit a substantially similar risk prole and characteristics.
Full details of the Investment Policy are set out on pages 16 and 17 of this Annual Report.
Market Outlook Our investments are located in the UK, Canada, Finland and the Netherlands.
The Portfolio is concentrated in infrastructure markets that support PPP as a method of procurement at a national level, and where a pipeline of secondary market transactions is highly likely.
JLIFs Investment Policy states that at least 50% of the Portfolio must remain in the UK.
The UK represents a significant portion of the Portfolio, which broadly corresponds to global PPP concentration.
We aim to increase the geographic diversication of the Portfolio over the medium term as the map below demonstrates.
3 Projected regional outlook 47 by number of assets 2 Currently operating Short term projected region 1-3 years Medium term projected region 3-5 years Long term projected region -5 years Both Canada and Continental Europe have mature secondary PPP markets with a large number of transactions and a material pipeline of activity to follow over the coming years.
These markets have strong political support for PPP and a diversied participant base with robust credentials.
Australia and the United States of America USA are developing their secondary markets as the drive to invest in infrastructure increases.
Both have large-scale infrastructure projects that require significant amounts of private sector investment and we anticipate these markets to grow substantially over the next five years.
USA Canada Latin America United Kingdom Continental Europe Asia Pacic Australia
