Board of Directors Paul Lester CBE, Chairman Paul Lester, a resident of the United Kingdom, was appointed as non-executive Chairman of five organisations: Greenergy International Ltd on 1 October 2010, Survitec Group in August 2011, Peverel in April 2012, Paribas in October 2012 and Signia Wealth Ltd in January 2014.
Mr Lester was chief executive of VT Group plc, the support services company, from July 2002 until its acquisition by Babcock International in July 2010.
Mr Lester was group managing director of Balfour Beatty plc, the international engineering, construction and services group, from 1997 to 2002, and chief executive of Graseby plc from 1990 to 1997.
Mr Lester has also held senior management positions at Schlumberger and the Dowty Group plc.
Mr Lester is a former president of the Society of Maritime Industries, and the Engineering Employees Federation EEF.
Mr Lester recently stepped down as non-executive Director of Invensys plc.
David MacLellan, Deputy Chairman David MacLellan, a resident of the United Kingdom, is the founder and currently Chairman of RJD Partners, a midmarket private-equity business focussed on the services and leisure sectors.
Previously, Mr MacLellan was an executive director of Aberdeen Asset Managers plc following its acquisition in 2000 of Murray Johnstone where he was latterly Chief Executive having joined the company in 1984.
Mr MacLellan has served on the boards of a number of companies and is currently chairman of Havelock Europa plc and a non-executive director of Maven Income and Growth VCT 2 plc.
He is a past council member of the British Venture Capital Association and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
All the current members of the JLIF Board have been in post since the Company was incorporated in August 2010.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2013 13.
Christopher Spencer Talmai Morgan Guido Van Berkel Talmai Morgan, a resident of Guernsey, qualied Guido Van Berkel, a resident of Luxembourg, Christopher Spencer, a resident of Guernsey, as a barrister in the United Kingdom in 1976.
He started his career in the financial industry nearly qualied as a chartered accountant in London moved to Guernsey in 1988 where he worked for 40 years ago and has held various senior positions in 1975.
Following two years in Bermuda, he Barings as general counsel and then for the Bank with Bank Sarasin, Rabobank, Robeco Group and moved to Guernsey.
Mr Spencer, who specialised of Bermuda as Managing Director of Bermuda Citibank.
Over the course of his career, he has in audit and duciary work, was Managing Trust Guernsey Limited.
From January 1999 to worked in The Netherlands, Jersey, Switzerland, Partner Director of Pannell Kerr Forster Guernsey June 2004, Mr Morgan was Director of Fiduciary Luxembourg and Scandinavia.
Limited from 1990 until his retirement in May 2000.
Services and Enforcement at the Commission From 2001 until 2007 Mr Van Berkel was active Mr Spencer is a member of the AIC Offshore Guernseys financial regulatory agency where he on the Executive Board of Bank Sarasin in Committee, a past President of the Guernsey was responsible for the design and subsequent Switzerland and as such he acted as chairman of implementation of Guernseys law relating to the Society of Chartered and Certied Accountants various Sarasin entities across Europe and Asia.
regulation of duciaries, administration businesses and a past Chairman of the Guernsey Branch Currently Mr Van Berkel is independent director and company directors.
Mr Morgan was also of the Institute of Directors.
Mr Spencer sits in a number of Luxembourg, British, Channel involved in working groups of the Financial Action on the board of Directors of Real Estate Credit Islands and Dutch investment fund ranges and Task Force and the Offshore Group of Banking Investments Limited, Tamar European Industrial from the beginning of 2012 he is chairman of Supervisors.
From July 2004 to May 2005, Fund Limited, JP Morgan Private Equity Limited, BlackRock Luxembourg SA and BlackRock Fund Mr Morgan served as Chief Executive of Management Srl in Luxembourg as well as Dexion Trading Limited and Ruffer Investment Guernsey Finance, which is the ofcial body chairman of Blackrock Fund Managers Limited.
Company Limited, each of which is listed on the for the promotion of the Guernsey finance London Stock Exchange.
Mr Morgan is now the chairman or a non-executive director of a number of investment companies including companies listed on the London Stock Exchanges Main Market for listed securities.
He is Chairman of the Listed Hedge Fund Forum of the Association of Investment Companies and holds an M. A. in economics and law from the University of Cambridge.
