Strategy 21 21 Schematic map of BTs global network coverage a MPLS point of access Satellite Ethernet access DSL access City bre networks Network-to-network interface a Countries where BT, directly or working with partners, has an MPLS network service.
As part of our cost transformation, we continued to consolidate ofce This year we opened a new development centre in Kuala Lumpur, space and dispose of redundant premises.
This property rationalisation Malaysia, and recently opened a new building for our centre in will continue under our restructuring programme.
These complement our existing centres in Belfast, Glasgow, Cardiff, Adastral Park and Dallas andgive us local technical expertise and spread our development more evenly around the world.
Innovation We have to create propositions that our customers nd attractive Our people help us innovate and improve our service to customers.
Innovation, supported by our global research and Thisyear our award-winning internal New Ideas Scheme received more development, has therefore always been at the core of our business.
than 1,000submissions to improve service, generate revenue or reduce costs.
Our My Customer Challenge Cup competition encourages our Our open innovation model gives us access to thinking from outside people to identify areas where customer service is not as good as it BT, from small, start-up companies to some of the best universities should be, and work together to make improvements.
We have teams working with customers, partners and universities in the US, Asia, Europe and the Middle East.
They help us to Our customers also play a part.
We run innovation showcases allowing maintain our view of global developments in new technologies, business them to discuss applications and solutions with our experts.
In turn, we propositions and market trends.
This year we opened a new research get to hear rsthand what they need.
laboratory with Tsinghua University in China.
This year, our research and development focused on: In 2012 13 we led patent applications for 69 inventions.
We routinely improving broadband coverage.
We have eld-tested broadband seek patent protection in different countries and at 31 March 2013 a ampliers and regenerators to extend the reach of our ADSL2 and we had a worldwide portfolio of more than 4,400 patents and bre services.
We have also trialled TV white space radio technology applications.
We support the UK Governments new Patent Box initiative to connect remote communities cost-effectively that recognises those companies investing in UK research, patents and improving broadband speed.
We have been trialling new techniques innovation.
This initiative could provide tax relief on profits from certain such as vectoring on FTTC lines a solution which improves speed BT products which are based on our patented inventions.
and stability by reducing interference and bonding.
We have been This year we invested 544m 2011 12: 560m in research and researching solutions for delivering ultra high-speed broadband development to cultivate innovation.
Our research, development and up to 1Gbps over the final copper drop.
And we have trialled testing is done at global development centres located in the UK, US and the worlds first 10Gbps XGPON technology to a customer over a Asia, and is headquartered at Adastral Park in the UK.
These centres help brenetwork us draw together complementary skills and resources more easily both our own and third-party.
They reduce turnaround time, ensure tighter feedback loops and help us get products and services into the market sooner.
a On average, we le with four member states of The Patent Cooperation Treaty and three member states of the European Patent Convention.
