Strategy 20 20 Our major global asset is our MPLS platform, which is designed to carry Our assets and resources different network services over one common infrastructure.
This lowers These are what we need to help us deliver costs and reduces the time to offer new services.
Many of them set us apart from From this platform we offer our two most popular virtual private network VPN services: IP Connect and Ethernet Connect.
IP Connect our competitors and give us an advantage in is available in more than 170 countries.
This year we invested in 10 new ourmarkets.
IP Connect points of presence POPs, six new Ethernet access countries and five new network-to-network interfaces.
Ethernet Connect has grown substantially in the last year.
We invested in 10 new Ethernet Brand and reputation Connect POPs, and the service is now available in 43 countries.
The BT brand is an important business asset.
Superbrands, a respected assessment of brand strength, ranked BT as the UKs 62nd strongest Our internet platform is available in 38 countries.
We have also invested Consumer Superbrand in 2013 up more than 100 places from 2012 in six new gateways from our internet platform to IP Connect, increasing and the 12th strongest Business Superbrand 17th in 2012.
In both coverage and reducing the cost of internet access.
cases, we came top in our category.
We have a large broadband satellite network as shown on the map Our partnership with London 2012 strengthened our brand.
As a onpage 21. sponsorship programme, we benefited in a number of ways.
First, the Games network we built showcased our expertise on the worlds biggest We are expanding our UK and global IP Exchange service GIPX.
We stage and was vital to the success of the event.
have more than 150 customers in the UK alone on this product and we have plans in place to add new features to support services such as HD Second, our communications services for the Games showed the world voice and video calling.
what we do in the UK every day, helping to bring people together to share in occasions big and small.
This year we: Third, our sponsorship and in particular our work with the British expanded further in the high-growth regions of Asia Pacic, Latin Paralympic Association demonstrated our belief in the power of America, Turkey, the Middle East and Africa communication to make a better world.
upgraded capacity in Europe and around the world simplied our networks closing some legacy services and migrating Independent research by Nielsen London 2012s ofcial market customers onto newer and better services, and lowering our costs research provider showed that we were the domestic sponsor most upgraded our European bre backbone that is the foundation of associated with the Games and the single sponsor most recognised ourservices in nine European countries and 77 cities forproviding expertise and services to support the event.
invested in a new bre backbone in South Africa.
Our own research showed that consumers and BT people valued our To make sure their own networks are performing at their best, customers brand more because of our involvement.
In September 2012 more than can use our BT Connect Applications portfolio.
This is available globally 70% of our people said that the London 2012 sponsorship made them and can be used to accelerate, optimise and monitor trafc across proud to work for BT.
Our brand health research shows an increase in emotional engagement with the BT brand amongst consumers and SMEs in the year.
Brand Platforms engagement amongst large corporate and public sector customers Our platforms are the processes and technology that deliver our network also improved, driven by a particularly strong performance in non-UK products and services.
They are critical to running our business.
For example, our service management platform comprises our service Some of the highest scores in our surveys indicate that our brand delivery and workow management processes.
It lets us co-ordinate strengths are around being trusted and liked, and being seen as everything we need to do to give our customers their service.
keeps our customers updated on the progress of their orders.
Our billing and payments platform is made up of the systems and Networks and platforms processes that work out charges, produce bills and collect payments Networks from our customers.
Our networks are the foundation of the products and services our customers rely on around the world.
We have domestic network assets, The number of platforms we own has grown over time as we have which provide in-country services, and global assets, which provide bought companies, won outsourced contracts and brought in new international services.
We continue to improve our platforms.
We modernise andrationalise them, make them simpler, more reliable and moreexible Our largest assets are in the UK where we offer the widest range of and make them cheaper to run.
network services, access technologies and coverage.
Our UK xed-line network is one of our most valuable assets and our bre broadband While our UK data centre and IT infrastructure grew in the year, we investment is key to sustaining its value for the UK.
spent 8% less on associated energy costs.
We have programmes in place to help us cut our IT energy use over the coming years including using We are growing our Ethernet footprint in response to strong demand fewer IT applications.
We have around 1,170 Ethernet bre nodes located across the UK with BT Wholesale increasing the number of Properties Ethernet circuits installed in the year by 63%.
The total number of At 31 March 2013 we occupied around 6,400 properties in the UK Ethernet circuits provided by Openreach increased by 15%, with growth andaround 1,750 in the rest of the world.
Most of our UK properties strongest at speeds of 1Gbps and above.
We also deployed the worlds areowned by and leased from Telereal Trillium, part of the William largest high-density wiservice at the London 2012 Olympic Park Pears Group.
and installed more than 1,500wireless access points across all of the Olympic venues.
Of our UK properties, around 90% are operational telephone exchanges housing telecoms equipment.
Our general purpose properties are mainly We also have deep in-country networks in Germany, Italy, the ofces, engineering depots and data centres.
Outside the UK, around Netherlands, the Republic of Ireland and Spain.
In Latin America we 90% of our properties are operational sites housing data hosting and operate networks in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Mexico.
