Business 38 Gartner expects the market to grow in all the regions we operate in Outside the UK, we offer wholesale telecoms services to more than albeit at different rates.
Continental Europe is expected to experience 1,200 CPs around the world.
We compete with the wholesale divisions the lowest rate of growth at 2.0% a year over the next three years.
In of local incumbents, alternative network operators and global wholesale contrast, Asia Pacic, Latin America, Turkey, the Middle East and Africa telecoms companies like BICS and Level3.
We are Europes largest telecoms services wholesaler by revenue.
In the global business ICT market, we are focused on delivering major managed networked IT services securely, efficiently and globally.
European wholesalers market share by revenue According to ISG Research, BT has the highest standalone managed network services MNS market share globally, is the only provider with BT 17% double-digit share for standalone MNS services in each of the three Deutsche Telekom 12% major regions Americas, Asia Pacic and EMEA, and is the standalone FT-Orange 12% MNS market share leader in EMEA.
Telefnica 9% Telecom Italia 7% We experienced tough conditions in Europe and the financial services Other 43% sector during the year.
But we are increasing our market share in the high-growth regions.
The public sector generated 26% of our revenue.
In the UK, we are one of the Governments largest suppliers of networked IT services as a whole, they are our biggest customer.
Except as described on page 39, we have a normal customer and supplier relationship with them.
Of our corporate customers, financial institutions are our largest customer Source: Ovum, December 2012 based on 2011 data segment, generating 19% of our revenue in the year.
We also supply a range of services to other telecoms companies.
Regulation BT Global Services 2012 13 revenue by sector Communications services are vital in a modern Corporate customers 46% world.
This means the industry sometimes needs Public sector UK and overseas 26% to be controlled and monitored.
In nearly all our Financial Institutions 19% markets, these services are subject to regulation Transit 6% by governmental and non-governmental bodies.
Other global carriers 3% In this section we explain some of the recent and upcoming decisions taken by regulators and how they affectus.
European Union EU regulation In EU countries, electronic communications services are governed by a number of European directives and regulations.
These create a EuropeWe serve: wide framework covering services including xed and mobile voice, 94% of the FTSE 100 companies broadband, cable and satellite TV.
74% of the Fortune 500 companies Different countries have implemented the existing directives in different 100% of Interbrands top 50 annual ranking of the worlds most ways.
The directives include rules covering access and interconnection, valuable brands universal service obligations, and how often national regulators should the worlds top stock exchanges, leading broker-dealers and review markets for significant market power SMP.
They also cover how biggestbanks regulators set price controls.
They require regulators to consult with the national and local government organisations and other public European Commission EC on any price control decisions before they are sectorbodies in 26 countries around the world.
nalised to make sure they are consistent with the European regulations.
As well as pursuing new customers, we aim to grow our share of existing During 2013 14 the EC is expected to issue guidance on regulating customers spending through increasing the number of products and next generation bre access networks.
We expect this to align the rest services we sell to them.
of Europe more closely with the existing UK approach.
The EC is also expected to review the scope of the relevant market segments covered Wholesale customers by telecoms regulation.
We serve the wholesale telecoms customer segment in Great Britain through Openreach and BT Wholesale.
In Northern Ireland and the UK regulation Republic of Ireland, we serve wholesale customers through BT Ireland.
The telecoms industry is regulated through various European directives, Everywhere else in the world, we serve the wholesale market through the Communications Act 2003 the Communications Act and Ofcom the wholesale arm ofBT Global Services.
the UKs independent regulator as well as other regulations and Openreach sells local loop and backhaul services to around 500 CPs recommendations.
the largest being Sky, TalkTalk and BT lines of business.
The Communications Act BT Wholesale works with more than 1,400 CPs, including all the big The Communications Act gives Ofcom legal powers and sets out the xed and mobile operators, ISPs and broadcasters.
We manage and legal requirements for how electronic communications services should support the network and services needs of many UK operators including be regulated in the UK.
It includes the conditions imposed by the EE, KCOM Group, MBNL, O2, Virgin Media and Vodafone.
The Government is currently reviewing our sectors competitors are Cable & Wireless Worldwide, Colt Group, TalkTalk and regulatory regime, with a new framework planned for 2015.
The review Virgin Media, as well as Ericsson for managed services.
is looking into how to encourage growth and innovation and how to remove unnecessary regulation.
