Business 37 Sky has the largest market share of pay-TV subscriptions at 66%.
We have a small market share but our subscriber base is Wehave a 5% share.
During the year we grew our TV customer base growing.
The main operators in the UK mobile market are Vodafone, O2 by15% compared with 1% for Sky and 0% for Virgin Media.
Conferencing Share of TV customers by pay-TV platform provider Demand for conferencing services is growing, particularly as companies seek to reduce their travel costs.
We sell conferencing services both BSkyB satellite 66% in the UK and overseas.
The global audio conferencing market has Virgin Media cable 26% continued to expand, with volume growth more than offsetting BT IPTV 5% declining prices.
In video conferencing, growth is particularly strong in Top Up TV DTT 2% the personal desktop market.
TalkTalk IPTV 1% Large corporate and public sector customers Large corporate and public sector customers are served by BT Global Services.
They are our biggest segment by external revenue.
Gartner, a leading information technology research and advisory company, estimates that the global business ICT market is worth around 647bn.
The market consists of a wide range of products and services.
Suppliers Source: Screen Digest, December 2012 range from large network-based vendors like us through to niche Excludes over-the-top IPTV providers who do not own the technology players.
Vendors specialise in different services such as systems distribution infrastructure integration, software development, IT hardware and telecoms solutions.
UK SMEs Global business ICT market size by geography We serve the UK SME market through BT Business and BT Ireland, which both sit within BT Retail.
We also deliver specialist services to SMEs UK HIGH-GROWTH as well as larger corporates through BT Conferencing, BT Expedite & REGIONS & IRELAND Fresca, and other divisions in BT Enterprises.
44bn 227bn There are an estimated 4.8m UK SMEs, from sole traders to businesses with up to 1,000 people.
Their communications and IT needs vary widely, depending on factors such as size, number of sites, industry andmaturity.
At the smaller end of the market, customers needs are simple and they sometimes buy services from consumer-orientated providers.
Larger customers have more complex needs, typically buying a range of voice, data, IT and mobile services.
We have around 1m SME customers in the UK.
Small businesses with fewer than 50 people make up more than 90% of these.
The SME market for xed and mobile communications and IT services in Great Britain is fragmented and highly competitive.
It is worth around 30bn of which we have a 7% share.
Fixed calls and lines The SME market for xed-voice is declining, with call volumes falling due to substitution by mobile, email and VoIP.
There are 8.8m business lines in the UK many SMEs take more than US CONTINENTAL WORLDWIDE one line.
We have a 47% market share of business lines, down two TOTAL & CANADA EUROPE percentage points in the year.
Our share of access and calls revenue 239bn 136bn 647bn was at in the year.
We compete against more than 300 resellers and xed network operators.
Daisy, TalkTalk, Virgin Media, XLN, Alternative Networks, Cable & Wireless Worldwide now owned byVodafone, Colt Group and KCOM Group are our main competitors.
Source: Gartner, Forecast: Enterprise IT spending by vertical industry market, Worldwide, 2011-2017, a 1Q13 Update Global ICT market includes Fixed Network Services and IT Services, excluding BPO IT services The IT services market stayed broadly at this year.
There has been Gartner expects the global business ICT market to grow at a compound more interest in both cloud-based services like managed hosting of IT annual growth rate of 3.1% over the next three years.
applications and data and unied communications services, which give Demand for network-based services, such as data, mobility, social businesses better exibility over their costs.
Our biggest competitors in networking, cloud and security is driving that growth as businesses seek to IT services are SCC, Computacenter, Phoenix IT, Kelway, Dimension Data tap into key technology trends and global opportunities.
Demand for more and Logicalis.
traditional services is declining as customers switch to newer technologies.
a Mobile The Gartner Report described herein, Gartner, Forecast: Enterprise IT Spending by Vertical Industry Market, Worldwide, 2011-2017, 1Q13 Update represents data, research opinion or Revenue in the UK mobile market has fallen, impacted by mobile viewpoints published, as part of a syndicated subscription service, by Gartner, Inc. Gartner, termination rate reductions and price erosion.
Call volumes have fallen and are not representations of fact.
Each Gartner Report speaks as of its original publication slightly but data volumes are increasing strongly due to the growth in date and not as of the date of this Report and the opinions expressed in the Gartner Report s smartphones and tablets.
We have focused on a few specic mobile are subject to change without notice.
