8 Board of Directors Sir Michael Rake Ian Livingston Tony Chanmugam Gavin Patterson Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director CEO, BT Retail Appointed to the Board as Appointed as Chief Executive Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board as CEO, Chairman inSeptember 2007. inJune 2008 and on the Board as Group Finance Director BT Retail in June 2008.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Sir Michael has financial, risk, Skills and experience Skills and experience Gavin has experience in sales, and international business and Ian has financial, risk, Tony has experience in finance, marketing and operations.
professional services expertise operational, sales and marketing risk and the management and He was formerly Managing gained during his time as and international business delivery of large contracts.
Director, Consumer Division, chairman of KPMG International experience.
He was formerly He was formerly CFO, BT BT Retail and before joining BT from 2002 to 2007.
He CEO, BT Retail and prior to that, Retail, and Managing Director, was managing director of the previously held other roles in Group Finance Director.
He BTEnterprises and, from consumer division of Telewest.
A Chartered joined Dixons Group in 1991 1997 to 2004, he was CFO Prior to this, he spent nine years Accountant, he was knighted after working for 3i and Bank and then Chief Operating at Procter and Gamble, rising to in 2007 for his services to the of America International.
His Officer of BT Global Solutions.
positions at Dixons spanned He qualified as a Chartered director.
operational and financial roles ManagementAccountant.
Other appointments include Other appointments include in the UK and overseas.
He is a Deputy chairman of Barclays Other appointments Non-executive director of Chartered Accountant.
and a non-executive director None outside BT.
Sir Michael is Other appointments include vice-president of the RNIB, a Non-executive director member of the board of the and chairman of the audit Transatlantic Business Council, committee of Celtic.
and is also to be appointed President of the Confederation of British Industry in June 2013.
Key to membership of Board Committees Operating Nominating & Governance Equality of Access Board Audit & Risk Sustainable and Responsible Business Remuneration BT Pensions BT Group plc Summary financial statement & notice of meeting 2013 9 Tony Ball Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt Phil Hodkinson Karen Richardson Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed to the Board in July Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board 2009.
A US Senior Independent Director national, age55.
Skills and experience in July 2009.
A British and Tony brings international Skills and experience Skills and experience Australian dual national, age64.
business expertise in addition Phil has experience in the With a 25 year career in the to financial, operational, sales Skills and experience financial sector as well as technology and software and marketing experience.
Patricia brings experience risk, control, governance and industry, Karen brings From 1999 to 2003 Tony was of running large complex sustainable business.
Phils experience in technology to the chief executive of BSkyB.
He organisations, government previous roles included group Board.
Karen was previously has also held a number of affairs, public policy and finance director of HBOS, a board member of i2Group senior executive positions in international business.
Patricia chairman of Insight Investment and from 1998 to 2005 Karen broadcasting and telecoms stepped down as an MP at the and Clerical Medical and chief was with the NASDAQbusinesses in the UK, US and 2010 election.
She was Secretary executive of Zurich Life and listed software company Continental Europe.
of State for Health from 2005 to Eagle Star Life.
Epiphany Inc, latterly as chief 2007 and Trade and Industry and executiveofficer.
Other appointments include Other appointments include Cabinet Minister for Women from Chairman of the supervisory Non-executive director of Other appointments include 2001 to 2005. board of Kabel Deutschland, Friends Life Group, Business in Director of Convercent, and and on the board of the Spanish Other appointments include the Community and Travelex.
an advisory board member of cable company ONO.
Independent director of Groupe Also a trustee of Action Medical the Mita Institute at Stanford Eurotunnel SA and chair of the Research and BBC Children in University.
UK India Business Council and Need.
Nick Rose Jasmine Whitbread Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board in in January 2011.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Nick brings experience Jasmine has experience in UK in finance, risk, control, and global businesses and governance and international corporate social responsibility business expertise.
He was chief and sustainable business.
She financial officer of Diageo prior was appointed chief executive of to his retirement in December Save the Children International 2010, having joined the board in 2010, having joined Save the in 1999.
Other appointments include Other appointments include Chairman of Williams Grand Governor of Dragon School Prix Holdings, senior independent Trust.
director of BAE Systems, and chairman of EdwardsGroup.
