We have built tools to help us speed up Payment of suppliers network design, use equipment in the best possible way and minimise This year the average number of days between invoice date and supplier the cost of build.
We are using them to design our FTTP network and payment was 60 days 2011 12: 61 days.
support the sale of Ethernet products.
We also used them to speed up In the UK we have a nancing scheme that offers contracted suppliers the design of the London 2012 venue networks the chance to be paid early.
This can be particularly attractive for SMEs.
We have changed the way we deliver We also follow the Better Payment Practice Code.
This means we avoid having to duplicate TV content streams over our network, so we will be able to cut costs and give ourcustomers more channels.
You can nd out more about the Better Payment Practice Code at www.
co. uk Suppliers Our suppliers from across the world play a vital role in helping us to How we measure our progress provide our products and services and deliver our strategy.
We work We have three key performance indicators: witharound 17,400 suppliers, spending approximately 9.7bn a year adjustedearnings per share, normalised free cash with them.
The top 100 account for around 62% of our annual spend.
ow and customer service improvement.
The number of suppliers we use is broadly the same as last year.
However, the mix of suppliers is constantly evolving as we look to benefit from new and improved products and services.
Adjusted earnings per share This is the adjusted profit after taxation attributable to our shareholders divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue.
As it Our approach to procurement excludes the impact of specic items it provides a measure of our We want to get the most from our suppliers especially from their diversity, financial performance in a consistent manner over time.
As part of our cost transformation programme we have concentrated on generating the best value from our largest suppliers.
Read more about adjusted earnings per share on page A category approach for the majority of other spend, using competition 46 and supplier negotiations, has achieved cost savings.
We also have a programme looking at our smaller suppliers.
This seeks Normalised free cash ow to make sure we get the most from them and that weare not taking on Free cash ow represents the cash we generate from operations after suppliers we do not need.
capital expenditure and finance costs.
It shows what cash is available toinvest in the business, repay debt, support the pension scheme and We have a team of around 300 procurement people in 27 countries pay dividends.
working with suppliers on this strategy.
Our key free cash ow measure changed from adjusted free cash ow to normalised free cash ow in 2012 13 following the 2.0bn lump sum Supplier selection pension deficit payment made in March 2012.
The 520m tax credit It is important to us that we know who we are doing business with and relating to the deficit payment would have distorted our cash ow in who is acting on our behalf.
So we choose suppliers using an established 2012 13, as would the 202m payment for the 4G spectrum licence.
set of principles that makes sure both we and the supplier act ethically and responsibly.
Normalised free cash ow is therefore before the impact of specic items, purchases of telecommunications licences, pension deficit We check that the goods and services we buy are made, delivered payments and the tax benefit from pension deficit payments.
and disposed of in a socially and environmentally responsible way, bymeasuring factors such as energy use, environmental impact and labour standards.
Read more about normalised free cash ow on page 47 You can nd out more at www.
com Customer service improvement Our strategy starts with customer service.
Right First Time is our key measure and tracks how often we keep the promises we make to our Supply chain human rights customers.
As well as improving service, keeping our promises means We want our suppliers employees to experience workplace conditions there is less work to put things right and so reduces our costs.
that meet the standards we have developed.
We send our suppliers an ethical standards questionnaire and follow up with any suppliers identied as high or medium risk.
This year we again met our target to Read more about customer service improvement on page 13 achieve100% follow-up within three months.
Number of on-site supplier assessments Year ended 31 March 2011 33 2012 54 2013 49
