Performance 41 BT Global Services a global leader NYSE makes every millisecond count with BT BT Global Services works with large corporate and public sector customers in more than 170 countries.
Performance The New York Stock Exchange is one of them.
With multi-million deals won or lost in milliseconds, itsa high-pressure and exacting environment.
So they, and many member rms on the trading oor, rely on In this section we discuss the financial BTs communications technology to interact, collaborate and trade securely and effectively.
performance of the group as well as the Harry Weber of the New York Stock Exchange, said: operating and financial performance of With BT, I get access to a whole team of experts, our customer-facing lines of business.
all backed by great project management.
42 Group Finance Directors introduction Find out more online at www.
com 43 Group financial performance 43 Group results 44 Overview 44 Outlook 44 Income statement 47 Cash ow 48 Net debt As a long-term partner, BT has 49 Taxation an excellent track record with 50 Capital expenditure the NYSE.
Overall, I believe that 50 Balance sheet 51 Pensions BT provides us with leading- 52 Other information edge and reliable technology 53 Line of business performance at a competitive price.
53 BT Global Services 55 BT Retail 58 BT Wholesale 60 Openreach Harry Weber 61 Our performance as a responsible and Managing Director Trading sustainable business Services and Telecommunications, NYSE Euronext We assess and explain the performance of the group using a variety of alternative performance measures.
These include underlying revenue and operating costs excluding transit, adjusted and reported EBITDA, adjusted earnings per share, normalised and reported free cash ow and net debt.
These are not dened under IFRS and are therefore termed non-GAAP measures.
Each of these measures is dened and discussed in more detail on pages170 to 172.
We assess the performance of our customer-facing lines of business on an adjusted basis, being before specic items which are not allocated to the customerfacing lines of business.
A denition of specic items is set out on page 170 and specic items for this year and the two prior years are disclosed in note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.
