Strategy 17 17 Net Good Our business model Our vision is to help society live within the constraints of our planets We have a sustainable business model which resources through our products and people.
supports our aim to deliver value to shareholders Our 2020 goal is to help our customers reduce carbon emissions by at and customers.
It is built around our strategy of least three times the end-to-end carbon impact of our business.
Customer service delivery, Cost transformation We have calculated our end-to-end impact as 5.0 megatonnes Mt of CO equivalent CO e emissions.
This is made up of 3.2Mt 64% from 2 2 andInvesting for the future.
our supply chain, 0.4Mt 8% from our operations and 1.4Mt 28% from the BT products used by our customers.
What sets us apart Today, we estimate that customers using our products and services avoid Our people Our technology Our brand Our financial generating at least 5.0Mt of carbon emissions through travelling less, Our networks strength for example.
This is equivalent to our current business impact.
We plan to achieve our 2020 goalby growing our product portfolio in this area We enhance the things whilst cutting our end-to-end emissions.
that set us apart This year, we set up the Better Future Supplier Forum www.
com Shareholders Delivering  to encourage our suppliers to develop value products and propositions more sustainably.
Customer Cost Investing Customers service delivery transformation for the future BT TSO is responsible for managing our energy consumption and direct Making carbon emissions see page 35.
We have signed contracts delivering connections, creating new 100% renewable electricity in the UK and Spain.
We have met our Society possibilities targetto reduce our UK emissions by 80% from our 1996 97 base year, three years early.
We make money by selling our services in the UK and around the world through our customer-facing lines of business.
These services Improving Lives often use the same underlying networks, platforms and people.
The We believe our people and products can help improve the lives of communications market is very competitive, particularly in the UK.
We hundreds of millions of people around the world.
Our 2020 goal is to never forget that customers have a choice.
use our skills and technology to help generate more than 1bn for good causes.
We sell our services through a range of channels including online, contact centres and desk or eld-based account managers.
Our revenue We have a long history of working with amazing causes to improve lives.
is largely subscription or contract based.
People, households and SMEs We have supported ChildLine for more than 25 years.
Our technology pay for standalone or bundled services monthly, quarterly or annually and people are the backbone of telethons such as the annual Children in typically on 12-24 month contracts.
Large corporate and public sector Need appeal and UNICEFs Soccer Aid.
customers typically buy managed networked IT services, usually on contracts spanning several years.
Contract durations with our wholesale Last year, supporting our 1bn goal, our people helped raise 25m customers range from just one month for regulated products, to five across our MyDonate telethon platform for our charity partners years or more for major managed services deals.
including Comic Relief and Children in Need.
We have been working with Comic Relief since the charity was formed in 1985 and this year we managed 458,000 incoming donation calls and co-ordinated more than What sets us apart 10,000 volunteers across 147 UK call centres, including around 1,000 We have a unique combination of people, brand, networks and BT volunteers in seven BT call centres.
And we havethe financial strength to make long-term investments in the future of our business.
Our MyDonate website is changing the way people give to charity online.
We are helping UK charities and their supporters to fundraise A committed, skilled and engaged group of employees is key to our online free of charge, with every penny donated going to their cause.
We have launched a new long-term initiative to make our This year 3,600 charities used it to raise funds.
people feel more empowered, invest in their skills and capabilities andimprove our ways of working.
Read more Our assets and resources that help us to deliver our strategy are www.
com mydonate described on page 20.
As well as our brand and networks they include www.
com partners bt the innovation activities we undertake to maintain our technology advantage.
They also include our platforms, our properties and suppliers.
