Business 39 Sky appealed in June 2010 against Ofcoms decision to regulate Sky Ofcom Sports 1 and 2.
In August 2012 the CAT decided in Skys favour, and Ofcom is the independent regulator and competition authority for the in April 2013 we received permission to appeal the CATs decision to whole UK communications market.
Its main duties are: the Court of Appeal.
to further the interests of citizens in relation to communications The charge controls for WLR, LLU and ISDN30 products which became matters effective in April 2012 had a negative impact of around 120m on to further the interests of consumers in relevant markets, where group revenue and EBITDA in the year.
We expect a further impact of appropriate by promoting competition.
Under the powers of the Communications Act, Ofcom sets conditions that During 2013 14, Ofcom is expected to complete its reviews of: CPs must comply with and can issue directions under these conditions.
Some conditions, known as General Conditions, apply to all CPs.
Others the Fixed Access market including WLR, LLU, GEA, ISDN 2 apply to certain individual companies that Ofcom has decided are andISDN30products universal service providers or have SMP in a particular market.
Anyone the Wholesale Broadband Access market including IPstream, can appeal against Ofcoms decisions through a number of routes, Datastream and WBC including to the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT or to the HighCourt.
the Wholesale narrowband market comprising calls and interconnection services.
The General Conditions that apply to all CPs are mainly about protecting consumers general access and interconnection, planning Where we are found to have SMP, Ofcom will carry out consultations for emergencies, providing information to Ofcom, and allocating and on setting controls.
These could change the prices we charge for transferring phone numbers.
We are the designated universal service provider for the UK except for Ofcom has recently opened a compliance investigation following a the Hull area where it is KCOM Group and so we have certain universal complaint which alleges that BT has acted anti-competitively, contrary service obligations.
This is an important responsibility and we take to UK and EU law.
The complaint alleges that BT has abused its dominant it seriously.
Our main obligation is to make sure that basic xed-line position, claiming that the margin between the prices BT Retail charges services are available at an affordable price to all consumers in the UK.
for some of its superfast broadband products, and the price paid to We are also obliged to provide public payphones.
Openreach for the relevant network inputs, is insufficient to allow other CPs to compete profitably with BT Retail.
Ofcom has stated that the The European directives require Ofcom to review relevant communications initial information gathering phase of the investigation will take place markets regularly, usually every three years, and to decide whether any CP during spring summer 2013 which will inform consideration during has SMP in those markets.
If Ofcom decides that a CP has SMP, it could put autumn winter 2013, of whether, and ifsohow, to proceed further with controls in place, typically on the prices which the CP can charge.
will generally try to set charges that are reasonably based on costs and an appropriate return on the capital invested.
See Ofcoms website at www.
uk Impact of regulation for more details on regulation There are a number of regulatory decisions and outcomes of appeals that affected us during the year and will impact us in the future.
BTs Undertakings In response to Ofcoms 2005 strategic review of telecommunications, we Ofcom nished its review of the business connectivity markets, which put forward some legally binding undertakings under the Enterprise Act cover products such as Ethernet and private circuits.
These Undertakings which include the creation of Openreach controls for another three years.
The main changes were an increase began in September 2005. in the size of the deregulated London area and deregulation of long distance wholesale private circuits and some retail leased lines.
We They aim to give clarity and certainty to the UK telecoms industry about also now have SMP in high bandwidth Ethernet services outside the the way we provide upstream regulated products.
This in turn supports deregulated London area which will be subject to a charge control.
effective and fair competition in related downstream markets.
We expect the charge controls to have a net negative year-on-year Most of the commitments in the Undertakings have been delivered, but impact of around 50m-100m on group revenue and EBITDA in we were unable to move a small percentage of certain customer records 2013 14 with a further similar impact in 2014 15. to separated computer systems by the target date of 31 December In December 2012 Ofcom issued its final determinations on disputes 2012.
Ofcom has issued a Direction, which we have accepted, that gives over historic Ethernet pricing.
Ofcom concluded that between April us until 30 November 2013 to meet this commitment.
2006 and March 2011 the prices we set for certain Ethernet services were too high resulting in an overcharge of 151m over this period.
Our relationship with HM Government We disagree with the determinations and have submitted an appeal We can be required by law to do certain things and provide certain to the CAT.
For example, under the Communications In July 2012 the Court of Appeal overturned the CATs favourable Act, we and others can be required to provide or restore services August2011 decision in relation to wholesale ladder pricing.
The Civil Contingencies Act 2004 also says that the Ladder pricing links the amounts that BTcharges mobile operators Government can impose obligations on us and others at times of for mobile calls to 0800, 0845 and 0870 numbers terminating on emergency or in connection with civil contingency planning.
The our network to the retail price charged by mobile operators to their Secretary of State can also require us to take certain actions in the customers.
We have been granted permission to appeal this decision interests of national security and international relations.
to the Supreme Court and the hearing is expected in early 2014.
In 2011 12 we recognised revenue of 56m and EBITDA of 29m from ladder pricing.
We did not recognise any revenue or profit from Overseas regulation ladder pricing this year.
One-off charges of 85m against revenue The degree of regulation in international markets varies widely.
This can and 58m against EBITDA have been recognised in the year relating hinder our ability to compete.
We are pressing incumbent operators and to ladder pricing in the 2010 11 and 2011 12 years.
their national regulatory authorities around the world for fairer, costIn March 2011 we lost an appeal to the CAT relating to Ofcoms related wholesale access to their networks.
decision in a dispute over our charges to other CPs for trunk In particular, we are working with the industry and the regulator in components of wholesale partial private circuits.
In July 2012 the the US to encourage early completion of the regulators review of Court of Appeal issued its judgment on our appeal against the CATs the Business Access market and to put remedies in place to address decision.
The appeal failed to set aside Ofcoms determination or the anydominance found.
CAT judgment, but provided helpful clarification of Ofcoms powers.
