Overview 7 Our progress against our strategic priorities Driving broadband-based Being the Brand for consumer services Business for UK SMEs We have again grown our market share of We want to be the first choice for SMEs for broadband, helped by demand for bundled all their xed and mobile communications products and BT Innity, our bre-based and IT needs.
We have around 1m customers service.
We now have around 1.3m retail bre and a clear leading position in xed-voice and customers, 19% of our broadband base.
We are seeing good growth in bre broadband.
New unlimited broadband offerings, free cloud storage, our SmartTalk app for smartphones and the largest in-country wiWe are growing our market share in IT services, have introduced network in the world with over five million hotspots set us apart a new range of cloud IT services and acquired Tikit, one of the from the competition.
largest independent suppliers of technology services to legal andaccountancy rms.
TV and broadband are increasingly complementary as viewing becomes more interactive.
We have secured some great content We grew our mobile customer base and launched a number of for our BT Sport channels including Premier League football, new mobile handsets and tablets.
We will develop converged Premiership rugby and womens tennis.
We launched YouView from xed and mobile services building on our investment in 4G BT and Extra TV our package of 22 TV channels andgrew our TV spectrum to offer customers the best possible connection customer base by 15%.
a BTs retail broadband market share Proportion of BT Business revenue from IT services At 31 March Year ended 31 March % % 40 22 38% 37% 36% 35% 20 34% 35 18 31% 30% 30 29% 28% 16 27% 25 14 12 20 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 10 Market share of broadband lines DSL bre 2011 2012 2013 Market share of broadband lines DSL bre cable a Excludes trade sales.
Source: BT and market data Our SmartTalk app lets consumers make phone calls from their We offer a wide range of products and services so that SMEs do not have smartphone which are billed as if calling from their BT home phone.
to rely on multiple suppliers.
Overview Overview 8 BT Global Services The wholesaler of choice a global leader We consolidated our position as a global leader in We want to be the wholesaler of choice in the UK the market for managed networked IT services.
and international telecoms services markets.
We We service the needs of around 7,000 large are already Europes largest wholesaler.
corporate and public sector customers in more We are supporting the launch of 4G services in the UK by investing in backhaul capacity at key mobile base station sites.
Our Ethernet than 170 countries worldwide.
service is available at around 15,000 base stations, making us the We combine products and services with industry-specic market leader.
IP Exchange, which simplies global voice over IP solutions and consulting expertise.
We provide services globally interconnect, saw a 90% increase in minutes carried in the year and deliver locally in the countries in which our customers operate.
We have focused on improving customer service and made BT Wholesale more than doubled its order book compared with investments to extend our global capabilities.
Both underlying revenue excluding transit and EBITDA saw an improved trend over the year, helped by growth Underlying revenue excluding transit declined by 6% in the inmanaged network services.
year reecting the tough conditions in Europe and the financial services sector.
We have more to do to improve our financial performance and have intensied our efforts to transform our BT Wholesale order intake cost base.
Year ended 31 March m 900 W We e ser serve: five: 720 94% of the FTSE 100 companies 540 74% of the Fortune 500 companies 100% of Interbrands top 50 annual ranking of 360 the worlds most valuable brands 180 The worlds top stock exchanges, leading broker-dealers and biggest banks 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 National and local government organisations 2012 2013 and other public sector bodies in 26 countries around the world The New York Stock Exchange is one of the many organisations that rely We give communications providers access to our platforms, skills and on us to deliver critical services.
technology, making our investments and economies of scale work for them.
Overview 9 The best network A responsible and provider sustainable business leader Fibre is our future.
We brought bre broadband Being a responsible and sustainable business to an additional 120,000 premises on average leader is at the heart of our strategy.
Beyond each week of the year.
Our bre broadband driving sustainable practices in our own network now passes more than 15m homes and operations, we recognise the broader value businesses, both in cities and rural areas, and wecan deliver to society.
More than 1.5m Our Better Future programme is our promise to use the power of communication to improve lives and ways of doing business.
This now enjoy the benets of faster speeds.
year we set three goals to achieve by the end of 2020 to shape our We added 834,000 users to our broadband network in the Better Future vision.
They are built on what we do best bringing year four out of five broadband users in the UK are now on our together our networks and technology with the expertise of our network.
Despite the challenges of some of the wettest weather people to make a better world.
Our goals are underpinned by our on record, we grew the total number of physical lines by 54,000. commitment to run our business with high ethical, environmental and supply chain standards, adding value and saving costs.
Revenue in Openreach decreased by 1% in the year as the impact of regulatory price changes more than offset the growth in bre This year we have again reduced our energy use.
We also helped to broadband and Ethernet.
We made progress against five of our seven sustainability performance indicators but the impact of the poor weather meant that we did not achieve two of them: our customer Total premises passed with bre service and sickness absence targets.
At 31 March million Indicates sustainability material in our report.
We recruited around 1,600 engineers into the group to help accelerate our We support the Comic Relief and Children in Need telethons, and operate the bre broadband rollout.
fee-free MyDonate platform for online donations.
