Strategy 11 11 Driving broadband-based consumer services Sidestepping international roaming charges Strategy with BT SmartTalk Were always trying to help our millions of consumer customers save money.
One of our latest innovations is BT SmartTalk.
Its an app that lets them make phone calls from their smartphone wherever they are in the world but which are billed In this section we explain our aim and asif calling from their BT home phone.
the strategy we are following to achieve Dan Hippey from Milton Keynes loves it: I do a lot of international travelling.
BT SmartTalk is really it.
We set out our business model and convenient and saves me money too.
the key role that our people play.
We Customers download the app from iTunes or Android describe our assets and resources and stores.
It runs on any mobile connection, but works best how we measure our progress using three over wi-.
And with access to more than eight million free wihotspots worldwide, that means BT broadband key performance indicators.
Finally, we customers like Dan can sidestep international roaming describe the principal risks our business charges when they phone from abroad.
faces and what we do tomitigate these.
Download the SmartTalk app online at www.
com smarttalk 12 Chief Executives introduction Or text SMART to 81192 13 Our strategy 13 Customer service delivery 13 Cost transformation 14 Investing for the future 14 Our strategic priorities BT SmartTalk is 14 Driving broadband-based consumer services really convenient 14 Being the Brand for Business for UK SMEs and saves me 15 BT Global Services a global leader 15 The wholesaler of choice money too.
15 The best network provider 16 A responsible and sustainable business leader 17 Our business model Dan Hippey BT broadband customer, Milton Keynes 18 Our people 20 Our assets and resources 20 Brand and reputation 20 Networks and platforms 20 Properties 21 Innovation 22 Suppliers 22 How we measure our progress 22 Adjusted earnings per share 22 Normalised free cash ow 22 Customer service improvement 23 Our risks 23 Principal risks and uncertainties 23 How we manage risk 23 Changes over the last year 24 Our principal risks Strategy
