Governance Governance 93 93 significant accounting policies, critical accounting Directors information estimates and key judgements Statement of Directors responsibilities Our significant accounting policies are set out on pages 109 to 115 of The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the the consolidated financial statements and conform with IFRS.
These Report on Directors Remuneration and the Financial statements in policies, and applicable estimation techniques have been reviewed accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires by the directors who have confirmed them to be appropriate for the the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
preparation of the 2012 13 consolidated financial statements.
Under that law the directors have elected to prepare the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and the Disclosure of information to auditors parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
In So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant information preparing the consolidated financial statements, the directors have also that has not been disclosed to the auditors and each of the directors elected to comply with IFRS, issued by the International Accounting believes that all steps have been taken that ought to have been taken to Standards Board IASB.
Under company law the directors must not make them aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give the auditors have been made aware of that information.
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and the company and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing these Going concern financial statements, the directors are required to: The sections on Strategy, Business and Performance on pages 11 to 61 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently include information on the group structure, the performance of each make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and of the lines of business, the impact of regulation and competition and prudent principal risks and uncertainties.
The Performance section on pages 41 state whether IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, and IFRS to 61 includes information on our financial results, financial outlook, issued by IASB and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been cash ow and net debt and balance sheet position.
Notes 22, 23, 24 and followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 26 of the consolidated financial statements include information on the in the consolidated and parent company financial statements groups investments, cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, derivatives, respectively financial risk management objectives, hedging policies and exposures to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless interest, foreign exchange, credit, liquidity and market risks.
it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in Alongside the factors noted above, the directors have considered the business.
groups cash ow forecasts, in particular with reference to the period The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records to the end of May 2014.
The directors are satisfied that this cash ow that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and forecast, taking into account reasonably possible risk sensitivities disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of associated with this forecast and the groups current funding and the company and the group and enable them to ensure that the financial facilities, alongside the groups funding strategy, shows that the group statements and the Report on Directors Remuneration comply with will continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
The directors the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial therefore continue to have a reasonable expectation that the group statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for foreseeable future and continue to adopt a going concern basis in taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and accordance with the guidance Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: other irregularities.
Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 issued by the Financial Reporting Council in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
There has been no significant change in the financial or trading position Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and of the group since 31 March 2013. dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Independent advice Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 65 The Board has a procedure for directors, in carrying out their duties, to to 66 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: take independent professional advice if necessary, at BTs expense.
All directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in Secretary.
accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group the Report of the Directors on pages 11 to 97 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
