Strategy 15 15 In our IT services businesses, our focus is on providing service, rather BT Wholesale aims to meet CPs needs where they cannot be met by than hardware alone which tends to be low margin.
Where we can, Openreachs products alone.
This typically involves using our network we will cross-sell our networking and IT solutions.
We also encourage coverage and scale to provide nationwide voice, broadband and customers to take higher-value products and services such as managed data end-to-end products.
We also create managed services which hosted data and applications, and cloud services.
combine those products with third-party components and professional services, using our deep expertise in solution design, build, delivery Our future plans include: andoperation.
strengthening our product portfolio in unied communications and BT Wholesale leads the market in mobile Ethernet backhaul services and VoIP so SMEs can make the most of these growing technologies in wholesale broadband.
Our Wholesale Broadband Connect WBC next developing our mobile services capabilities, in particular building on generation copper broadband product is now in exchanges serving more our investment in 4G spectrum.
We will combine xed and mobile than 90% of UK premises.
More than 70 CPs are now trialling orselling services to give our customers the best possible connection wherever its bre-based variant.
they are growing our IT services businesses, building on synergies between A key area of investment over the past few years has been IP Exchange them to improve their positions in the market.
which was developed in our Adastral Park research and development centre.
IP Exchange provides a common gateway to allow interworking between different CPs IP voice, data and multimedia services.
This year BT Global Services a global leader it handled 7.75bn voice minutes globally.
We are a leader in the worldwide market for managed networked IT services.
We are truly global with one of the largest networks in the We expect a variety of issues, such as regulatory charge controls and world and more than 60% of our people based outside the UK.
competitive pressures, to affect our wholesale business in 2013 14.
Sowe are working to identify growth opportunities that will help us Our customers tell us there are a number of things which make us stand offset their impact.
out: our global assets, people and technology: industry experience and solutions: our consulting capability: our innovation: and our strength in Our future plans include: the UK.
launching new hosted communications services that will expand Our future plans are to invest and build on these strengths.
our IP voice portfolio and combine it with our data and broadband products We are supporting our multinational customers by investing in highextending our broadband, Ethernet and Mobile Ethernet Access growth regions.
Service MEAS footprints We are developing our industry expertise.
For example, we will adding new features to IP Exchange, including the support of video build on years of experience supporting the financial services sector and 4G mobile services, and introducing more global nodes where our award-winning products and services support millions of improving our customers experience, for example, by introducing financial transactions every day.
a new online portal that will offer better tools for pricing, ordering We will invest in our BT Advise team of around 4,000 experts who and support share their knowledge and skills with our customers.
further reducing our cost base We will use our strength in the UK, including our bre broadband increasing the skills and productivity of our people.
network, to keep innovating our products and services.
For example, we are improving our conferencing services by using Dolbys highdenition audio technology.
The best network provider Our network in the UK is a critical national asset and we take our We will use feedback from our customers to improve our service to guardianship of it seriously.
We aim to be the best network provider them.
And we plan to drive down cost and become a more agile and in the UK by investing in it and by providing the best services over it.
That way, we will be able to take advantage We continue to upgrade capacity, offer new services and make it more of opportunities in the managed networked IT services market more efficient and reliable.
More than 15m premises can now get our bre broadband, giving us By building a better business, we will strengthen our position as a the largest bre broadband footprint in the UK.
access to download and upload speeds of up to 80Mbps and 20Mbps respectively using bre-to-the-cabinet FTTC, or 330Mbps and 30Mbps using bre-to-the-premises FTTP.
The wholesaler of choice We want to be the wholesaler of choice in the UK and international We will bring bre to two-thirds of UK premises during spring 2014. telecoms services markets.
We give CPs access to our platforms, skills and With EU, national and regional government funding, we believe we technology, making our investments and economies of scale work for can bring bre to more than 90% of UK premises in the next three to them.
Our approach promotes competition, gives end-customers more four years.
choice, avoids duplicating infrastructure and encourages innovation by We are rolling out national Ethernet products, with a wide range of ways helping CPs nd new ways to serve their customers.
to connect to our network.
These include high bandwidth Ethernet bre We are Europes largest telecoms wholesaler and BT Global Services sells connections, cost-effective Ethernet bonded copper solutions Ethernet our wholesale services to more than 1,200 telecoms companies around in the First Mile and more recently, Ethernet over our bre broadband the world.
High levels of service availability and exibility, combined with nationwide coverage, make our Ethernet services an attractive choice Openreach provides local access and backhaul services: its networks forcustomers.
are already the most extensive in Great Britain, allowing CPs to provide ADSL broadband to 99% of homes and businesses and bre broadband Our future plans include: to over half.
making FTTP available throughout the bre broadband footprint with our FTTP-on-Demand service.
We launched this service in April 2013 in a subset of our footprint increasing FTTC speeds above 80Mbps using vectoring, a technology we will be trialling further during 2013 14 Strategy
