Business 31 How we deliver our strategy Our business is built around our customers serving their needs and delivering value to them.
Our customers benefit from our global reach and our ability to deliver How we are organised services locally in the countries they are in.
They also gain from our We have four customer-facing Iines of business: ability to tailor products and services to their industry.
During the year we increased the number of industries we focus on to include global BT Global Services, BT Retail, BT Wholesale and systems integrators, logistics and mining, oil & gas.
They are supported by our internal service unit, BT Technology, Service & Operations.
BT Global Services revenue by region United Kingdom 45% Customers Continental Europe 32% US and Canada 12% High-growth regions 11% BT Global BT Retail BT Wholesale Openreach Services BT Technology, Service & Operations BT Global Services The UK is our largest region by revenue.
We have a large base of We are a global leader in managed networked IT services.
We work customers in the corporate sector and serve public sector bodies such for around 7,000 large corporate and public sector customers in more ascentral government and local councils.
We focus on serving the following key In continental Europe, we run large businesses in key countries such as industries and regions.
Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Spain.
Current Analysis ranked us second in the German market for pan-European and a global IP and data services.
In Italy, we are the main country-wide Global banking & financial Global consumer packaged b operator exclusively focused on business-to-business services.
In markets goods Spain, the telecoms regulator ranked BT as the leading alternative to c the incumbent operator in the enterprise data market.
We also support Global government Global health customers in Central and Eastern Europe, the Nordics and Russia.
In the United States and Canada, we serve customers from ofces in Global logistics Global manufacturing more than 25 key cities.
We have an increasing presence in the high-growth regions of Asia Global mining, oil Pacic, Latin America, Turkey, the Middle East and Africa.
We operate in Global pharma chem & gas 85 countries in these markets, helping multinationals expand into these regions and supporting local companies as they grow internationally.
We Global systems integrators Global telecom markets continue toinvest in these markets, hiring more people, improving our products and services and building network and IT infrastructure.
UK Continental Europe US and Canada High-growth regions Asia Pacic, Latin America, Turkey, the Middle East and Africa a Current Analysis, BT Germany: company assessment August 2012, page 2. b AGCOM, Relazione annuale 2012: sullattivit svolta e sui programmi di lavoro July 2012, page 98. c CMT, Industry Sector Report 2011 June 2012, page 60. Business
