Business 34 Mobility Managed Network Services MNS We sell mobile voice and broadband data services through a mobile Our managed network services give CPs access to our expertise and virtual network operator MVNO agreement with Vodafone.
Our 4G economies of scale and help them reduce their operational and future mobile spectrum licence will help us build on our existing proposition capital spending.
and offer an even better range of mobile services.
We design, build, manage and transform networks for them, while our white-label managed services help them offer products like voice and BT Wholesale broadband without the need to make large investments.
Our solutions BT Wholesale sells voice, broadband and data communications products can be either dedicated to one customer or shared amongst several.
We to xed and mobile network operators MNOs, internet service can offer a complete service, from accepting and processing new orders providers ISPs and telecoms resellers in Great Britain.
Our managed through to customer service and billing the end-user.
network services combine BT products with third-party components and our own professional services, which include network solution Media and broadcast services design, eld services, network migration, programme management Our global media network links all the main locations around the world and risk management.
We also offer industry-specic services to media where producers create or distribute broadcast content.
We have a companies and broadcasters.
number of strategic alliances which extend our portfolio and customer reach.
In the UK, digital terrestrial TV delivery is underpinned by our media-specic MPLS network and we deliver TV outside broadcast Products and services services over our network connecting 155 sports and news locations.
Wholesale broadband CPs buy wholesale bre and copper broadband services from us.
Our In addition, BT Agilemedia offers high-quality solutions to enable mass WBC portfolio includes three FTTC options, eight FTTP options and our viewer participation in TV voting and competitions.
The rollout of ADSL2 and bre broadband is well advanced in theUK.
Openreach This means that from autumn 2013 we will be retiring our legacy At Openreach we want to improve access to broadband across Britain.
wholesale broadband services within the WBC footprint.
We are working We believe this will support economic growth.
closely with CPs to help them migrate their customers smoothly.
We are responsible for providing services over the local loop sometimes known as the local access network and the last mile.
This is made up of Wholesale Ethernet the copper and bre connections between our exchanges, and homes We design high-bandwidth Ethernet services to help CPs extend their and businesses.
We are in charge of BTs bre broadband rollout.
We also networks and give their own customers high-quality services.
With offer backhaul products to connect exchanges to CPs networks.
speeds of 2Mbps to 10Gbps, we have the widest range of Ethernet access options on offer.
BTs Undertakings more on page 39 commit us to selling our main products and services to all CPs openly and equally and on the same Partial private circuits terms as we do to our own lines of business.
To make this work properly, We are a major provider of partial private data circuits which enable our Openreachs operational, engineering and systems capabilities are customers to complete their own networks and help them extend the separate from those of the rest of BT.
Around 96% of Openreach reach of their services.
revenue is subject to this regulation.
Voice services Products and services We offer managed voice solutions for CPs who do not want to invest in Openreach sells three main products: bre broadband, copper-based their own PSTN or IP voice networks.
Our Wholesale Calls product is an services and Ethernet.
end-to-end PSTN voice service and in 2013 14 we will be launching new IP hosted communications services including SIP trunking, IP Fibre broadband Centrex and hosted contact centre solutions.
This is either FTTC, which offers speeds of up to 80Mbps, or FTTP, which offers faster speeds of up to 330Mbps when bre is connected all the IP Exchange IPX way to the customer premises.
We offer voice interconnect services so that a phone call will reach its destination at an agreed level of quality.
The migration of voice In April 2013 we launched FTTP-on-Demand, which will initially be calls to IP requires new interconnect arrangements which are made available within a subset of the FTTC footprint.
It will let end-users in simple by IPX.
It enables xed and mobile operators with differing VoIP FTTC areas get a FTTP connection if they need one we think SMEs will networks to connect VoIP-to-VoIP and VoIP-to-traditional voice calls be especially interested in the faster speeds.
by seamlessly translating them in an electronic clearing house and it With our Fibre Voice Access product, CPs can offer voice services over supports emerging services such as HD voice.
bre which offer similar functionality to copper voice services.
We sell IPX through BT Wholesale in Great Britain and internationally Our bre broadband network can also carry broadcast Internet Protocol through BT Global Services.
We have launched a multicast capability which cuts the costs of delivering broadcast TV over our network and means Transit CPs generally triple play providers can prioritise broadcast TV over We route voice services between CPs across our network, both in the other web trafc.
UK and internationally, but this is a low-margin product with declining demand.
Passive Infrastructure Access PIA PIA products allow CPs to rent space in Openreachs ducts or on telegraph poles.
CPs can use this space for their own bre instead of buying bre-based broadband from us.
