Strategy 16 16 further increasing FTTP speeds building on trials conducted in Better business 2012 13 Our stakeholders expect us to invest in our networks, community and extending the choices available to CPs for the delivery of bre people and to run our business with high ethical, environmental and broadband.
We plan to introduce a new option in 2013 14 that will supply chain standards.
You will see from much of what we describe allow CPs to use their own modem rather than an Openreach one elsewhere in our report, that it is our people and values that help us assessing the longer-term opportunities for wider and deeper bre achieve this.
deployment in the access network Working ethically is not just the right thing to do, it is also important extending our Ethernet footprint to regulators and customers.
Our statement of business practice, The upgrading our core network with the latest generation of high-speed Way We Work www.
com twww, is available in several languages.
optical equipment that provides multiple 100Gbps connections.
We are currently revising it to provide more guidance and examples.
We also have a number of ethical policies including Anti-Corruption A responsible and sustainable business leader and Bribery, Gifts and Hospitality and Charitable Donations and Our aim is to create a better future by generating value for our business Sponsorship.
Doing this in a responsible and sustainable way contributes to this aim.
Our customers want to buy services from a We encourage our people to get involved in their local communities and company they can trust to act responsibly and sustainably.
This year we run a volunteering programme to help them do so.
In 2012 13 our corporate and government customers asked us about our sustainability people volunteered 43,600 days, worth an estimated 13m to those credentials in over 2.8bn worth of contracts that we bid for.
Overall we invested 27m in responsible and sustainable business activities this year, meeting our target to invest at least 1% of During the year we set ourselves three stretching goals to achieve by the our prior years adjusted profit before taxation.
They will help us make a major contribution to both society and the environment.
Our payroll giving scheme has over 11,000 BT members and donated to more than 2,000 charities in 2011 12.
Payroll donations from the UK, Ireland and the United States, rose to 2.9m, which was supported by an additional 1m contribution by BT.
A responsible and sustainable business leader Creating a better future Connected Society Net Good Improving Lives Our society faces the challenge of living within immediate financial Vision: Vision: Vision: constraints and the planets ever-tighter resources.
To help improve society To help society live To help improve through the power of within the constraints hundreds of millions Communication technology has a significant role to play in helping digital connections of our planets resources of lives globally businesses and people do this.
It helps them swap physical products through our products through our products with their virtual, streamed or digital equivalents.
and people and people And it provides solutions that help businesses manage their resources as efficiently as possible.
2020 goal: 2020 goal: 2020 goal: It also has the power to make a difference to peoples lives: giving them 9 10 3:1 1bn better access to information, education and jobs and helping them work together.
Our people, networks and technology can make these More than 9 out of We will help customers To use our skills and connections happen.
10 people in the UK reduce carbon emissions technology to help will have access to by at least three times generate more than bre-based products the end-to-end carbon 1bn for good causes Connected Society and services impact of our business We aim to help improve society through the power of digital connections.
How we will achieve these goals We want everyone to be part of a connected society.
By the end of 2012 13 over half the people in the UK could access bre-based products and services.
Our goal is for more than nine out of ten people 1 2 3 to have access by the end of 2020.
We now believe that we can achieve Through our people What we sell and how By supporting the this much sooner.
and values we do business local communities where we operate For years, our digital inclusion programmes have helped people overcome any fears of moving online.
Our Get IT Together campaign helps people in the UK discover the digital world with the help of a The Committee for Sustainable and Responsible Business oversees friend or family member.
Our Including You website offers help and our corporate responsibility, environment and community activities, support to customers with impairments, helping them and their carers and our Better Future programme.
It is supported by our Sustainable get more out of our products and services.
Business Leadership team which comprises senior executives from across our business units and is charged with delivering our programme and Read more embedding it throughout the group.
com includingyou You can read more in the Report of the Committee for 76 Sustainable and Responsible Business on page Each year we use a materiality process to work out the social and environmental issues that are important to our stakeholders and relevant to our business.
It helps us focus on the right things.
We measure and report our progress against seven non-financial performance indicators which reect these issues.
They are summarised on page 61.
To nd out more, take a look at our Better Future report at www.
