Performance 53 Line of business performance Contracts we won in the year include: BT Global Services We further consolidated our position as a global Customer Contract leader in managed networked IT services.
We have British American Global wide area network infrastructure focused on improving customer service and made Tobacco across nearly 1,000 sites in 119 countries, which means BAT can prioritise different investments to extend our global capabilities.
types of trafc according to the needs of its But we have more to do to improve our financial business performance and have accelerated our cost Caixa Econmica Federal Connecting more branches of the statetransformation activities.
owned development bank in Brazil to support its expansion across the country Key facts Cornwall Council and its Support services to the public, the integration health partners of telehealth and telecare services and the creation of a Centre of Excellence supporting Double-digit revenue growth and trade across the UK Order intake of 6.3bn growth in the highgrowth regions Department for Work Communication services and network, and Pensions telephony, conferencing and contact centre infrastructure Improved customer European Commission Network and consultancy services, including Net operating costs service delivery and RFT remote access, teleworking, and internet reduced by 9% target achieved fallback to all major European Union institutions Media-Saturn Network services connecting around 750 sites of Europes largest consumer electronics Operating performance retailer Our investments to support our customers and improve our services have resulted in contract wins around the world with an order intake of 6.3bn Novartis Adding new collaboration services and 2011 12: 6.7bn.
This was lower than last year reecting the tough connecting more locations worldwide conditions in Europe and the financial services sector.
Rolls-Royce Network infrastructure in 55 sites to help enhance operational exibility, encourage co-operation with suppliers, and improve efficiency: and BT Connect network services to link 160 locations globally Tesco Cloud-based contact centre services covering up to 1,800 agents to improve customer service at busiest times Visa Europe Managed solutions for payments processing and corporate services Performance Performance 54 Customer service delivery Investing for the future We made improvements in customer service this year.
Through our We continued to invest in the high-growth regions.
For example, we Right First Time programme we have improved our ability to meet opened a GIPX hub in Singapore for the Asia Pacic region, a customer customer-agreed milestones for our complex contracts by 14%.
showcase in Argentina, and a data centre in Colombia.
We gather feedback from our customers in lots of different ways: We have further developed our industry-specic solutions.
We added a surveys: our global account management teams: and through events new cloud platform for financial markets to our BT Radianz network, and where we talk to our customers about our strategy and how they feel connected new customers in Hong Kong, Moscow, Singapore and the about working with us.
UAE to the BT Radianz community.
We introduced a new cloud solution to BT Trace, giving customers more insight into their supply chains We use this feedback to identify further opportunities to improve our in near real-time.
In the UK, we became a leading supplier to the UK service and increase customer satisfaction.
Customer experience and Governments Public Services Network PSN.
feedback are an important part of how we recognise and reward our people.
We have improved our core products and services, launching new features and upgrades.
For example, we introduced BT Assure Analytics This year we: which shows security threats in real-time.
Our new BT One Voice smartphone app cuts mobile costs for people who travel around the rolled out better systems and industry standard processes world.
And our BT One Cloud Video now offers HD video conferencing consolidated and invested in regional service centres to serve with 25,000 points of access.
ourglobal customers better improved our customer portals to speed up and simplify online We have invested in our BT Advise team of consultants by launching ordering the BT Advise Academy to make sure our training and accreditation invested in customer experience dashboards to give account is consistent across the world.
We have brought in new tools, like managers better insight QuickStarts and eValuators, which let our customers assess the improved our proactive service diagnostics to help us anticipate opportunities and risks within their business and come up with andprevent customer service issues.
networkIT services strategies to address them.
Our customers can use our products and services to reduce their London 2012 the most connected Olympic and impact on the environment.
For example, we are helping Greater Manchester Police to reduce its carbon footprint through a exible Paralympic Games ever working solution that decreases the ofce space it requires.
BT was the ofcial communications services partner for London 2012.
We connected 94 locations including 34 competition venues with a We are also becoming a greener business ourselves.
Our Frankfurt single communications network.
Our London 2012 network carried data centre is 60% more energy efficient than the average, thanks to every ofcial photograph and sports report and millions of calls, intelligent climate control.
It also carried all the broadcast pictures and video for every single In all the societies where we do business, we try to make a positive sporting moment outside the Olympic Park.
In Brazil, for example, we are helping Caixa Econmica points connecting 16,500 telephones, 14,000 mobiles, 14,000 cable Federal to bring banking services to people living in remote places.
TV outlets and 1,500 wireless access points.
To do all this, we had to Cost transformation install several thousand kilometres of internal cabling, the equivalent We reduced our net operating costs by 9%, reecting the impact of ofmore than 100 marathons.
lower revenue and our cost transformation programmes.
We made Our single, integrated communications network was a first for a summer savings in our network, procurement and processes.
We achieved a critical core network service availability of 99.999%.
It was the best possible showcase on a global stage of our Network.
We have closed legacy platforms and migrated customers ability to manage and deliver large and complex projects.
to new and improved services.
We have reviewed end-to-end processes for managing overseas access circuits to lower cost of delivery.
We are optimising our network, adding new points of presence in key locations to reduce third-party network costs.
We have negotiated better commercial terms with many suppliers to cut contract delivery costs.
We are working with suppliers to leverage best practice and improve pricing across some of our major contracts.
We are transforming our end-to-end customer service processes.
By moving contract management back-ofce functions into shared service centres, we are boosting efficiency, cutting costs and improving customer service.
