Strategy 14 14 improving the productivity of our eld engineers by reducing the We believe our bre investment will support a more connected number of administrative tasks they have to do society, transforming the way people use the internet, giving them better access to information, education and jobs.
We are also investing reducing our travel and subsistence spend by 14m or in products and services that will allow our customers to reduce their 12%.
Buying more efficiently and reducing travel by using our own carbon footprints.
own conferencing services has saved us time and money, and reducedcarbon emissions.
You can read about how our lines of business have been 53 Overall, we cut operating costs by 1.2bn or 9%, with savings across all investing for the future in the Performance section on page our main cost categories.
Together with capital expenditure excluding purchases of telecommunications licences, we have achieved total Our strategic priorities savings of 4.7bn over the last four years.
We made further progress against our six strategic We will continue our drive on cost transformation.
In 2013 14 we will priorities in the year.
launch a pan-BT Continuous Improvement Initiative to help our people take more responsibility for improving the processes around them.
We You can read more about how our lines of business did want to transform the service we deliver, analysing and improving the 53 in the Performance section on page end-to-end processes that span lines of business, operational platforms and products.
This will help us to drive out failures in these processes.
We Driving broadband-based consumer services are focusing on seven priority areas, targeting issues including early life Broadband is now available to virtually all UK homes and businesses failures those that occur near the start of a new service, repeat visits and is increasingly at the centre of peoples lives.
Our investments in and how we respond to major incidents.
broadband-based services are helping everyone get much more from it.
To nd more opportunities to reduce costs and to run our business We differentiate our products from those of competitors by offering better we will keep benchmarking ourselves against other large telecoms the most comprehensive broadband service with a range of packages operators and the best companies in other industries around the world.
For example, our newly-launched BT Totally Unlimited Broadband lets people download as much as they like with no speed You can read about the contributions our lines of 53 restrictions.
business have made to our cost transformation in the Performance section on page We provide lots of extra features, like our free BT Home Hub, free BT Wiconnectivity over the worlds largest in-country winetwork and Investing for the future free BT Cloud storage.
We offer our broadband service together with We are investing in the future of our business to help drive profitable voice and TV in competitively-priced bundles.
Bundling helps us keep revenue growth and deliver long-term value for our shareholders.
The existing customers and attract new ones.
more we can save through our cost transformation activities, the more Fibre broadband lets people do even more.
BT Innity sales have we can invest in the long-term value of our business without affecting accelerated and we are selling faster and higher tier options to existing our financial performance in the short-term.
customers while attracting people away from other providers.
In 2012 13 we made a number of key investments around our six Broadband will increasingly be at the heart of how people watch TV.
strategic priorities which position us well for the future.
We are extending our appeal to all segments of the TV market.
We have TV and broadband are increasingly complementary as viewing becomes launched YouView from BT to allow customers who currently only take more interactive.
We are making significant investments in TV to Freeview to try pay-TV.
Extra TV, our package of 22 TV channels, targets improve what we offer, rolling out new services and providing new households currently subscribing to basic pay-TV channels from Sky channels and on-demand content.
And we are launching our BT Sport channels this summer, for customers who want a wide choice of premium sports but at much For SMEs, we have invested in improving our range of IT services and better value than currently available.
acquired Tikit one of the largest independent suppliers of technology services to legal and accountancy rms.
Our future plans include: We also successfully bid for 4G mobile spectrum which will allowus to launching BT Sport offer an enhanced range of converged xed and mobile broadband completing the rollout of Extra TV across our multicast IP network servicesto both consumer and business customers, building on our further improving our TV channel line-up and on-demand content existing strength in wi-.
encouraging customers to switch to BT Innity through marketing campaigns, competitive pricing and by offering Extra TV and BT We continued to invest in our IP Exchange platform to meet the growing Sport to BT Innity customers over their broadband connection.
demand for IP interconnect services resulting from the massive growth in voice over IP VoIP trafc worldwide.
Being the Brand for Business for UK SMEs We have made further investments in the high-growth regions of the We want to be the first choice for SMEs for all their xed and mobile world.
We improved our product portfolio and invested in people and communications and IT needs.
We aim to offer a wide range of products infrastructure in Asia Pacic, Latin America, Turkey, the Middle East and services so they do not have to rely on multiple suppliers.
These investments are helping our multinational customers expand into these regions and support local companies as they grow In xed communications we face stiff competition in a fragmented internationally.
market, but we have maintained a clear leading position.
We are supporting the launch of 4G services in the UK by investing in We are still ahead because we consciously build on our advantages: the backhaul capacity at key mobile base station sites.
national coverage of our services and sales teams: the breadth of our portfolio of services: the strength of our sales channels: and our brand.
We have invested in expanding our Ethernet portfolio and footprint in We are looking to improve the products and services we sell and how response to growing data trafc and demand for higher capacity and we sell them to defend and grow our position in the market.
We are greater exibility in our wholesale customers networks.
developing new IP-based voice and data products, which will help drive And we have accelerated our bre rollout.
It should be available to penetration of bre broadband.
We are also improving processes and two-thirds of UK homes and businesses during spring 2014, more than systems so our people can give our customers a better service.
18 months ahead of our original schedule.
