Business 32 Products and services BT Retail We combine our products and services with industry expertise and BT Retail has four customer-facing divisions: BT Consumer, BT Business, consulting services.
We have simplied our products categorising BT Ireland and BT Enterprises.
them around what our customers need and making them more straightforward to buy and link together.
Those categories are: BT Consumer We are the leading consumer voice and broadband provider in Great BT Assure Security that protects Britain and have a growing pay-TV service.
We sell our services under People and businesses are using more mobile devices, social media the BT and Plusnet brands.
Together with the growth in cyber-attacks, this means that customers are prioritising security.
We provide a range We help our BT-branded services stand out from the competition ofsecurity products and services including rewalls, web security, by offering a range of extra features.
Plusnet provides voice and intrusionprevention and threat monitoring.
broadband services for more cost-conscious customers who value our highly-regarded customer service.
We are a member of the YouView TV BT Compute Services that adapt consortium and during the year secured a wide range of sports content Businesses want reliable but exible IT platforms and services for their to show on our BT Sport channels.
applications, data storage and security.
We provide IT services in our worldwide data centres and deliver them over our global network.
BT Business We supply SMEs in Great Britain with xed calls and lines, broadband, BT Connect Networks that think mobility and IT services as well as data and voice networks.
We also have Our network services connect our customers to their people, their own specialist arms within BT Business including: customers and to the world.
We offer a range of IP, Ethernet and webbased network services.
We deliver these in more than 170 countries BT iNet A Cisco centre of excellence specialising over a range of access technologies including DSL, VPN and satellite.
in infrastructure, security and unied BT Contact Relationships that grow communications We provide a range of contact centre services to help our customers BT Engage IT A leading provider of business-to-business build stronger relationships with their customers.
Our services provide IT equipment and services the option of using email, web chat, social media and the phone either via automated systems or dedicated advisors.
Our cloud solution gives An online store providing IT, computing BT Business Direct customers more exibility and control over their costs by allowing and networking equipment plus associated capacity to change in response to demand.
installation and support services BT One Communications that unify Businesses communicate in a number of different ways by phone, BT Ireland SMS, voicemail, instant messaging, email, video conferencing and In Northern Ireland, we are the leading communications services data-sharing solutions.
They want these channels to be integrated provider for consumers, SMEs and the public sector.
We run the copper and work together.
Our collaboration services help customers simplify access network and our bre rollout has reached over 90% coverage, their communications and transform the way they interact with their making Northern Ireland one of the best connected regions in Europe.
customers, colleagues, partners and suppliers.
In the Republic of Ireland, we serve corporate and public sector BT Advise Knowledge that delivers customers and are one of the countrys largest providers of wholesale Our experts around the world provide consulting, integration and network services.
managed services to our customers.
They help solve business problems.
They have a range of specialisms, certications and accreditations to make sure customers get the best out of our products and services.
Industry-specic solutions As every industry has its unique needs and challenges, we provide a range of industry-specic solutions.
For example, BT Radianz links financial institutions from around the world, giving them access to hundreds of critical applications.
BT for Life Sciences R&D lets research scientists collaborate on a secure platform.
BT Trace helps organisations manage increasingly complex global supply chains by giving them a single real-time view of their operations.
Business 33 Broadband BT Enterprises BT Broadband is our standard service delivered over copper lines.
BT BT Enterprises consists of seven separate divisions, each one operating Innity is bre-based using FTTC and FTTP technology.
BT Broadband as a standalone business.
BT Fleet was moved into BT Enterprises in and BT Innity come in a range of options with different usage limits April2013.
and bundles of call plans.
They also include our free BT Home Hub, free BT Cloud online storage, BT NetProtect Plus security software and free Audio, video and web conferencing and BT Conferencing access to our wihotspots.
collaboration services for business customers in the UK and around the world TV services We have two on-demand subscription packages: TV Essential and TV Directory Enquiries 118500, operator BT Directories Unlimited.
Customers can also get linear channels and extra features and emergency services.
Marketing depending on which set-top box they choose and whether or not they services including The Phone Book, website have BT Innity.
design and web-based promotion to help customers advertise online We started offering customers our YouView set-top box in October 2012.
It gives them standard denition SD and HD Freeview channels Services for the retail sector including BT Expedite & Fresca and the ability to pause, record and rewind live TV and on-demand store point of sale systems, back-ofce content.
YouViews programme guide scrolls back seven days to give applications like merchandising and sales customers easy access to catch-up TV from BBC iPlayer, ITV Player, 4oD analytics, and software and platforms for and Demand5.
Customers with our Vision 2.0 set-top box get advanced webcommerce search and recommendation facilities in addition to the same basic features.
BT Redcare Fire and intruder alarm signalling services, BT Innity customers with a Vision 2.0 set-top box can buy our Extra CCTV and surveillance networks, and control TV service, giving them 18 extra SD channels and four HD channels, room services.
Mobile-to-mobile services including popular channels such as National Geographic and Comedy for vending machines, cash machines Central.
We will be bringing these channels to YouView boxes in the and payment terminals, taxis and fleet summer.
management BT Payphones Public payphones and managed prison, Products and services for UK SMEs cardand private payphones We sell xed-voice, broadband, networking, IT and mobility products and services.
These range from simple standalone products to managed BT WiMore than five million UK hotspots offering services and complex customised solutions.
Our bigger customers buy broadband on the move to consumers and from us through desk-based and eld-based account managers.
Smaller small businesses and to wholesale customers customers use four channels: call centres: 40 Local Businesses partners like mobile network operators not part of BT but exclusively selling our products and services : nonexclusive relationships with indirect partners: and bt.
BT Tikit IT products and services for legal and accountancy rms Voice services Our xed-voice services range from standard calls and lines to fullymanaged ofce phone systems and contact centre solutions.
As well Products and services for Consumers astraditional voice, we are increasingly selling VoIP services.
We mainly sell three things to consumers: xed-voice, broadband and TV.
To win and keep customers we must offer all three in exible Broadband and internet bundles.
We offer a wide choice of good-value packages that encourage We provide a range of internet access options including BT Business customers to take extra services.
Most of our sales are through our call Broadband over copper, BT Innity for business over FTTC and FTTP centres or online, with some through our customer service team.
and BTnet dedicated internet access.
We also sell email, hosted Microsoft collaboration services and web-hosting.
Voice services We provide customers with xed-lines and a choice of calling plans, Networking services including unlimited options for evening, weekend and peak-time Our voice and data networking services support customers who need calling.
All our plans include features such as call waiting and free calls to connect different sites.
We design, install and manage leased lines, to0845 0870 numbers.
Ethernet services, IP virtual private network IPVPN services, SIP trunking, structured cabling and local area networking solutions.
We offer different ways to pay.
Line Rental Saver gives a large discount on line rental to customers who pay for a year upfront.
IT services We offer BT Basic, a simple, low-cost phone service for people on We offer IT services through five businesses.
We are the only company to offer such a service.
BT iNet and BT Engage IT sell cloud and data centre services, unied This year we launched the SmartTalk app.
Customers can use it to make communications, security solutions, end-user support services, calls on their smartphones over wiin the UK and abroad which are hardware, software and consultancy services.
They partner with most billed as part of their home calling plan.
leading vendors companies like Cisco, Microsoft, Citrix, HP, EMC, VMware, Oracle, NetApp, Apple and Symantec.
BT Business Direct sells We also launched a new phone which lets customers reduce hardware and software from a wide range of suppliers.
BT Expedite nuisance calls by allowing them to block international, withheld, or & Fresca specialises in the retail sector.
BT Tikit combines its specialist specic numbers.
legal and accountancy software products with the best technologies from multiple partners to give customers a fully-integrated solution, supported by a single supplier.
