Strategy 13 13 Our strategy Our aim is to drive shareholder value by making BT a better business with a better future.
This year we made further progress towards this goal, and the investments we are making position us well for the future.
Our strategy is delivering results.
Copper cable theft remains a problem.
This year we have worked more Driving broadband-based consumer services closely with the police and government to tackle it.
We have set up a Being the Brand for Business for UK SMEs nationwide cable alarming system and taken other measures such as forensically marking our cables.
Because of this work, we have had BT Global Services a global leader A better 28% fewer customer faults due to cable theft this year, and 50% fewer The wholesaler of choice future attacks on our network.
A new Scrap Metal Dealers Act should clamp The best network provider down further on the illegal trade in stolen metal when it comes into A responsible and sustainable business leader effect later this year.
We are improving processes across the business to make sure we keep appointment slots, repair faults more quickly and full new orders faster.
Customer Cost Investing A better We are also working to improve how we interact with our customers service delivery transformation for the future business through the use of better quality contact information, customer portals and self-service channels that give customers more ways to resolve their problems quickly.
We have successfully piloted new voice recognition capabilities to make it easier for customers to get the right help when We are a leading communications services provider.
We are now rolling this service out more widely.
sell products and services to consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs.
Around the world, as well as in the UK, we provide Improved BT Home Hub diagnostics for our TV and broadband managed networked IT services for large multinational corporations, services will locate and resolve faults more quickly with fewer calls and domestic businesses and national and local government organisations.
We will also create an integrated customer experience We also sell wholesale telecoms services to communications providers across our consumer channels voice, social media, email, chat forums CPs in the UK and internationally.
Our strategy is built on Customer service delivery, Cost transformation We encourage our customers to provide us with feedback so that we and Investing for the future.
We believe that the changes we are making These are the foundations for making BT a better business.
They build will deliver a better customer experience and lead to further cost on one another.
The better we serve our customers, the less time and transformation benets.
money we need to spend xing faults and the things that go wrong.
The more we save through transforming our costs, the more we can invest in You can read more about customer service delivery across 53 giving customers what they need now and in the future.
By investing in our lines of business in the Performance section on page the six strategic priorities shown above we aim to grow the value of our business.
Cost transformation We achieved further efficiency savings across our business.
We have cut waste, applied best practice and freed up resources to invest in our Customer service delivery future.
More and more, we have focused on end-to-end processes that We constantly try to improve the service we provide to our customers.
We also started the next phase of our groupIn practice that means understanding what they need, making it easy wide restructuring programme which will generate further savings and for them to deal with us, keeping our promises, keeping them informed, improve customer service.
and acting quickly to x things if they go wrong.
Specic activities during the year included: Right First Time RFT is our key metric for customer service see page22.
It is simply about getting it right for the customer, first time.
reviewing our entire stock and supply chain.
This has given us better controls over our stock as well as improving how we distribute and RFT improved each year from 2006 07 to 2011 12 and we made store it further progress in the first quarter of this financial year.
But record improving our process for xing faults for BT Global Services and BT rainfall then led to ooding across the UK, causing a higher number Wholesale customers.
We have upgraded our systems, migrated work of faults in the network.
To make sure we xed these faults as quickly to four strategic service centres and made it easier for different teams as possible, we had to transfer resources away from provisioning new to work together orders.
As a result, customers had to wait longer for those orders, we rationalising our network and IT infrastructure.
For example, we had more calls from customers than we forecast and it took us longer closed a major legacy network which served the financial services than normal to answer those calls.
We did, however, hire extra engineers sector and migrated those customers onto our global MPLS to help with repair work and new orders see page 60 and by February platform, giving them improved service and reliability.
We have 2013 we had managed to get provision lead times back to the levels we also put programmes in place to rationalise our legacy UK backhaul have committed to.
andglobal IP networks Overall, we did not improve our service as we aimed to this year, and our combining BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate into our new RFT measure declined by 4%.
While we did not achieve our group RFT BTTechnology, Service & Operations unit BT TSO target, BT Global Services achieved its target helped by an increase in improving product and software development across all lines the number of major contract milestones delivered on time and fewer ofbusiness through better prioritisation, quality and automation reported customer incidents.
