Overview 5 Our business model Our business model is built around the three foundations of our strategy.
It supports our aim to deliver value to our shareholders and customers.
What sets us apart Our people Our technology Our brand Our financial Our networks strength We enhance the things that set us apart Customer Cost Investing Delivering Shareholders service delivery transformation for the future value Customers The better we serve By transforming Making our customers, the our costs we create By investing in our six connections, less time and money opportunities for strategic priorities we creating new we need to spend on investing in our aim to grow the value Society putting things right.
possibilities We make money by selling our services in the UK and around the world through our customer-facing lines of business.
We sell our services through a range of channels including online, contact centres and desk or eld-based account managers.
Our revenue is largely subscription or contract based.
People, households and small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs pay for standalone or bundled services monthly, quarterly or annually typically on 12-24 month contracts.
Large corporate and public sector customers typically buy managed networked IT services, usually on contracts spanning several years.
Contract durations with our wholesale customers range from just one month for regulated products, to five years or more for major managed services deals.
What sets us apart Key activities The value that we create The communications market is very The three foundations of our strategy The cash that we generate from our competitive, particularly in the UK.
We never Customer service delivery, Cost transformation, customers and from our cost transformation forget that customers have a choice.
How and Investing for the future are at the heart of activities helps us reward our shareholders.
do we stand out from our competitors?
We the way we run our business.
And it means we can full our financial have a unique combination of people, brand, obligations to our people, the pension Improving our customer service helps our networks and technology.
customers but also allows us to cut the cost of serving them.
By reducing the number of What we do matters.
We make connections, And we have the financial strength to times things go wrong, we spend less time and create new possibilities and deliver value.
makelong-term investments in the future money putting things right.
This reinforces our We help millions of people communicate, ofour business.
financial strength and helps us to invest in the be entertained, do business and live their things that set us apart.
We see more and more demand for our products and services because they play such an integral role in modern life.
We are confident our business model is sustainable and that we will be able to deliver value today and in the long-term.
Our risks Like all businesses, we are affected by, and must manage, risks and uncertainties that can impact our ability to deliver our strategy.
Read more on page 23 Overview
