Investment Managers Report Market Review The S&P 500 Index ended 2013 having risen just under 30% in sterling terms and posted its best performance since 1997 as investors appeared finally to have seen past the dark days of the 2008 financial crisis.
Indeed the five year annualised return of 15% represents the best period for equity investors since the glory days of the late 90s bull market.
However it was not all smooth sailing as investors faced a number of potential crises during the period including uncertainty over the economic impact of the US Fiscal Cliff, Federal Reserve tapering and a 16-day US government shutdown.
These and other potential headwinds were favourably resolved and the consequent market rally was remarkable in its steadiness.
With profit growth subdued, the big driver of gains in stock prices was a rise in valuations, with investor confidence growing and stocks still looking very reasonably priced in comparison to bonds.
A wide range of stocks found favour in 2013, with smaller capitalisation stocks handily outpacing the largest companies that dominate the S&P 500, the Companys benchmark.
Within the S&P 500, consumer discretionary was the best performing sector for the year, closely followed by health care.
Utilities, telecoms and consumer staples names were significant laggards as the broader market moved higher.
One group of companies was however very much out of favour the defensive stocks with big dividend yields that had proved so popular in the uncertain times following the credit crisis underperformed the market by some margin.
Performance, Asset Allocation and Earnings The Company produced a total return on net assets of 30.9% over the financial year.
This compares to the Companys benchmark, the S&P 500 Index expressed in sterling terms which returned 29.5%.
The Companys discount to its net asset value narrowed, resulting in a very strong return to shareholders of 33.0%.
The Companys net cash gearing ranged between 3.9 % and 9.1% of shareholders funds during 2013, ending the year at 9.1%.
This marks a significant divergence from 2012, when the Company was not geared.
We increased gearing throughout the year in an effort to ensure compliance with the Boards new gearing guidelines and, as one would expect in a rising equity market, the decision to be geared was the correct one, adding to relative performance once the gearing was in place.
In hindsight however, there is little doubt that gearing should have been increased sooner in the year.
Turnover within the equity portfolio was 55% for the year.
A turnover of 50% means that our average holding period for a security is two years.
As part of our investment process we try continually to look out over the next 12-18 month period to ascertain current mispricings in the marketplace.
Turnover for the portfolio has generally ranged between 40-60% on an annual basis and is a residual of the level of opportunities present in the marketplace.
Turnover in 2013 was higher than in 2012 and reflects an increase in opportunities for 2013.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 13 Strategic Report continued Investment Managers Report continued The weighting in the small cap portfolio ranged between 3.3% and 6.3% of the Performance attribution for the Companys total assets less current liabilities and ended the year at 2.9%.
The year ended 31st December 2013 reduction in our small cap allocation was based on valuation concerns, as our Year ended Year ended allocation model indicated smaller companies looked less attractive relative to larger 31st December 31st December 2013 2012 capitalisation names.
We will continue to monitor our allocation and will add or trim %% as necessary.
Over the long term our small cap allocation has helped the Companys Contributions to total returns performance and the allocation did add value in 2013 as small caps were more Net asset value favoured by the market than larger sized companies.
total return in sterling terms 30.9 8.6 The vast majority of the Companys assets remain in the larger companies portfolio.
Benchmark total return After a poor start to the year, when the highest valuation stocks did very well, we in sterling terms 29.5 10.5 stuck to our investment process and this helped performance in the latter half of the Excess return 1.4 1.9 year.
For the whole year the performance of the large cap segment was modestly Contributions to total returns ahead that of the benchmark.
Largecapportfolio 2.1 0.2 Allocation effect 0.9 0.1 Overall, the portfolio remains positioned for modest economic growth as secular Selection effect 1.2 0.1 growth drivers remain in place along with the added potential of a cyclical recovery.
Smallcapportfolio 0.8 0.1 In terms of our sector positioning, our largest allocation remains in technology where Allocation effect 0.8 0.1 we continue to find a number of high conviction names with great growth Cost of debt 1.1 1.1 opportunities.
We also have significant exposure to the financials sector and added Currency hedge 0.2 0.2 selectively to the sector early in the year at an attractive entry point.
As both loan and Share issuance 0.1 securities yields increase in a more normal environment there should be a dramatic Management fee expenses 0.7 0.7 improvement in the profits of most banks, insurers and asset management Total 1.4 1.9 companies.
All figures are on a total return basis.
The portfolio has less exposure to the materials, utilities and telecoms names where we are finding fewer attractive investment ideas.
In fact, during the year we Performance attribution analyses how decreased our holdings in the higher yielding sectors such as telecom, utilities and the Company achieved its recorded consumer staples.
As we mentioned previously, with bond yields near all time lows performance relative to its benchmark index.
investors have sought out income alternatives and this has pushed the valuations of these sectors to very high levels.
A glossary of terms and definitions is provided on page 74.
The Companys earnings per share for the year to 31st December 2013 were 15.02 pence per share, a healthy increase on the 13.80 pence earned in 2012.
This is an encouraging improvement in net revenue from last year, which has been as a result of an improvement in the growth of dividends paid by the underlying companies in the portfolio and the receipt of some special dividends.
Initial indications suggest that earnings for 2014 will again exceed that generated in the prior year.
My remit as investment manager is to deliver capital growth for shareholders, but it is pleasing that the portfolio is generating healthy income.
The outlook for dividend growth is strong as corporations have continued to increase their profitability and with healthy cash balances they remain committed to increasing distributions to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
Large Companies Portfolio When constructing our portfolio, we use the core tenets of behavioural finance to narrow our investment universe.
Behavioural finance theory indicates that on average, high quality, fast growing, cheap stocks with good news-flow outperform 14 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 lower quality, slow growing, and expensive stocks with bad news-flow.
Taking this approach, we rank the stocks in our universe to uncover those companies that are high quality, attractively valued and are also exhibiting improving sentiment momentum.
We then undertake fundamental research to validate the rankings.
This leads us to invest in quality companies that exhibit good growth characteristics with growing earnings, strong cash flows and reasonable valuations.
Within our large cap portfolio the primary driver of performance was good stock selection across a broad range of sectors.
In particular, our stock picking in the consumer staples and financial sectors proved beneficial and were the biggest contributor to performance.
Within consumer staples, our allocation to the beverage names such as Constellation Brands, a wine and spirits concern, helped performance as investors rewarded the company for its strong volume growth.
Additionally, selling the holding in Procter & Gamble during the period also assisted performance.
The stock declined in our rankings prompting us to review this holding, which resulted in its ultimate exit from the portfolio.
Whilst this consumer products company ended the year with a positive return, it lagged its benchmark peer group as well as the market overall.
Within financials, a few names added value including our exposure to Berkshire Hathaway, for some of the period under review, as well as our holdings in Key Corp, State Street and Prudential Financial, all of which proved beneficial.
On an individual stock basis, the best performing position in the portfolio was Best Buy.
The electronics retailer has struggled over the last few years as online competition has intensified.
However, the company was rewarded by investors after reporting strong sales trends during the year.
We have maintained our exposure to Best Buy as it continues to rank strongly.
The companys main priority in 2014 is to cut costs and to grow its online sales at an accelerated pace.
The company is also working on personalised marketing messages in an effort to compete with the likes of Amazon.
It has outfitted its big box stores with the ability to fulfill and ship online orders, which should result in a big competitive advantage.
In contrast, a few sectors and companies disappointed over the period.
In particular, our stock selection in the technology sector was lackluster and detracted the most from relative performance.
Inflicting the greatest damage was our lack of exposure to Google, which rallied strongly over the period.
While we understand fully the markets excitement with Google, the company ranks poorly in our model, and as a result we do not own it.
Also hurting our performance in the sector was our exposure to IBM and Apple.
IBMs share price declined marginally for the year as the technology behemoth disappointed investors as its earnings fell short of Wall Streets expectations.
We like IBM due to its high exposure to recurring sales, cost cutting levers, solid balance sheet, potential share gains, and relatively stable margins.
Longer term, we view IBM as a share winner in the information technology spending market and it continues to rank favourably in our model.
Apples shares lagged the market over the period as investors queried the companys ability to dominate the smart phone market while driving innovation for the next retail product.
While we understand investor concerns, Apple is an attractively ranked name in our model and ended the year as our largest holding in the portfolio.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15 Strategic Report continued Investment Managers Report continued Sector Weightings of the Large Cap Portfolio versus S&P 500 as at 31st December 2013 Large Company Overweight Portfolio S&P 500 Underweight Sector % %% Technology 20.4 16.0 4.4 Financial Services 18.3 17.7 0.6 Consumer Discretionary 15.5 14.4 1.1 Health Care 12.6 12.8 0.2 Energy 11.9 10.3 1.6 Producer Durables 10.0 11.3 1.3 Consumer Staples 5.8 8.5 2.7 Utilities 3.7 5.1 1.4 Materials & Processing 1.8 3.9 2.1 Does not include small cap stocks and net current assets.
Based on the Russell Global Sector Classification.
The table below shows the largest positive and negative stock contributors to the Companys portfolio performance in 2013: Relative Stock Return Weighting at in 2013 Contribution Stock year end %% Positive Contributors Best Buy Overweight 237.8 0.6 Mylan Laboratories Overweight 55.2 0.3 Constellation Brands Overweight 95.2 0.3 Parker-Hannifin Overweight 51.1 0.2 Sandisk Overweight 60.3 0.2 Negative Contributors Centurylink Overweight 14.8 0.4 1 Google Underweight 55.1 0.3 1 International Business Machines Overweight 2.0 0.2 Broadcom Overweight 11.1 0.2 EMC Overweight 1.6 0.2 1 Not held in the portfolio at year end.
Contribution figures are based on stock selection relative to the total contribution return, in US$.
Smaller Companies Portfolio US smaller companies outperformed their large cap brethren in 2013 and contributed to the Companys overall performance.
Higher growth stocks within the small cap growth universe generally outperformed, which served as a tailwind for our approach in addition to stock selection.
Stock selection drove returns and the biggest contribution came from our health care sector allocation, where our biotechnology holdings added the most value.
Another 16 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 sector adding value was consumer discretionary, where our positioning in consumer companies that sold higher discretion, higher ticket items, aided performance.
In terms of individual stocks, amongst the top contributors was Puma Biotechology, a developmental-stage biotechnology company focused on cancer research.
The company reported new, positive clinical trial data for their lead drug, Neratinib.
A further noteworthy performer was Fluidigm, a biotech tools company, which reported accelerating revenue growth and increased full year guidance, largely due to the success of its recently launched system for analysing single cells.
Detracting from performance was stock selection in technology and utilities.
Model N, a revenue management software company, was the top detractor in the technology sector.
The company released disappointing sales and profit guidance in September, causing many initial investors to sell out of this name which had come to market through an IPO in 2013.
Within utilities, our holding of Boingo Wireless hindered performance.
The operator of Wi-Fi hotspots reported results that were slightly under Wall Streets targets.
Our base case remains that companies continue to look fundamentally attractive underpinned by strong earnings and balance sheets within the small cap space.
That said, we are watchful of price multiples which have expanded throughout the year.
Market Outlook While we do not expect equity markets to repeat the impressive returns that were generated in 2013, we remain positive on US equities for 2014.
Starting with profits, our research suggests that profit growth will be largely in line with the long term average.
Net margins for the S&P500 companies continue to hover around 9%, well above historical average.
But we think many of the drivers of these high margins, in particular the benefits to multinational US corporations from globalisation and technological change, are longer lasting and will persist over the next few years.
Lower interest rates and lower taxes have also helped boost profitability.
Meanwhile we would also expect some help for revenues from acceleration in the pace of economic recovery in the US this year, which appears to be playing out at the moment.
Earnings growth of around 8% is our best guess for 2014, helped by continued buybacks of equity at a rapid pace, and probably again sweetened with faster growth in dividends as cash flows remain strong.
Rationally we should expect much less of a rise in price earnings this year, with a starting multiple on our estimates of over 16x compared to 13x a year ago and 9x at the depths of despair in early 2009.
Stocks do still look very inexpensive in comparison to bonds but we see little reason to doubt the consensus view that bond yields will be rising again in 2014, gradually making this comparison less attractive.
It also seems sensible to prepare for higher volatility in stock prices, after a remarkably calm experience in 2013 was not at all typical of the longer term history of equity investing.
Expectations are higher now, and the transition away from the most accommodative monetary policy ever seen probably carries some risks as well.
Garrett Fish Investment Manager 25th March 2014 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
