Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial capital return of the S&P 500 Index, expressed in sterling statements for the year ended 31st December 2013.
The performance fee due in respect of any single year is of disclosures previously incorporated in the Directors Report divided into equal parts payable over three years.
are now included in the Strategic Report.
These include: Any negative fee resulting from underperformance is deducted Strategy and Objective of the Company: Investment Policies from any unpaid fees brought forward from prior years with and Risk Management: Performance: Total Return, Revenue any remaining amount of the negative fee carried forward to and Dividends: KPIs: Principal Risks: Gender Representation: be absorbed in future years.
Employee, Social, Community and Human Rights Issues: and Future Developments.
The performance fee payable in any one year will not exceed 0.25% of the fully diluted net asset value at the previous Management of the Company 31st December, with any unpaid excess being carried forward until paid in full.
The Manager and Secretary is JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
JPMAM is employed under a contract In the year ended 31st December 2013 the Companys net asset terminable on six months notice, without penalty.
If the value capital return outperformed the capital return of the S&P Company wishes to terminate the contract on shorter notice, 500 Index, expressed in sterling terms, by 2.5 percentage the balance of remuneration is payable by way of points on the above basis.
This results in a positive compensation.
performance fee calculation of 1,561,000, which when added to the negative balance brought forward of 1,135,000 gives a JPMAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank positive balance of 426,000 to be paid in equal parts over which, through other subsidiaries, also provides banking, three years.
Thus 142,000 falls due immediately and the dealing and custodian services to the Company.
balance of 284,000 is carried forward until paid in full or The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager on an offset against future underperformance.
The evaluation includes consideration of the investment strategy and the process of the Manager, Going Concern performance against the benchmark and a relevant peer The Directors believe, having considered the Companys group over the long term and the support the Company investment objectives see page 24, risk management policies receives from JPMAM.
As a result of the evaluation process, see note 22 on pages 63 to 69, capital management policies the Board confirms that it is satisfied that the continuing and procedures see note 23 on page 70, nature of the portfolio appointment of the Manager is in the interest of shareholders and expenditure projections: that the Company has adequate as a whole.
resources, an appropriate financial structure and suitable management arrangements in place to continue in operational Management and Performance Fees existence for the foreseeable future.
For these reasons, they The basic management fee is calculated and paid quarterly in consider there is reasonable evidence to continue to adopt the arrears and is charged at a rate of 0.5% per annum of the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Companys total assets less current liabilities.
Investments in funds on which JPMAM or any of its associated companies earn Directors a management fee are excluded from the calculation and The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the therefore attract no fee.
In addition, a performance fee may be year as detailed on pages 29 and 30.
The Companys investment in the JPMorgan US Dollar beneficial shareholdings may be found in the Directors Liquidity Fund is not subject to a management fee.
The performance fee is calculated at the rate of 10% of the In accordance with corporate governance best practice, all difference between the net asset value capital return and the Directors will retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 31 Governance continued Directors Report continued General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for Annual General Meeting reappointment.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee, NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR having considered their qualifications, performance and IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action contribution to the Board and its committees, confirms that you should take, you should seek your own personal financial each Director continues to be effective and demonstrates advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other commitment to the role and the Board recommends to financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and shareholders that they be reappointed.
Director Indemnification and Insurance Resolutions relating to the following items of special business will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: As permitted by the Articles of Association, the Directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party i Sub-division of existing ordinary shares resolution 11 indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act At the Annual General Meeting the Directors will seek authority 2006.
The indemnities were in place during the year and as at to sub-divide each existing ordinary share of 25 pence each the date of this report.
the Existing Ordinary Shares into five new ordinary shares of 5 pence each the New Ordinary Shares.
The full text of this During the year an insurance policy has been maintained by resolution is set out on page 71.
The resolution is conditional the Company which indemnifies the Directors of the Company upon the New Ordinary Shares being listed on the Official List against certain liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
of the UK Listing Authority and admitted to trading on the There is no cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
Disclosure of information to Auditor If resolution 11 is passed at the Annual General Meeting and the conditions attaching to the resolution are fulfilled there will be In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the 275,068,910 New Ordinary Shares in issue immediately Company at the time when this report was approved: following completion of the sub-division on the basis that a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant there are currently 55,013,782 ordinary shares in issue.
The audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of Directors consider the sub-division to be in the best interests of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and shareholders as a whole as lowering the price at which the shares are traded will improve their marketability.
b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves The New Ordinary Shares will rank pari passu with each other aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to and will be subject to the same rights and restrictions as the establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that Existing Ordinary Shares, including the same rights to information.
participate in dividends or income of the Company.
Mandates and other instructions for the payment of dividends, including The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in any dividend reinvestment instruction received in paper form accordance with the provision of S418 2 of the Companies Act or via CREST, will, unless and until revised, continue to apply 2006. to the New Ordinary Shares.
A holding of New Ordinary Shares following the sub-division will represent the same proportion Independent Auditors of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as the Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office corresponding holding of Existing Ordinary Shares.
as auditor to the Company and a resolution proposing its If resolution 11 is approved at the Annual General Meeting it is reappointment and authorising the Directors to determine its expected that: i dealings in Existing Ordinary Shares will cease remuneration for the ensuing year will be put to shareholders as at close of business on 7th May 2014 and that admission of at the Annual General Meeting.
the New Ordinary Shares to the Official List and to trading on 32 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 the London Stock Exchange and dealings will commence in the to 14.99% of its then issued share capital.
At that time, New Ordinary Shares on 8th May 2014: ii where Existing shareholders were informed that this authority would expire Ordinary Shares are held in certificated form, share certificates on 31st October 2014 but could be renewed by shareholders at will cease to be valid from 7th May 2014.
Certificates in respect any time at a general meeting of the Company.
The Directors of the New Ordinary Shares will be posted, at the risk of consider that the renewal of the authority is in the interests of shareholders, by 22nd May 2014 these will replace existing shareholders as a whole, as the repurchase of shares at a certificates which should be destroyed : and iii shareholders discount to the underlying net asset value NAV enhances who hold their Existing Ordinary Shares in uncertificated form the NAV of the remaining shares and helps to control the will have their CREST accounts credited with the relevant discount and its volatility.
Resolution 14 gives the Company entitlements to New Ordinary Shares on 8th May 2014. authority to buy back its own issued shares in the market as permitted by the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The authority The New Ordinary Shares have been allocated new stock limits the number of shares that could be purchased to a identification codes as follows: SEDOL Code BKZGVH6: and maximum of 8,246,565 shares which will equal 41,232,825 ISIN Code: GB00BKZGVH64.
shares if the sub-division is approved by shareholders ii Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory representing approximately 14.99% of the Companys issued pre-emption rights resolutions 12 and 13 shares as at 24th March 2014 being the latest practicable date At the Annual General Meeting the Directors will seek authority prior to the publication of this document.
The authority also to issue up to 41,260,336 new ordinary shares on the sets minimum and maximum prices.
assumption that Resolution 11 is passed by shareholders for If resolution 14 is passed at the Annual General Meeting, shares cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,063,016 such repurchased might not be cancelled but rather held as Treasury amount being equivalent to 15% of the present issued share shares.
The Company does not have authority to re-issue shares capital and disapply pre-emption rights upon such issues.
The from Treasury at a discount to NAV, therefore any reissue of full text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of Meeting on shares from Treasury would be at a premium to the prevailing page71.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the NAV.
The Company has no shares in Treasury at present.
Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2015 unless renewed at a prior general meeting.
The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 71 and 72.
Repurchases will be made at the discretion It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new of the Board and will only be made in the market at prices below shares to participants purchasing shares through the JPMorgan the prevailing NAV per share, thereby enhancing the NAV of the savings products and also to other investors when the remaining shares as and when market conditions are Directors consider that it is in the best interests of shareholders appropriate.
As such issues are only made at prices greater than the net asset value the NAV, they increase the NAV per share Recommendation and spread the Companys administrative expenses, other than the management fee which is charged on the value of the The Board considers that resolutions 11 to 14 are likely to Companys assets, over a greater number of shares.
The issue promote the success of the Company and are in the best proceeds are available for investment in line with the interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Company currently does Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of not hold any shares in the capital of the Company in Treasury.
the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to 17,262 shares iii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation representing approximately 0.1% of the existing issued share Resolution 14 capital of the Company.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 1st May 2013, shareholders gave authority to the Company to purchase up JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
