Governance Board of Directors Sarah Bates Chairman of the Board and Nomination & Remuneration Committee A Director since 2005.
Last reappointed to the Board: 2013.
Chairman of St. Jamess Place plc and a Director of Development Securities plc, Polar Capital Technology Trust plc, Witan Pacific Investment Trust plc and Worldwide Healthcare Trust.
She is also a director and past Chairman of the Association of Investment Companies, she sits on or is advisor to various pension fund and charitable investment committees including that of the Universities Superannuation Scheme.
Shared directorships with other Directors: None.
Until June 2005 Director of Corporate Communications at Cazenove & Co. Mrs Bolsover was previously Managing Director of Signature Financial Group.
She is Chairman of Tomorrows People Trust Limited and a Director of Fidelity Asian Values plc.
Simon W Bragg Chairman of the Audit Committee A Director since 2012.
Director and interim chief executive at Oriel Securities Limited, a UK corporate and institutional broker which he co-founded in 2002.
Mr Bragg is also a member of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Authority Advisory Panel together with its Wholesale Markets Practitioner Panel.
Having qualified as a Chartered Accountant at KPMG, Mr Bragg previously worked at Hoare Govett, Cargill and HSBC.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 29 Governance continued Board of Directors continued Sir Alan S Collins A Director since 2012.
Sir Alan Collins has recently retired from the British Diplomatic Service, during which he held a number of Ambassador appointments and was until August 2011, Director General Trade and Investment USA in New York.
He was Managing Director of Olympics Legacy in United Kingdom Trade and Investment.
He is a non-executive Director of Prudential Assurance Singapore Ltd, Prudential General Insurance Hong Kong Ltd, Prudential Hong Kong Ltd and ICICI Bank UK plc.
He is also an adviser to a number of other limited companies.
Last reappointed to the Board: 2012.
Mr Williams has been professionally involved in the investment management industry for over 40 years.
He retired from Baring Asset Management in 2002, where he was Chief Investment Officer and head of global investment strategy.
He is a Director of Investors Capital Trust plc and Pacific Assets Trust plc.
Member of the Audit Committee.
All Directors are considered independent by the Board and are members of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee.
30 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
