Investment Managers Report Results The investment outcomes experienced over the last year moderate gains in your Companys share price and in the value of its portfolio hint at subdued, even dull market conditions.
But in emerging markets, this is never the case: as the commentary below explains, investor confidence ebbed and flowed with its usual vigour and markets rose and fell significantly during the year.
The results your Company achieved are summarised on page 2, while the table on page 5 shows the various effects of fees and dilution factors in more detail.
As the investment manager, the decisions we make determine the gross return from the portfolio, which was 13.1%.
As shareholders, of course, you are likely to look primarily at the fully diluted return on net assets after costs 12.0%, and the return on the share price, which was lower, at 7.6%, because the discount to net asset value widened by several percentage points during the financial year: the emerging markets benchmark index returned 6.4% over the same period.
As in prior years, these results were the result of stock selection, as shown in the table on page 5: our positioning at the country level contributed nothing, while cash detracted from returns during a year in which markets rose.
Since we manage the portfolio by making decisions about individual securities rather than countries or industries, it is natural, but at the same time encouraging, to see that stock selection continues to be the main driver of investment performance.
Markets during the year Investor sentiment can turn on a sixpence.
Emerging markets rose consistently for the first seven months of the Companys financial year, but headed south in February and have barely paused since: by the end of June only modest gains remained.
Since the end of the Companys financial year in June, markets have risen slightly in sterling terms, but remain lower than at the end of 2012.
This may seem all the more surprising given the perky performance of developed equity markets, which have begun to anticipate a recovery, at last, from the economic downturn which began with the financial crisis five years ago.
Two broad themes underlay the recent weakness in emerging markets.
In the first quarter of 2013 continued softness in some commodity prices had a meaningful effect on emerging markets, some of which are large producers of primary commodities.
During the last year, almost 30% of the total corporate profits earned by companies in the MSCI index were generated in the energy and materials sectors: not surprisingly, therefore, weaker commodity prices provide a headwind for the overall growth of earnings in the asset class.
We have argued for some time that producers of primary commodities were in that uncomfortable phase of the cycle in which revenues are flat or down, while costs continue to rise: as a result we held little exposure in the portfolio to these areas.
The second and more difficult trend for the asset class has been, paradoxically, that very sense of optimism and hope of recovery in the developed world especially the United States that has boosted stock markets there.
Since the onset of the financial crisis in 2008, very low interest rates in Europe and the US have driven investors to pursue higher returns by moving away from the worlds core markets to riskier places, including emerging markets.
If economic recovery in the developed world really sets in, it must lead eventually to the gradual normalisation of interest rates.
Once bond markets in the US offer a reasonable return, the incentive for investors to put money elsewhere will decline.
Thinking ahead, one can see two ramifications for emerging 4 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 markets: first, the cessation and perhaps reversal of those flows of capital.
That will Performance attribution for the year present a challenge for those countries which need to attract external capital to fund a ended 30th June 2013 current account deficit and so the second outcome will be that where capital is %% needed, better terms must be offered to attract it either through increased interest Contributions to total returns rates, or an adjustment in the foreign exchange rate.
This will have consequences for businesses in the real world, not just for the valuations of their shares.
Benchmark 6.4 In reality, no normalisation of interest rates has even begun yet: but the mere hint Asset allocation 0.1 Stock selection 8.6 from the US Federal Reserve that this might occur eventually was enough to send Gearing cash 0.2 emerging markets into a decline, with exchange rates acting as the main mechanism Currency 1.8 for adjustment.
Meaningful currency devaluations have been seen in countries like India, South Africa, Brazil, and Turkey, while the most immune to these risks have Investment Manager contribution 6.7 been Asian economies with large external surpluses: Taiwan, China and Korea.
Strange though it may seem, this currency weakness appears to me a much better Portfolio return 13.1 path than that which emerging markets travelled almost 20 years ago in the Management fee build-up to the Asian crisis, when there were some clear similarities to todays Other expenses 1.2 situation.
In the mid-1990s, fixed and therefore inflexible exchange rates extended Performance fee 0.5 the cycle for several more years, precisely because markets could not adjust.
Share buy-back issuance 0.2 Without market forces acting to price money effectively, firms allowed debt to build Portfolio return net of fees up further, often in foreign currencies: and so the crunch, when it came, was far and expenses 11.6 worse.
Today, companies in emerging markets are better financed and overall Exercise of Subscription dependency on foreign capital is much lower, while the ability to adjust through shares during the year 1.6 floating exchange rates is more widespread.
Taken together, this suggests that Undiluted return on net emerging markets are rather less at risk than was the case then.
And finally and assets 10.0 importantly, valuations are much lower: so markets have already made a much Dilution effect of greater allowance for risks in the price of stocks.
potential exercise of remaining Subscription The portfolio shares 2.0 We had a mix of successes and failures this year.
I look at the impact that individual Diluted return on stocks have on the value of the portfolio both positive and negative in two ways.
net assets 12.0 First, there is the actual return from the investment: but its effect on the portfolio is Impact of change in also a function of how much money we had invested in it to begin with: I care more discount 4.4 about the return, since this is what we are always trying to assess in the first place, Return to Ordinary though of course it is also good if we can maximise the effect of our best ideas.
The shareholders 7.6 three top contributors to performance this year International Personal Finance, Source: Xamin Datastream Morningstar.
Magnit and Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services all doubled in value and All figures are on a total return basis.
I regard these as successes, though none were the result of decisions initiated this Performance attribution analyses how year: the Company already owned all these stocks a year ago.
The worst stock the Company achieved its recorded African Bank Investments fell 60%, because it became evident that the business performance relative to its benchmark.
had misread the credit cycle in South Africa and profits declined sharply under the A glossary of terms and definitions is impact of rising bad debt: we misjudged this, and did not see the problems coming, provided on page 67. though we believe that there is scope for recovery in the future.
Apart from this, though, we had few outcomes that could be categorised as extreme: our investment in Wumart Stores, for example, which hurt performance this year, fell in value by 4%, yet because it was a reasonably large investment it still featured as one of the bigger negatives.
To my mind, this is an example of noise rather than anything more meaningful: stocks do not proceed in a smooth linear manner and it would be very unusual for us to react to this kind of outcome unless our view of the business and its strengths and opportunities had changed very significantly.
Readers of past reports will know that it takes a lot to make us change the portfolio significantly: a long term outlook, with its inevitable result of low turnover, remains JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 5 Investment Managers Report continued the basis of our investment approach.
This year we changed roughly 15% of the portfolio by value, a rate of change which, while occasionally mistaken for inactivity, has nevertheless produced results over the long term which are summarised on page 8.
If you look at the new stocks which we bought this year, you might be forgiven for seeing no obvious pattern at work, though in reality we are always looking for strong well-managed businesses with a good opportunity ahead of them.
We added very few new stocks this year, but they included Lojas Renner, a Brazilian fashion retailer, ITC, the dominant tobacco company in India, Holcim Indonesia, the locally listed subsidiary of the Swiss cement producer and Tata Consultancy Services, Indias biggest provider of software services.
Most of the changes to the portfolio, though, were increases and decreases in the size of positions already in the portfolio.
The overall effect of these transactions on the geographic allocation of the portfolio is set out in a table on page 12.
Looking forward Given that our approach is driven by consideration of individual stocks and takes a long term view, macroeconomic considerations are often secondary in our assessment of investments.
Yet most of the questions we receive about the asset class start from a broad economic and financial perspective.
In view of this, it seems appropriate to conclude by offering some thoughts about the general outlook for emerging markets.
We customarily consider prospective returns by isolating individual components of return: profit growth, dividends, valuation change and currency change.
As noted above, valuations should be a source of comfort when considering what may happen in the future: emerging markets stocks are not expensively priced relative to profits or book value: if anything, the risk may be that valuations increase, so this is a positive factor when we look ahead.
As mentioned above, emerging market currencies have weakened this year: and this must reduce the risk of this factor being a big negative in the future.
That leaves earnings and dividends.
While these are influenced by economic cycles, there is no evidence that GDP growth per se determines equity returns: much more important is the return on capital in real terms that companies can produce and the rate at which they increase that capital.
This is so obviously an individual outcome in each company that it becomes somewhat meaningless to talk about aggregate numbers embracing a huge variety of industries and countries.
One could go further and assert that all we really care about, as managers of your portfolio, is what happens to the earnings, dividends and valuations of the stocks that it owns and whether, collectively, they produce an outcome that is both satisfactory in absolute terms and better than the average outcome for the asset class.
To do that, we need to think about what companies can achieve in future and try to consider all the risks which might diminish their value.
It seems axiomatic to me that the benchmark should not be the place to start from when thinking about this: the index shows how the world was yesterday and if one looks at the index as it was constituted ten years ago, it was clearly not a good guide to the best investments over the ensuing decade: the same will be true for the next decade.
We are not seeking to invest in todays opportunity, but in tomorrows.
Today, your portfolio contains some very large companies which are prominent in the benchmark, but only because they are highly competitive businesses whose shares stand at prices that we think will allow a good return in the future: in some industries, scale is a major determinant of competitive advantage and so big companies can also give the best returns: a business like Taiwan Semiconductor is not easily replicated, as various unsuccessful attempts to do so indicate.
In other 6 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 instances, size need not be an indicator of maturity: AIA is one of the biggest insurance companies in Asia, with strong market positions in many countries, but it operates in an industry that still has enormous long term potential for growth: the protection gap for health insurance alone in Asia is estimated to exceed USD 100 billion over the remainder of this decade, and AIA is well placed to serve this rapidly growing market.
Alongside such large industry leaders, however, your portfolio also has the flexibility to invest in small businesses where we see real potential.
International Personal Finance, first purchased in the depths of the financial crisis early in 2009, was one of the smallest companies by value that I have bought in the last few years: yet it was also the largest individual contributor to investment performance in the portfolio over the last four years.
Other examples of stocks that have given a good return irrespective of their size as businesses include Cafe fide Coral, the leading fast food business in Hong Kong, or Convenience Retail Asia, which is one of the less liquid positions in the portfolio, but has doubled in value since we acquired it.
Looking even further back, I can think of several investments made between ten and fifteen years ago in companies whose market value at the time was less than a billion pounds: the important point is that they were not originally important benchmark constituents, even if they subsequently became such.
So we will continue to think about investments from the perspective of potential reward and the risks that go with that, rather than start from the benchmark.
Our objective remains a simple one: to find businesses that can grow and translate that growth into appreciation in the value of the portfolio.
The effort and skill of our investment team is concentrated on this goal for one simple reason: in the long term, the value of your Companys portfolio will be driven by the growth of the businesses it owns and especially by the growth in their profits and dividends.
The ten year record summarised on page 10 provides an interesting historical perspective on how we have fared in the past.
It shows how the revenue received by the portfolio the dividends paid by companies in the portfolio, plus some interest on cash has developed: it has increased approximately six times over the decade.
Because the number of shares issued by the Company has increased, the revenue received for each individual share in the Company has increased at a slower rate, but has still grown over five times: the net asset value per share reflects this growth closely and has increased by a similar rate over the decade.
During the last ten years, dividends for the index as a whole grew less than four times.
Simply put, the outperformance achieved by your portfolio during the last decade is attributable to the fact that the companies we have invested in have, collectively, grown faster than the asset class as a whole.
In the future, our challenge is to repeat the trend of the last decade by finding investments that can do the same again.
I am confident that the resources applied to the management of your Companys portfolio today are larger and better than they were ten years ago: with markets at reasonable valuations and the whole gamut of the developing world to look at, I believe that we can continue to meet this challenge as before.
Austin Forey Investment Manager 4th October 2013 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
