Board of directors What are the responsibilities 01 02 of the Board?
Our Board of directors are employed to ensure the Companys prosperity by directing the Companys affairs.
They are not only responsible for governing the Company but are ultimately accountable to our shareholders for our activities, strategy and performance.
Each year we hold an Annual General Meeting at which the directors must provide a report to shareholders on the performance of the 03 04 business, what its future plans and strategies are and also submit themselves for re-election to the Board.
Key to Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee 1 Committee Chairman 05 06 Board composition Executive 2 Male 6 Non-executive 6 Female 2 07 08 Directors and governance 42 Board of directors BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors and governance 1 01 Garry Watts fca mbe 02 Louise Makin ma phd cantab mba Chairman Chief Executive Officer Appointed to Board January 2012 Appointed to Board October 2004 External appointments Chairman of Spire Healthcare, deputy External appointments Non-executive director of Intertek Group Chairman of Stagecoach Group plc and non-executive director plc and a Trustee of the Outward Bound Trust.
Previous experience From 2001, Louise was President, Previous experience Until December 2010, Garry was for seven Biopharmaceuticals Europe of Baxter Healthcare, where she was years CEO of SSL International plc and before that its CFO.
He is responsible for Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
Louise joined also a former partner at KPMG.
He was previously an executive Baxter Healthcare in 2000 as Vice President, Strategy & director of Celltech plc and of Medeva plc and a non-executive Business Development Europe.
Before joining Baxter, she was director of Protherics PLC.
Other roles have included 17 years Director of Global Ceramics at English China Clay and prior to as a member of the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products that she held a variety of roles at ICI between 1985 and 1998.
1 03 Rolf Soderstrom ba aca 04 Giles Kerr fca Chief Financial Officer Non-executive director Companys Senior Independent Director Appointed to Board December 2008 Appointed to Board October 2007 External appointments N A External appointments Director of Finance with the University of Previous experience Rolf Soderstrom, joined BTG from Protherics Oxford, UK, Director of Victrex plc, Elan Corporation plc and Isis PLC, where he was Finance Director from August 2007.
From Innovation Ltd. 2004, he was a Divisional Finance Director of Cobham plc, managing a portfolio of businesses across Europe and the USA.
Previous experience Previously Giles was the Group Finance From 2000 he was a Director of Corporate Finance at Cable & Director and Chief Financial Officer of Amersham plc, acquired by Wireless plc.
Prior to this, he worked in the Corporate Recovery GE Healthcare in 2004.
Prior to his role at Amersham, he was a and Corporate Finance Department of  partner with Arthur Andersen in the UK.
He is a graduate of the after qualifying as a Chartered Accountant.
1 05 Melanie Lee phd cbe fmedsci dsc hons 06 Ian Much Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed to Board November 2010 Appointed to Board August 2010 External appointments Chief Executive Officer of Syntaxin External appointments Non-executive director and the senior Limited, a Founder and Director of the pharmaceutical independent director of Chemring Group PLC and Senior plc.
consultancy Think10, and a non-executive director of HLundbeckA S. Previous experience Ian was Chief Executive of fide La Rue plc between 1998 and 2004 and Chief Executive of T&N plc Previous experience Melanie was previously the Chair of Cancer between 1996 and 1998.
Previous non-executive director Research Technology and a Trustee and Deputy-Chair of Cancer appointments include Manchester United plc, Camelot plc Research UK.
During her career she has held a number of and Admiral plc.
positions at Glaxo, GlaxoWellcome, Celltech and UCB.
In 2008, Melanie was honoured with a CBE for her services to Medical Science.
07 Jim OShea 08 Richard Wohanka Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed to Board April 2009 Appointed to Board January 2013 External appointments Director of Zalicus Inc. Trevi External appointments Board member of the Nuclear Liabilities Therapeutics, Inc. and MAP Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and a former Fund and of the charity United Response.
Chairman of the US National Pharmaceuticals Council.
Previous experience Richard has more than 20 years experience Previous experience From 2007 to 2008, Jim was Vice Chairman in building asset management businesses.
He was CEO of Union of Sepracor, Inc. where he was also President and Chief Bancaire Prive Asset Management between October 2009 and Operating Officer from 1999 to 2007.
Previously he was Senior June 2012, and from 2001 to 2009 he was CEO of Fortis Vice President of Sales & Marketing and Medical Affairs for Investment Management.
Zeneca Pharmaceuticals US, a business unit of Zeneca Inc.
While at Zeneca, Jim held several management positions of increasing responsibility in international sales and marketing in the US and the UK.
Directors and governance 43 Board of directors BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
