Directors report The directors present their report together with the financial statements and the independent auditors report for the year ended 31 March 2013.
Principal activities and business review The principal activity of the Group is the business of an international specialist healthcare company, focusing on three areas: Specialty Pharmaceuticals, Interventional Medicine and Licensing & Biotechnology.
The mission of the Group is to bring to market medical products that meet the needs of specialist healthcare physicians and their patients.
The results of the Group are set out in detail on pages 86 to 90 and the accompanying notes.
The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to set out a fair and balanced review of the business, including the performance and development of the Company during the year and at the year end and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
This information is contained in the following statements and reports, which are incorporated into this report by reference: I The Chairmans Statement on pages 12 to 13, the Chief Executive Officers Review on pages 14 to 16 and the business review on pages 17 to 26 provide details of the Groups principal activities and strategy, its performance during the year and its prospects for future development opportunities.
I Details of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out on pages 32 to 35.
I Information relating to the environment, employees and stakeholders is set out in the corporate responsibility report on pages 36 to 40.
This information is prepared solely to assist shareholders to assess the Companys strategies, the risks inherent in them and the potential for those strategies to succeed.
The directors report should not be relied on by any other person or for any other purpose.
Forward-looking statements contained in this report have been made by the directors in good faith based on the information available to them up to the time of their approval of this report and such statements should be treated with caution due to the uncertainties, including economic and business risk factors inherent in them.
Further information about the Group is available on the Companys website: www.
Notwithstanding the references made in this Annual Report to the Companys website, none of the information made available on the website constitutes part of, or should be deemed to be incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report.
Results and dividends The results for the year and the financial position at 31 March 2013 are shown in the consolidated income statement on page 86 and the consolidated statement of financial position on page 88.
The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the year 11 12: nil.
The results of the Group for the year are explained further on pages 27 to 31.
Directors and their powers and interests The directors of the Company at the date of this report, together with their biographical details and dates of appointment, are shown on pages 42 to 43.
Richard Wohanka was appointed as a non-executive director of the Board on 1January 2013 following a comprehensive recruitment process led by the Nomination Committee and external recruitment consultants.
More information can be found in the Nomination Committee report on page 61.
The Board confirms that each of the directors who served during the year, with the exception of Richard Wohanka, has been appraised during the period.
As Richard Wohanka had only recently joined the Company, it was considered too early for him to be appraised.
All the directors continue to demonstrate commitment to the Group, the Board and to their role.
Peter Chambr, who joined the Board in 2006, retired from the Board on 25 September 2012 and the Board wishes to formally thank Peter for his significant contribution to the Company over that period.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors of the Company will stand for election or re-election annually.
The Board is proposing the election of Richard Wohanka, who has been appointed to the Board since the last AGM, and the re-election of all the other directors.
Directors and governance 44 Directors report BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors and governance In accordance with the Companys articles of association, throughout the year the Company has maintained insurance cover for its directors and officers and those of its subsidiary companies under a directors and officers liability policy as permitted by sections 232 to 235 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has also, to the extent permitted by law, entered into separate Deeds of Indemnity in favour of each of its directors to provide them with appropriate protection with respect to potential liabilities arising from the discharge of their duties.
Neither the insurance policies, nor the indemnities, provide cover where the relevant director or officer is found to have acted fraudulently or intentionally breached the law.
Information on directors remuneration, contracts, options and their beneficial interests, including those of their immediate families, in the shares of the Company are shown in the remuneration report on pages 63 to 81.
None of the directors had an interest in any contract of significance to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was party during the year.
Corporate governance A report on corporate governance may be found on pages 48 to 56.
Corporate responsibility Information on the Companys social, environmental, Health and Safety and ethical considerations, charitable donations and policies regarding its employees may be found in the corporate responsibility report on pages 36 to 40.
Share capital and shareholders As at 31 March 2013 the issued share capital of the Company was 32,827,687, divided into 328,276,871 shares of 10p each.
During the year the share capital increased by 984,006 shares due to the exercise and vesting of share awards by employees and former employees under the Companys employee share schemes.
The Company has only one class of shares and there are no restrictions on voting rights or on the holding or transfer of these securities.
Details of the movements in the Companys share capital are shown in note 19 to the financial statements on page 117.
Further details of shareholdings and Company reporting dates may be found on page 142.
Under the terms of the acquisition of the Biocompatibles Group in January 2011, Biocompatibles shareholders were entitled to receive 1.6733 new shares in the Company and either 10p cash or a Contingent Value Note CVN.
The CVN entitled the recipient to participate in value that potentially could have been achieved from Biocompatibles programme to develop a GLP-1 analogue product known as CM-3 in the area of diabetes, which it had partnered with AstraZeneca.
If that programme had been successful, the holder would have been entitled to receive the sterling equivalent of 0.56 in cash for each CVN held.
The Company announced on 13 May 2011 that AstraZeneca had terminated the development and option agreement relating to CM-3.
As a result of AstraZenecas decision and the fact that the Company and AstraZeneca did not enter into any alternative agreement with respect to the GLP-1 asset prior to 31 December 2012, the CVNs were cancelled on 1 January 2013 in accordance with their terms and the Company notified the holders of CVNs accordingly.
The BTG Employee Share Trust holds shares in the Company which may be used for the benefit of employees.
The shares held by the Trust have the same rights as those held by all other shareholders.
Further details of the Trust are set out in note 24 to the financial statements on page 125.
Details of outstanding share options and awards are set out in note 23 to the financial statements on pages 122 to 125.
As at 31 March 2013, and at the date of this report, the Company had been notified of the following interests held, directly or indirectly, in 3% or more of the Companys issued share capital.
Shareholding % holding Invesco Asset Management 96,210,990 29.31 M&G Investment Management Ltd 40,997,839 12.49 AXA Framlington Investment Management Ltd 15,249,105 4.65 Standard Life Investments Ltd 11,528,317 3.51 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 11,408,568 3.48 Directors and governance 45 Directors report BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report continued Articles of association The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Companys articles of association the Articles and any directions given by a special resolution of the shareholders.
The Articles, for instance, contain certain specific provisions and restrictions regarding the Companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are included in the Articles and are subject to such authorities being approved annually by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
There is no current intention of requesting the authority to buy back shares of the Company.
The rules for the election and re-election of directors are set out in the Articles however, as reported on page 52 of the corporate governance report, the directors will stand for annual re-election at the AGM, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Change of control There are a number of agreements that take effect after, or terminate upon, a change of control of the Company, such as commercial contracts, bank facility agreements, guarantees, property agreements and employee share plans.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Furthermore, the directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment following a takeover of the Company.
Research and development Research and development R&D is an important part of the Groups activities.
The focuses of the Group are the areas of Specialty Pharmaceuticals and Interventional Medicine and developing and bringing new products to market is a very important part of the Groups business.
The Group spent 41.2m 11 12: 39.7m on R&D during the year.
See page 28 for more information on the Groups R&D activities and areas of focus.
Policy on payment of creditors It is the Groups policy to abide by the terms of payment agreed with suppliers.
In many cases, the terms of payment are as stated in the suppliers own literature.
In other cases, the terms of payment are determined by specific written or oral agreement.
At 31 March 2013 the total owed to trade creditors by the Group was equivalent to 34 days average purchases 11 12: 38 days.
The Company had no trade creditors at that date 11 12: nil.
Treasury management The Groups policy on the use of financial instruments and the management of financial risks is set out in note 26 to the accounts on pages 126 to 130.
Going concern The Groups business activities and the factors affecting its performance, position and future development are set out in the Chief Executives review on pages 14 to 16 and the business review on pages 17 to 26.
The directors have reviewed the current and projected financial position of the Group, making reasonable assumptions about future performance and taking into account the Groups cash balances.
On the basis of this review, and after making due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Directors and governance 46 Directors report BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors and governance Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be held at 10.30 am on 16 July 2013 at the offices of Stephenson Harwood LLP, 1 Finsbury Circus, London EC2M 7SH.
Matters to be considered at the meeting include resolutions to receive the Annual Report and Accounts, to appoint the auditor and elect or re-elect the directors.
In addition, as a result of the review by the Remuneration Committee of the Board of the remuneration policy applicable to the executive directors of the Company, a revised policy and associated arrangements will be put to shareholders for approval at the AGM.
A summary of the new policy can be found in the remuneration report on pages 63 to 81 and will be described in more detail in the Notice of AGM.
The Notice convening the meeting, together with the special business to be considered and explanatory notes for each resolution to be put to the AGM will be distributed separately to shareholders.
It is also available on the Companys website: www.
com, where copies can be viewed or downloaded in PDF format by following the link to Investors and then Reports and Accounts.
Disclosure of information to the auditor The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor Our Auditor, KPMG Audit plc has instigated an orderly winding down of the business which will then be undertaken by KPMG LLP.
Resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, to appoint KPMG LLP as auditor and to authorise the directors to determine its remuneration.
By order of the Board Paul Mussenden Company Secretary 17 May 2013 Directors and governance 47 Directors report BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
