Our commercial sales Our areas of business CroFab crotalidae polyvalent immune fab ovine Uridine triacetate We are seeking to in-license or acquire additional antidotes, Specialty The only approved treatment for the management of patients A treatment in development with Wellstat Therapeutics as well as other products used by Acute Care and other with North American pit viper envenomation.
Corporation for toxicity associated with use of the specialist physicians.
BTG has acquired US DigiFab digoxin immune fab ovine and an option for EU commercial rights.
Revenue A treatment for patients with life-threatening or potentially life-threatening toxicity associated with the heart medication digoxin.
97.2m Voraxaze glucarpidase 12 13 97.2m A treatment for the toxicity that can occur in cancer patients with renal impairment who are receiving high-dose methotrexate 11 12 76.7m therapy.
LC Bead, DC Bead and Bead Block Varisolve polidocanol endovenous microfoam PEM We plan to continue investing in clinical development of the Interventional Embolisation and drug-eluting beads that are used to treat A potential comprehensive treatment to reduce the symptoms bead products to expand their indicated uses and geographic patients with hypervascularised tumours.
and appearance of varicose veins.
We are also seeking to acquire additional products Medicine under review in the US.
used by interventional radiologists, medical oncologists and Brachytherapy implants vascular surgeons.
Revenue Low-dose radioactive seeds used primarily to treat early-stage PARAGON Bead prostate cancer.
A drug-eluting bead pre-loaded with the chemotherapeutic drug irinotecan.
In development for the treatment of colorectal cancer which has metastasised to the liver mCRC.
Humanitarian Use 36.1m Device HUD designation granted in intrahepatic 12 13 36.1m cholangiocarcinoma.
11 12 28.7m PRECISION Bead A drug-eluting bead pre-loaded with the chemotherapeutic drug doxorubicin.
In development for the treatment of primary liver cancer or hepatocellular carcinoma HCC.
HUD designation granted in uveal melanoma.
Zytiga abiraterone acetate Lemtrada alemtuzumab Licensing & A treatment for advanced prostate cancer which is marketed by A potential treatment for relapsing multiple sclerosis.
US and EU the Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson.
regulatory applications have been submitted by partner Sanofi.
Biotechnology Two-Part Hip Cup Revenue A prosthetic hip joint replacement licensed to most major hip-replacement technology manufacturers.
100.4m 12 13 100.4m 11 12 91.6m Business review 04 Our areas of business BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review Late-stage development Growth strategy CroFab crotalidae polyvalent immune fab ovine Uridine triacetate We are seeking to in-license or acquire additional antidotes, Specialty The only approved treatment for the management of patients A treatment in development with Wellstat Therapeutics as well as other products used by Acute Care and other with North American pit viper envenomation.
100.4m 12 13 100.4m 11 12 91.6m Business review 05 Our areas of business BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
