Growing and sharing value Our business model Growing value for clients Growing value for shareholders Client assets Assets under management Net revenue Investment performance Effective distribution Fixed costs Available profit Assets under management Our business model centres around adding value A scalable and efficient operating platform allows us to to our clients' assets.
grow value for shareholders ahead of growth in assets.
Client assets Net revenue We look after assets on behalf of a range of clients: individual We collect fees from clients based on a percentage of the assets investors making their own investment decisions, those taking we manage, a proportion of which are paid to our distributors guidance from financial intermediaries or wealth managers, and for the services they perform on behalf of their clients.
Our net institutional investors, including pension funds.
In all cases, we revenues are, therefore, the proportion of fees we retain.
On a manage client assets with the aim of adding value by small number of funds, we also earn a performance fee where outperforming the market.
returns are above agreed targets.
Investment performance Fixed costs As an active fund manager we look to provide our clients with The first call on our revenues are the fixed costs of running the above market returns after fees, thereby maximising the value of business.
These are the salary costs and those costs associated client assets entrusted to us.
Our ability to provide this value to with the operating platform and support infrastructure.
These clients is core to our growth strategy.
costs include IT systems costs, rental payments for buildings and administration costs, as well as brand investment via Effective distribution marketing spend.
Providing our clients with the right products for their investment needs requires us to develop and maintain relevant products, Available profit market our products effectively, spend on our brand and deal Available profit is earnings after deducting fixed costs from net more efficiently with the relevant distributors and intermediaries revenues.
These earnings are then available for distribution to within the markets in which we operate.
A feature of our business model is the high conversion rate of available profits to cash.
Assets under management By providing continued value to our clients, and maintaining strong levels of service, we expect to retain those assets already entrusted to us as well as attract new assets.
Growing our assets over the medium-term on a scalable operating platform then creates value for our other stakeholders.
8 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 The rewards of growth are shared across What differentiates us in the execution all our stakeholders of our business model Clear focus We have a clear focus on the management of mutual 1 5 funds for retail and institutional clients.
Our strategy 1 is to offer products where we can deliver superior returns to our clients over the medium to long-term rather than creating new products where there is no clear competitive advantage.
Investment culture Our distinct investment culture focuses on allowing talented fund managers the freedom to pursue their own 2 individual investment approach.
This culture has helped Available profit build a strong track record of investment outperformance 2 with 69 per cent.
of our mutual fund assets above median over three years.
4 Track record We are well established as one of the leading fund groups in the UK retail market due to consistent investment 3 outperformance, strong brand and a multi-channel distribution approach.
We have a record of attracting flows across the market cycle, with net inflows of 7.0bn over the 3 last five years.
This has allowed us to grow our revenues significantly ahead of comparable market growth.
Scalable platform Our scalable operating platform and consistent focus on business efficiency allows us to grow our revenues without 4 having to increase our fixed costs at the same rate.
This has Available profit is the pool available to distribute across our resulted in EBITDA margins of over 50 per cent.
We look to use this pool to the benefit generation of significant operating cash flow.
of stakeholders by executing our strategy to grow profits over time and increase the share of marginal profit available to shareholders in the future.
Shareholder value Our aim of holding net cash over the cycle with a sustainable balance sheet has seen us pay down 272m of 5 debt post-Listing, trade out of our need for a regulatory 1.
Staff incentives - 25% capital waiver and increase dividends to shareholders to Represented by our variable compensation ratio.
pay our incentives out of available profits, ensuring alignment with our shareholders.
Corporation tax - 17% Represented by cash payments for corporation tax.
We expect to pay corporation tax at standard UK rates of 23.25 per cent.
Payments to shareholders - 27% Represented by ordinary dividends declared from our annual earnings.
We have a progressive dividend policy with a payout ratio of 50 per cent.
Payments to debtholders - 26% Payments to debtholders represented by debt paydown and interest payments made from earnings.
We have now completed the paydown of our gross debt and this segment will not be required going forward.
Retained for investment and growth - 5% Represented by retained cash.
This cash is used to fund strategic initiatives we expect to drive the future growth of the business.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 9
