"Strategic objectives Our focus on delivering value to clients and shareholders over the long-term translates into our four strategic objectives Investment outperformance Effective distribution Efficient operations Value creation Creating value after fees for clients, leading to Providing these products to the right clients, Maintaining efficient operations through a The successful interaction of these three factors What this is further demand for investment products leading to inward asset flows into the manager, scalable platform, thereby creating earnings ensures both value creation for clients, via the with revenue growth being a direct function of growth and cash generation, allowing both ""commercial alpha"" of above market returns after asset growth continued investment in the business and fees, and value creation for shareholders via returns to shareholders growing distribution and capital appreciation Value creation for clients Delivering our expertise to clients Capturing the rewards of growth Returns to shareholders Why this is Our business is centred on the strength of our Our investment expertise is provided to clients Our business model benefits from economies Our dividend policy is progressive."
We look to important investment team and is reliant on the quality and under a single brand through a range of products of scale, resulting in attractive EBITDA margins.
balance the requirements of delivering a long-term reputation of our fund managers and their ability and a variety of distribution channels.
We seek to Our existing platform is capable of supporting return to shareholders alongside deleveraging our to deliver long-term outperformance after fees.
offer and develop products that are suited to the significantly higher levels of AUM at balance sheet and investing in the business for Our approach to maximising performance is distribution channels and markets in which we proportionately lower levels of incremental future growth.
The level of dividend paid per share focused on preserving a culture of investment have, or can establish, a strong presence.
To grow the business substantially over DPS measures the immediate return of value to freedom, individual responsibility and is to generate net inflows by building our market the long-term, we target selective investments shareholders for the year under review.
The key metric in this area is position in the UK investment market and in developing our people, brand and operations investment performance over a three year period.
developing our international distribution according to market conditions and income capabilities.
The key metric is net flows in our levels at the time.
The key metric in this area core mutual fund range.
Our investment area is a single platform.
We have While we operate across a number of different We operate a single infrastructure platform, Our balance sheet management strategy since What that 39 fund managers who manage a range of funds geographies and markets, each of which has its designed to support a growing business and its Listing has been focused on ensuring we have an means for us for a variety of clients.
Private client assets are own characteristics, we maintain a consistent governance requirements while implementing efficient conversion of our earnings into cash managed separately by 13 dedicated private client brand and distribution approach and structure our operational efficiencies where appropriate, such flows, paying down gross debt, thereby reducing managers.
Our investment philosophy seeks to distribution efforts on a product neutral basis.
This as outsourcing or improved technologies.
financing costs, and trading out of the requirement generate investment outperformance against allows us to maximise our distribution reach and for our capital waiver.
This allows us to run a relevant benchmarks over the medium to the ability of different clients to access our This platform allows the fund management, sustainable balance sheet over the cycle whilst long-term without exposing our clients to investment expertise.
distribution and marketing areas the appropriate maximising returns to shareholders.
tools with which to do their jobs, provides Our current UK distribution effort is primarily executive management with the performance and While our fund managers work as a closely knit focused on intermediaries, with our advertising risk monitoring information required to manage team, sharing stock ideas and debating market effort designed to build brand awareness with the business and supports the requirements of prospects, we believe that each manager has both these agents and end clients.
Our market external stakeholders such as clients, shareholders individual responsibility for their own portfolio s share is particularly strong among IFAs and on and regulators.
and is, therefore, held accountable for the fund platforms.
Given the predominance of bank investment performance of the funds they distribution internationally, our approach outside The scalable nature of our platform ensures that manage.
We believe this creates a culture most the UK is focused on building relationships with our shareholders share in the benefits of the conducive to success.
wealth managers in our chosen territories, such as revenue growth and cash generation associated France, Germany and Switzerland.
Sustained under performance Regulatory non-compliance Operational error or fraud The key risk to value creation is failing to deliver Key risks Failure to retain key staff Distribution and product trends Failure of third party supplier on the other three strategic objectives, which is Significant mandate breach Business continuity incident mitigated by the governance of the organisation.
Counterparty failure See Governance section.
"Percentage of our AUM above median over 3 years Mutual fund net inflows EBITDA margin Dividends per share How we measure it - our KPIs 10 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Investment outperformance Effective distribution Efficient operations Value creation Creating value after fees for clients, leading to Providing these products to the right clients, Maintaining efficient operations through a The successful interaction of these three factors What this is further demand for investment products leading to inward asset flows into the manager, scalable platform, thereby creating earnings ensures both value creation for clients, via the with revenue growth being a direct function of growth and cash generation, allowing both ""commercial alpha"" of above market returns after asset growth continued investment in the business and fees, and value creation for shareholders via returns to shareholders growing distribution and capital appreciation Value creation for clients Delivering our expertise to clients Capturing the rewards of growth Returns to shareholders Why this is Our business is centred on the strength of our Our investment expertise is provided to clients Our business model benefits from economies Our dividend policy is progressive."
Percentage of our AUM above median over 3 years Mutual fund net inflows EBITDA margin Dividends per share How we measure it - our KPIs Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 11
