OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS ATTACHING TO SHARES The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Park Suite, The Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and without Dorchester, Park Lane, London W1K 1QA on Wednesday 16 April 2014 prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares, the Company at 11.00 am.
The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting is set may resolve by ordinary resolution to issue shares with such rights out in a separate letter from the Chairman to shareholders which and restrictions as set out in such resolution or if there is no such explains the items of business which are not of a routine nature.
resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act DIVIDENDS 2006 and of any resolution of the Company passed pursuant thereto An interim dividend of 10.0p was paid on 2 January 2014 in respect of and without prejudice to any rights attached to existing shares, the 2013 and the directors recommend a final dividend of 22.4p, making Board is duly authorised to issue and allot, grant options over or a total for the year of 32.4p per share 2012: 28.2p.
Dividend details otherwise dispose of the Companys shares on such terms and are given in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
Subject conditions and at such times as it thinks fit.
If at any time the share to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, the 16 April 2014, the final dividend will be paid on 1 July 2014 to those rights attached to any class may be varied or abrogated by special shareholders on the register at the close of business on 9 May 2014. resolution passed at a separate general meeting of such holders.
Subject to the rights attached to any existing shares, rights attached SHARE CAPITAL to shares will be deemed to be varied by the reduction of capital paid The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into up on the shares and by the allotment of further shares ranking in 1 ordinary shares of 32 7p each which rank pari passu in respect of priority in respect of dividend or capital or which confer on the participation and voting rights.
The shares are in registered form, holders more favourable voting rights than the first-mentioned are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
shares, but will not otherwise be deemed to be varied by the In addition, the Company operates a Level 1 American Depositary creation or issue of further shares.
Receipt programme with Citibank N. A. under which the Companys shares are traded on the over-the-counter OTC market in the form POWER TO ISSUE AND ALLOT SHARES of American Depositary Receipts.
The directors are generally and unconditionally authorised under the authorities granted at the 2013 Annual General Meeting to allot Details of changes to the issued share capital during the year are shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security set out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
into shares of the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 35.6 million.
At the same meeting authority was also granted to the BUNZL GROUP GENERAL EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST directors to allot the Companys shares for cash, up to a maximum Bunzl Employee Trustees Limited is trustee of the Bunzl Group nominal amount of approximately 5.7 million, without regard to the General Employee Benefit Trust the EBT which holds shares in pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
No such shares respect of employee share options and awards that have not been were issued or allotted under these authorities in 2013, nor is there exercised or vested.
The current position is that the EBT abstains any current intention to do so, other than to satisfy share options from voting in respect of these shares.
The trustee has agreed to under the Companys share option schemes and, if necessary, to waive the right to dividend payments on shares held within the EBT.
satisfy the consideration payable for businesses to be acquired.
Details of the shares so held are set out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
These authorities are valid until the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The directors again propose to seek SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS equivalent authorities at such Annual General Meeting.
As at 31 December 2013 the directors had been notified by the following shareholders that they were each interested in 3% or more RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SHARES of the issued share capital of the Company.
Dealings in the Companys ordinary shares by its directors, persons discharging managerial responsibilities, certain employees of the Date of Number of % of issued Company and, in each case, their connected persons, are subject Shareholder notification shares share capital to the Companys dealing code which adopts the Model Code of the INVESCO plc 20.05.10 32,571,686 9.8 Listing Rules published by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Cascade Investment, LLC 20.04.12 16,593,248 5.0 Lloyds Banking Group plc 27.05.10 16,425,039 4.9 Certain restrictions, which are customary for a listed company, apply Newton Investment to transfers of shares in the Company.
The Board may refuse to Management Ltd 07.03.11 13,864,410 4.2 register an instrument of transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share and of a certificated share at its discretion unless it is: As at 24 February 2014 no further notifications have been received since the year end.
lodged, duly stamped or duly certified, at the offices of the Companys registrar or such other place as the Board may specify and is accompanied by the certificate for the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: in respect of only one class of shares: and in favour of not more than four transferees.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules, and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
68 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 In addition, no instrument of transfer for certificated shares shall be In addition to any power to remove a director from office conferred by registered if the transferor has been served with a restriction notice company law, the Company may also by special resolution remove a as defined in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles director from office before the expiration of his or her period of office after failure to provide the Company with information concerning under the Articles.
certain interests in the Companys shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006, unless the transfer is shown to the The office of a director shall also be vacated pursuant to the Articles Board to be pursuant to an arms length sale.
The Board has the if the director: power to procure that uncertificated shares are converted into certificated shares and kept in certificated form for as long as resigns by giving notice to the Company or is asked to resign by all the Board requires.
of the other directors who are not less than three in number: or is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill health and the The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders Board resolves that his or her office be vacated: or that may result in any restriction of the transfer of shares or voting rights.
is absent without permission from Board meetings for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his or her office RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING RIGHTS be vacated: or A member shall not be entitled to vote, unless the Board otherwise becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors decides, at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any generally: or shares held by them if any call or other sums payable remain unpaid.
Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
In addition, no member is prohibited by law from being a director: or shall be entitled to vote if he has been served with a restriction notice ceases to be a director by virtue of any provisions of company after failure to provide the Company with information concerning law or is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
certain interests in the Companys shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006.
Votes may be exercised in person or Biographical details of the current directors are set out on page 38. by proxy.
The Articles currently provide a deadline for submission of Jean-Charles Pauze and Meinie Oldersma were appointed to the proxy forms of 48 hours before the relevant meeting, 24 hours before Board with effect from 1 January 2013 and 1 April 2013 respectively a poll is taken if such poll is taken more than 48 hours after it was and Ulrich Wolters retired from the Board on 17 April 2013.
All of the demanded or during the meeting at which the poll was demanded other directors served throughout the year.
Notwithstanding the if the poll is not taken straight away but is taken not more than retirement by rotation provisions in the Articles, each of the directors 48 hours after it was demanded.
will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in accordance with the UK Corporate PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES Governance Code.
At the 2013 Annual General Meeting, shareholders gave the Company authority to purchase a maximum of 33,225,000 ordinary shares.
Directors interests in ordinary shares are shown in Note 19 to the During the year ended 31 December 2013 the Company did not consolidated financial statements.
None of the directors was purchase any of its own shares pursuant to this authority or the materially interested in any contract of significance with the authority granted at the 2012 Annual General Meeting and no shares Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings during or at the end of have been purchased between 31 December 2013 and 24 February 2013.
Information relating to the directors service agreements and 2014.
On 4 December 2013 the Company cancelled a total number their remuneration for the year and details of the directors share of 23,325,000 ordinary shares held in treasury and currently holds options under the Companys share option schemes and awards no treasury shares.
The Company is therefore currently authorised under the Long Term Incentive Plan and Deferred Annual Share to buy back 33,225,000 of its own shares pursuant to the existing Bonus Scheme are set out in the Directors remuneration report on shareholders authority which is due to expire at the conclusion pages 47 to 67. of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The directors again propose to seek the equivalent authority at such Annual POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS General Meeting.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the DIRECTORS Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all powers Directors may be elected by ordinary resolution at a duly convened of the Company.
The Board may, by power of attorney or otherwise, general meeting or appointed by the Board.
Under the Articles, the appoint any person or persons to be the agent or agents of the minimum number of directors shall be two and the maximum shall Company for such purposes and on such conditions as the be 15.
In accordance with the Articles, each director is required to Board determines.
retire at the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year after which he or she was appointed or last appointed and any DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES director who has held office with the Company, other than As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the employment or executive office, for a continuous period of nine years Company has agreed to indemnify the directors and the Company or more at the date of the Annual General Meeting is subject to annual Secretary, in addition to other senior executives who are directors of re-appointment.
The Board may also appoint a person willing to subsidiaries of the Company, to the extent permitted by law and the act as a director during the year either to fill a vacancy or as an Articles in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, additional director but so that the total number of directors shall the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as a not at any time exceed 15.
However such appointee shall only hold director or officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
office until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 69 OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED AMENDMENT OF ARTICLES POLITICAL DONATIONS Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with the During 2013 no contributions were made for political purposes.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY confirms that: The directors recognise that the Company is part of a wider community and that it has a responsibility to act in a way that so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit respects the environment and social and community issues.
Further information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and information relating to the Companys approach to these matters is the director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken set out in the Corporate responsibility report on pages 33 to 37. as a director in order to make the director aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is EMPLOYMENT POLICIES aware of that information.
The employment policies of the Group have been developed to meet the needs of its different business areas and the locations in which This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance they operate worldwide, embodying the principles of equal with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. opportunity.
The Group has standards of business conduct with which it expects all its employees to comply.
Bunzl encourages Resolutions are to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General involvement of its employees in the performance of the business Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the in which they are employed and aims to achieve a sense of shared Company at a rate of remuneration to be determined by commitment.
In addition to a regular magazine and the Companys the directors.
intranet, which provide a variety of information on activities and developments within the Group and incorporate half year and annual STRATEGIC REPORT AND DIRECTORS REPORT financial reports, announcements are periodically circulated to give Pages 1 to 37 inclusive consist of the strategic report and pages 38 to details of corporate and staff matters together with a number of 70 inclusive consist of the directors report.
These reports have been subsidiary or business area publications dealing with activities in drawn up and presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon, specific parts of the Group.
applicable English company law and any liability of the directors in connection with these reports shall be subject to the limitations and It is the Groups policy that disabled applicants should be considered restrictions provided by such law.
for employment and career development on the basis of their aptitudes and abilities.
Employees who become disabled during their Under the Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits the liability working life will be retained in employment wherever possible and of directors in respect of statements in and omissions from the given help with rehabilitation and training.
strategic report and the directors report.
Under English law, the directors would be liable to the Company, but not to any third party, if SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS the strategic report or the directors report contain errors as a result The Companys wholly owned subsidiary, Bunzl Finance plc, has of recklessness or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment a number of bilateral loan facilities with a range of different of a material fact, but would not otherwise be liable.
counterparties, all of which are guaranteed by the Company, are in substantially the same form and are prepayable at the option of the The strategic report and the directors report were approved by lender in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Similar the Board on 24 February 2014. change of control provisions in relation to the Company are included in the US dollar and sterling bonds which have been entered into by On behalf of the Board Bunzl Finance plc and the Company and are also guaranteed by the Company.
Paul Hussey Secretary 24 February 2014 70 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Financial Statements 72 Consolidated income statement 73 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 74 Consolidated balance sheet 75 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 76 Consolidated cash flow statement 77 Notes 108 Company balance sheet 109 Notes to the Company financial statements 116 Statement of directors responsibilities 117 Independent auditors report 119 Five year review 120 Shareholder information BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 71
