Strategic Themes Invest in under-penetrated Markets Focus on and invest in under-penetrated markets.
For Burberry, these include opportunities in both developed markets like the United States and the growth economies of China, India and the Middle East.
A range of distribution channels and business models are used to address these opportunities.
44 Strategic Themes Key highlights from 2012 13 include: Elevating wholesale presence Securing appropriate in-store locations and refining Engaging the Chinese luxury consumer assortments, Burberry made further progress in aligning Leveraging proprietary research into the Chinese luxury its wholesale presence with the global brand positioning.
consumer, Burberry refined services to these customers North American department stores performed strongly at home and abroad.
with further expansion of dedicated shop-in-shops.
Over 150 Mandarin-speaking sales associates were integrated into teams across top tourist destinations KPI: Number of stores in emerging markets outside Asia.
In China, a specialised sales and service As at 31 March Measures the reach of the Burberry brand programme was developed, enhancing the customer in these high potential countries.
experience and driving brand consistency.
173 19 stores Bespoke product assortments were developed for stores in China, key tourist destinations and on burberry.
com, to coincide with the Golden Week 2013 173 and Chinese New Year holidays.
2012 154 The brands digital presence continued to be 2011 136 strengthened, engaging customers with dedicated 2010 111 content across multiple Chinese platforms.
2009 91 Emerging markets include: China, the Middle East, Eastern Europe, Developing the Middle East Russia, Brazil, India and other parts of South East Asia, South Africa and Latin America.
The store portfolio in the Middle East was extended with the opening of five new stores across Kuwait, UAE and Saudi Arabia.
Customised Eid Al Fitr and Eid Al Adha campaigns were introduced in-market and on burberry.
com, engaging customers at these peak gifting periods.
Building Central and Latin America The brands footprint in Latin America increased with the opening of four new stores in Brazil So Paulo, Recife and two in Rio fide Janeiro.
Leases were signed to open a planned three further retail stores in Antara, Santa Fe and Cancun.
New franchise agreements were signed for Colombia, Chile and Barbados.
Entering new markets Recognising the potential volatility in emerging markets, Burberry continued to work with franchisees and partners in countries where it has more limited experience, benefiting from local expertise.
During the year Burberry opened stores in five new markets: Jordan, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Estonia and Georgia.
