Strategic Themes INTENSIFY ACCESSORIES Capitalise on opportunities in under-penetrated accessory categories by combining Burberrys creative expertise and iconic branding with intensified investment in product development, sourcing and marketing.
36 Strategic Themes Accessories remained Burberrys largest product division, Eyewear contributing 39% of total retail wholesale revenue and A continued focus on product development recording underlying growth of 8%.
and distribution drove robust sales growth.
Product activity included the addition of two high-profile Key highlights from 2012 13 include: collections in the year.
The Aviator sunglasses collection was launched with a digitally-led music campaign, Mens accessories which included live performances by Burberry Acoustic Continued investments in product design, development bands in Milan, New York, Paris and Sydney.
Splash and marketing drove an increase in sales of over 30%, sunglasses were introduced at the womenswear and to account for nearly 20% of total mainline accessories menswear S S13 runway shows and featured in the main revenue.
Growth in this category was particularly strong advertising campaign.
in Asia Pacific and on burberry.
KPI: Growth in accessories revenue Year to 31 March Soft accessories Measures the success of Burberrys initiatives to expand Continued diversification and innovation in fabrications in this category, which includes large and small leather and prints, supported by enhanced visual merchandising, goods, scarves, shoes, belts and jewellery.
enabled outperformance in this key category.
Scarves, one of the largest trans-seasonal businesses, 734m 8% performed strongly, driven by a balanced offer across cashmere and lighter-weight blends.
2013 734 8% 2012 689 22% Large leather goods 2011 563 32% Accounting for around half of all mainline accessories 2010 417 revenue, large leather goods remained the backbone 2010 420 10% of this category.
Growth was driven by focused marketing of key fashion shapes and continued innovation 2009 366 12% in the core leather programme, including the launch of Revenue is retail wholesale only.
Growth rate is year-on-year underlying change i. e. at constant exchange rates.
2009 and 2010 include the results of the discontinued Spanish operations.
2010 has been re-presented to exclude the discontinued Spanish operations.
Following a successful launch in the womenswear A W12 collection, the Orchard bag was subsequently introduced as a replenishment style and became the brands second-best selling shape within a year.
Festive The seamless execution of giftable product was a focus throughout the year, with a particular emphasis on accessories.
New experiences were created on burberry.
com and brand marketing campaigns were synchronised across all platforms to drive awareness and sales growth around key global holiday periods.
Watches With the introduction of The Britain, Burberry took a major step in realigning its watches with the brands global luxury positioning.
Inspired by the iconic trench coat, the mechanical watch collection for men and women celebrated the brands values of functional design and craftsmanship.
The launch included a bespoke mobile experience, featuring a to-scale interactive 3D model of the watch displaying the users time, location and local weather conditions.
