Great Brand, Great Company Burberry Beyond Burberry Beyond encompasses all activities relating to Burberrys commitment to driving positive social, cultural and environmental impact globally, underpinned by three pillars: Burberry Impact, Burberry Engage and Burberry Invest.
BURBERRY BURBERRY BURBERRY IMPACT EngAgE InvEsT Leveraging our creative Harnessing the passions Supporting and inspiring thinking culture to inspire and talents of Burberry the next generation sustainable action associates of creative thinkers Burberry Impact relationships.
Engagement activities included announced The Burberry Impact programme, covering ethical trade and unannounced audits: monitoring: continuous and environmental sustainability, was introduced as improvement programmes supported by third parties: and a five-year commitment to make meaningful and lasting the provision of training and confidential worker hotlines.
improvements to workers employment and workplace conditions, as well as to significantly reduce the companys Burberry continued to provide suppliers with the necessary environmental impact.
These commitments, informed tools and support to ensure compliance with the Burberry by baseline assessments, were developed in partnership Ethical Trading Policy, including the Burberry Ethical with Forum for the Future and with support from the Ethical Trading Code of Conduct.
The Code is underpinned by Trading Initiative.
The programme is supported by the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, an advisory committee of external expert stakeholders the fundamental conventions of the International Labour and the Burberry Strategic Responsibility Council.
Organisation and the Ethical Trading Initiative base code.
Burberry Impact has four areas of focus: people, product, number of audits, supplier visits, training sessions, process and property.
improvement programme and hotline training visits People 839 11% Burberry expects all its suppliers to comply with local labour and environmental laws and the Burberry Ethical 2013 839 Trading Code of Conduct, providing their workers with 2012 756 safe working conditions and fair pay, and allowing them to exercise their right to freedom of association and 2011 721 collective bargaining.
Recognising the importance of workers in protecting Further integration of ethical trade principles into workplace rights, the rollout of NGO-run confidential worker commercial decision making continued to be a focus hotlines was extended.
Currently 70 factories offer hotline across the business, with opportunities identified access, giving 30,000 workers a free and confidential to improve labour standards through strong supplier consulting, counselling and whistleblowing line.
68 Great Brand, Great Company Across its supply chain, Burberry endeavours to work Property through multi-stakeholder dialogue to contribute to Leveraging the sustainability expertise of the Burberry sustainable change.
Burberry continued to collaborate construction team is crucial to the continued pursuit with peers and stakeholders, including Business of more sustainable construction practices and energy for Social Responsibility and the UN Global Compact, efficiency in both existing and new buildings.
as well as through its membership of the tri-partite Ethical Trading Initiative.
Pilot energy saving schemes were introduced after store audits identified up to 65% kilowatt hours of potential Product energy savings in selected stores.
The new Chicago Burberry initiated an environmental baseline assessment flagship store achieved LEED Silver certification, using of both direct and indirect carbon dioxide equivalent CO e innovative technologies to increase efficiency.
2 impacts from raw materials, energy, water, chemical inputs and waste.
This detailed analysis enabled the identification Recognising that associate education and engagement of risks and priority areas for the business to focus reduction is critical to achieving Burberrys energy efficiency targets, efforts at a regional, functional and raw material level.
a training programme was established and supported by a global challenge encouraging the submission of creative Environmental Baseline Assessment ideas for sustainable action.
A W11 and S S13 as % of CO e 2 Global buildings energy CO 2 2% CO kgs per 1,000 turnover 2 10% 20% Raw materials 12% Finished raw materials 20 5% Manufacturing Distribution 2013 20 Corporate and Retail Consumer use 2012 19 13% 29% Packaging 2011 21 14% Burberry Engage Together, cotton and leather represent 57% of CO e from Leveraging core business competences and individual 2 Burberry raw materials.
Building collaborative partnerships talents in the communities where associates live and work with the suppliers of these materials is therefore critical remains a key objective.
Burberry continued to encourage to achieving Burberrys product commitments.
Working its associates to connect with the Burberry Beyond closely with other luxury brands and the Leather Working framework, extending its positive impact in new and Group, Burberry committed to monitoring and improving existing locations.
Eight taskforces were established to the environmental management and traceability in its dynamically embed the framework into ways of working leather supply chain, working with tanneries supplying across the global organisation.
more than 65% of accessories leather.
Associates were encouraged to dedicate their skills and Process passions during working hours to volunteering programmes, Burberry is committed to driving more sustainable harnessing their talents to give back to local communities.
outcomes throughout its worldwide operations.
2,300 associates in 55 cities dedicated over 8,000 hours to inspire young people in their local communities.
Reflecting its commitment to reducing energy consumption across the supply chain, Burberry conducted energy efficiency assessments at key vendor sites and distribution centres, which account for almost one-third of CO e 2 identified in the environmental baseline assessment.
69 Great Brand, Great Company Employee volunteering hours Community donations Time volunteered by Burberry associates Direct contributions made by Burberry 8,000 45% 4.3m 16% 2013 8,000 2013 4.3 2012 5,500 2012 3.7 2011 3,700 2011 3.0 Burberry Invest governance Burberry Invest supports innovative organisations A global governance system connects Burberrys global and programmes in Burberrys communities worldwide, community on people issues, ethical trading, community combining associates dedication, knowledge and creativity investment and environmental sustainability policies with corporate financial support and in-kind donations.
Burberry donates 1% of Group profits before tax to The Chief Corporate Affairs Officer is responsible for ethical charitable causes, the majority to the Burberry Foundation trade, community and environmental sustainability matters UK registered charity number 1123102, an independent and reports on these topics to the Group Risk Committee charity that aims to help young people realise their dreams and the Board.
He also chairs the Strategic Responsibility and potential through the power of their creativity.
Council and sits on the Supply Chain Risk Committee.
The Foundation has partnered with 32 charities to directly and indirectly inspire over 75,000 young people since An advisory board of external stakeholders was established it was established in 2008.
Today, the Foundation is active in 2012 to oversee the Burberry Impact Strategy for ethical in 14 cities around the world.
In addition to financial support, the Foundation made To reflect the Companys continued expansion, Burberry in-kind donations ranging from non-trademark fabric strengthened its health and safety team and resources and materials to assist young people enrolled in art globally.
Occupational health and safety compliance and design courses, to the annual Christmas Coat is reviewed tri-annually in stores and annually in offices Donation programme, benefiting disadvantaged young and supply chain sites.
All improvement plans are monitored people around the world.
Total coat donations since by the Global Health and Safety Committee, chaired its launch in 2008 reached 10,000. by the Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer.
The Foundation launched Burberry Create, a bespoke six External assurance and performance indicators to eight week creative training and employability programme, To provide confidence in the Burberry Beyond metrics, delivered by Burberry associates at corporate locations Burberry appointed Deloitte LLP to review selected worldwide.
Designed to leverage the full range of Burberrys sustainability key performance indicators denoted with competences to develop young peoples creative thinking and to provide limited assurance using the International and problem solving skills through practical work experience, Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000.
Deloitte business challenges and mentoring, the programme LLP has assertion tested the indicators denoted with.
enriched the lives of 155 young people in London, See the full independent assurance statement New York, Hong Kong, Shanghai and Beijing.
and the basis of reporting at www.
Burberry continued to support the next generation of creative talent through multi-year scholarship funds at the Royal College of Art in the UK and Ball State University in the US.
In response to the devastation caused by Hurricane Sandy in October 2012, the Burberry Foundation and its associates assisted with the rebuilding of lives and communities in the most impacted areas of New York and New Jersey.
