Strategic Themes Leverage the Franchise Enhance consumer resonance and operate more effectively through exacting use of brand assets and coordinated action across the global organisation.
32 Strategic Themes Key highlights from 2012 13 include: Brand recognition Listed in Interbrands Top 100 Global Brands for the Brand momentum fourth consecutive year, Burberry was named the luxury Ensuring the strength, purity and positioning of the fashion brand with the greatest increase in brand value.
Burberry was cited by Altagamma as the luxury brand with the highest digital customer awareness and led Burberry World Live media think tank L2s Fashion Digital IQ Index for the Burberry Regent Street opened in London in September second year, as well as being named by L2 as the fashion 2012 as the brands most comprehensive expression brand with the highest digital IQ in China.
Introducing the concept of Burberry World Live, Burberry the 29th most in-demand employer globally.
Regent Street blurred the physical and the digital to bring all aspects of burberry.
com Burberry World to life Marketing innovation in a  heritage space.
Continued extension of its reach through marketing innovation, leveraging brand content to engage Offering the full collection in a digitally-enriched environment, and connect global audiences.
Regent Street engaged customers with brand content continuously projected on over 100 screens throughout Digital engagement the store, including product-specific content triggered by Brand excitement was driven globally across a range RFID-enabled merchandise on mirrors that turn instantly of platforms.
The S S13 main campaign generated to screens.
In-store audiences could watch key brand record awareness through social and traditional media, moments live from other locations, including the with the launch video generating over 1.7 million views womenswear S S13 and A W13 runway shows.
on YouTube and Burberry trending globally on Twitter.
Regent Street also gave physical expression to the The womenswear A W13 show was streamed live brands most innovative digital launches.
This included on Twitter for the first time, allowing followers to embed live music events featuring Burberry Acoustic artists the show stream in personal newsfeeds.
and the first in-store Burberry Bespoke experience.
Burberry finished the year as the most followed luxury brand on Facebook, with nearly 15 million fans.
Total Beauty lifetime YouTube video views reached nearly 24 million In October 2012, Burberry announced the transition and the brands combined Twitter following was over of its fragrance and make-up business from a licensed two million.
Burberry was also the leading luxury to a directly operated structure.
As consumers most widely encountered expression of the Burberry brand, Beauty provides outstanding Outdoor investment growth opportunities for the Group.
Business integration Investment was increased in out-of-home marketing was completed during the year with operations in key markets.
To emphasise the brands association commencing on 1 April 2013. with weather, Burberry streamed live images of London scenes simultaneously throughout the Olympic period Digital to prominent outdoor sites in London, Paris, Hong Kong, Investments in burberry.
com continued with expanded Los Angeles and New York.
delivery to over 100 countries, while the introduction The Art Of The Trench social media platform was taken of Spanish and Korean brought the number of languages to outdoor spaces in London and Chicago in conjunction online to eight.
Retail theatre was rolled out to a further 84 stores, More broadly, the brand secured key airport and iconic extending the global streaming of brand content in all urban locations on a long-term basis.
34 Strategic Themes Product excellence KPI: Total revenue growth Year to 31 March Burberry creates great product through intensive focus Measures the appeal of the brand to consumers, on design innovation, quality and core heritage icons.
be it through Burberry stores or those of its department store orspecialty retail customers.
Outerwear Outerwear is the core of the apparel business, 1,999m 8% underpinned by monthly fashion groups and a robust replenishment programme.
Leveraging the brands 2013 1,999 8% unique heritage together with design innovation and 2012 1,857 23% excellence, outerwear accounted for about 50% of mainline apparel sales.
The iconic trench coat continued 2011 1,501 24% to be a central feature of the brands marketing activities.
2010 1,185 2010 1,280 1% Mens 2009 1,202 7% Investments in infrastructure saw increased product Retail Wholesale Licensing and marketing excellence in mens outerwear, London Growth rate is year-on-year underlying change i. e. at constant exchange rates.
As the fastest growing product division, 2009 and 2010 include the results of the discontinued Spanish operations.
mens represented 24% of retail wholesale revenue.
2010 has been re-presented to exclude the discontinued Spanish operations.
Retail sales of mens tailoring, available in over 70 mainline stores, grew by nearly 70% year-on-year and the first dedicated standalone mens store opened in Knightsbridge, London.
Product hierarchy Burberry Prorsum and London continued to outperform, reflecting customer preferences and representing about half of womens and mens mainline retail sales.
An ongoing focus on innovative product, marketing and merchandising and a shift in the product pyramid mix drove growth in mainline average unit retail prices.
Runway Made to Order launched, continuing to put the Burberry customer at the centre of increasingly personalised luxury experiences.
Engraved nameplates could be added to custom-made outerwear and bags from the womenswear A W13 collection.
Smart personalisation technology was introduced to unlock bespoke digital content relating to each item on touchscreen devices.
