Corporate Governance Directors report The directors present their Annual Report and the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year to 31 March 2013. Business review An interim dividend of 8.0p per ordinary share was paid Burberry Group plc is required to set out in this report to shareholders on 25 January 2013 2012: 7.0p.
This will a fair review of the business of the Group during the year make a total dividend of 29.0p per ordinary share in respect to 31 March 2013 and of the position of the Group at the of the financial year to 31 March 2013.
The aggregate end of the financial year and a description of the principal dividends paid and recommended in respect of the year risks and uncertainties facing the Group known as a to 31 March 2013 total 126.4m 2012: 109.5m.
The purpose of the business review is to enable shareholders to assess how the directors have Directors performed their duty under section 172 of the Companies The names and biographical details of the directors that Act 2006 the duty to promote the success of the company.
held office during the year and as at the date of this report The Chairmans letter on page 7, the Chief Executive are set out on page 76 and are incorporated by reference Officers letter on pages 8 to 11, the Burberry Group into this report.
Overview and Strategic Themes sections on pages 24 to 51 and the Financial Review on pages 54 to 59 report on the At the 2013 Annual General Meeting, all of the directors activities and results for the year and give an indication will retire and offer themselves for re-election with the of the Groups future developments.
The corporate exception of Stacey Cartwright.
responsibility Burberry Beyond and Our People report is set out in the Great Brand, Great Company section on The Notice of this years Annual General Meeting sets out pages 66 to 71.
A description of the principal risks and why the Board believes the directors should be re-elected.
uncertainties facing the Group is included on pages 60 Details of the directors service agreements and letters of to 63.
The Corporate Governance Report is set out on appointment are given in the Directors Remuneration pages 82 to 92 and the Directors Remuneration Report Report on pages 93 to 104. is on pages 93 to 104.
The sections of the Annual Report referred to above fulfil the requirements of the business Directors share interests review and are incorporated by reference and shall be The interests of the directors holding office at 31 March deemed to form part of this report.
2013 in the shares of the Company are shown within the Directors Remuneration Report on page 103.
There were Principal activities no changes to the beneficial interests of the directors Burberry Group plc is a holding company.
The Group between the period 31 March 2013 and 20 May 2013. designs and sources luxury apparel and accessories, selling through a diversified network of retail including Directors insurance and indemnities digital, wholesale and licensing channels worldwide.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal Revenue and profit action brought against its directors.
In accordance with Revenue from the continuing business during the period section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, qualifying amounted to 1,998.7m 2012: 1,857.2m.
The profit for third-party indemnity provisions are in place for the the year attributable to equity holders of the Company directors in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their was 254.3m 2012: 263.3m.
office, to the extent permitted by law.
Both the insurance and indemnities applied throughout the financial year Dividends ended 31 March 2013 and through to the date of this report.
The directors recommend that a final dividend of 21.0p per ordinary share 2012: 18.0p in respect of the year Share capital to 31 March 2013 be paid on 1 August 2013 to those Details of the issued share capital, together with details persons on the Register of Members as at 5 July 2013. of movements in the issued share capital of Burberry Group plc during the year are shown in note 22 which is incorporated by reference and deemed to be part of this report.
78 Corporate Governance The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries Number of % of total ordinary shares voting rights no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one Blackrock Inc. 43,198,349 9.92 vote at general meetings of the Company.
The ordinary The Capital Group Companies, Inc 40,656,191 9.20 shares are listed on the Official List and traded on the London Thornburg Investment Management 22,193,131 5.03 Stock Exchange.
As at 31 March 2013, the Company had JP Morgan Chase & Co 21,578,580 4.99 442,160,331 ordinary shares in issue, of which 30,027 Schroders plc 21,666,352 4.99 were held as treasury shares.
FMR LLC 21,867,513 4.98 Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 21,664,800 4.97 In order to retain maximum flexibility, the Company proposes Massachusetts Financial to renew the authority granted by ordinary shareholders at 20,073,645 4.61 Services Company the Annual General Meeting in 2012, to repurchase up to Legal and General Group plc 17,483,873 3.98 just under 10% of its issued share capital.
Further details are provided in the Notice of this years Annual General Meeting.
As at 20 May 2013, the Company had not received any further notifications under Rule 5 of the Disclosure At the Annual General Meeting in 2012, shareholders and Transparency Rules of major interests in its issued approved resolutions to allot shares up to an aggregate ordinary share capital.
nominal value of 73,000 and to allot shares for cash other than pro rata to existing shareholders.
Resolutions will be Interests in own shares proposed at this years Annual General Meeting to renew Details of the Companys interests in its own shares these authorities.
are set out in note 22 to the financial statements.
No person has any special rights of control over the Charitable donations Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
During the year to 31 March 2013, the Group donated There are no specific restrictions on the size of holding nor 4.3m 2012: 3.7m for the benefit of charitable causes.
on the transfer of shares which are both governed by the These donations principally comprised cash.
Further general provisions of the Articles of Association and information regarding the charitable donations made during prevailing legislation.
The directors are not aware of any the year are contained in the Great Brand, Great Company agreements between holders of the Companys shares that section on pages 66 to 71. may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
The directors have no current plans to issue Political donations shares other than in connection with employee share The Company made no political donations during the year schemes.
in line with its policy 2012: nil.
In keeping with the Companys approach in prior years, shareholder approval Details of employee share schemes are set out in note is being sought at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, 26.
The Burberry Group plc ESOP Trust has waived as a precautionary measure, for the Company all dividends payable by the Company in respect and its subsidiaries to make donations and or incur of the ordinary shares held by it.
In addition, the Burberry expenditure which may be construed as political Group plc SIP Trust has waived all dividends payable by the wide definition of that term included in the relevant by the Company in respect of the unappropriated ordinary legislation.
Further details are provided in the Notice shares held by it.
The total dividends waived by the of this years Annual General Meeting.
trusts in the year to 31 March 2013 were in aggregate 1.0m 2012: 0.2m.
Employment policies Diversity and inclusion With regard to the appointment and replacement The Group takes a very inclusive approach to diversity.
of directors, the Company follows the UK Corporate As a global business, we value people of all cultures, Governance Code and is governed by its Articles nationalities, races, religions and ethnicities, regardless of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and related of characteristics such as gender, gender identity and or legislation.
The Articles of Association may be amended expression, age, disability or sexual orientation.
Burberry by special resolution of the shareholders.
is passionate about attracting, developing and rewarding the most talented and skilled individuals, regardless Substantial shareholdings of background.
The Group encourages its employees As at 31 March 2013, the Company had been notified under to work across functions, geographies and cultures Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the to enhance understanding and create a connected global following major interests in its issued ordinary share capital: community.
As the Group continues to grow globally, it is building on its long-term commitment to diversity and inclusion embracing the cultures of all the countries where we do business.
Burberry is committed to making 79 Corporate Governance the necessary adjustments to support the employment The Group again intends to grant during 2013 14 free share of people with disabilities and provide training and awards or cash-based awards to all eligible employees.
development to ensure they have the opportunity to achieve The Group also intends, where possible, to invite their potential.
In a situation where an employee becomes employees to take part in the Sharesave Scheme.
disabled during their employment, the Group will endeavour to assist the employee by offering additional training, Further details on the Groups approach to employee adapting the job if appropriate or by offering a transfer involvement and communications are provided in the to another position.
Great Brand, Great Company section on pages 66 to 71.
Health and safety Financial instruments The Group has a health and safety strategy and policy The Groups financial risk management objectives approved by the Board and a Global Health and Safety and policies are set out within note 25 to the financial Committee which is chaired by the Executive Vice statements.
Note 25 also details the Groups exposure President, Chief Financial Officer.
Each region has a local to foreign exchange, share price, interest, credit Committee which reports into the Global Committee.
These notes are incorporated There have been a number of internal and external audits by reference and are deemed to form part of this report.
carried out to provide assurance.
There has been no enforcement action following a routine visit by inspectors.
Creditor payment policy For all trade creditors, it is the Companys policy to: Further information regarding the Groups employment agree and confirm the terms of payment at the policies are provided in the Great Brand, Great Company commencement of business with that supplier: section on pages 66 to 71. pay in accordance with contractual and other legal Employee involvement obligations: and Employee communication continually review the payment procedures and liaise The Group believes that employee communication is with suppliers as a means of eliminating difficulties important in enhancing the Company culture and connectivity, and maintaining a good working relationship.
and in motivating and retaining employees globally.
A robust global communications programme, incorporating The Company had no trade creditors at 31 March 2013 various physical and digital methods and channels, enables 2012: nil.
all employees to connect and collaborate closely, and ensures they understand key strategies and other matters Significant contracts change of control of interest and importance, quickly and efficiently.
Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the directors disclose that in the event of a change of control Social media platform Burberry Chat is the key digital in the Company, the Groups 300m Revolving Credit channel used to communicate internally.
However, Facility dated 28 March 2011 could become repayable.
other methods and channels are also actively leveraged, including face-to-face briefings, open discussion forums In circumstances of change of control of the Company, with senior management, email and instant messaging.
Angela Ahrendts may terminate her employment.
Her Monthly video updates, highlighting the Groups performance entitlement in respect of remuneration in such circumstances and its ongoing strategic initiatives are broadcast globally, is set out on page 97 of the Directors Remuneration Report as is the monthly creative thinking programme Burberry and is the same as it would be if her service agreement is Chat Live, sharing inspirational interviews with employees terminated where the Remuneration Committee determines from around the world.
Finally, development of content that Angela Ahrendts performance does not meet the such as videos and digital web pages to communicate key financial expectations of the Board or shareholders.
initiatives, events and other brand messages, continues to enhance internal communication, employee connectivity Details of the service agreements of the executive directors and the Burberry culture.
are set out on page 97 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Employee share ownership The provisions of the Companys employee share plans may The Group recognises the importance of good relationships cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest with employees of all levels and runs incentive schemes upon a change of control.
and share ownership schemes for the benefit of employees.
Further details of these schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 93 to 104.
80 Corporate Governance Essential contracts Annual General Meeting The Group has a number of contractual arrangements The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held with suppliers both of goods and services, wholesale at the offices of Slaughter and May, One Bunhill Row, customers, distributors and licensees who manufacture London EC1Y 8YY commencing at 9.30am on Friday, and distribute products using the Burberry trademarks, 12 July 2013.
The Notice of this years Annual General subsidiary partners and franchisees.
In addition, the Group Meeting will be available to view on the Companys website occupies leasehold premises for the purpose of conducting at burberryplc.
Whilst these arrangements are important to the business of the Group, individually none of them The directors consider that each of the proposed resolutions are essential to the business of the Group and do not require to be considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the best disclosure under section 417 5 c of the Companies Act 2006. interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and are most likely to promote the success of the Company Independent auditors for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
The directors In accordance with section 418 2 of the Companies unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour Act 2006, each of the Companys directors in office of each of the proposed resolutions, as the directors intend as at the date of this report confirms that: to do in respect of their own shareholdings.
so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant By order of the Board audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought Catherine Sukmonowski to have taken as a director in order to make himself Company Secretary or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are 20 May 2013 aware of that information.
Registered Office: The Groups auditors are  LLP.
Horseferry House A resolution to reappoint  Horseferry Road LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed London at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
SW1P 2AW Note 5 in the financial statements states the auditors Registered Number: 03458224 fees both for audit and non-audit work.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Financial Review on pages 54 to 60, along with details of the Groups cash flows.
Details of the Groups liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in notes 18 and 21.
Financial risk management objectives, details of financial instruments and hedging activities, and exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk are described in note 25.
The directors have reviewed the Groups forecasts and projections.
These include the assumptions around the Groups products and markets, expenditure commitments, expected cash flows and borrowing facilities.
Taking into account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, and after making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the directors consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
