Strategic report 5 Who we are Because the Corporations assets are invested From its origins in 1889, Law Debenture has diversified to internationally and without regard to the composition of become a group with a unique range of activities in the indices, there are no restrictions on maximum or minimum financial and professional services sectors.
The group stakes in particular regions or industry sectors.
However, divides into two distinct areas of business: we are a global such stakes are monitored in detail by the board at each investment trust listed on the London Stock Exchange: and board meeting in order to ensure that sufficient we provide independent fiduciary services businesses IFS diversification is maintained.
Liquidity and long-term borrowings are managed with the aim of improving returns to shareholders.
The policy on Investment trust objectives, investment gearing is to adopt a level of gearing that balances risk with strategy, business model the objective of increasing the return to shareholders.
In Our objective for the investment trust is to achieve long pursuit of its investment objective, investments may be term capital growth in real terms and steadily increasing held in, inter alia, equity shares, collective investment income.
The aim is to achieve a higher rate of total return products including OEICS, fixed interest securities, than the FTSE Actuaries All-Share Index through investing interests in limited liability partnerships, cash and liquid in a portfolio diversified both geographically and by industry.
Derivatives may be used but only with the prior Law Debenture shares are intended for private investors in authorisation of the board.
Investment in such instruments the UK retail investors, professionally advised private for trading purposes is proscribed.
It is permissible to clients and institutional investors.
By investing in an hedge against currency movements on both capital and investment trust, shareholders typically accept the risk of income account, subject again to prior authorisation of the exposure to equities but hope that the pooled nature of an board.
Stock lending, trading in suspended shares and investment trust portfolio will give some protection from the short positions are not permitted.
radical share price movements that can sometimes affect The Corporations investment activities are subject to the individual equities.
following limitations and restrictions: Our investment strategy is as follows: No investment may be made which raises the aggregate The Corporation carries on its business as a global value of the largest 20 holdings, excluding investments in investment trust.
OEICS and UK gilts, to more than 40% of the Corporations portfolio, including cash.
The value of a new Investments are selected on the basis of what appears most acquisition in any one company may not exceed 5% of attractive in the conditions of the time.
This approach total portfolio value including cash at the time the means that there is no obligation to hold shares in any investment is made, further additions shall not cause a particular type of company, industry or geographical single holding to exceed 5%, and board approval must be location.
The IFS businesses do not form part of the sought to retain a holding, should its value increase above investment portfolio and are outwith this strategy.
The Corporations portfolio will typically contain between 70 The Corporation applies a ceiling on effective gearing and 150 listed investments.
The portfolio is diversified both of 150%.
While effective gearing will be employed in by industrial sector and geographic location of investments a typical range of 90% to 120%, the board retains the in order to spread investment risk.
ability to reduce equity exposure to below 90% if deemed appropriate.
Whilst performance is measured against local and UK indices, the composition of these indices does not influence The Corporation may not make investments in respect of the construction of the portfolio.
As a consequence, it is which there is unlimited liability.
expected that the Corporations investment portfolio and performance will deviate from the comparator indices.
Board approval must be sought for any proposed direct investments in certain jurisdictions.
The Corporation has a policy not to invest more than 15% of gross assets in other UK listed investment companies.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
