8 Strategic report continued The IFS businesses part of our are provided to enable employees to deal with issues of business model concern to them, whether work related or domestic.
As a Operating through wholly owned subsidiary companies, the result of these measures, and senior managements open principal subsidiaries being listed at note 13 to the style, staff turnover is extremely low, normally less than accounts, we provide the following services: corporate 10% per annum.
trusts, agency services, pension trusts, corporate services The group supports certain charities from time to time, including agent for service of process, treasury services, particularly where employees have personally organised whistleblowing services and governance services to client events, or take part in sponsored activities, that benefit boards.
The services are provided through offices in charities related to them or their families.
London, Sunderland, New York, Delaware, Hong Kong and the Channel Islands.
Law Debenture has supported local social and community initiatives in London by participating in the Social Mobility Group employees are employed by L. D. C. Trust Foundation helping high achieving young people from low Management Limited and Safecall Limited in the UK or a income families to gain work experience through an locally incorporated entity in the overseas jurisdictions.
As internship with us and City Gateway offering part of their duties, a small number of the employees apprenticeship training for young people as part of their provide services to the investment trust and their time is NVQ training.
The group is unaware of any human rights charged to the trust, forming a part of the Ongoing charges.
issues that might arise from its activities, mindful though of More details about the performance of the IFS in 2013 are the need to act responsibly as an institutional shareholder given in the management review at page 18. as described above.
The principal risks of the IFS arise where transactions to Breakdown of employees by sex which we provide a service come under stress say by We are obliged to report that: going into default, or where re-financings or other transaction amendments are required.
Such risks may one director of the group parent is female, representing arise from the wider economic pressures on some sectors, 20% of the board: borrowers and regions.
To mitigate these risks, we work 33% of the senior managers of the group are female closely with our legal advisers and where appropriate, senior manager being any individual with responsibility for financial advisers both in the set up phase to ensure that planning, directing or controlling an activity of one of the we have as many protections as practicable and on a subsidiary companies, excluding the managing director : continuing basis.
and The single KPI of the IFS is revenue return per share, which 49% of the group employees are female.
is reported within the financial summary and performance table and the ten year record at pages2 and 3.
Future trends and factors Law Debenture will continue to strive to deliver its business Environmental, employee related objectives for both the investment trust and the IFS.
and social issues Law Debenture considers that none of its trading activities The investment managers review and the IFS has a negative environmental impact.
We disclose our management review respectively set out some views on carbon emissions consumption as part of the directors future developments.
Performance and related data Those emissions relate solely to the maintenance of our Pages 2, 3 and 9 to 15, which contain performance and various offices around the world.
related data, form a part of this strategic report.
The groups employees are provided with modern, comfortable working environments that comply with all relevant safety regulations.
Employee wellbeing is Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited ensured through delivery of a range of benefits designed Company Secretary to promote good health including health insurance, medicals, etc.
Independent confidential helpline facilities 27 February 2014 The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
