6 Strategic report continued Capital structure simple and mainstream Our business model is designed to give us competitive Law Debentures capital structure is transparent.
We have advantage in the investment trust sector.
We aim to deliver only one class of share ordinary shares and each share the investment trusts objective by skilled implementation of has the same rights as every other share.
the investment strategy, complemented by maintaining and operating our IFS businesses profitably and safely, while The Corporation conducts its affairs so that its ordinary keeping them distinct from the portfolio.
The operational shares are capable of being recommended by independent independence of the IFS means that they can act flexibly financial advisors to ordinary retail investors in accordance and commercially.
They provide a regular flow of dividend with relevant FCA rules.
Our ordinary shares are, we income to the Corporation.
This helps the board to smooth consider, mainstream investment products because they out equity dividend peaks and troughs and is an important are shares in an investment trust.
The Corporation intends element in delivering the objective of steadily increasing to continue conducting its affairs for the foreseeable future income for shareholders, fully covered by current revenues.
so that the ordinary shares can continue to be categorised In turn, tax relief at the investment trust level arising from as mainstream.
our debenture interest and excess costs, which would otherwise be unutilised, can be transferred to the IFS.
Transparency It is important for our shareholders to understand the nature Fee structure and Ongoing charges of the underlying investments they are buying into when Our portfolio of investments is managed by James investing in Law Debenture shares.
We publish our entire Henderson of Henderson Global Investors Limited portfolio twice a year in the annual report see page 12 Henderson under a contract terminable by either side and half yearly report with regular monthly updates on the on six months notice.
On a fully discretionary basis, composition of the top ten holdings in the portfolio.
Henderson is responsible for implementing the Corporations investment strategy and fees are charged Gearing at 0.30% of the value of the net assets of the group Investment trusts have the benefit of being able to gear excluding the net assets of the IFS, calculated on the their portfolios according to market conditions.
This means basis adopted in the audited financial statements.
that they can raise debt either short or long term to Underlying management fees of 1% on the Corporations generate funds for further investment i. e. to increase the holdings in Henderson Japanese and Pacific OEICs are size of the portfolio or they can sell assets from within the fully rebated.
This means that the Corporation continues portfolio to reduce debt and even be negatively geared to maintain one of the most competitive fee structures in i. e. selling assets to hold cash so that less than 100% of the the investment trust sector and this, combined with the trusts assets are invested in equities.
continued very satisfactory performance of James Henderson as our investment manager has led the board During the year, the Corporation shifted from being 100% to conclude that the continuing appointment of Henderson invested to a modest gearing of 105% as described in more as the Corporations investment manager is in the best detail in the investment managers review on page 16. interests of shareholders.
Share price and net asset value NAV The agreement with Henderson does not cover custody or Investment trusts can trade at a discount where the share the preparation of data associated with investment price is lower than the combined value NAV of the performance, which are both outsourced, or record keeping, underlying assets, or at a premium where the share price which is maintained by the Corporation.
trades at a higher level than the underlying NAV.
Investment trusts are required to publish their Ongoing Investment trust investors need to understand these charges.
This is the cost of operating the trust and includes concepts as well as examine the underlying portfolio and the investment management fee, custody, investment the way in which it is managed, to decide whether or not an performance data, accounting, company secretary and investment trust share represents good value.
Law Debentures latest Debenture has often traded at a premium to NAV and did published level of Ongoing charges is one of the lowest in so throughout 2013 because it has a trading subsidiary the marketplace at 0.45%.
No performance fees are paid to its IFS, described in more detail below.
The IFS is not the investment manager.
included at fair value in the NAV but at cost, represented by its retained net assets, and is priced by the market into Law The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
